A company that’s not growing is dying. This is an unpleasant reality that comes with the capitalist system, and it’s especially harsh for smaller or newer companies. Between concerns over debt, resource acquisition and client maintenance, plenty can go horrifically wrong. It’s no wonder that 80% of small businesses fail. The prudent investor must watch must watch for these five warning signs. A common challenge for any new business is separating themselves from the crowd. A company unable to provide a quality or niche product will likely get steam rolled by others already established in their field. Look through their product catalog to determine if the company has carved out a spot in their niche. If nothing stands out as unique to either the area or the market in general, rest assured someone else is already providing it. You should avoid investing in companies like that because, more often than not, you are disappointed in the end. Related: Getting Started With Angel Investing To survive, a company needs a solid business plan stating the targeted markets, as well as a vision statement stating how the market will be penetrated. One of the major issues small companies encounter is their inability to reach out, grasp the public’s attention and convince them to utilize their services or products. Ask to see the company’s planning documents. If they don’t have a one, that is your sign to pass. A young company needs rapid, yet scalable growth to survive. The reason  is simple. There is no guarantee their faithful customers will be there tomorrow. It’s vital to find new ones as often as possible. Ask to see the company’s purchasing history and compare it with their list of clients. The company probably doesn’t have a very bright future if they only have one or two major clients and no active plans for expansion. Save your money for a brand that understands the importance of a diverse client base. Related: What Investors Look For in a Plan A market with dozens, if not hundreds, of competitors will prove much more difficult for a new company with limited resources for marketing itself and its services. Look for companies that start in smaller areas, or have a niche product patented or trademarked. If in doubt, check to see if the company has spread. A startup is much more likely to succeed if it exists in more than one market, especially when competition already exists. Markets change frequently, thanks to the changes in public demand and the pace of technological innovation. To succeed, a company will need to nimbly recognize changes as they come, adapt and take advantage ahead of their competition.  Check the company’s financial report. Back away from any firm that does not dedicate a decent chunk of their profits towards preparing for the future. A hefty research and development budget is vital. VC investing offers no guarantee you’ll make a profit or even get your money back, so pay attention to the warning signs of predictable startup failure. Obtain the necessary documents and consult with a financial analyst if you have the time. Otherwise, stick with more established companies and avoid the 80% failure rate.   FREE AppDownload
The U.K.-based company has raised $65 million in new venture financing, all from existing investors, Funding Circle announced Wednesday. It plans to use the money to expand its U.S. business, which launched last year after a merger with San Francisco-based Endurance Lending Network. The company will invest the capital in both product development and marketing, Funding Circle U.S. managing director Sam Hodges told VentureBeat. Funding Circle operates a lending platform that enables individual investors and institutions to loan money to small businesses, from franchises to boutiques to manufacturers, looking to enhance or expand their operations. Its loans span from $25,000 to $500,000, with the average loan coming in at around $150,000, said Hodges. Interest rates range from the “high single digits” up to roughly 21 percent, based on credit risk and term (3 to 5 years). Funding Circle expects its American arm to lend out $100 million by the end of 2014, which will help it reach its $550 million global target. Hodges said Funding Circle U.S. facilitated around $6.6 million in lending across 56 loans last month. The company differs from peer-to-peer lending sites like Prosper and Lending Club, which primarily fund individuals, not businesses. Its more direct competitive set includes Dealstruck, Fundation, and Raiseworks, but Hodges characterizes Funding Circle as bigger and more mature. Hodges doesn’t view banks as the competition, he said, but as potential partners — a prescient point several weeks after Lending Club announced its partnership with Spanish bank Santander, which has begun to refer its customers to the online marketplace. “There remains a very high percentage of small business owners that remain very poorly served by banks,” Hodges told VentureBeat. “Banks don’t view a $25,000 to $500,000 loan as being their sweet spot any more. “Our loans are being used to generate real economic value within these businesses, which goes to show the type of borrower we’re serving and the closeness of the match to their financing needs.” Funding Circle investor Index Ventures led Funding Circle’s $65 million round, joined by existing investors Accel Partners, Union Square Ventures, and Ribbit Capital. FREE AppDownload
@SaraEisen"Art Cashin faxes my chart to Sara Eisen who takes a photo of it which she tweets which Myles Udland uses for Business Insider," tweeted Financial Insyghts' Peter Atwater. "Just like that." It was a beautiful demonstration of generations of communications technology coming together to advance a piece of information to the world. Atwater was referring to BI: Markets' Chart Of The Day, which you can see to the right. The chart first crossed Business Insider's Markets desk when CNBC reporter Sara Eisen tweeted a photo of it. We recognized that the image was of high enough quality that the message of the chart would come through. So, in an effort to shave some seconds, we published it as is. And after reporter Myles Udland wrote up some copy, the post was live. And just moments ago, one of our Chart Of The Day subscribers emailed us a compliment. We didn't, even realize it was a fax until Atwater tweeted so. The way information travels these days is just awesome. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — eBay said Wednesday that its second-quarter net income rose 6 percent, as strong growth from its PayPal payments business offset lower-than-expected revenue that was hampered by a global password reset after a cyberattack. Investors had been expecting muted results and shares rose slightly in aftermarket trading, even though the company lowered its sales guidance for the year. PayPal, which eBay bought for $1.3 billion in late 2002, gained 4 million new active registered accounts to end the quarter up 15 percent to 152 million. The business is growing faster than the company's e-commerce site: Payments revenue rose 20 percent to $1.95 billion, about 45 percent of total revenue. Meanwhile, its core marketplaces revenue rose 9 percent to $2.17 billion. It was a tough quarter for eBay. In May, the company said a cyberattack compromised user passwords, email addresses and phone numbers, although no financial or credit card information was stolen. It asked all 145 million users to change their passwords. A change in how Google runs its search engine during the quarter also made it harder for eBay results to come up during Web searches. "We've got a couple of body blows in the second quarter with having to reset the passwords and the SEO change but we're continuing to invest in this business and we think that it's going to be one of the winners in e-commerce," said CEO John Donahoe in a call with analysts. SEO refers to search engine optimization, a technique companies use to appear more frequently online. The San Jose, California-based company said net income increased to $676 million, or 53 cents per share, from $640 million, or 49 cents per share, in the same quarter a year ago. Earnings, adjusted for one-time gains and costs, came to 69 cents per share. The average per-share estimate of analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research was for profit of 68 cents. Overall revenue climbed 13 percent to $4.37 billion from $3.88 billion in the same quarter a year ago, and missed Wall Street forecasts. Analysts expected $4.38 billion, according to Zacks. For the current quarter, eBay expects adjusted net income of 65 cents to 67 cents per share on revenue of $4.3 billion to $4.4 billion. Analysts expect net income of 70 cents per share of on revenue of $4.42 billion, according to FactSet. For the year, it expects adjusted per-share earnings of $2.95 to $3. Because of the problems in the second quarter, the company lowered its sales forecast for the year by $200 million, to $18 billion to $18.3 billion. Analysts expect $2.99 on revenue of $18.27 billion. Shares added 66 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $51.36 in aftermarket trading. They closed the day down 11 cents at $50.70. EBay shares have fallen about 8 percent since the beginning of the year, while the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index has risen 7.2 percent. The stock has dropped $6.68, or 12 percent, in the last 12 months. FREE AppDownload
Dano via FlickrParting doesn’t always have to be sweet sorrow, especially when it comes to monetary policy divergence. As two of the world’s largest central banks prepare to tighten, equities in countries and regions where central banks are still easing are poised for relative outperformance. Michael O’Sullivan, Chief Investment Officer for the U.K., Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa for Credit Suisse’s Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management division, expects the global business cycle to pick up in the second half of this year, which should provide a more supportive environment for stocks everywhere. But O’Sullivan expects European and Japanese equities to outperform British and American stocks over the next three to six months, largely due to differences in monetary policy. “The Bank of England will very soon start draining liquidity, and it’s an open question when the Federal Reserve will begin to raise rates,” he says. “In Europe and Japan, not only do you have a cyclical recovery, but the European Central Bank is active, and the Bank of Japan is expected to be active later on this year.”  In early June, the European Central Bank introduced negative deposit rates and announced a targeted long-term refinancing operation (TLTRO) that could inject as much as €1 trillion into European banks over the next two years. It’s not as dramatic as quantitative easing, but O’Sullivan says the move was nevertheless a significant event in a region where banks have been deleveraging for the last two years. “The effect of this kind of extraordinary monetary policy should be quite different in Europe than in the United States,” he says. “Whereas the U.S. is a market-driven economy, Europe is much more reliant upon banks and should see a relatively larger benefit from an attempt to push more liquidity into the banking system.” The measures, says O’Sullivan, should bolster the ongoing European recovery and prevent a deflationary shock. (Annual inflation in Europe has been below 1 percent for nine months.) The European manufacturing sector expanded for the twelfth straight month in June, while services businesses reported an eleventh consecutive month of growth. If demand for consumer goods and industrial equipment keeps rising, the ECB may succeed in easing credit conditions just as businesses are seeking fresh loans to invest and expand. What’s more, says O’Sullivan, the ECB could still introduce an asset purchase program later this year.  Equities in peripheral Europe have outperformed over the past year, but Credit Suisse’s Private Banking analysts believe markets may have overheated in places such as Italy, where equities are up 14 percent year to date. They think that German stocks, which are poised to benefit from an already strong economy’s accelerating growth over the next six months, have more room to run. In Japan, meanwhile, the consumer price index rose 3.4 percent and 3.7 percent year-over-year in April and May, respectively, the highest rates in 32 years and a welcome change from the drag of deflation between June 2012 and May 2013. Some of that increase could be due to the after-effects of retailers hiking their prices ahead of a value-added tax increase in April, but Credit Suisse economists believe inflation would have been positive even after adjusting for the tax hike. Retail sales fell 4.4 percent year-over-year in April, but only 0.4 percent in May, indicating that sticker shock may be fading.  Two months does not a trend make, however, and Private Banking analysts say the Bank of Japan will likely re-evaluate the state of the recovery in the third quarter, despite the fact that Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in April that he saw no need for further stimulus. At the very least, the analysts believe policymakers will continue their current ¥6 trillion ($59 billion) to ¥8 trillion ($79 billion) in monthly asset purchases until the end of 2015. Companies included in the benchmark TOPIX index have announced $25 billion worth of stock buybacks this year, spurred on by relatively low valuations, low interest rates, and a ¥232 trillion ($2.29 trillion) cash pile. O’Sullivan says companies that would benefit from a cyclical upturn, such as industrials companies and machinery manufacturers, look particularly promising. Structural reforms – the so-called third arrow of Abenomics – could also boost Japanese equities. In June, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe proposed lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to below 30 percent and shifting Japanese government pension fund allocations away from government bonds toward equities.  Many investors in British and American equities have profited handsomely over the last few years from central bank-fueled economic recoveries. In today’s market, the geography has shifted, but not the strategy.  FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesA lot of job growth has been focused in low-wage fields, like nursing home care and social assistance. • The U.S. economy generated an average of 222,000 net new private sector jobs in the first six months of 2014 (H1 2014), for a total of 1,331,000 positions. • Yet 56% of the jobs created offered workers wages or hours that were so low as to produce average weekly gross pay of $614, versus the other 44% of jobs created that offered wages and hours commensurate with what we would normally characterize as “good” full time jobs. These jobs produced average weekly gross pay of $1,137, almost twice as much as the majority of jobs created. • Compensation for those high wage jobs during H1 2014 fell relative to inflation by an average of 0.16%, while wages for the lowest paying jobs rose by an average of 0.36% relative to inflation — suggesting little pressure on overall wages except in the very low wage sectors. Overall, wages fell 0.07% relative to inflation during the first half of the year. • The labor force participation rate ended H1 2014 at levels unseen since the mid-1970’s, before the entry of large numbers of women into the labor force, and the employment-population ratio remains over 4% below trend levels for the 30 years prior to the Great Recession. • The fall in the labor force participation rate has been incorrectly attributed, by many economists and media outlets, to factors relating to the retirement of baby boomers, yet the data clearly shows that the participation by those 55 years of age and older has reached historic highs since the Great Recession, while the principal erosion has been experienced in younger age brackets. Labor force participation by 25 to 34 year olds, for example, has fallen by 4% from its high in 2000. • In the Education and Healthcare super-sector — the largest sector, accounting for 21.5 million jobs — wages fell by 0.57% relative to inflation, dragged down by the Nursing and Social Assistance subsectors which accounted for 38% of the jobs created in the super-sector, which offers wages averaging just over $15.50/hour for positions offering employment averaging just over 30 hours per week. • While jobs are being created at a good pace, and job openings rose materially in the second quarter of this year, the U.S. economy is beset by a number of headwinds emanating from the jobs sector, among them: o Labor slack, both domestically and — in the goods producing sectors — globally, in H1 2014 eroded disposable income on an inflation adjusted basis in the best paying sectors of the jobs market; o The majority of new net jobs creation was in sectors offering either part time work, low wages, or both; and o The overwhelming portion of job openings in the monthly Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) are in part time and low wage category, dwarfing superior paying openings in the goods producing sectors — the latter of which are growing at the slowest pace of almost all employment sectors. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer!In "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz," L. Frank Baum's ingenious turn of the century, political-economic screed, the Wizard — in the real world that precedes Dorothy's dream, the kindly old snake oil salesman and fortune teller — declares "pay no attention to the man behind the curtain," when his existence in unceremoniously revealed, in the movie version, by Toto the dog. Oz, by that time was — after all — a fairly cheerful place with great faith in its system and it's mysterious guiding hand and there was much innocence to be lost by learning that it's leader was really rather powerless. But after living all those years in fear of the recently liquidated Wicked Witch of the West, what need did Oz really have for a continuing wizard myth? And we are — in the end — left feeling that the people of Oz would govern themselves just fine after the Wizard's departure for Kansas with Dorothy. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics has no curtain covering its complex data. But that complexity itself permits a curtain of interpretation to be drawn over that data by its many analysts, by media headline generators, and by politicians. A spin that leaves many people wondering how they are supposed to feel so good, when our wicked witch of an economic slump is still out there threatening the livelihoods of many. So it is time again, as we did six months ago, to pull back the curtain and have a hard and honest look at what the employment picture really looked like in the first half of 2014. And that picture was still very muddled. The U.S. produced over 1.3 million jobs in H1 2014, but over 56% (740,000) of those jobs were in sectors that pay an average of only $614 per week ($31,928 per year), compared to the other 44% of jobs created (591,000) that were in sectors that pay an average of $1,137 per week ($59,124 per year). Of the lower paying jobs, a full 207,000 of the 1.3 million jobs created in H1 2014 were in the Leisure and Hospitality sector, in which the prevailing weekly pay is $362 ($18,842 per year). The low wage sectors, Retail Trade, Administrative and Waste Services (aka. Temps and Trash), and Leisure and Hospitality, taken together offered a prevailing wage of $16.19 per hour at the end of the half. Interestingly, this was an increase of 1.66% for the six months, which was slightly higher than CPI inflation (by 0.36%) for the period. Hourly pay for higher wage jobs, however, fell relative to inflation, by 0.16% on average. Owing to the very short hours offered in the low wage categories of jobs (29.73 hours per week on average), it would appear that low wage labor has hit a floor at survival level and bounced back some, while the better paying positions saw less bargaining power on the part of labor. Overall, wages fell by 0.07% relative to headline CPI inflation. The table on the following page illustrates the foregoing: Westwood Capital Westwood Capital Below is a graphic breakdown of the severe polarization in jobs created during the first half of 2014:  Westwood Capital Based upon the “headline” pace of job creation, and the headline (U-3) unemployment rate that has fallen from 6.7% at year-end 2013 to 6.1% in June 2014, some economists have predicted impending tightness in labor and expect accelerating upward pressure on wages. The H1 2014 data, however, should be read very differently: To the last point, the graph below illustrates how the percentage of part time jobs held by people who would prefer to be in full time jobs—while having fallen a bit since the peak of the Great Recession—has not come anywhere near to pre-recession levels. The level of those working part time for economic reasons in June of 2014 (5.16%) was actually the highest reading of the year on both a percentage and a nominal basis. Westwood Capital Underlying the fall in the U-3 unemployment rate during H1 2014 was not an increase in positions relative to the number of employable individuals in the U.S. during the same period, but rather the continued slide in the number of individuals who are deemed to be in the labor force, relative to the employable population. The U.S. labor force participation rate (LFPR) reached its peak at the turn of the last century and had fallen precipitously since the Great Recession. The decline continued unabated throughout the first half of 2014, falling to a level unseen since the mid- 1970s — prior to the entry of a majority of women into the labor force — as follows: Westwood Capital  The above decline is often attributed, by some apologists, as relating to an increase in the rate of retirement of those in the “baby boom” demographic, the oldest of whom are thought to be beginning to retire. As it turns out, however, those in the 55 and older demographic are remaining in the labor force as never before. Below is a graph showing the degree to which the LFPR in the 55 and older portion of the population has hit and remained at new highs since the Great Recession: Westwood Capital The 55 and older labor force in the U.S. consists of some 33.8 million people. A similarly sized demographic (34.2 million) is the 25 to 34 year old group – which is in its prime working years. While those 55 and older have been hanging on to their jobs by their already overworked finger nails, those in the 25 to 34 year cadre have seen their level of entry into the labor force fall back to levels of the early 1980s. Westwood Capital Given the duration and magnitude of the present economic slump, the foregoing is not all that surprising. Older people cannot afford to retire and “make room” for younger workers, jobs are not growing fast enough to keep up with the overall growth in the population (even as, on a nominal basis, in H1 2014 the U.S. had technically replaced the jobs lost during the Great Recession), and overall demand for labor in high wage countries, such as the U.S., is weak as a result of offshore competition from emerging markets and continued technological developments. Nevertheless, even as the Chair of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board of Governors, Janet Yellen, shared her concern about evident continuing labor market “slack” this year, others have been pounding economic worry drums about impending wage growth. Even some economic polling data has seen a rise in businesses saying they are having difficulty filling positions. We don’t see these concerns and statements being consistent with the broader data. Yes, a business interested in hiring very low wage employees at the severely depressed rate they were paying twelve months ago will have some trouble filling those positions, as will a smattering of high tech firms. But there is simply no shortage of employable labor in the U.S. and no systemic pressure on wages. This conclusion is perhaps best illustrated the below graph. While the employable population has continued to grow, the ratio of those employed to population fell like a rock during and after the Great Recession, and remains at or around levels seen last in the early 1980s. And the percentage that is employed full time is now under 50%. If the below isn’t labor slack, what is? Westwood Capital One consistent generator of jobs, during the post-Great Recession years, has been the Education and Healthcare super sector. It is generally accepted that medical care and education are quasi-“guild” industries that are well protected from international competition and benefit from third party payer systems (student loans and health insurance, to be specific), which gives the super sector pricing power that is lacking in other parts of the economy. It is the largest jobs sector overall and generated more jobs than any other sector in the service economy in the first half of 2014. But the super sector showed wages declining substantially (0.57%) relative to inflation in H1 2014, and experienced nominal wage growth of only 0.73%. This was because nearly half (84,000) of the jobs created in the healthcare component of the super sector were in the low wage Nursing Home and Social Assistance categories. As fewer than 15% (32,000) of the 220,000 jobs in the super sector were in education, it is on healthcare that our attention needs to be focused. The Nursing Home and Social Assistance jobs are both low wage (under $16/hour taken together) and low hours (around 30 hours per week, on a blended basis), with gross pay averaging under $500/week. Together, those two subsectors account for 6.6 million jobs in the economy, more than many other super sectors. Although they are in the relatively higher wage education and healthcare super sector, these large categories of jobs have more in common with retail and leisure industry positions from the standpoint of gross pay. Westwood Capital Janet Yellen (not the Wicked Witch of the East, Evanora, from the recent “Oz, The Great and Powerful” pictured at right — Chair Yellen is more of a Glinda the Good Witch type), is said to be quite taken with the monthly Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). As a result, business and economics media types have — over the past few years — become somewhat enamored of this relatively derivative, but handy, index. As with other jobs data, however, to appreciate the true state of the economy it is important to separate and evaluate each of the line items (let’s call them “bolts” of JOLTS) in the index. During this first half of 2014 (through May. June’s data is not yet available), we saw the level of job openings grow by around 17% from the level at year-end 2013. But, as with much of the other data in this report, the overwhelming portion of job openings in the JOLTS are in part time and low wage categories, dwarfing superior paying openings in goods producing sectors — the latter of which (manufacturing and construction) are growing at the slowest pace of almost all employment sectors. The graph below illustrates the rate of growth in job openings in the low wage sectors with dashed lines (note the recent acceleration) and manufacturing and construction with solid/bold lines. Westwood Capital It has been five years since the U.S. unemployment rate peaked at 10%, and we have seen significant improvement in getting people into some form of gainful employment. But the “dreams that we dare to dream” about a normalized labor picture in the U.S. have yet to come true. Per capita aggregate wages are not recovering from the economic tornado that ripped through advanced economies from late 2007 on. Until they do, until the quality — not just the quantity — of U.S. job creation improves, we can click our heels together all we want, but the U.S. will not be able to wake up from its economic nightmare and move itself forward. This article originally appeared at Westwood Capital.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGoldman Sachs Specialist Michael Urizzo (L) takes orders for Time Warner's stock at the post where it's traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange July 16, 2014.Good morning! There are deals in the air. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Rupert Murdoch’s $US80 billion bid for Time Warner. The Australian media boss’s new company, 21st Century Fox, has made an audacious bid for Time Warner, owner of HBO (the Game of Thrones producers), CNN, Warner Brothers and DC Comics. It would create a $US160 billion giant of a media company with $US65 billion in revenue. Time Warner has rejected the initial offer but many believe Murdoch is determined to get it. One way to think about it is in terms of distribution. There’s huge consolidation going on in the US cable market; a company this size would have epic leverage in negotiations with the bigger cable companies (which currently pay fees per subscriber to Fox). There’s more on that here. 2. Here’s what happened the last two times Murdoch made a big takeover play. Wall Street legend Art Cashin of UBS put together this chart, showing an alignment between Murdoch takeover bids and market tops… Now, to the markets… 3. The Dow hit a record high, closing at 17,123, up 0.4%, buoyed by the Time Warner offer. The S&amp;P 500 was also up 0.4% and the Nasdaq was up 0.3%. It followed a mixed day in Asian trade, with the Nikkei off 0.1%, Shanghai 0.16% lower, and the Hang Seng up 0.3% following the release of Chinese GDP data which beat expectations slightly at 7.5% year on year. The Australian dollar fell, however, with the market rattled by attendant China property data which showed house sales fell more than 9% in the first half of the year. 4. M&amp;A activity has been surging globally, according to the latest Intralinks deal flow indicator, out today. Globally the rate is up 12% year on year and 16% quarter-on-quarter. One interesting point is that despite Australia close trade ties to Asia, M&amp;A activity has tended to follow the trends in North America and Europe – which is a good thing, because the APAC region’s levels fluctuate wildly: down 15% last quarter, but up 20% the quarter before! 5. We’re going to have morons running these companies. Carl Icahn spoke at the Delivering Alpha conference overnight, and shared his concern about corporate cultures that allow certain types to get to the top, when that might not be in the best interests of the company. “He means the frat boy types that have survived at companies by working political angles,” explains BI’s Linette Lopez. “Once they get to the top they want someone dumber than them below so they can maintain their status.” More here. 6. The US has escalated sanctions against Russia, amid continuing tensions on the Ukraine border between the Ukranian military and pro-Russian separatists. Whereas previous sanctions targeted Russian oligarchs and their companies, the new list includes giant Russian companies including Rosneft, the world’s largest oil company, and Gazprombank, Russia’s largest private bank; the sanctions cut off their access to the US debt markets, intended to cut them off from the US financial system altogether. More here. 7. Tom Waterhouse is back. The bookie Australia loved to hate has been appointed chief executive of the Australian operations of bookmaker William Hill, the AFR reports this morning. This puts him in charge of Sportingbet and Centrebet. Impressive comeback. 8. Kim Kardashian stands to make $US90 million this year from her new app “Kim Kardashian: Hollywood”, a game in which players start on the E-list for parties and work their way up to the A-list. The game drives in-app purchases and looks like it might bring in around $190 million this year. Kim keeps 45% of revenue. Tidy. 9. Did the World Cup save Twitter? Twitter would have had huge activity during the world’s biggest sporting event but there’s some data that has been leaked to Business Insider – by two separate sources, independently – that shows the social network’s growth in its monthly active users has been continuing to slow. While this data needs to be taken with a pinch of salt (explained in detail here), it will mean there’ll be a renewed focus on whether Twitter has a natural “ceiling” in terms of its appeal to consumers. 10. How to say ‘no’ at work. It’s an important skill that can help manage your workload, or stop you taking that meeting you don’t want. You how to do it already – think about how you say “no” if someone asks if it rained yesterday. Here’s how to use that tone for more sensitive situations. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJohn PaulsonHedge fund manager John Paulson famously became a billionaire during the financial crisis by shorting, or betting against, subprime mortgages. Effectively, he bet against the housing market. But now he thinks that buying a house is "the best deal investment you can make." Paulson expressed this earlier today at CNBC's Delivering Alpha conference.  One of the reasons why he believes a house is attractive is because mortgages are just so cheap. "Today financing costs are extraordinarily low," Paulson said during the interview with CNBC anchor Melissa Lee. "You can get a 30-year mortgage somewhere around 4 and a half percent." "The cost of owning is somewhat less than the cost of renting. And if you rent, the rent goes up every year. But if you buy a 30-year mortgage, the cost is fixed. So I think it, you know, is still a very attractive investment." However, Paulson was speaking specifically for owner-occupiers. In other words, people who would actually live in the homes they were buying. "To buy it as an investment and rent it out, I'm not so enamored with that concept," he said. During last year's Delivering Alpha conference, Paulson expressed similar thoughts. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Elise AmendolaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. It's Too Soon For Investors To Restructure Their Portfolios Around Rising Inflation (BlackRock Blog)  The recent uptick in inflation has some investors wondering if they need to prepare for rising prices. But Russ Koesterich at BlackRock writes that "it’s probably too early to restructure a portfolio around a big shift in the inflation outlook." Koesterich points out four key things for investors keep in mind. 1. "Consumer inflation is still historically low: …Both the CPI and producer price index (PPI) have only reverted back to their three-year average."2. "Other measures of inflation look more benign:  Core PPI is at 1.8%, its post-recession average. More importantly, the core personal consumption expenditure (core PCE), the Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, is at 1.5%, still well below the Fed’s target of 2%."3. "Inflation expectations remain stable: Both the University of Michigan’s 1- and 5-year measures of inflation expectations are at, or below, the middle of their respective 3-year range. Ten-year inflation expectations from the Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) market remain stable at roughly 2.25%."4. "Wage inflation remains subdued: …While most measures of wages have accelerated from last year’s lows, they remain subdued. Hourly wages are rising at 2% year-over-year, consistent with the subdued pace we’ve witnessed since the recession ended. A more complete measure of wages – the Employment Cost Index (ECI) – is growing at 1.8% year-over-year, right in the middle of its post-recession range." Fewer Women Are Using Financial Advisors (FA Mag)  Only 31% of women in the U.S. use a financial professional, compared to 48% in 2008, according to a Prudential study of 1,407 American women and 606 American men, reports Juliette Fairley at FA Mag. "It’s the time factor, that women don’t have time, and also the fear factor of addressing one’s reality," Marcia Beckford, financial advisor and agency recruiter with Prudential was quoted saying by Fairley. "We’re finding that approaching women in a group setting and workshops where they are talking and asking questions among friends or colleagues is one situation in which women are more open to hiring a financial professional." This Is What Advisors Think Could Boost Productivity (Financial Planning Association)  The 2014 FPA Time Management and Productivity Study asked advisors what they thought could have the most positive impact on their personal productivity. 51% said "more clearly defined processes and systems" would help improve productivity, and 47% said "better planning/scheduling of activities" would. FPADRUCKENMILLER: Every Ounce Of Intuition In My Body Tells Me The Fed Has Gone Too Far (Business Insider)  Speaking at the  CNBC Delivering Alpha conference, hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, founder of Duquesne Capital Management, said the Federal Reserve's policy is as  "baffling" as he's ever seen. Druckenmiller said current Fed policy "makes no sense from a risk/reward perspective" and that it will "end badly."  "I made a living analyzing the future, not the past. The Fed's monetary experiment will be more disruptive down the road than anticipated," Druckenmiller said. "…Every ounce of intuition in my body is that the potential costs have crossed the potential benefits in Fed policies. I don't know what's in the Fed's forecasting record that allows them to make such a bet." Private Bank's RIA Acquisition Creates Wealth Management Giant (InvestmentNews)  Boston Private Bank &amp; Trust Co is buying registered investment advisor (RIA) Banyan Partners for $60 million. Banyan has $4.3 billion in assets under management (AUM) and the acquisition is expected to double Boston Private's AUM, report Bruce Kelly and Mason Braswell at InvestmentNews. "The acquisition is definitely a game changer for them," Dan Seivert, founder of Echelon Partners told InvestmentNews. “It becomes very different when you pick up a company with Banyan's scale that has a developed management team, and they're also picking up a new leader for their wealth management group.”  FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama on Wednesday evening formally announced new sanctions on Russia during a statement from the White House. The Obama administration leveled its most punitive sanctions yet against Russia and the government of President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday, amid increasing tensions on the Ukrainian border between Ukraine's forces and pro-Russian separatists. "These sanctions are significant, but they are also targeted," Obama said, adding the steps were taken with an emphasis on limiting the potential "spillover" for U.S. companies. The new sanctions are aimed at a series of large banks and energy and defense firms, marking a significant escalation in the U.S.'s standoff with Russia. Up to this point, the sanctions had only been aimed at several Russian individuals and their businesses involved in the destabilization of the situation in Ukraine. Among the targeted firms on the new sanctions list include Rosneft, the world's largest oil company; Gazprombank, Russia's largest private bank; Novatek, Russia's largest independent natural-gas producer; and Vnesheconombank, a development lender. Other entities were included on the list, including the entirety of the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" and "Luhansk People's Republic" in Ukraine. Several Russian government individuals were also sanctioned, including senior Russian Federal Security Service official Sergey Beseda. The sanctions restrict Russian access to U.S. debt markets. Senior administration officials portrayed the entities sanctioned as now being cut off "from the U.S. financial system and the U.S. economy." Obama's announcement of the new sanctions came after he addressed a laundry list of current crises around the world — the disputed elections in Afghanistan, the negotiations on Iran's nuclear program, and the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. "We live in a complex world and a challenging time," he said. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Felipe DanaAs tensions between Russia and Ukraine continue to mount, President Obama just announced new sanctions on Russia.  The sanctions are leveled against large banks, and energy and defense firms, like Gazprombank, Russia's largest bank and Rosneft, the world's largest oil company. Back in April, the U.S. has announced sanctions against seven of Vladimir Putin's 'cronies' mostly freezing their assets and imposing travel bans. Morgan Stanley's Russia economics and strategy team previously wrote that they are "cautious about the effectiveness of sanctions on Russia." "Russia is a large country, with extensive resources, accounting in 2012 for 2.8% of global GDP, 4.7% of international merchandise trade and 13% of internationally traded oil. Typically, sanctions have been applied against much smaller countries, such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and North Korea, with significantly fewer resources." But how effective are sanctions really? Recent history suggests not so much. In a Bloomberg Businessweek column, Carla Anna Robbins, an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, points out three such failures.  "Sanctions have failed to dissuade Iran from continuing to enrich uranium. They haven’t dislodged North Korea’s repressive and erratic leaders or forced a rollback of their nuclear and missile programs. For all the international pressure on Syria’s Assad, the regime is getting more ruthless, not less, and the policy debate in Washington has moved on to how much military support to provide the rebels." A study by Gary Hufbauer, Jeffrey Schott, and Kimberly Ann Elliot (HSE) first promulgated "key evidence that sanctions can achieve ambitious foreign policy goals." In their study, the reviewed 115 cases between 1914 and 1990 where sanctions were used, and found that 40 cases, or 34% were successful.  In a seminal paper for International Security, titled "Why Economist Sanctions Do Not Work," Robert A. Pape writes that sanctions were in fact only effective 5% of the time, not 34%. Pape argues that the world would need to change significantly before economic sanctions could "be a reliable alternative to military force." Here are some of his key arguments. None of this is to say that sanctions never work, the dissolution of South Africa's brutal apartheid regime is a case in point. And turning to sanctions proves that the 'coercer state' is willing to try a more peaceful method of negotiation first. But the effectiveness of sanctions is very much in doubt. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidIBM is the "poster child" for the "balance sheet" recovery that has seen companies engage in financial engineering rater than invest in their business, said Stanley Druckenmiller at CNBC's Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference. Druckenmiller highlighted what he called a "shocking" statistic about IBM: their sales are what they were six years ago. Druckenmiller said, "Let me give you a few shocking statistics. IBM's sales are where they were six years ago. Despite the increase you saw in sales, industrial production and corporate customers, they've had no increase in sales whatsoever." Over that time, Druckenmiller said, IBM has tripled their debt load to buy back stock instead of invest in their business. Buying back stock is a way that companies can improve their earnings per share, as it reduces the number of shares outstanding, thereby reducing the denominator when computing earnings per share — a company's net income divided by its shares outstanding. Much of Druckenmiller's critique is made against the backdrop of what he sees as harmful Fed policy that is encouraging companies to engage in financial engineering rather than invest in their business. "This is [companies' response to Fed policy]," Druckenmiller said. "I don't mean to pick on IBM, but this is the whole U.S. economy... Capital spending is the lowest it's been relative to sales in many, many years. That's the reason productivity is down. We've got to get out of this financial engineering stuff and get more into investing in the real economy." This chart from Ed Yardeni shows the relationship between an increase in buybacks and an increase in the S&amp;P 500. Yet another example of how the stock market isn't the economy.  Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
AP/Susan Walsh There is a federal investigation into lost emails from former IRS official Lois Lerner, the key figure in the agency's alleged targeting of conservative groups. The Wall Street Journal examined prepared testimony Deputy Attorney General James Cole is set to deliver at a hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Thursday. According to the Journal, Cole will confirm the Department of Justice is "investigating the circumstances of the lost emails from [former IRS official Lois Lerner's] computer." Lerner lead the IRS division that reviewed applications for tax-exempt status. The IRS outraged conservatives last year after admitting applications for tax exemption from certain conservative and Tea Party-backed groups received extra scrutiny.  The IRS has maintained over two years of emails from Lerner and other officials were lost when a hard drive crashed. Republicans have expressed doubt about that explanation.     FREE AppDownload
V.H.D./flickrThe U.S. just issued a new sanctions against a flurry of Russian firms in response to Russia's offensive in Ukraine. Among the firms targeted is Kalashnikov Concern, the company that makes AK-47s. The Treasury has published an in-depth Q&amp;A about the new sanctions on its website. How in-depth is it? T hey devote two different sections laying out the stakes for American Kalashnikov owners. Here's the full text. The gist is, if you bought yours before today, you can still resell it. But you can't buy any new ones. If you're currently paying for your AK on layaway, you need to contact Treasury for further info. 374. If I own a Kalashnikov product, is that product blocked by sanctions?  Am I able to resell a Kalashnikov product at a gun show or other secondary market?    If a U.S. person is in possession of a Kalashnikov Concern product that was bought and fully paid for prior to the date of designation (i.e., no payment remains due to Kalashnikov Concern), then that product is not blocked and OFAC sanctions would not prohibit the U.S. person from keeping or selling the product in the secondary market, so long as Kalashnikov Concern has no interest in the transaction.  New transactions by U.S. persons with Kalashnikov Concern are prohibited, however, and any property in which Kalashnikov Concern has an interest is blocked pursuant to OFAC’s designation of Kalashnikov Concern on July 16, 2014.  If a U.S. person has an inventory of Kalashnikov Concern products in which Kalashnikov Concern has an interest (for example, the products are not fully paid for or are being sold on consignment), we advise that U.S. person to contact OFAC for further guidance on handling of the inventory. [7-16-2014]   375. If I have Kalashnikov products in my inventory, can I sell them?   If a U.S. person has an inventory of Kalashnikov Concern products in which Kalashnikov Concern has an interest (for example, the products are not fully paid for or are being sold on consignment), we advise that U.S. person to contact OFAC for further guidance on handling of the inventory. [7-16-2014] Glad that's cleared up. (h/t Oliver Bullough) FREE AppDownload
CNBCHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, was the surprise "mystery guest" at CNBC's Delivering Alpha Conference. He walked out on stage at the end of Carl Icahn's panel.  The two long-time rivals hugged it out. CNBC even made t-shirts to commemorate the occasion.  It's been over a year since the two fund managers/long-time rivals were involved in a nasty public fight live on CNBC. In January 2013, while Ackman was was responding to Icahn’s criticism of his Herbalife investment, Icahn called into the “Half Time Report” and the insults were flying. “I’m telling you he’s like a crybaby in the schoolyard. I went to a tough school in Queens you know and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys. He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying that the world is taking advantage of him…” Icahn said at the time.  It looks like they've made up since then.  They have both said that they "respect" each other. "I respect what he says and thinks," Ackman said of Icahn. Here's the GIF:  The conversation focused on activist investing.  Also, Ackman is still short Herbalife and Icahn hasn't sold a share of his massive long position.  CNBC anchor Scott Wapner asked the pair who is going to win that bet.  "Probably me," Ackman quipped. "I'd like Carl to get out of the stock," he added, noting Icahn could make a very nice profit.    CNBC:Bill and Carl reunited. And it feels so good. #DeliveringAlpha pic.twitter.com/JjgARmcquz
via CNBCIf you're going to close a conference, you should close it with Carl Icahn. Scott Wapner is interviewing him at the Delivering Alpha conference, hosted by CNBC and Institutional Investor. Wasting no time, Wapner asked Carl Icahn about the insider trading investigation involving him and golf star Phil Mickelson. "I'm tired of my friends... asking me for free golf lessons," Icahn joked. "I tell you this, I never met the guy... These things happen I guess. I don't want to talk about this stuff." Wapner let it go, and moved on to activist investing — its rise, and its critics like attorney Marty Lipton and BlackRock's Larry Fink. "They can't say Icahn loses money for shareholders... anymore," said Icahn. "So now they're saying this... It may sound corny but I do love the country... not all the people but I do love the country... The problem we have is that the wrong guys are running these companies." What does Icahn mean by "wrong guys?" If you've ever heard him you know. He means the frat boy types that have survived at companies by working political angles. Once they get to the top they want someone dumber than them below so they can maintain their status. "We're going to have morons running these companies," said Icahn. "I'm having dinner with a lot of these guys afterwards... they're not bad guys." But Icahn prides himself on his ability to find someone better to run the companies he gets involved in. "The CEO's out there playing golf... tell him to talk to Phil Mickelson," he mused. "I used to joke, the only way to get these guys off the golf course is for me to file a 13D." And boards — don't even get Icahn started about boards. Long meetings where most time is spent discussing the merits of Gulf Stream Jets.  Why should he be able to figure out a company's strategy when a board can't, Icahn reasoned. Earlier at this conference, investor Nelson Peltz took the stage. A founder of his investment firm, Trian, is on the board of Family Dollar, a company that has become a target for Icahn. Icahn wants the company to sell itself to competitor Dollar General. "I've said it publicly, the CEO shouldn't be the CEO," Icahn said. "Some people don't like it. It makes me sad..." Wapner moved on to the concerns of the moment — quantitative easing and its impact on the stock market. Recently Icahn has said that he's nervous about the market's value. And he knows who to blame for all this. "Wall Street got us into this mess, lets not pull punches," said Icahn. "If I were Secretary of the Treasury these guys wouldn't be running these companies... We should be worrying about who runs our companies, not be printing money." He said companies are borrowing cheaply but at a variable rate. That means it's easy for them to make a profit now, but what happens when the low interest rate party's over? No one knows, said Icahn. No one can know. Now onto Herbalife — one of Icahn's most controversial positions that pit him against Bill Ackman. Icahn said his firm bough 17 million shares of Herbalife, "and we haven't sold one share... That's all I can say, I think we should drop it." That's when CNBC decided to be cute, and bring Bill Ackman on stage. CNBC Ackman says that Icahn helped him with his new deal — trying to get pharmaceutical company Allergan to accept a hostile bid by its competitor Valeant. "I do respect Bill," said Icahn. "...It's almost crazy that we're at these loggerheads... I mean, what the hell are we fighting ourselves for." This is like watching the end of a Tyler Perry movie. Both Ackman and Icahn are talking about the merits of activist investing. "The point I would make is that he [Carl] needs the backing of... retail investors to be successful," said Ackman. "It's a strategy where I think there's very little downside because the major investors have to support the activist." Carl continued: "Let me tell you a story... One of the members of the board I was friends with [at Stratosphere Casinos]... said we have a room... lets turn it into Copacabana... I brought in the CEO a tough, meat and potatoes guy. He's cutting the hell out of the course and making us money... My buddy on the board comes in with the plan... he puts the plan on the table smiling... I said to the CEO 'I promised I wouldn't micromanage, so what do you really. think?'' Icahn's CEO said — "dumbest f---ing idea ever." And so they tore up the plans. Icahn and Ackman are both pushing for Allergan to buy Valeant, so that's wherethe conversation went next. "If I said a company was an accounting fraud," said Ackman making a not-so-subtle dig at short seller Jim Chanos, "the SEC would be all over me." Chanos, of course, isn't the only one calling Valeant an accounting fraud and saying it lacks organic growth, Allergan's board has said the same thing and rejected Valeant's advances. "Ultimately I think the transaction happens," said Ackman.  He continued that the best thing for Allergan's board to do would be to sit down and go over Valeant's numbers.  Here's last year's interview with Carl in case you missed it.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCity lights, gas flares, auroras, wildfires, and reflected moonlight across America.We remain convinced that the best way to explain anything is through maps. They combine the frenzy over data with an instantly recognizable visualization for how all that data fits.  With that in mind, we've put together a new edition of the 27 maps that explain America. You'll find pretty much everything in here: eating and drinking habits, pet ownership, ethnicity, language, and more. Check it out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedThe Obama administration leveled new sanctions on Russia amid newly increased tensions along the Ukrainian border, the first sanctions handed down by the U.S. on Russia since late April. The sanctions are targeted at a series of large banks and energy and defense firms, marking a significant escalation in the U.S.'s standoff with Russia. Up to this point, the sanctions had only been aimed at several Russian individuals and their businesses involved in the destabilization of the situation in Ukraine. Among the targeted firms on the new sanctions list include Rosneft, the world's largest oil company; Gazprombank, Russia's largest private bank; Novatek, Russia's largest independent natural-gas producer; and Vnesheconombank, a development lender.  Other entities were included on the list, including the entirety of the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" and "Luhansk People's Republic" in Ukraine. Several Russian government individuals were also sanctioned, including senior Russian Federal Security Service official Sergey Beseda. The sanctions restrict Russian access to U.S. debt markets. Senior administration officials portrayed the entities sanctioned as now being cut off "from the U.S. financial system and the U.S. economy." "This is a significant step. These are some of the largest financial institutions in Russia," a senior Obama administration official told reporters on a conference call Wednesday. The sanctions stop short of completely cutting off entire sectors of the Russian economy, which officials have threatened in the past. How far to go with the new sanctions had presented a dilemma for the administration, which had imposed sanctions to this point in concert with the E.U., whose leaders were meeting to discuss implementing new sanctions on Wednesday. U.S. officials said the Obama administration's sanctions were coordinated among Obama and European leaders, but the E.U.'s own sanctions weren't expected to go as far as the U.S. Analysts have said this week a unilateral move by the U.S. would have been unwise. It would be a significant shift from the Obama administration's calculus thus far — a move that would signal a "weaker hand" going forward. It also would double down on a policy U.S. officials have admitted hasn't deterred Putin's actions in Ukraine. "The Obama administration has consistently said that the U.S. was working to 'isolate' the Russians if they didn’t back down on Ukraine," Eurasia Group president Ian Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. "It's unclear to me how unilateral sanctions supports that strategy.  "Russia's already ignored joint U.S.-E.U. sanctions, pressing ahead with escalation in Ukraine. America losing the Europeans only shows a weaker hand. If the U.S. is going to back off of what’s been a failed policy, better to do it earlier (and with their allies) than down the road."  The Pentagon said Wednesday that Russia was again building up its troops along the border, and the U.S. has in recent days accused Russia of continuing to send tanks and other weapons to help struggling pro-Russian separatists. The State Department has also claimed Russian officials are permitting fighters from the self-proclaimed "Donetsk Peoples’ Republic" to establish a recruiting office in Moscow. Ukraine on Tuesday also accused Russia of having a role in two air strikes over the past two days. A senior administration official said it was clear Russia's "support for the separatists has increased." MORE TO COME ... FREE AppDownload
DETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co said on Wednesday its global sales topped 2.5 million vehicles in the recent quarter, up 0.5 percent as it posted its best showing since 2005 for a second quarter. In the first half of the year, GM's sales were 4.92 million vehicles, up 1.4 percent. That is behind Volkswagen AG's first-half 2014 global sales figure of 4.97 million vehicles, up 6 percent. Toyota Motor Corp will issue its second-quarter and half-year global sales figures in August. The Japanese automaker was the 2013 sales leader at 9.98 million vehicles, ahead of VW at 9.73 million and GM at 9.71 million. General Motors sold 2,505,889 vehicles in the second quarter, gaining 8 percent in China and 7 percent in the United States, its two largest markets. GM's sales have diversified quite a bit since 2005. This year, the United States accounted for 32.2 percent of GM's second-quarter global sales. That compares with 51.4 percent of GM's sales coming from the United States in the second quarter of 2005, when it sold 2.6 million vehicles around the world. Toyota has been the global auto sales leader since 2008, other than 2011 when GM was tops. But that was the year Toyota was hampered by an earthquake and tsunami in Japan. VW's figures for the first half of this year do not include its brands MAN and Scania. GM's blockbuster quarter may indicate that the company will emerge relatively unscathed from the recalls that have enveloped some 28 million of its cars for a wide range of defects. Kelley Blue Book senior analyst Karl Brauer recently told Business Insider that "all of KBB's metrics indicate that the recalls have had little to no effect on GM sales." And while GM's faulty ignition systems have been connected to fatal accidents, they are overall less dangerous than defects that have plagued other car makers in the past. "The engine shut-off that results from the failure is perfectly manageable in most situations," Brauer said. Recall aside, GM has actually made great strides in improving the design, quality and engineering of its new cars, whichhas helped buyers forget about the recalled vehicles, said Tom Mutchler, senior automotive engineer at Consumer Reports. In terms of corporate response, GM CEO Mary Barra and her team are perceived positively. Much of GM's wrongdoing occurred before the Barra administration. Industry insiders like Brauer and Mutchler said they appreciate Barra's candor with respect to her company's past failings, and see her as a positive figure trying to a fix a broken system.  (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex GrimmGermany's Lukas Podolski, Jerome Boateng and Mesut Oezil (L-R) pose for a 'selfie' with the World Cup trophy during celebrations to mark the team's 2014 Brazil World Cup victory.Stocks rallied and the Dow made a new record high in a busy day headlined by a merger offer from 21st Century Fox to acquire Time Warner. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The day's top story was a report first broken by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael De La Merced at The New York Times, that Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox made an offer to acquire Time Warner in a deal worth $80 billion. Time Warner rejected the offer, and Fox issued a statement saying the two sides are currently not in talks on a deal. The proposed deal valued Time Warner at about $85 per share, and shares of Time Warner surged during today's trading session, gaining more than 17% to close just below $84. Sorkin later reported on Twitter that Time Warner might be looking for an offer closer to $100 per share, making a deal to acquire the HBO owner worth more like $94 billion. And following reports of the proposed Fox-Time Warner deal, Nuveen's Bob Doll told Business Insider that Time Warner moved from "in play conceptually" to "in play for real."  2) It was a busy day on the economic data front, headlined by the Producer Price Index, which showed that prices grew 0.4% in June compared to the prior month, better than the 0.2% increase that was expected. Economists were expecting prices to rise 0.2%. Excluding the cost of food and energy, prices rose 0.2%, which was in line with estimates. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Much better core than implied by NFIB survey; it can't last... We expected a much bigger core number in the wake of the further increase in selling prices reported by the NFIB... The underlying economic story here, we think, is that firms are expecting to have to pay rather higher wages and are seeking offsetting prices increases." 3) The National Association of Homebuilders reported that its homebuilder confidence index for July rose to 53 from 49 in June, topping expectations for the index to come in at 50. Following the report, NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe said, "As employment increases and those with jobs feel more secure about their own economic situation, they are more likely to feel comfortable about buying a home." 4) In June, industrial production growth slowed to 0.2% from 0.4% in May, with the reading also coming in below the 0.3% growth that was expected by economists. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "Overall, and despite the slowdown in manufacturing production in June, manufacturing production in Q2 rose by 6.7% relative to Q1. The sharp rebound in manufacturing in February in March left the sector well positioned heading into Q2. Following the report, our Q2 GDP tracking estimate remained at 3.0%, in line with our revised forecast for second-quarter growth." 5) Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was on Capitol Hill for the second straight day, this time speaking in front of, and taking questions from, the House Committee on Financial Services.  6) The Federal Reserve also released its latest Beige Book report, a collection of economic anecdotes from across the country. The report showed that the economy showed "modest growth" in most of the Fed's regions. From the Beige Book, "The pace of economic growth was characterized as moderate in New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco, while the remaining Districts reported modest expansion. Compared to the previous reporting period, Boston and Richmond noted a slightly slower pace of growth. Most Districts were optimistic about the outlook for growth." In the Fed's St. Louis district, The World Cup was cited as having had a positive impact during the survey period.  7) CNBC hosted its annual Delivering Alpha conference, which featured a number of the biggest hedge fund managers presenting their latest investment ideas and commentary on the markets. Among the notable presentations was Stanley Druckenmiller, founder of Duquesne Capital Management, who said that his intuition is telling him the Fed's policies have gone too far. Also presenting was Leon Cooperman, who presented his 12 favorite stock picks, which included Citigroup and KKR, after last year delivering his 10 favorite stock ideas.  FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Fickies/AP ImagesYum Brands reported Q2 earnings of $0.73 per share, on revenue of $3.2 billion in line with expectations.  Yum saw China comparable store sales up 15%, beating expectations for an 11.4% rise. Pizza Hut comp sales were down 3%, missing expectations for 0.1% growth. Taco Bell comp sales were up 2%, missing expectations for 3.6% growth. "Yum! Brands is well on its way to delivering full-year EPS growth of at least 20%, with second-quarter EPS growth of 30%," CEO David Novak said in a press release. "Operating profit grew 188% in China driven by strong sales and margin performance. Just as important, I’m confident we are building momentum behind major initiatives around the world that will sustain double-digit EPS growth in 2015 and beyond." Yum derives a large part of its revenue from China, so investors watch for clues on the health of the Chinese consumer. We've heard some discouraging commentary from American retailers in recent weeks. "I think the economy is still in a recovery," Jonathan Blum, chief public affairs officer for Yum told Business Insider. He pointed out that sales were positive at Taco Bell and less positive at Pizza Hut and reiterated that "the economy is still in a recovery mode." The stock is down 3% after hours. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / 1957AtlasClifford Asness.Mark Bittman is out with an indictment of industrial food in his latest opinion piece for The New York Times.  He has taken particular issue with the cheeseburger.  Bittman appropriates some economics 101 jargon to explain his real concerns. From The NYTimes: "What you pay for a cheeseburger is the price, but price isn’t cost. It isn’t the cost to the producers or the marketers and it certainly isn’t the sum of the costs to the world; those true costs are much greater than the price. "…Whatever the product, some costs are borne by producers, but others, called external costs — “externalities,” as economists call them — are not; nor are they represented in the price. Take litter: If your cheeseburger comes wrapped in a piece of paper, and you throw that piece of paper on the sidewalk, it eventually may be picked up by a worker and put in the trash; the cost of that act is an externality. Only by including externalities can you arrive at a true cost." The burger truther makes some valid points, but AQR Capital Management's Cliff Asness wasn't having any of it. Clifford Asness/TwitterUpdate: Turns out Asness is a staunch defender of cheeseburgers everywhere after all. "The tweets were self contained and meant to be humorous. The only elaboration I would add is that I really really like burgers," he told Business Insider in an email.   FREE AppDownload
CNN/The Situation RoomCNN is worth about $10 billion, according to analyst Benjamin Swinburne at Morgan Stanley.  Swinburne's estimate comes after today's media mega-deal chatter. According to The New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael De La Merced, 21st Century Fox' offer for Time Warner included an indication that it would spin off CNN to avoid potential antitrust concerns regarding the networks competition with Fox News in the cable news space. According to a recent report from Mediaite, CNN ranked second in total daytime viewers among the four major cable news networks: Fox, CNN, MSNBC, and Headline News. That ranking, however, comes with two caveats. MSNBC still outpaces the network in prime time, and the network still averages about one-third the number of viewers that Fox News gets.  Mediaite noted that Fox News has been the most watched cable news network for the last 50 quarters (!), and so aside from the antitrust angle, Fox doesn't necessarily need to add to its cable news portfolio. Fox's statement following Sorkin's initial report of the deal said, however, that the two sides are currently not in talks. It remains to be seen if this deal gets done, or if another bidder emerges for Time Warner. Market reaction to the news, which has sent Time Warner shares as much as 16%, seems to indicate that investors think a deal will get done one way or another. But either way, now we've heard from at least one analyst what CNN might be worth. FREE AppDownload
APMedia mogul Rupert Murdoch would own a laundry list of media properties if his pursuit of Time Warner is successful. But the "Holy Grail" he's after is HBO, according to Porter Bibb, a managing partner at Mediatech Capital Partners LLC. Bibb thinks acquiring HBO is a big part of Murdoch's pursuit of Time Warner. The reasons are simple: HBO is unlike any property Murdoch currently owns, it has an endlessly growing library of premier content, and serves as a direct competitor to the streaming service Netflix while making nearly six times as much money. "HBO is the logical competitor to Netflix. It has the content, 30 years of original content production experience, a global franchise, and is already streaming OTT in Scandinavia (keeping Netflix from getting any real traction there)," Bibb told Business Insider in an email. Both Netflix and HBO would be new frontiers if Murdoch, the CEO of 21st Century Fox, owned either of them. But HBO is a far better acquisition than Netflix because of several built-in advantages, Bibb said. "HBO also has a content archive of TV material second to no one (some of which they licensed to Amazon earlier this year for hundreds of millions of dollars) and is at least six times more profitable than Netflix, with a comparable customer base (which is willing to pay nearly three times the Netflix $7.99 subscription cost)," he said. "HBO owns its content. Netflix owns nothing and is merely a marketing/distribution pipeline." HBO might be the crown jewel, but a Time Warner acquisition would give Murdoch a rounded-out media empire: Combined, Fox and Time Warner would control more than 100,000 motion pictures and hundreds of thousands of television content.  It would also put control of networks like TNT and TBS, as well as Time Warner's sports rights and networks, under Fox's umbrella. Bibb said the potential merger would also likely provide at least $1 billion to $2 billion in annual savings by combining Warner Bros. film and television studios with 21st Century Fox's. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Closely-followed hedge fund manager John Paulson sounded confident in a Valeant/Allergan deal at CNBC's Delivering Alpha.  Paulson, who has been running his fund for 20 years, said it's a "very exciting time" to be involved in merger arbitrage right now. He added that his fund tries to identify who is going to be acquired.  He recently disclosed a stake in Allergan, the maker of Botox.  Pharma company Valeant is attempting to make a hostile bid for Allergan in stock and cash. Valeant has teamed up with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, to pursue the takeover.  So far, all three of Valeant's bid have been rejected. He still sounded confident, though.  In the last few years, Valeant has made several acquisitions. Paulson called Valeant the poster child of an acquirer." He added that the company is a "very serious acquirer" and "well managed." Valeant's pursuit of Allergan is controversial, too.  Paulson explained that Valeant takes a different approach to managing companies than your traditional pharma. Valeant's CEO eliminates things in the companies they acquire that he doesn't feel are necessary or lucrative to the operation. Paulson said he has a conference call with Ackman to discuss his effort to unseat Allergan board.  Ackman owns more than 28 million shares of Allergan. "Allergan has a very aggressive shareholder in Ackman. Standing still is not an option," Paulson said.  This is the second Delivering Alpha conference for Paulson. He rarely makes these kind of appearances. Last year, Paulson, who famously bet against subprime housing in 2007, said owning a home was the best investment an individual could make. "I still think from an individual perspective the best investment is to buy a primary residence," he said. "Today the cost of owning is somewhat less than renting."  FREE AppDownload
APRupert Murdoch waiting to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on May 13, 1980.Multiple antitrust experts told Business Insider federal regulators will almost certainly have their eye on any deal for Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox to buy Time Warner. "I'm sure regulators will take a close look at this," said Scott Hemphill, a professor at Columbia specializing in antitrust and intellectual property.  Hemphill said the main issue for regulators would be the potential the "increased concentration" of television programmers and movie studios created by merging the two companies could lead to "higher prices" for distributors, consumers, and advertisers. He cited two major elements of the deal regulators were likely to focus on. "I think as an initial matter, the main antitrust question here is whether the firms are combining competing assets. And the reason you would care is the standard antitrust concern, which is that, by reducing competition among rivals, you might end up with higher prices," Hemphill said.  Hemphill explained the long roster of networks Fox would own if it bought Time Warner could give it greater leverage to demand higher fees in negotiations with TV distributors. In turn, those costs could be passed along to consumers. He pointed out this was likely why Fox reportedly plans to spin off CNN if it purchased Time Warner. "The most obvious concern that it seems like the folks at Fox anticipated is the probable combination of CNN and Fox News," said Hemphill. "As indicated in the press reports, they would divest CNN to head off that concern." Hemphill noted there could "potentially" be similar concerns about sports programming in addition to the two cable news outlets owned by Fox and Time Warner. Along with the potential the deal would lead to higher prices for distributors, Hemphill also said regulators would want to examine whether a merger would affect prices for advertisers in areas of the television landscape "where the advertiser doesn't have alternative choices" outside of the company. In addition to television programming, Hemphill said there could be antitrust issues with the pair of movie studios owned by the two companies – Warner Bros. Entertainment and Twentieth Century Fox. "I think the other piece here is the combination of movie studios. As I understand it, there are currently six main movie studios. This would bring it to five," Hemphill said. "As a rough rule of thumb, six to five combinations tend not to raise eyebrows. So, I think that's a second area that regulators would likely focus on, but maybe the less important of the two." Maurice Stucke, a professor of law at the University of Tennessee and former Department of Justice antitrust division attorney, said he would be "really cautious about saying six to five is not a problem," though he noted it can be a general "rule of thumb." He argued antitrust laws are aimed at preventing both express collusion where the businesses who dominate an industry fix prices as well as passive collusion where there is no direct communication, but a small enough number of companies control the market for a given product that they are able to effectively fix prices together. "Is six to five sufficient to prevent either form of collusion from occurring? " Stucke asked. "You can see that cartels happen in industries with very few competitors, but cartels also happen in industries with many competitors." Stucke agreed the potential acquisition could be a concern for the DOJ – and he argued the Clayton Act, a major component of federal antitrust law, is aimed at stopping increased concentration "in its incipiency" rather than after it has already occurred.   "You're supposed to nip it in the bud," he said.  Stucke also argued the fact media companies are involved, could make it an issue for the Federal Communications Commission.  "You're dealing with important news and entertainment sources and there the question is, well, if we get it wrong here, the stakes are much higher than just getting it wrong with ordinary commodities," explained Stucke. "When you get it wrong with media companies, it just doesn't affect the prices that are paid, it can also affect the marketplace of ideas and getting important voices out." Because of Fox and Time Warner's role in that "marketplace of ideas," Stucke said the FCC might weigh in because of the "public interest standard that they have." "It's going to be a concern for at least one of the agencies," he predicted. Overall, Stucke said federal regulators would get it "wrong" if they solely focused on financial concerns rather than Fox and Time Warner's roles as media companies. "The key point here is, if you focus only on price in these matters, particularly advertising rates, you're likely to get it wrong. That's one of the lessons from the consolidation in the radio industry that came about after the 1996 Telecom Act," said Stucke. "If you look at the radio mergers, DOJ only looked at ad rates, they didn't look at quality of formatting, quality of competition, and the like. And they got it wrong twice. As the FCC studies showed, advertising rates went up because of the concentration. Secondly, they got it wrong on the quality competition for listeners because of the complaints about homogeniety of radio." Stuckey suggested the "linchpin" for federal approval of a potential acquisition of Time Warner by Fox would be another major media deal – the merger between two television distributors, Comcast and Time Warner Cable. That merger is currently being reviewed by the FCC and DOJ. "The Time Warner Cable and Comcast deal plays an important part because there they're saying, 'We need to get bigger in order to negotiatewith the studios,'" Stucke said. "If the DOJ says, We're going to agree and allow that merger to go through,' the studios are going to say, 'Look, you allowed Comcast, look how many homes they control. Our deal is not going to be bigger than that, we're just trying to offset.'"   FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve just released its Beige Book, which is its anecdotal look at the state of the economy across its various regions. The report specifically made mention of The World Cup having an impact on the economy in the St. Louis District: Economic activity in the Eighth District has increased modestly since the previous report. Retail activity in the District has expanded at a modest pace. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have been positive on net. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to deteriorate throughout the District, while commercial real estate market conditions have improved. Lending activity at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks has increased slightly. Finally, wage and employment levels have grown modestly, while prices have increased slightly. Consumer SpendingThe retail sector experienced, on net, modest growth across the District with openings announced in the apparel, auto, and home and garden sectors, but these were accompanied by a few closures by both national and local retailers. Contacts noted that the retail furniture market remains soft in parts of the District. One major mall in the District saw slightly positive sales growth. Contacts reported good sales entering the summer months for hardware/lumber yards, retail establishments, and restaurants. Finally, some restaurants and businesses across the District saw historically large revenue during the World Cup festivities. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Fed's regional banks saw "moderate" to "modest growth" in the various local economies it covers. This is according to the Fed's latest Beige Book, a collection of economic anecdotes from across the country. "The pace of economic growth was characterized as moderate in New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco, while the remaining Districts reported modest expansion," noted the Fed in its summary. "Compared to the previous reporting period, Boston and Richmond noted a slightly slower pace of growth. Most Districts were optimistic about the outlook for growth." Here's some commentary on consumer spending: Overall consumer spending increased in every District. Retail sales grew modestly in most Districts, with increases that were generally similar to the previous reporting period. Vehicle sales remained stronger than non-auto retail sales, with Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco indicating robust to very strong auto sales. Tourism activity expanded in all reporting Districts, with growth ranging from slight in Philadelphia to very strong in Boston. Hotel contacts described robust activity in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts, while Philadelphia and Richmond noted activity levels that were in line with seasonal norms. The health of the American consumer has been unclear in the wake of negative statements from several retail chain executives last week. “We’ve reached a point where it’s not getting any better but it’s not getting any worse – at least for the middle (class) and down," said Wal-Mart U.S. CEO Bill Simon. Simon's comments were followed by similarly disconcerting comments from Bob Evans, The Container Store, Lumber Liquidators, and Family Dollar. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" said The Container Stores' Kip Tindell. "While consumers are buying homes and automobiles and even high ticket furniture, most segments of retail are, like us, seeing more challenging sales than we had hoped early in 2014 – so we’re not alone in this." "Most Districts reported modest retail sales growth since the last report, with slightly slower sales growth in the Boston and Atlanta Districts and faster sales growth in the New York, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts," said the Fed today. "Although wet weather continued to restrain sales in the Chicago District, New York noted an increase in sales due to pent-up demand as the negative effects from earlier adverse weather abated." "Sales were particularly strong for shoes and children's apparel in the Philadelphia District, furniture in the Atlanta District, home improvement and building materials in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts, and low-end and mid-range technology goods in the San Francisco District." Here's the full text of the Beige Book: Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District All twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity continued to expand since the previous report. The pace of economic growth was characterized as moderate in New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco, while the remaining Districts reported modest expansion. Compared to the previous reporting period, Boston and Richmond noted a slightly slower pace of growth. Most Districts were optimistic about the outlook for growth. Overall consumer spending increased in every District. Retail sales grew modestly in most Districts, with increases that were generally similar to the previous reporting period. Vehicle sales remained stronger than non-auto retail sales, with Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco indicating robust to very strong auto sales. Tourism activity expanded in all reporting Districts, with growth ranging from slight in Philadelphia to very strong in Boston. Hotel contacts described robust activity in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts, while Philadelphia and Richmond noted activity levels that were in line with seasonal norms. Activity in the nonfinancial services sector continued to grow across all Districts at a modest to moderate pace. Many Districts reported positive growth for professional and business services, including healthcare consulting, advertising, engineering, accounting, and technology. Overall, transportation activity rose at a moderate pace since the previous survey period. Broad-based demand for trucking and rail services across the Districts increased, and the Richmond District reported strong growth in port container traffic, with increases in both imports and exports. Manufacturing activity expanded in all twelve Districts. Contacts in the metal and auto industries generally reported positive growth, while manufacturers in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago Districts reported increased demand for their products from the energy sector. Reports on real estate activity varied across the Districts. Many Districts reported low inventories and increasing home prices, but demand was mixed. Boston, New York, and St. Louis reported home sales were below year-ago levels, while Chicago noted a decrease in home sales since the last survey period. Home sales in other Districts remained steady or increased. Multi-family sales and leasing activity were robust in the New York and Dallas Districts. Residential construction rose for single-family homes in the Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, while New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported increases for multifamily construction. Commercial construction activity generally strengthened across the Districts, due to higher demand and low vacancy rates. Loan volumes rose across the nation, with slight to moderate increases reported in most Districts. Credit quality remained stable or improved slightly in most Districts, while San Francisco noted a slight decline. Credit standards were generally unchanged, although Richmond noted an easing of cost terms for well-qualified commercial and industrial borrowers, and Philadelphia and Chicago mentioned that competitive pressures were leading some financial institutions to take on higher credit risks. Among Districts reporting on agriculture, heavy rains improved soil moisture levels in the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, while drought conditions persisted in San Francisco. Most fall crops were reported in good or better condition, and expectations of higher production lowered crop prices. Profitability improved for livestock operators in the Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts due to high cattle and hog prices. Oil production expanded in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, while natural gas and coal production remained relatively steady in reporting Districts. Labor market conditions improved, as all twelve Districts reported slight to moderate employment growth. Several Districts continued to report some difficulty finding workers for skilled positions. Aside from higher wages to attract talent for these skilled positions, wage pressures remained modest in most Districts. Price pressures were generally contained, with most Districts reporting slight to modest price increases for both inputs and finished goods. Several Districts noted higher prices for meat, dairy products, construction materials, and some metals (namely steel, copper, and nickel). Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending continued to increase at a moderate pace since the previous report, with generally modest growth among non-auto retailers and moderate to strong growth in vehicle sales and tourism activity. Most Districts reported modest retail sales growth since the last report, with slightly slower sales growth in the Boston and Atlanta Districts and faster sales growth in the New York, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Although wet weather continued to restrain sales in the Chicago District, New York noted an increase in sales due to pent-up demand as the negative effects from earlier adverse weather abated. Several Districts mentioned that higher meat prices were affecting consumer behavior. New York, Cleveland, and Chicago also reported higher levels of promotions or discounting. Sales were particularly strong for shoes and children's apparel in the Philadelphia District, furniture in the Atlanta District, home improvement and building materials in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts, and low-end and mid-range technology goods in the San Francisco District. Contacts in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported higher planned capital expenditures for retail space. Vehicle sales expanded in most Districts in the latest reporting period, and auto contacts were optimistic about auto sales in the months ahead. Most Districts reported that sales were above year-ago levels, with Dallas noting a return to pre-recession sales levels. Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported robust or very strong auto sales growth, while most other Districts noted a more moderate pace of growth. Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco reported some softening in used car sales, while new car sales were stronger than used sales. Richmond mentioned that recent vehicle recalls were weighing on used car sales, while Chicago noted increased activity in service and parts departments due to recalls. SUVs sold particularly well in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts. Tourism activity increased across all reporting Districts, and most Districts' contacts were optimistic about future activity levels. Boston, New York, and Kansas City reported strong tourism activity, while Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported moderate tourism growth. Hotel occupancy rates were high in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts. Tourism activity rose slightly in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, with levels that were in line with seasonal norms. Philadelphia and Richmond also mentioned that many tourists were budget conscious. Dallas noted gains in domestic travel, but weaker demand from foreign travelers. Nonfinancial Services Nonfinancial services activity continued to strengthen since the previous survey period, with all Districts reporting steady or improving growth. Many Districts reported positive growth within the professional and business services sector. Specifically, Boston noted an increase in demand for consulting services (especially for healthcare) and advertising; Richmond indicated a rise in demand for accounting services; Minneapolis mentioned gains in engineering and architecture services; and San Francisco noted an increase in technology services. San Francisco continued to report a decline in activity in the food services industry. Conditions in the staffing services industry across the Districts were unchanged or improved modestly compared with the previous survey period. Transportation activity grew at a moderate pace in the most recent survey period. Minneapolis and Dallas reported high demand for rail services; in particular, Minneapolis mentioned increased volumes for grain, crushed stone, lumber, and wood, although rail shipments for petroleum, primary forest materials, and nonmetallic minerals decreased. Contacts in the Cleveland District reported strong and broad-based trucking activity, with shipments of construction and fracking-related materials particularly strong. Contacts in the Richmond District noted an increase in demand for freight trucking related to home improvement stores increasing inventories in advance of the Fourth of July holiday weekend. Port officials in the Richmond District saw robust growth in container traffic, led by exports of forest products, grains, soybeans, and auto parts, and imports of auto parts, apparel, and textiles. However, these contacts also noted that imports of housing-related products, such as furniture and appliances, had decelerated. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity expanded further in all twelve Districts since the previous survey period, with growth occurring across many subsectors. Manufacturing activity in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts grew at a robust pace, while the manufacturing sectors in the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts increased at a more modest pace. Compared with the previous report, the pace of growth slowed slightly in the Boston, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts, and increased in the Richmond District. Contacts in the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported generally positive activity within the metals sector. Philadelphia and Chicago noted improved growth in the aerospace industry since the previous survey period. Manufacturing in the auto industry generally strengthened, with Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco reporting increased activity; however, Minneapolis noted a moderation in the auto industry's demand for certain inputs. Manufacturers supporting the energy sector in the Midwest and Northern Appalachia reported stronger sales, specifically for metal-piping related products. Production of construction inputs was mixed, as Kansas City and San Francisco reported a decrease in production and Philadelphia, Chicago, and Dallas reported a slight increase. Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas were optimistic about the near-term outlook for overall manufacturing activity. Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity continued to vary by Federal Reserve District, reflecting generally low inventories and mixed levels of demand. Specifically, Boston, New York, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas noted that residential home sales were constrained by low or dwindling inventories. Nevertheless, despite decreasing inventories, residential home sales in the Atlanta and Kansas City Districts rose at a slight to modest pace. Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond also noted a slight to modest increase in sales since the previous survey period, while San Francisco reported that home sales in the recent reporting period were below year-ago levels. Boston, New York, Chicago, and St. Louis indicated that residential sales activity softened, with Chicago attributing some of this decline to an increase in prices. Home prices continued to rise across most of the Districts, especially within urban areas, but contacts in the San Francisco District noted a slightly slower pace of home price appreciation. New York and Dallas reported robust activity in multifamily sales and leasing. Residential construction activity generally increased across the Districts, with only St. Louis and Minneapolis reporting a decline in overall activity. Chicago and San Francisco reported increased construction of high-end urban single-family homes, and Cleveland and Kansas City continued to see growth in low- to medium-priced single-family construction. Cleveland and San Francisco reported that a shortage of vacant lots was holding back further growth in both single-family and multifamily construction; however, growth remained positive. New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco noted that multifamily construction activity increased since the previous survey period. Contacts in the Cleveland District reported that they were seeing greater willingness to finance multifamily projects. Commercial construction activity strengthened across most Districts. Cleveland and Atlanta reported increased commercial construction activity compared to a year ago, and Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted gains since the previous survey period. Boston and Richmond saw mixed commercial construction activity across their Districts since the previous report. Dallas indicated strong overall commercial real estate construction activity, and commercial real estate construction increased in the Minneapolis District compared with the previous report. Boston, New York, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas reported tight commercial vacancy rates. Industrial real estate construction and leasing activity was strong in the Philadelphia and Chicago Districts. Banking and Financial Services Overall, banking conditions improved slightly from the previous reporting period. Nearly all reporting Districts indicated increasing loan volumes. Loan demand was strongest in the New York, Chicago, and Dallas Districts, where loan volumes rose moderately compared with the previous report. Loan volumes increased modestly in the Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts, while Philadelphia and Cleveland noted a slight uptick. Commercial and industrial lending increased in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts. However, commercial and industrial lending decreased slightly in the Kansas City District. Commercial real estate lending exhibited slight to moderate growth in the New York, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Growth in residential real estate loan volumes was mixed across the System. New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Dallas reported growth, while Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City indicated slight declines in demand. Consumer lending increased in the New York, Philadelphia and St. Louis Districts, and construction lending expanded in the New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts. Most Districts cited stable or slight improvement in credit quality, while Dallas and New York reported moderate and strong improvement, respectively. San Francisco was the only District with a reported decline in credit quality. Bankers in the New York and Atlanta Districts reported decreases in delinquency rates for all loan categories, with rates reaching pre-recession levels in the Atlanta District. Credit standards remained generally unchanged in most Districts. Contacts in the Philadelphia District expressed a growing concern for loans with risky terms as a result of strong competition among banks to secure new loans. In addition, banking contacts in the Chicago District cited competitive pressure on structure and pricing for traditional and leveraged business lending, particularly from nonbank financial institutions willing to take on higher credit risk. Though Richmond indicated an easing of cost terms for well-qualified commercial and industrial borrowers, credit standards for mortgage lending were described as strict. Deposit volumes picked up in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, but declined in the St. Louis District. New York indicated declining spreads between loan rates and cost of funds, particularly for commercial mortgages. Bank contacts in the Philadelphia District reported growing confidence among both businesses and consumers, but also indicated that businesses continued to be cautious regarding most decisions. Agriculture and Natural Resources Growing conditions varied with precipitation levels. Heavy rains improved soil moisture levels in the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, though there were isolated reports of hail and flood damage. However, recent rains were too late to aid the development of the winter wheat crop and actually delayed the harvest in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts, leading to expectations for below-average yields. Persistent drought in the San Francisco District led some producers to curb new planting to conserve water for permanent crops. Despite late planting in many areas, most fall crops were reported in good or better condition, and expectations of strong production this year lowered crop prices. High cattle and hog prices, reflecting supply constraints and strong export demand, improved profitability for livestock operators in the Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Higher milk prices and low feed costs relative to last year also strengthened profit margins for dairy operators in the Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts. The Chicago District reported declines in milk and cattle prices compared with the previous survey period, though prices remained well above levels necessary to cover production costs. Oil production drove growth in the energy sector, while natural gas and coal production generally held steady. Strong summer demand was expected to support elevated oil prices. Oil production expanded in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, and crude oil inventories rose at Gulf Coast refineries in the Atlanta District. Natural gas production in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts remained relatively steady. Some contacts in the Kansas City District planned to increase capital spending, and also noted a rise in drilling costs due to advances in technology. Coal production in the Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts, as well as iron ore output in the Minneapolis District, was little changed. Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor market conditions continued to improve since the previous report, with all Districts reporting slight to moderate employment growth. Employers in the Philadelphia District remained cautious, and reported hiring for replacement and some incremental growth. Philadelphia and Atlanta reported more hiring for permanent positions since the last reporting period. Employers in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported difficulty finding workers for some skilled positions. In particular, a shortage of truck drivers was noted in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta and Kansas City Districts, and skilled construction and craft workers were reportedly in short supply in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City and Dallas Districts. Cleveland and Dallas also noted that labor markets were tight in energy-producing areas. Most Districts noted that wage pressures remained modest outside of some skilled positions. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta reported stable to slightly increasing wage pressures; in addition, Chicago indicated that wage pressures increased (though primarily for skilled workers). St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City reported modest wage pressures. Wage pressures in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts were moderately higher than in other parts of the country. Dallas noted that the strongest wage pressures within its District were in the energy and construction sectors, but reported modest upward pressure in other industries as well. San Francisco mentioned some upward wage pressure from rising minimum wages, and some contacts in the San Francisco District noted an increasing need to offer higher starting salaries to attract talent from competitors. Price pressures were generally contained, with most Districts reporting slight to modest price increases for both inputs and finished goods. New York and Chicago reported upward pressure on costs; Richmond and Kansas City reported that prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slightly slower pace. Several Districts noted higher prices for meat, dairy products, construction materials, fuel, and some metals (namely steel, copper, and nickel). Contacts in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported success in passing on higher input costs to customers in some instances. Return to top Retail and Tourism Retail contacts report year-over-year same-store sales growth ranging from small single-digit decreases to low single-digit increases. Some contacts report that consumers are still cautious, while others say that consumers seem more confident. Some indicate that vendor prices and input costs remain steady, while others report cost increases for paper products and for fuel and freight. Depending on the retailer, the outlook for their own business and for the U.S. economy ranges from "challenging" to "steady" to "improving." The already-strong tourism sector continues to see very robust growth. Boston-area hotel revenues were up 13.2 percent in May from a year ago. Attendance at museums and other attractions is up 8.5 percent year-over-year for May. Tourism-related revenues for the 2014 summer season are projected to be 6 percent to 7 percent higher than in 2013, which was itself a record year. Manufacturing and Related Services Of the nine manufacturing firms contacted in this cycle, only two report year-over-year declines in revenues. A maker of frozen fish products reports that demand is down because fish is expensive and also because competitors are underpricing them. A magazine publisher that relies heavily on advertising revenues reports that ad revenues have fallen 10 percent per year for a number of years because of the shift to digital media. Of the firms reporting revenue increases from a year ago, two had very slow growth. One of these, in the chemical industry, reports that its net revenue growth figure conceals wide variation across different product lines, including a year-over-year revenue decline of 9 percent for its largest line and an increase of 12 percent for its second-largest line. Across contacts, the first quarter's harsh winter had no lasting effects on inventories, which reportedly stand at moderate levels. Seven contacts report that they are making new hires, with headcounts increasing in line with individual firms' sales growth. A biotech firm plans to hire 1,000 workers this year, while a manufacturer serving the automobile and aerospace industries reports hiring mostly to replace departing staff. Firms report mostly stable pricing. Two contacts, both selling industrial parts, recently succeeded in putting price increases through to customers. Unlike in many previous reports, no contacts report having problems with commodity prices or supplies. All contacts reporting on investment activity indicate that investment is up over last year, although none of these contacts mention having revised their investment plans recently. With the exception of the magazine publisher, contacts have a positive outlook for the remainder of 2014, and the biotech firm contact is more optimistic than are contacts in such industries as bulk chemicals and automotive springs. Selected Business Services Demand for analysis, consulting, and advertising is up across the board, as most contacts perceive that the economy is resurgent. Healthcare consulting firms led with 5 percent to 10 percent revenue growth over a year ago. Economic analysis and government consulting firms report year-over-year revenue growth in the range of 1 percent to 4 percent. Advertising firms also report strong demand. According to contacts, wages at business services firms are up 2 percent to 5 percent over last year, while benefits increased at a slightly higher pace. Larger firms report little trouble passing compensation increases on to clients, but smaller firms see margins being squeezed amid fierce competition, coupled with rising wage and energy costs and perceived consumer reluctance to accept higher prices. Healthcare consulting firms and a few large analysis firms plan to increase employment by 5 percent to 10 percent this year. Government consulting and smaller strategy firms report flat headcounts and no plans to hire moving forward. Firms in consulting and advertising report that a tight market for their targeted hires pushed starting salaries up 5 percent to 10 percent over last year. Revenue growth predictions display a broad range, including negative values and a value of 10 percent, although all firms expect growth to improve moving forward. Healthcare consultants are especially optimistic in light of demand stemming from clients' need to comply with the Affordable Care Act. At the same time, government and healthcare consulting firms cite pending U.S. fiscal and regulatory policy decisions as key risk factors for clients. Commercial Real Estate Reports from commercial real estate contacts across the First District are mixed. Leasing activity is down in Hartford in recent weeks, a fact attributed in part to usual seasonal patterns and in part to weak fundamentals. Office leasing activity is also down in Providence, while at the same time Rhode Island's industrial leasing market is tightening amid strong demand and limited inventory. According to a Portland contact, the city's tourism industry is booming, and three recently-opened hotels enjoy high occupancy rates. Also in Portland, strong office leasing is driven by growth of existing firms rather than by new firms, and investment demand is strong across industrial, multifamily, and medical properties. In Boston, office rents continue to display a modest upward trend, thanks to a lack of new inventory coming to market. A limited amount of speculative office construction is underway in Boston's Seaport District, but contacts foresee constraints on similar construction in the form of high costs and limited financing. A regional lender to commercial real estate saw a surge in loan volume in recent weeks, a fact the contact attributes to changes in business strategy. According to contacts, hiring in both Portland and Hartford--and hence added office demand--is held back by a scarcity of young, educated workers in these cities. Contacts expect that Boston will continue to see at least modest improvement in commercial real estate fundamentals moving forward, while contacts in Providence and Hartford point to uncertainty surrounding the outcomes of upcoming elections in their respective states as a factor that could restrain economic growth in the near-term. A Portland contact's outlook remains bullish. Residential Real Estate Realtors report steady foot traffic at open houses and multiple contacts insist that demand remains strong despite year-over-year declines in sales in May in four of five reporting states: Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Vermont. In Maine, sales rose over the same period. To help explain the falling sales, realtors cite inventory shortages, perceived lack of job security, and economic uncertainty. Lack of inventory continues to hamper sales in Massachusetts, where listings have fallen on a year-over-year basis for 27 consecutive months. At the same time, contacts in that state report seeing increases in new listings in selected areas. Despite declining sales, the median sales price of single-family homes in May continued to rise on a year-over-year basis in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. For the same period, median sales prices were flat in Connecticut and down in both Maine and Vermont. Condominium sales in May are down relative to a year ago in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island, while Vermont contacts report increased condo sales over the same period. The median sales price for condos in May increased from a year ago in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont; by contrast, the median condo sales price fell in Rhode Island over the same period. Looking forward, contacts in both Maine and Connecticut note that they are busy with pending deals, while pending sales figures for June are below year-earlier levels in Massachusetts, Vermont, and even Connecticut. Nonetheless, realtors across the region are hopeful that closed sales numbers for June will show improvement from a year ago. Return to top Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers say that sales were robust and generally ahead of plan in May but mixed in June. While retail contacts in upstate New York note that sales were steady to stronger in June, two major retail chains and a number of other contacts note that business pulled back in June. Retailers generally attribute the strong sales in May to pent-up demand, after a long spell of unseasonably cool and wet weather; one major chain characterizes the pullback in June as a return to more normal levels. Retail contacts generally portray inventories as being in good shape. Prices are mostly steady, though one contact describes the pricing environment as a bit more promotional than a year ago. Auto dealers in both the Rochester and Buffalo areas report that new vehicle sales increased strongly in May and were well ahead of comparable 2013 levels, but note signs of slowing in June. Auto dealers note that both wholesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape, and they express optimism about the near-term outlook for sales. Tourism activity has generally been increasingly robust since the last report. With more Broadway shows running through the early summer than in a number of years, revenues and especially attendance at Broadway theaters strengthened further in late May and June. Manhattan hotels saw exceptionally brisk business in May: revenue was up nearly 7 percent from a year earlier, and the occupancy rate reached a record high of 94 percent. Hotel occupancy rates also strengthened in the Albany area in May, but softened slightly in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area. Consumer confidence in the region was mixed in June. The Conference Board reported a pullback in the Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA), whereas Siena College's June survey of New York residents shows confidence increasing for the third straight month. Construction and Real Estate The District's housing markets have been generally stable since the last report. Across both New York and New Jersey, existing home sales were down nearly 10 percent from a year ago in May, as the number of homes on the market declined; prices were reported to be flat to up slightly. Contacts in the Buffalo-Niagara region indicate that housing demand remains brisk, but that sales activity continues to be constrained by a dearth of available homes. One industry contact in New Jersey notes that the inventory of available new and existing homes remains low, as a large number of distressed properties remain off the market. New York City's co-op and condo market remains robust, with prices up moderately from a year ago in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Sales volume was up moderately from a year ago in Manhattan and up briskly in Brooklyn. In Queens, both prices and sales volume retreated from high levels, reflecting a pullback in new development, which was quite robust in 2013. The inventory of available homes moved up in Manhattan but remains quite low; one contact remarks that some of the apartments recently being put up for sale are priced unrealistically. Inventory levels in Brooklyn remain exceptionally low. Apartment rental markets appear to have leveled off, as rents in Brooklyn and Manhattan have been flat in recent months. A contact in northern New Jersey notes that multi- family construction has increased strongly, while single-family construction has remained subdued. Commercial real estate markets were mixed but, on balance, somewhat stronger in the second quarter. Office availability rates fell to multi-year lows in New York City and Long Island, but rose to multi-year highs in the Rochester and Buffalo areas; rates were little changed at high levels (near 20 percent) in northern New Jersey and Westchester &amp; Fairfield counties. Asking rents for office space were flat across most of the District, except in Manhattan, where they continued to trend up and have risen nearly 10 percent over the past year. Office construction activity has been brisk in Manhattan but remains subdued across most of the District. Industrial availability rates were mostly steady to down slightly, with asking rents on industrial space rising on Long Island but mostly flat across the rest of the District. Finally, retail vacancy rates in Manhattan continued to trend up at mid-year; still asking rents continue to rise and are up roughly 8 percent from comparable 2013 levels. Other Business Activity The labor market has continued to strengthen since the last report. A growing proportion of manufacturers say they have added workers in recent weeks, and, as has been the case for a number of months now, somewhat more service firms say they are expanding than reducing employment. Moreover, considerably more contacts in both sectors say they plan to expand than shrink their workforces in the second half of the year. A major New York City employment agency reports that hiring activity has continued to advance gradually--hiring in the financial sector has slowed slightly, though this contact notes that there continues to be strong demand for IT workers and growing demand for human resource professionals. Wages and salaries, for the most part, remain stable. Manufacturing firms in the District report a further acceleration in activity since the last report, whereas service-sector firms indicate steady, moderate growth. Manufacturers report that input price increases have broadened somewhat, while service-sector businesses report that they continue to be fairly widespread. However, the large majority of firms in both sectors say that their selling prices remain mostly stable and expect more of the same in the second half of the year. Financial Developments Small- to medium-sized banks in the District report continued increases in loan demand across all categories--especially commercial mortgages--since the last report. Bankers report ongoing declines in refinancing activity. Respondents indicate that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories. A growing proportion of respondents indicate declining spreads of loan rates over cost of funds, with narrowing reported across all loan categories but especially in commercial mortgages. The vast majority of bankers--roughly four in five--indicate that average deposit rates were unchanged. Finally, bankers report increasingly widespread decreases in delinquency rates in all loan categories. Overall, more than 35 percent of respondents say delinquency rates have declined, while fewer than 5 percent say they have increased. Return to top Overall, contacts anticipated moderate growth over the next six months. Moreover, they generally expressed greater confidence in the underlying economy than in recent periods from their own perspective and from that of their consumer and business customers. About one-third of all firms reported plans to increase employment and to make additional capital expenditures over the next six months. For smaller businesses, such plans are likely to be realized on a very incremental basis. Manufacturing Third District manufacturers have continued to report modest increases in orders and shipments since the last Beige Book. Gains in activity continued to reflect demand from a broad base of sectors. Specifically, demand from the auto, aerospace, and energy sectors continued to rise, as did orders from China. Demand from Europe was seen as mixed by manufacturers. Several contacts mentioned some growth originating from residential construction, although they tended to focus on the demand for manufactured housing. Energy-related growth is particularly strong from demand generated by efforts to bring Marcellus shale gas to markets. Expectations among Third District manufacturers that business conditions would improve during the next six months became more prevalent with more firms expecting increases and fewer firms expecting decreases. Moreover, one-third of firms reported that they anticipate higher levels of employment and capital expenditures in six months--slightly more than during the last Beige Book period. Retail Contacts have continued to report modest growth of retail sales in the Third District since the prior Beige Book period. Year-over-year sales comparisons were generally positive for both May and June--the best combined two-month result this year so far. For June, an outlets mall operator reported one of the best year-over-year sales results this year. Growth was highest for retailers of children's clothing and for shoes. Sales were off for the home furnishings category. This decline was attributed to the end of the tax refund season and interpreted as evidence that households will spend for the home when they have windfall income. Various contacts continued to report that smaller, family-run restaurants and retailers, especially in smaller market areas, are often still struggling to stay in operation. However, one contact noted a return of retail investment to strip center spaces that have been vacant since the recession. Contacts are generally optimistic that the recent retail sales gains will continue. Auto dealers continued to report very strong sales through May and reported further strengthening into June. Dealers repeated their emphasis on staying lean, with cautious incremental hiring, which is helping to generate ongoing profitability. Sales are expected to remain strong throughout the remainder of the year, according to dealers--exceeding 2013 by as much as 6 percent to 9 percent. Finance Third District financial firms have continued to report slight increases in total loan volume since the last Beige Book. While some growth was indicated in all broad categories, demand increased most for consumer credit lines, such as credit cards and auto loans. Home equity lines also grew, but gains were slower due to ongoing payoffs of prior balances by more cautious borrowers. Contacts reported continued demand for commercial and industrial loans joined by ongoing fierce competition to secure the business. The market for commercial real estate and home mortgages, especially refinancing, remains much softer than other lines. Most banking contacts continued to report steady improvement in credit quality and loan portfolios. However, heated competition among banks to secure new loans has led to increased warnings of "too-risky" loan terms. Overall, bankers expressed greater optimism for general economic growth--tending to report a growing confidence among businesses and consumers alike. One contact stated that this is the most optimistic he has felt since the recession began. However, cautious tendencies continue to dominate most business decisions. Real Estate and Construction Third District homebuilders reported little change in sales from the last Beige Book period when a general malaise had dampened hopes for a strong spring season; however, construction has picked up. A New Jersey builder reported that he had salvaged May with end-of-month contract signings and was seeing a little increase in sales activity in June but from very low levels. One Pennsylvania builder continued to report slow sales and cited the overall weakness in the resale market. Despite low sales, builders from both states stated that their construction crews were now pretty busy; the poor winter weather had held up most of their active jobs. Residential real estate brokers reported slight improvements in sales in June. Although May sales were still negative in most major markets on a year-over-year basis, a major Philadelphia-area broker reported doing significantly better than plan in June and expressed hope that he might yet end even for the year. The broker stated that at least part of the ongoing difficulty stemmed from the tightness of inventory of lower-value homes. Nonresidential real estate contacts reported that growth in construction activity changed little from the slight pace seen in the previous Beige Book period; the growth of leasing activity dropped back to a slight pace from the more modest growth observed in the prior period. However, construction activity is expected to accelerate throughout the second half of this year and the first half of 2015 because several major projects have recently broken ground and more will do so in the third quarter. The market for industrial/warehouse space remains strong throughout much of the Third District and one contact thought there was finally some firming in demand for Class A office space in the Philadelphia market overall. Services Third District service-sector firms continued to report moderate growth in activity since the last Beige Book. A little over half of all firms reported increases of new orders and of sales. Demand has continued to increase at a moderate rate for truck shipping loads with capacity utilization levels approaching a tipping point that could spark sharp price increases and greater efforts to expand capacity. Staffing contacts continued to report a modest pace of growth; however, they were more upbeat as their activity included many new hires for permanent placements. Overall, the vast majority of service-sector contacts reported expectations that the growth trend will continue over the next six months. Contacts from tourist areas continued to report a slight rate of growth overall. Prolonged school years in many districts reduced some tourist activity at summer's start from the mountains to the sea. Jersey shore contacts reported somewhat stronger activity as they complete their return to full capacity following Hurricane Sandy. Contacts along the Delaware shore communities reported somewhat flat activity compared with last year, but for many, 2013 was a banner year. Mountain resorts also reported somewhat flat activity for May and June compared with last year. Several contacts continued to report that maintaining tourist numbers has not translated into comparable sales gains for area restaurants and retailers. Many visitors are maintaining tighter budgets while on vacation. All of the tourism contacts remain generally positive for future growth. Prices and Wages Overall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Book periods. The percentage of manufacturing firms reporting an increase in their input costs rose from about one-fourth to about one-third. However, the percentage of firms that increased their product prices barely budged, while a greater percentage of firms reported decreasing their own prices. Overall, prices paid and received by service-sector firms changed little from last period, with about one-third of firms reporting increases. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing. Many contacts continued to report tight, or narrowing, margins. Homebuilders reported that costs have been relatively flat over the last three months. Brokers reported slight, steady overall increases in home prices. Contacts among service-sector companies reported little change in labor costs. One staffing company serving a growing metro area reported that the wage scales across multiple job codes for a major contract renewal were unchanged from two years ago. The contact stressed that there was "no shortage of labor." Another staffing company contact from a smaller, growing metro area reported that wages were going up but that "clients were nonplussed." Overall, contacts reported that hiring occurs when it's necessary for replacement and for some incremental growth, but firms are much more cautious about hiring to expand capacity. Return to top On net, payrolls showed a mild increase. Staffing firms provided mixed reports. Job openings were found mainly in energy, healthcare, and IT. Upward pressure on wages is being felt by the construction and freight transport industries. Input and finished goods prices were stable, apart from increases for some metals and agricultural products and a decline in coal prices. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and production were stable or grew at a modest pace during the past six weeks. Strongest demand came from the motor vehicle, oil and gas, and residential construction markets. We heard comments about domestic markets gaining traction, while European sales showed only slight gains. Finished goods inventories decreased since our last report: Several manufacturers noted that the change was in response to rising demand; others cited a rise in raw material prices as a reason to keep inventories low. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about the domestic outlook, and they project a modest rise in demand relative to current levels in the coming months. Steel shipments grew slightly since our last report, with a further gradual improvement anticipated through year's end. Year-to-date auto production (through May) at District assembly plants is 8 percent higher as compared to 2013. An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) told us that his company's projection for 2014 sales of autos and light trucks industry wide has been revised upward to 16.3 million units. Capital expenditures are in line with budgeted amounts for the fiscal year. Those intending to increase capital budgets as the year progresses reported that the additional monies would be used for productivity enhancements or research and development. There is concern about the negative impact on capital spending due to the elimination of the 50 percent accelerated depreciation rule. Raw material prices were largely unchanged. However, several manufacturers reported a rise in metal prices (copper, nickel, and steel), which they successfully passed through to customers. Hiring of production workers continued to pick up, but the net gain in payrolls is small. Wage pressures are contained. Real Estate and Construction. Sales of new and existing single-family homes improved during the past six weeks, when compared to earlier in the second quarter. However, year-to-date purchases of new and existing homes through May were somewhat lower than in 2013. One builder pointed to a lot shortage, which may be a contributing factor to softer sales in his service area. Another builder is concerned about a lot shortage putting upward pressure on home prices. Single-family construction starts across the District are on a slow upward trend and slightly ahead of year-ago levels. New-home contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point categories. A few builders noted a small resurgence in interest from first-time buyers. There was little change in new-home pricing during the past six weeks, although some builders said that they are considering raising prices in the second half of the year. Existing-home prices are trending slowly higher. Homebuilders' outlooks for the remainder of 2014 varied widely. Nonresidential builders reported little change in their pipelines during the past six weeks, while most said that activity is above year-ago levels. In general, our contacts are seeing an improvement in the number of inquiries and growing backlogs. Demand was strongest from the energy, housing (public and private), retail, and healthcare markets. Most builders are fairly optimistic in their outlook, but they remain concerned about labor issues and tight margins. One builder mentioned that rising margins contributed to a decline in his contract win rate. Homebuilders reported that banks remain reluctant to finance single-family tract development, while commercial developers indicated that banks and insurance companies are more willing to finance projects, including multifamily developments. Construction-material pricing is projected to rise 2 to 5 percent this year. Highest increases are expected for hardwoods, concrete, and steel. General contractors reported seasonal hiring, including college recruitment, is at a normal rate. Little additional hiring is expected for the remainder of the summer. Craft- workers are difficult to find and are driving up wages (general and subcontractors). Builders reported that a movement of trade workers among competing firms has picked up. They attributed the job changes to offers of higher wages, especially from oil and gas companies. Consumer Spending. Retail sales during May and into early June were consistent with or moderately higher than those seen earlier in the second quarter. Same-store revenues were generally higher than a year ago. One retailer attributed revenue growth to an ongoing effort to update her product mix, not increased foot traffic. Another observed that consumer confidence and her company's domestic sales are both exhibiting slow growth and that the total value of goods purchased by the typical consumer is on a decline. As a result, the industry is increasing the use of promotions. Retailers are hopeful that third-quarter revenues will be about 1 to 3 percent higher compared to a year earlier. We heard reports about a run-up in dairy and meat prices that is being partially offset by a decline in the prices of some other agricultural commodities. Food inflation this year is expected to be about 3 percent. Otherwise, vendor and shelf prices held steady. Several of our retail contacts noted that additional monies have been added to their capital budgets, mainly for brick-and-mortar projects. Payrolls are stable. The number of new motor vehicles sold in May declined on a month-over-month basis. However, year-to-date sales through May were moderately higher compared to 2013. Consumer preferences shifted away from smaller, fuel-efficient cars to SUVs and crossover vehicles. New car inventory has increased since our last report. Used-car purchases have fallen off during the past couple of months, but year-to-date sales through May of used vehicles were stronger than for the same time period in 2013. The outlook by dealers for the summer season is positive, and they foresee a slight increase in unit volume year-over-year. Leasing continues to be a very popular alternative for potential new-vehicle buyers. We started to hear reports about dealers investing in showroom renovations and expansions that are not being mandated by OEMs. A need for service technicians is growing, but dealers are having difficulty finding qualified workers. Banking. Demand for business credit increased, but at a slower pace than earlier in the second quarter. Requests were strongest for commercial real estate loans. Some pickup was seen in C&amp;I lending to manufacturers. Consumer credit demand was stable. Applications for auto loans remain strong, and households are making greater use of home equity products. Residential mortgage activity was flat. Purchase transactions dominated mortgage applications. Delinquency rates were stable. No changes were made to loan-application standards during the past six weeks. Core deposits held steady or showed modest growth, more so from commercial customers. Spreads between lending and deposit rates narrowed slightly, mainly from the lending side. On balance, banking payrolls were steady: hiring was mainly for staffing new branches or to work in regulatory compliance. We heard a couple of reports about staff cuts in mortgage business lines. Energy. Year-to-date coal production across the District is consistent with prior-year levels, with no material shift anticipated in the near term. Spot prices for steam and metallurgical coal have declined. We heard a report that current pricing is less than optimal for producers, especially in Appalachia. As a result, some producers have idled or are considering idling operations. Activity in the Marcellus and Utica shales is stable but at a high level. Wellhead prices for natural gas have declined slightly, while oil prices were steady. Little change was seen in equipment, material, and labor costs. Freight Transportation. Freight executives characterized volume as good or strong and said that revenues are above year-ago levels. The freight backup attributed to the severe winter has been reportedly eliminated. Although strengthening demand is fairly broad based, shipments of construction- and fracking-related materials stand out. The near-term outlook for growth prospects is favorable. At this time, cost pressures are limited to fuel and labor (wage and regulatory). The former is covered through surcharges. Due to a driver shortage, some fleets are providing sign-on bonuses and are carefully monitoring their wage rates to ensure that they are in line with industry norms. We heard several reports about customers becoming more accepting of rate increases to cover higher labor costs. Hiring is for replacement and to a lesser degree, adding capacity. Although most fleets would like to add capacity, they are having difficulty finding qualified drivers. Year-to-date capital spending is in line with or slightly ahead of projections. Return to top Manufacturing Manufacturing conditions improved on balance in recent weeks. According to our latest survey, the volume of new orders rose slightly, shipments grew at a slower rate, and inventories of finished goods and raw materials remained constant. A food manufacturer in North Carolina stated that production has been at full capacity, and sales have risen in the past month. A pipe manufacturer in Maryland said both shipments and new orders increased. According to a valve manufacturer in West Virginia, new orders, shipments, and backlogs increased due to the robust energy industry. Another West Virginia contact stated that automotive manufacturing is doing well and the chemical industry is strong. In contrast, a producer of industrial equipment components reported a slowdown with fewer shipments and new orders. Additionally, a packaging materials company manager reported reduced shipments, although new orders rose slightly. Most producers were optimistic about future business conditions. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our most recent survey. Ports Port officials reported robust growth in container traffic since our last report, with very good volumes moving through the District's three largest ports. Transfers of heavy machinery and autos remained strong. Both imports and exports increased, with forest products, grains, soybeans, and auto parts leading among exports. Key imports were auto parts, apparel and textiles. Imports of housing-related products, such as furniture and appliances, decelerated. Officials reported some diversions from the West Coast as shippers used East Coast ports to avoid potential labor issues during contract negotiations. Retail Retail sales growth slowed since our last report. A grocery contact in North Carolina said his revenue growth was seasonal and related to events such as graduation and Memorial Day. An executive at a South Carolina grocery chain reported an increase in prices, particularly for meat. According to the president of a Maryland chain discount store, sales at his business as well as at other nearby stores have fallen in the last few weeks. He remarked, "People are meeting their needs first, then their wants." A large auto dealer said that the massive vehicle recalls have recently begun to have a slight adverse effect on sales of used cars at his business. However, customer traffic remained up and new car sales were strong. Other car dealers also reported solid new car sales. Retail prices rose slightly faster. Services Revenues and customer demand increased in recent weeks at services firms, according to most sources. An accounting firm in Maryland was receiving more proposals for audit work. In addition, an executive at a national freight trucking firm reported a spike in demand for shipping as home improvement stores stocked up for Fourth of July sales. He also noted an increase in contracts for future shipping. In contrast, a North Carolina hospital official reported that the facility continued to prepare for Affordable Care Act changes, with little change in already soft volumes. Price growth slowed in the service sector. Tourism contacts reported normal seasonal activity, with many late bookings as tourists looked for deals. According to a Washington, D.C. source, the inflow of tour buses was at typical summer volumes. In South Carolina, a hotel executive said occupancy was steady at a high level. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina said that visitor traffic was up seasonally, but not above a year ago. New air-taxi service there is expected to increase tourism. A hurricane hitting the area on the Fourth of July holiday weekend had only a minor impact. A manager at a Virginia hotel chain reported that bookings were on pace with a year ago and room rates rose in July. Rates elsewhere were mostly unchanged. Finance Reports on consumer borrowing varied in recent weeks, while commercial lending improved. Growth in residential mortgage demand slowed across most of the District. However, a lender in North Carolina reported a slight acceleration in demand, and a West Virginia banker reported modest growth in the northern part of the state due to economic growth at natural gas sites. Refinance lending declined in Virginia and West Virginia, with a West Virginia lender stating that the Qualified Mortgage rules have complicated and slowed down the lending process. Demand for consumer loans edged up in North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia. Commercial and industrial loan demand was strong in North Carolina and Virginia. A banker in Richmond said lending had increased for apartments, condos, health care centers, and shopping centers. Small business lending was starting to bounce back in Charlotte, according to a banker there. Another North Carolina banker reported strict mortgage standards, but an easing of cost terms for well-qualified commercial and industrial borrowers. A loan officer in West Virginia echoed that mortgage standards remained tight, adding that regulatory scrutiny was intense. Credit quality strengthened according to contacts in North Carolina and West Virginia. Real Estate The District's housing market improved modestly since the last report. A Northern Virginia broker reported normal buyer traffic, but expects a seasonal slowdown in the next few weeks. A Realtor in South Carolina saw steady demand for mid-range homes. However, demand declined for entry level homes. Home prices rose across the board in Asheville, Charlotte, Columbia, and Raleigh. In Northern Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C., larger price increases were reported for higher-end homes compared to other types of homes. Housing inventory varied according to contacts, with mild growth in Fairfax, Myrtle Beach, and Washington, D.C., while a broker in Charlotte reported a slight decline. Single family residential construction increased moderately since the last report in Raleigh and Charlotte; real estate contacts in Washington D.C. reported no change. In contrast, a Realtor in Myrtle Beach observed a decline in sales and construction. Multifamily new construction and leasing remained strong. Realtors in Richmond, Virginia Beach, Raleigh, Columbia, and Charleston, South Carolina reported an uptick in commercial construction, while contacts in West Virginia and Washington, D.C. saw little change. A broker in Maryland said that medical construction had stopped. Grocery-anchored retail construction remained strong across the District. Commercial retail contacts reported solid leasing in Virginia Beach, Richmond, Columbia, and Charleston, South Carolina. Demand for retail space in Washington D.C. was flat. Industrial leasing demand weakened in West Virginia and Raleigh, but strengthened in Charleston, South Carolina. Office leasing was robust in Charlotte and Charleston, South Carolina. Most Realtors reported no change in vacancy rates, except in the Carolinas, where contacts in Charlotte, Raleigh, and Charleston noted a slight decrease across sub-markets. Reports on rents varied. Contacts said that commercial sales edged up in Raleigh, northern Virginia, Richmond, and Columbia. Commercial sale prices increased in Charleston, South Carolina and Virginia Beach. Agriculture and Natural Resources Replanting of crops due to extended winter weather was completed and wheat harvesting finished up in the Carolinas, according to an agriculture contact. Overall, fertilizer prices remained steady, while agricultural chemical prices and crop seed prices increased slightly. Some agribusiness owners reported lower commodity prices compared to last year. However, a sod company reported higher prices as planting and harvesting increased due to high demand and low inventory. Cotton prices stabilized, according to sources, while seafood prices rose. Coal production leveled off since our last report, while prices rose due to lower inventories and falling year-over-year production. Natural gas output increased slightly in the past six weeks, while prices were unchanged. Labor Markets Employment increased at a moderate pace in recent weeks. A North Carolina staffing manager reported an increase in demand for manufacturing and warehouse semi-skilled workers, such as fork lift operators. Contacts noted growth in jobs across many sectors in the Asheville region and in the Research Triangle of North Carolina. In Virginia, skilled manufacturing and construction workers, welders, truck drivers, and engineers were in short supply. Although demand there increased for workers in construction, hospitality, and recreation, many jobs were only part time. In contrast, a contact at a staffing agency in Maryland said that demand weakened slightly in recent weeks. Reports on wages were also mixed, with little wage pressure in Maryland and Virginia, while wage increases were reported in Raleigh, Charlotte, and Asheville. According to our latest surveys, manufacturing employment rose at a slightly slower pace while average wage growth eased and the workweek lengthened. Employment in the service sector increased at a faster pace, and wages rose more quickly at non-retail service firms while wage growth slowed at retail establishments. Return to top Retailers noted that sales rose at a slightly faster pace relative to the previous report and vehicle sales grew solidly. According to travel and tourism contacts, the hospitality sector continued to experience robust activity. Reports on residential home sales were mixed with fewer brokers noting an increase in home sales relative to the previous report, while builders' reports remained fairly positive. Both builders and brokers indicated that home prices appreciated from a year ago. Commercial real estate contacts witnessed continued improvement in demand and increased construction activity. Manufacturers cited growth in new orders and production. Bankers noted improved loan growth since the previous report. Payroll employment grew at a modest pace across most of the District. Wages and input cost pressures remained stable overall. Consumer Spending and Tourism Since the last report, the consensus among District retailers was that sales growth picked up slightly with several merchants indicating that customers spent more money per visit to their establishments than earlier in the year. Strength in residential real estate sales was noted as positively impacting furniture stores and other retailers in high growth areas across the region. Auto sales continued to grow at a solid pace in June and early July. District reports on tourism and business travel remained positive. Activity in Georgia and Florida was strong with high occupancy numbers at local hotels and resorts. Firms reported several tourism-related capital expenditure projects under construction, intended to stimulate travel to the area. Mississippi's casino gaming revenues in the first half of the year decreased compared with a year ago. Hospitality industry contacts expressed concerns that a rise in gas prices may adversely affect summer tourist activity. Real Estate and Construction Fewer District brokers cited growth this period than in the previous report. Just over half of brokers indicated that home sales had increased from the year earlier level, down from nearly two-thirds in June's report. Most indicated that inventories either remained the same or declined on a year-over-year basis. The majority of contacts continued to report that home prices remained above last year's level. The outlook among brokers about future sales activity was less optimistic relative to our last report. On the other hand, reports from District builders remained fairly positive. Most contacts felt that recent activity either met or exceeded their plan for the period. The majority of builders indicated that construction and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level. Builders noted that the inventory of unsold homes remained unchanged from a year ago. The majority of contacts continued to report modest home price appreciation. The outlook among builders for construction and home sales was positive. Demand for commercial real estate continued to improve across most of the region. Absorption rates remained positive. Construction continued to increase at a modest pace from last year and most contractors noted that their current backlog was ahead of year earlier levels. Contacts indicated that apartment construction remained fairly strong and reported that the level of construction activity across other property types remained steady. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with most expecting activity to grow at a steady pace through the summer months. Manufacturing and Transportation Manufacturers indicated that activity sustained the solid pace of growth noted in the previous report. New orders and production continued to increase, supplier delivery times slowed as demand for inputs rose, and commodity prices were elevated. The outlook among purchasing managers for higher production over the next three to six months remained consistent with the previous report. Transportation activity in the District continued to expand since the last report. Rail contacts reported notable year-over-year growth in shipments of petroleum products, grain, machinery, and military and transportation equipment. Intermodal traffic remained robust. District ports noted strengthening in container traffic and break-bulk cargo, along with growth in shipments of autos and machinery. Contacts in trucking cited broad-based increases in freight volumes and tonnage. Banking and Finance Bankers continued to report increased competition and aggressive rates and loan structures. Contacts noted loan growth was strong over the last couple of months, with some of that growth coming from increased credit line usage. Much of the borrowing was used to lower the cost of existing debt and to finance acquisitions. Banks continued to compete aggressively for quality borrowers, especially in small business lending. Mortgage demand, in general, was lower than last year. Applications for new home purchases made up a larger percentage of total mortgage applications as refinancing activity slowed. Some contacts cited an increase in demand for second mortgages and commercial development loans. Auto lending was characterized as strong and competitive in June and early July. Delinquencies were down and have returned to prerecession levels at many institutions. Employment and Prices Payrolls across the District continued to expand in June and early July, but at a slow pace. The District's aggregate payroll growth was dragged down by notable payroll losses in Florida. That said, in the aggregate, manufacturing employment increased across the District. Contacts reported continued difficulty filling positions in trucking, construction, and for specific information technology positions. Staffing agencies noted that job placements were up modestly, while the flow from temporary to permanent employment rose slightly. Wage growth remained in the 2-3 percent range, with the exception of some high-skill, low-supply fields. Growth in input costs was muted for most businesses, with reports of greater cost inflation for some higher demand services and commodity-related inputs, including trucking services, construction materials, and food. A growing number of contacts cited successful attempts to raise prices, though such increases reportedly required more negotiation than was typical pre-recession. According to the Atlanta Fed's survey on business inflation expectations, firms' unit costs were up 1.9 percent on a year-over-year basis in June. Looking forward, survey respondents indicated that they expected unit costs to rise 2.0 percent over the coming 12 months, on average. Natural Resources and Agriculture Gulf Coast refineries continued to run at near record levels, as they have for much of 2014. Refineries continued to invest in storage capacity to accommodate increased crude oil inventories flowing to the Gulf Coast from the Cushing, Oklahoma hub. Regional exports of crude oil rose on a year-over-year basis. Energy firms expect continued strength in the sector and strong demand during the summer months. While much of Tennessee, southwest Louisiana, and the southernmost tip of Florida continued to experience abnormally dry conditions, most of the District was drought free. Some areas received excessive rain causing delays in production although recent, dryer weather conditions allowed planting to continue. Regional producers benefitted from higher prices for many of their agricultural products, lower costs for feed and fertilizer, and fuel costs leveling off. Recent record-high prices in cattle and hogs were attributed both to growing international demand and to domestic supply constraints. Return to top Consumer Spending Consumer spending increased in June, but the overall pace of growth remained modest. Reports were mixed, but in most cases, retail sales met or fell slightly below expectations. Retailers cited the abnormally wet weather and higher food and energy prices as factors likely restraining consumer spending; for example, a grocery contact noted that consumers were substituting toward lower quality cuts of meat in response to rising prices. Contacts also noted that the restrained consumer spending had led to increased promotional activity, crimping retail margins. In spite of the setbacks, contacts remained optimistic for the remainder of the year. Light vehicle sales rose as consumers continued to enjoy favorable incentives and credit conditions. Auto dealers reported that activity in service and parts departments increased because of vehicle recalls. Business Spending Business spending continued to grow at a moderate pace in June. Capital expenditures and spending plans continued to increase, with expenditures still concentrated on industrial and IT equipment. A number of contacts--especially automotive suppliers--again reported expanding capacity. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most manufacturers and retailers, though some auto dealers reported that shortages of certain popular models were hindering sales. Hiring picked up and hiring expectations continued to increase, with the gains more pronounced in the service sector than in manufacturing. Demand remained strong for skilled workers, particularly for professional and technical occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. A number of manufacturing contacts reported investing in labor-saving equipment or employee training because of the challenge in finding skilled workers. In contrast, a construction contact noted that builders are unwilling to invest in training workers until demand is stronger. Construction and Real Estate Overall, construction and real estate activity increased at a moderate pace in June. Both single- and multi-family residential construction expanded. Builders reported continued strength in high-income urban markets but a slight decline in new suburban contracts. Several contacts also indicated that improved credit conditions were making it easier to finance new projects. On a similar note, real estate contacts indicated that access to mortgage credit has improved. Nonetheless, home sales declined modestly over the reporting period, while rents and prices were somewhat higher. Both builders and realtors noted that higher prices and mostly stagnant incomes have weighed on affordability and held back a broader pick up in housing markets. Demand for nonresidential construction strengthened considerably, with contacts citing an increase in industrial, infrastructure, and retail projects. Commercial real estate activity continued to expand, as vacancies ticked down and rents rose. Leasing of industrial buildings, office space, and retail space all increased. Manufacturing Manufacturing production continued to grow at a moderate pace in June. The auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained a source of strength for the District. Steel service centers reported improving order books, as did many specialty metal manufacturers. In addition, a scrap metal contact noted large inflows from demolitions, which tend to be a leading indicator of future new construction. Manufacturers of construction materials reported steadily increasing production and demand. Demand for heavy and medium duty trucks grew moderately, as transportation volumes rose. Demand for heavy machinery continued to grow at a slow but steady pace, with some improvement noted by contacts in domestic and European markets. Construction machinery again was a positive while the global weakness in mining continued to weigh on demand. Contacts reported that lower demand and increasing inventories had led some heavy machinery producers to reduce capacity. Banking and Finance Credit conditions improved moderately from the prior reporting period. Equity market volatility decreased further, as did corporate financing costs for a number of District firms. Business lending increased, with contacts noting a pickup in demand for the financing of equipment and commercial real estate. Contacts also reported an uptick in leveraged lending for dividend recapitalizations and strategic acquisitions. Banking contacts continued to cite competitive pressure on structure and pricing for traditional and leveraged business lending, particularly from nonbank financial institutions willing to take on higher credit risk. Growth in consumer loan demand was steady over the reporting period, with an increase in applications for credit cards, continued growth in auto lending, and an uptick in mortgage originations and home equity lending. Prices and Costs Cost pressures increased, but remained modest. Overall, industrial metals prices changed little, although contacts noted some increases in steel, copper, and nickel prices. Energy costs remained elevated. Competition put downward pressure on retail prices; with little change in wholesale prices, there was some compression in retail margins. Contacts again reported cost pressures for retail meat and dairy items, as wholesale prices for both remained elevated. In addition, a contact noted that shortages were driving up leather prices. Wage pressures increased, primarily for skilled workers. Non-wage labor costs were little changed. Agriculture The District's corn and soybean crops made up ground after a late start to planting as favorable weather helped plants emerge more quickly than the five-year average. The consensus among contacts was that the corn and soybean crops were in excellent shape, but were unlikely to set records when harvested because of the late plantings. Corn, soybean, and wheat prices moved down during the reporting period. More farmers than a year ago took advantage of the spring rally in crop prices to lock in a profit on a larger portion of their expected harvest. Hog prices moved higher as disease affected supplies. Farmers received lower prices for milk and cattle, yet these prices remained well above levels necessary to cover the costs of production. Return to top Consumer Spending The retail sector experienced, on net, modest growth across the District with openings announced in the apparel, auto, and home and garden sectors, but these were accompanied by a few closures by both national and local retailers. Contacts noted that the retail furniture market remains soft in parts of the District. One major mall in the District saw slightly positive sales growth. Contacts reported good sales entering the summer months for hardware/lumber yards, retail establishments, and restaurants. Finally, some restaurants and businesses across the District saw historically large revenue during the World Cup festivities. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce their workforces. Firms in auto parts, medical equipment, adhesive and sealant products, precious metals, electronic products, alcoholic beverage, and boat manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the District. In contrast, firms that manufacture food and pharmaceutical preparations reported plans to lay off workers in the District. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been positive since the previous report. Firms in transportation; distribution; courier and express delivery; and business, engineering, communication, and hotel services reported new hiring and expansion plans in District states. In contrast, firms in health care, adjustment and collection, and media services plan to lay off employees. Contacts in Louisville reported that more restaurants are opening than are closing and that a major grocer expanded floor space. Real Estate and Construction Sales of new and existing homes have decreased in the largest metro areas of the District. Compared with the same period in 2013, May 2014 year-to-date home sales were down 6 percent in Little Rock, 4 percent in Louisville, 5 percent in Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis. May 2014 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2013. Permits decreased 25 percent in Little Rock, 17 percent in Louisville, 1 percent in Memphis, and 3 percent in St. Louis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have improved, on balance, since the previous report. A contact reported weak demand for office space in the Louisville downtown area, but expected an increase in office space leasing activity because of recent employment gains. Contacts in Memphis noted strong retail leasing activity. A contact in Little Rock reported a stable and healthy industrial market. A contact in St. Louis reported tight market conditions in the industrial market and an increasing demand for new warehouse distribution centers with high ceilings and good multi-modal access. Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District. A contact in Memphis reported a commercial expansion in Shelby Farms Park. A contact in Louisville reported a new commercial development project in northern Kentucky. A contact in Little Rock reported a new office building under construction in Pinnacle Hills Promenade in Rogers, Arkansas. A contact in St. Louis reported an increase in commercial construction projects in north St. Louis County. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks increased 2.8 percent from mid-March to mid-June. Real estate lending, accounting for 72 percent of total loans, increased 1.4 percent over this period. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16 percent of total loans, increased 4.7 percent over the period. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5.1 percent of total loans, increased 4.6 percent over the period. All other loans, accounting for 6.8 percent of total loans, increased 12.5 percent over the period. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 1.7 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources As of late June, District farmers had completed the corn, cotton, and rice plantings. In contrast, soybean and sorghum plantings were behind the 5-year average rate of progress in Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Kentucky. Over 90 percent of the District's corn, cotton, rice, sorghum, and soybean crops were rated in fair or better condition. The winter wheat harvest was behind its 5-year average rate of progress for all District states. Year-to-date coal production in the District for May 2014 was 1.5 percent lower compared with the same time last year. However, District coal production for May 2014 was 0.3 percent higher than in May 2013. Employment, Wages, and Prices Business contacts in the District indicated that wage and employment growth has been modest, while prices have increased slightly since the previous report. Contacts in the manufacturing sector throughout the District cited lack of skilled blue-collar and technical workers as a concern, in some cases limiting business expansion. Contacts in Little Rock and Louisville noted that wages are rising moderately for positions where the employment supply is limited. New hiring reports from Louisville were notably positive: A mall that will employ more than 1,000 employees is set to open, and an e-commerce retailer is filling more than 500 full-time jobs at its distribution center to meet growing demand. Return to top Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending increased modestly on net. Sales at a Minnesota-based apparel retailer were up slightly from a year earlier, while comparable sales in stores at a Minneapolis area mall were down slightly. A Minnesota-based food producer recently reported a slight decrease in sales. Meanwhile, a manager of a mall in Montana reported that recent sales were up about 7 percent compared with a year ago. An auto dealer in Montana noted that sales have recently picked up after a slow start to the year. Tourism activity was up from a year ago. Some Montana tourism-related businesses noted an increase in reservations at campgrounds and for outfitting and guiding services during the early part of the summer. According to a survey conducted by the Minnesota state tourism office, 38 percent of respondents from lodging and camping properties expect summer occupancy to be higher than a year ago, while 13 percent expect decreases; the outlook was slightly more positive than last year's survey. During the first five months of 2014, occupancies in the tourist destination of Deadwood, S.D., were up 5 percent compared with a year earlier. Relatively strong hotel occupancy rates were reported in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Construction and Real Estate Commercial construction activity increased since the last report. Several new commercial developments were planned across the District. A few examples include a medical office building planned in South Dakota, an industrial building in eastern North Dakota, a mixed-use development in Minnesota, and a natural resource processor in Montana. The value of May commercial permits in Billings, Mont., more than quadrupled from last year. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., commercial permits in June were down from a year ago. Residential construction decreased from last year. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of June residential permits decreased slightly compared with a year earlier. The value of permits issued in May decreased in the Bismarck, N.D., area from a year ago. The value of May single-family residential building permits in Billings was down from last year, but multifamily building was up. In contrast, the value of May residential permits in Sioux Falls increased more than 40 percent from a year earlier. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. Several commercial real estate sales and leasing transactions were announced since mid-May. An office building in Minneapolis will be sold for a city record of $365 per square foot. Residential real estate market activity was mixed. In the Sioux Falls area, May home sales were down 7 percent, inventory increased 7 percent and the median sales price increased 4 percent relative to a year earlier. May home sales were down 10 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for sale increased 3 percent and the median sales price rose 7 percent. However, in Eau Claire, Wis., May home sales were up 9 percent from the same period a year ago and the median sales price dropped 3 percent. May home sales increased relative to a year ago in the Bismarck area. Services Activity at professional business services firms increased since mid-May. Engineering contacts reported increased activity as a result of widespread flooding. An architect noted a slight increase in bidding activity since the last report. Trucking contacts reported increased demand due in part to rail capacity constraints. Manufacturing Growth in the manufacturing sector continued. Respondents to a June survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) reported increased manufacturing activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas; the index for Minnesota reached its highest level since prior to the recession. Contacts from the metal forming industry reported that business growth in 2014 was faster than 2013's pace; demand from the auto sector moderated, while demand from other industries was up, with the notable exception of agricultural equipment, which fell. Contacts who produce capital equipment for manufacturers noted that demand for machinery was strong and that the market for used equipment had "dried up." Energy and Mining Activity in the energy sector remained strong, while mining was steady. Late-June oil and gas exploration activity decreased in Montana and increased in North Dakota from a month earlier. Oil production bounced back up after dipping during the extreme winter cold. Two new pipelines to carry oil from North Dakota were proposed. Falling corn prices have been a boon to ethanol producers, according to industry contacts. Output at Minnesota iron ore mines was roughly level with last year and was slightly below expectations. Activity was restrained in part because of the winter and a rail backlog, but demand from the steel industry also appears to have slowed. In contrast, exploration or permitting was under way for several planned nonferrous mines throughout the District. Agriculture District crop producers made progress catching up on a late spring, but flooding due to heavy rains led to crop losses in some areas. Corn and soybean emergence rates were consistent with five-year averages, and most crops were in good or excellent condition. District producers planted fewer acres of corn and more soybeans this year, in line with expectations. The USDA forecasts solid harvests and a slight reduction in crop prices by the end of the year. Prices received by farmers fell in June from a year earlier for corn, soybeans, wheat, and hay; prices increased for cattle, hogs, poultry, eggs, and milk. Employment, Wages and Prices Hiring outpaced layoffs in most areas of the District. A number of business contacts noted increased difficulty finding qualified employees for open positions. In Minnesota, a call center was hiring 160 new workers, a bus manufacturer announced an expansion that will create over 150 new jobs, a pharmaceutical research firm is establishing a new facility that will create 100 new jobs, a safety equipment manufacturer was adding 100 jobs, and a financial services firm was expanding its information technology staff by 50 workers. However, a printing operator announced that it will close a facility in Minnesota, affecting 280 workers. Wage increases were generally modest. For example, wages for manufacturing workers in District states were up about 1 percent for the three-month period ended in May compared with the same period a year earlier. Overall prices remained relatively level. End-of-June gas prices in Minnesota were slightly higher than prices in mid-May. Metals prices were generally flat since the last report, while lumber prices decreased slightly. Return to top Consumer Spending Consumer spending rose modestly in late May and early June, and contacts were increasingly optimistic about future sales growth. District retail sales continued to increase, but at a slower pace than during the previous survey period. Retail sales were well-above year-ago levels, and retail contacts anticipated robust sales in the months ahead. Several retailers noted stronger sales of home improvement and building materials, while sales for men's apparel were weak. Automobile sales picked up slightly, with mid-sized cars and SUVs selling particularly well. Automobile sales remained higher than a year ago, and contacts expected strong growth in the coming months. Restaurant sales increased slightly, with sales remaining considerably higher than a year ago. Expectations for future restaurant sales moderated somewhat but still remained solid. District tourist activity improved markedly, in part due to seasonal summer increases, with conditions considerably better than the previous year. Tourism contacts expected stronger activity to continue throughout the summer and early fall months. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity District manufacturing activity expanded modestly, although the pace of growth slowed somewhat compared to the previous survey period. Production fell slightly at non-durable goods-producing plants, while production increased for the majority of durable products, except for machinery which decreased considerably. Growth in new orders and employment moderated in June, while order backlogs rose. Expectations for future factory activity remained steady at generally solid levels. Manufacturers' capital spending plans continued to rise and remained higher than a year ago. Wholesale trade and transportation firms reported moderate sales growth from the previous survey, particularly for construction products, while growth in professional and high-tech services activity eased. Wholesale trade, transportation, professional, and high-tech firms anticipated higher future sales activity in coming months. Reduced government spending continued to impact several high-tech firms in the area. Real Estate and Construction District real estate activity increased moderately in late May and June, while construction activity rose slightly. Residential home sales expanded modestly, particularly for low- and medium-priced homes which continued to outsell higher-priced homes. Residential home inventories continued to decline, and home prices increased further. Residential real estate contacts expected additional improvement in the coming months, with moderately higher sales and prices. According to builders and construction supply contacts, construction activity continued to expand, although at a slower pace than during the previous survey period. Sales of construction supplies increased moderately, and housing starts were flat. However, builders anticipated starts and buyer traffic to increase modestly in the months ahead. Mortgage activity picked up slightly, but remained lower than a year ago as a decrease in refinancing activity continued to weigh on overall activity. Commercial real estate activity strengthened further, with lower vacancy rates and increased sales, construction and absorption. The commercial real estate market was expected to expand moderately over the next few months. Banking Bankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and a slight increase in deposit levels. Respondents reported a minor decrease in demand for residential real estate loans. Most respondents reported steady demand for commercial real estate loans, agricultural loans, and consumer installment loans. Demand for commercial and industrial loans was relatively steady with a slight decrease compared to the last survey. Bankers reported improving loan quality compared to a year ago, and all bankers expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories. In addition, respondents reported a minor increase in deposits. Agriculture Heavy summer storms in June improved soil moisture for developing crops and pastures but also caused some wind, hail and flood damage. Wet fields delayed the winter wheat harvest in Oklahoma and Kansas, and yields depended on the extent of drought, freeze and hail damage. Despite expectations of a poor wheat harvest in much of the District, wheat prices fell since the last survey period. The corn and soybean crops were in good condition overall, and improved growing conditions led to a drop in prices for both crops. Cattle prices continued to rise, but feeder cattle prices have recently increased much faster than fed cattle prices and narrowed margins for feedlot operators. The cumulative effect of reduced piglet numbers due to the swine virus and strong export demand for pork supported further gains in hog prices, even though pork production forecasts were raised due to heavier dressed weights and higher than expected slaughter in the second quarter. Energy. District energy activity ticked up in late May and June. Business activity held steady, drilling increased slightly, and expectations for the coming months strengthened further. The number of active oil rigs increased, while natural gas rigs remained basically unchanged. Crude oil spot prices spiked in late June as a result of geopolitical conflicts in the Middle East threatening supply, but have come down somewhat as the threat has weakened. Natural gas spot prices have moderated slightly since the last survey period, but remained above year-ago levels. Energy contacts expected oil and gas prices to stay near current high levels, and contacts reported an increase in planned capital expenditures. Several producers commented on increased drilling costs due to advancing technology, which is currently being offset by high oil prices. Wages and Prices Prices grew at a slightly slower pace in most industries, and wage pressures were modest. Retail prices moderated somewhat but still increased over the previous survey period. The pace of growth slowed slightly for manufacturing raw materials and selling prices, but contacts expected further increases in future months. Transportation input prices were flat, and fewer firms raised selling prices, while restaurant menu prices continued to rise due to elevated food costs. Construction materials prices were slightly higher in June, and most builders expected further increases. Wage pressures were modest in most industries, with the exception of manufacturing in which almost half of manufacturing contacts reported raising wages more than normal to attract or retain some workers. Some contacts continued to report a short supply of workers, particularly for drivers, construction, high-tech, and skilled positions. Return to top Prices Most responding firms said prices held steady or increased slightly since the last report. Fabricated metals producers noted continued increases in selling prices and expect more in the next six months. Food producers said that selling prices had moved up due to rising input costs, especially for dairy and meat products. Retail prices rose slightly, while automobile selling prices were unchanged. A transportation service firm said rates were up slightly, partly due to rising fuel costs, and airlines said airfares and fees had moved up. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude rose since the last report, while natural gas prices were flat. Gasoline prices moved up due to higher oil prices and the start of the summer driving season. Labor Market Employment levels held steady or increased modestly and some contacts noted continued difficulty in finding skilled workers. Reports of hiring came from airlines, auto dealers, law firms, and manufacturers of brick, fabricated metals, food, high tech and transportation equipment. Retail sector employment rose, and one contact noted that hiring was in line with increasing sales. Staffing firms noted a slight increase in headcount, and an accounting firm noted growing success in hiring out-of-state talent. Energy contacts continued to report a very tight labor market and respondents in food manufacturing and retail industries reported difficulty finding workers in oil-producing regions. Shortages of labor in the housing sector continued, although one contact noted slight easing. Reports of upward wage pressures were roughly the same as in the last report. Wage pressures remained strongest for skilled workers in the energy and construction sectors, but there were reports of modest upward pressures in some other industries, including airlines, high tech, fabricated metals, primary metals and transportation equipment manufacturing. Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers were mostly positive, although some firms noted weaker demand since the last period. Construction-related manufacturers said demand was stable or rose slightly. Lumber producers noted weaker-than-expected demand over the past six weeks, while a cement manufacturer saw strong demand in Houston and Dallas and two brick manufacturers noted increased demand in Austin and San Antonio. Fabricated metals manufacturers noted a broad-based increase in orders, and said that demand was up 10 percent from year-ago levels. Primary metals producers reported steady growth in demand. Contacts in high tech manufacturing reported that sales were stable to slightly up since the last report, and inventories were at desired levels. Outlooks were positive, and forecasted demand for memory and logic devices for the remainder of the year was revised up from the last reporting period. Transportation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat to down compared to the last report, but they expect sales this year to exceed last year's levels. Food producers said demand growth remained flat over the reporting period, but overall sales were slightly above year-ago levels. Refinery utilization rates eased over the reporting period. Chemical production strengthened with the end of the spring maintenance season. Outlooks of refiners and chemical producers remained positive. Retail Sales Retail sales strengthened over the past six weeks. Contacts noted slightly stronger growth than the previous reporting period, and demand was above year-ago levels. According to one national retailer, demand in Texas continued to outperform the national average. Outlooks for the remainder of the year were optimistic. Automobile sales increased since the previous report partly due to pent-up demand and partly due to the start of the summer selling season. Demand was up slightly year-over-year, and one contact noted that sales were finally back to pre-recession levels. Inventories varied by manufacturer, and were at desired levels. Outlooks for the third quarter and the remainder of the year were positive. Nonfinancial Services Demand for staffing services held steady, although a few contacts noted increased demand for oil and gas workers. Outlooks were more optimistic than the previous report. Accounting firms reported a seasonal slowdown in demand, but activity remained at high levels. Outlooks were positive and contacts expect a pickup in demand for audit and advisory services in coming months. Demand for legal services increased slightly in the last six weeks. Real estate-related business continued to grow and corporate work edged up, but demand for litigation services was weaker than expected. Transportation service firms said overall cargo volumes increased since the last report and outlooks continued to be positive. Intermodal cargo volumes increased over the past month but were even with year-ago levels. Growth in small parcel shipments picked up, with demand growth led by online and personal and health care retailers. Railroad contacts reported notable increases in grain, crushed stone and lumber and wood volumes, while shipments of petroleum, primary forest materials and nonmetallic minerals declined. Airlines reported that passenger demand was flat to up since the last report. Demand for domestic travel remained solid, while demand for foreign travel, particularly to Europe and Asia was weak. Outlooks were unchanged, with one contact expecting this year to be stronger than 2013. Construction and Real Estate Single-family housing activity was flat to slightly down since the last report. Sales and buyer traffic held steady, but some contacts reported a seasonal slowdown in activity. Low inventories and higher construction costs continued to push up home prices. Contacts were optimistic that demand will remain strong this year. Robust apartment demand pushed up occupancy rates, and increases in rents were strong in several major metros. Construction activity remained brisk, and contacts are optimistic in their outlooks through year-end. Office leasing activity remained solid and occupancy high during the reporting period. Rents continued to trend upwards, especially for Class A office space, and were above their pre-recession peaks in some markets. Office investment activity picked up in Dallas but slowed in Houston. Demand for industrial space was strong, with vacancy rates in Dallas and Houston near historic lows. Outlooks remained generally positive. Financial Services Loan demand grew at a slightly slower pace compared to the previous reporting period. Commercial and residential real estate lending continued to grow, especially in Dallas, Houston and Austin, but one contact noted that regulations were limiting land development loans. Mortgage lending continued to increase at a modest pace, however, auto loan growth showed signs of cooling off. Small to medium-sized business lending fell slightly but remained at robust levels. Loan quality continued to improve and interest rates on loans remained low due to strong competition for borrowers. Deposit volumes increased more than anticipated, while deposit rates remained low. Softer growth during the reporting period has somewhat tempered outlooks. Energy Demand for oilfield services remained robust in the Eleventh District. Growth in Texas drilling activity continued to be concentrated in the Permian Basin in West Texas, but southeast Texas saw an increase in drilling as well. Margins for oilfield service providers were up slightly in the Permian Basin and the Gulf of Mexico, but generally remained narrow. Geological service firms continued to see strong demand. Outlooks for the rest of the year were more positive than during the prior reporting period. Agriculture District drought conditions eased over the reporting period. Widespread rains greatly improved prospects for row crops, especially cotton, but came too late to aid the Texas wheat crop, which is expected to be down 20 percent this year. Most crop prices declined over the past six weeks due to expected stronger U.S. production. Pasture conditions improved and cattle prices continued to set new historical highs. Domestic demand for beef remained very strong despite record prices, while international demand for cotton remained low. Return to top Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to improve moderately during the reporting period of mid-May through June. Overall price inflation remained quite modest, and wage pressures were well contained on net. Most contacts indicated that retail sales growth was unchanged from the previous Beige Book. Demand for business and consumer services ticked up. Manufacturing activity improved. Drought conditions contributed to reduced production of some fruits, vegetables, and livestock products. Activity in real estate markets advanced, although growth in the residential sector slowed somewhat. Loan demand increased overall. Prices and Wages Price inflation overall remained quite modest, although the pace of food and energy price increases appeared to pick up. Food price inflation has risen, driven by higher price inflation for beef, pork, and dairy items, as drought conditions in California constrain supplies. A utilities provider expects an acceleration in natural gas and electricity prices to occur in the near-term. Contacts indicated that the prices of some raw materials used in construction rose further. A lumber manufacturer was able to pass higher costs through to higher prices for customers. Most contacts observed continued wage increases of 2-3 percent per year. However, in fast-growing regions, certain specialized positions for which the supply of qualified workers is scarce experienced much stronger wage gains. In addition, some contacts' firms have felt pressure to offer slightly higher starting salaries in an effort to attract talent from competitors. Several contacts pointed to rising minimum wages as a source of upward wage pressure. Retail Trade and Services Most contacts indicated that retail sales growth was unchanged since the previous reporting period. Sales of low-end and mid-range technology goods were strong, offsetting relatively weak sales of premium devices. Contacts noted that sales in the Internet and digital media sector increased as well, particularly for health and fitness e-books. An apparel retailer noted that inventories increased. In general, online retailers experienced strong sales and continued to put pressure on traditional brick-and-mortar retailers. Contacts observed robust demand for autos and home-related goods. Reports from auto dealerships pointed to strong sales growth for new cars, supported by aggressive financing for creditworthy borrowers. However, sales of used vehicles softened. Demand for business and consumer services ticked up. Technology service providers reported healthy overall conditions, as both small and large businesses continued to make investments in cloud services, big data analytics, and security. Several contacts noted ongoing weak demand for dining out, as reflected in declining same-store sales in the casual dining segment of the food service industry. The level of travel and tourism activity largely held steady or improved in most major District travel destinations. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity improved during the reporting period of mid-May through June. Demand for semiconductors strengthened and inventories declined. Utilization rates at electronic components factories ticked up, approaching rates associated with higher capital expenditures during past business cycles. Contacts observed strong production in the commercial aircraft industry due to a sustained backlog of orders. Contacts noted that many biotechnology manufacturers experienced positive revenue trends of late and that new orders were up compared with last year. A manufacturer of renewable energy equipment noted that capacity utilization edged up, but significant capacity remains available. Defense-related manufacturers indicated that capacity utilization rates declined and the pace of new orders slowed further. A metals fabricator reported that business conditions were largely stable. Steel manufacturers noted that capacity utilization rates at mills producing inputs for the auto industry have been over 90 percent. However, at mills producing inputs for the construction industry, including nonresidential, commercial, and infrastructure projects, capacity utilization rates have been lower, in the 60-65 percent range. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Contacts indicated that drought conditions contributed to reduced production of some agricultural and resource-related goods. Contacts expressed ongoing concerns about water costs and availability. They also mentioned that it would be challenging for regulatory agencies to address issues related to pricing and prioritizing limited water supplies if low levels of rainfall and snowpack persist next year. Contacts observed reductions in herd sizes and plantings of annual crops, including tomatoes and rice. Most permanent crops, including nut and fruit trees, have not been affected yet, but some farmers may choose to reduce new plantings or remove less productive orchards. Farmers in Idaho anticipate high yields of grains, wheat, and potatoes this year. Dairy operations continued to benefit from low feed costs. Contacts noted that demand for logs slowed overall, as demand from Asian markets cooled. Real Estate and Construction Activity in real estate markets advanced, but growth in the residential sector has slowed since the start of the year. The rate of increase of home prices has slowed in many areas. Several contacts reported that, except at the very high end, the level of home sales also is down from a year ago. Residential construction activity picked up, especially for multifamily units and higher-priced projects. However, various contacts reported that activity has been constrained due to shortages of available lots, construction materials, and workers. Vacancy rates for commercial space were mixed. Some contacts reported low vacancy rates overall, while others pointed to high vacancy rates--particularly for retail space--in part due to transitions to online distribution. Private-sector commercial construction activity increased modestly in most areas but more robustly in the San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California. Contacts from Southern California and Hawaii also reported vigorous public-sector construction activity. Financial Institutions Loan demand increased overall. Commercial real estate, home mortgage, and construction loan demand expanded modestly, although contacts noted that refinance volumes declined. Demand for auto loans held steady, but some contacts noted a decline in the credit quality of consumers. In most areas, business loan demand increased only slightly and remains relatively weak. Some contacts observed a stronger uptick in loan demand from smaller businesses. Contacts continued to note that the availability of commercial credit largely remained limited to the highest quality borrowers and that lenders are competing vigorously on rates and terms for such borrowers. Contacts reported robust venture capital and private equity financing in the District. Companies backed by venture capital are receiving ample funding. FREE AppDownload
It's well known that CNBC is really protective of its guests and talking heads. If you're a guest, you have to be on CNBC before any other network. If you have a contributor deal there, you can kiss any appearances on Bloomberg TV or Fox Business News goodbye. So it's a big deal that Anthony Scaramucci, SkyBridge Capital founder and host of the massive hedge fund conference, SALT, is going to be on Fox Business today at 3:25 pm. He'll be joined by another CNBC alum, Charlie Gasparino. Wonder what they'll talk about... Last month, Business Insider reported that CNBC executives were furious at Scaramucci for relaunching iconic business program "Wall Street Week." At SALT Las Vegas in May, he announced on CNBC that his firm would be restarting the show with the help of former CNBC executive Susan Krakower. Krakower developed shows like "Fast Money" and "Mad Money With Jim Cramer." Unfortunately, shortly after that Scaramucci's contributor contract with CNBC was up for negotiation. Executives dangled it over his head, hoping that he would back down from launching 'Wall Street Week.' He wouldn't. But he was also confident that he and CNBC would be able to work things out. Now he's going to be on Fox Business News. No one's talking about whether or not this means the absolute end of Anthony Scaramucci's CNBC contract. UPDATE: Here's Scaramucci on set.   the great @Scaramucci apologizes to @LizClaman for backing the wrong horse (@cnbc over @FoxBusiness) pic.twitter.com/xLpQ7wwSBO FREE AppDownload
One of CEO Marissa Mayer's  strategies for turning Yahoo around is acquisitions. Yahoo has bought a jaw-dropping 41 companies in two years, Yahoo M&amp;A Jacqueline Reses says, most of them small deals with startups. But despite Yahoo's love of owning startups, it's not interested in investing in them, Reses says. She has no plans to start a venture arm, she said, even though such venture firms, where corporations incubate the tech and talent that they want, is all the rage these days. (Everyone from Google to SAP has one.) During a panel session at the Fortune Brainstorm conference in Aspen, Colorado, on Tuesday, Reses explained: We don’t have venture arm. I worked in private equity for decade, so it wouldn’t be foreign. But Yahoo is in a transformation right now. We need to, as an executive team, focus on that. We need 100% of our attention on our core business. ... Venture investing is a hobby … it would be nice if we had time to have a hobby. But [we don't want to] take up the time of executives to think through if a [startup] investment opportunity is great. We'll focus on acquisitions that are great as opposed to small investments. That's an interesting perspective for several reasons. Most corporate venture capital firms are legally independent organizations, separately staffed. The company's corporate executives aren't the ones fielding pitch meetings. Secondly, should CEO Marissa Mayer want to staff up such a thing, she already has an in with the venture world: She's married to one. Husband Zack Brogue is a founding partner of Data Collective, a fund that specializes in "big data" startups. To be sure, Reses wasn't really knocking the idea of corporate venture firms in general. "Big tech companies that do own venture arms, for them it is the right strategy," she added. But startups backed by one of them, particularly a direct rival like Google Ventures, make her wary when she's shopping, she said. "When we look at companies backed at those funds we always ask, 'Why are they selling and why not selling to their own sibling?'" she said, meaning why isn't the company that funded them buying them. Another issue with corporate-backed startups is the negotiation process. Because Yahoo wants entrepreneurs to feel comfortable selling to it, it has an "open book" policy and shares a lot of info about Yahoo with a potential acquisition, she said. So she's "concerned about information flow" to rivals or others involved with corporate-backed startups. That said, if she gets satisfactory answers on these things and everyone still wants the deal, she would go ahead and make an offer, she said. FREE AppDownload
Flickr via phooshOne of the biggest obstacles to this housing recovery has been that the millennials have been increasingly living at home with their parents instead of forming new households.  The latest Census data shows that homeownership rates continue to fall for young adult,s and the National Association of Realtors showed that share of first-time home buyers is down too.  But Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia disagrees. "The official homeownership rate published by the Census gives a misleading picture of homeownership trends," he writes in a new report. "In fact, homeownership among young adults is both on the rise and not too far off from where demographics say it should be." Kolko looks at what he argues is "true" homeownership, "which equals the number of owner-occupied households divided by the number of all adults; in contrast, the published homeownership rate equals the number of owner-occupied households divided by the number of all households." Kolko "accounts for changes in household formation to get a true measure of homeownership," and "adjusts for longer-term demographic shifts to compare homeownership levels today with pre-bubble levels." He argues that true home ownership bottomed in 2012, and has climbed from 2012 to 2013. "Once we adjust for the huge demographic shifts among young adults – far fewer young adults are married or have kids than two or three decades ago – homeownership in 2013 was roughly at late-1990s levels." TruliaWhat's more, certain demographic trends have changed homeownership rates. The percent of 18-34 year olds that were married fell from 47% in 1983, to 30% in 2013, the percent that have children is also falling. From Kolko: "Pick a baseline time period for a regression analysis – such as the years just before the bubble started (1994-1999) – and estimate what would have happened to homeownership if the likelihood of owning a home for someone with particular demographics in the baseline time period stayed constant and were applied to the actual demographic shifts that really happened. …This “demographic baseline” shows that demographics alone would have predicted a steady decline in the true homeownership rate over the past two decades, from 16.0% in 1994 to 13.1% in 2013 – a drop of 18%." TruliaSo what does this all this mean? Despite the rise in homeownership among young adults in 2013, there needs to be a long-term reversal in demographic trends for homeownership to rise in this cohort. But it also implies that "millennials are roughly as likely to own homes as people with similar demographics two decades ago." "The real missing homeowners are the middle-aged." FREE AppDownload
Mercedes-BenzMercedes-Benz unveiled its top-of-the-range 2015 S65 AMG Coupe this week, and it's a stunning combination of luxury and high performance.  At 621 horsepower, the all-new coupe's twin-turbocharged V12 engine is effortlessly powerful.With 738 lb./ft. of twisting power on tap from the 6.0 litre engine, the S65 will hit 60 mph in a scant 4.0 seconds and a electronically limited top speed of 186 mph.  The car is also loaded with technical goodies like the company's Magic Body Control system, which will allow it to tackle corners with remarkable ease. This piece of technological trickery senses the road ahead and adjusts the suspension of the car to lean into any oncoming corners, much like a downhill skier going through a bend. Mercedes-BenzHigh performance is just one part of the S65 package. The car's plush interior blends hi-tech gizmos with elements of old world luxury. The centerpiece of the S-Class interior is a pair of 12.2-inch high-definition TFT displays that take the place of a traditional gauge cluster and serve as an adjustable infotainment readout. Surrounding the futuristic displays are classic chrome-accented dials and switch gear. The rest of the cabin is bathed in swathes of Nappa leather that also upholster the car's adjustable AMG sport seats. Mercedes-BenzAesthetically, the S65 AMG Coupe is stunning. While we gushed at the gorgeous lines of its sibling, the S63 AMG, earlier this year, the S65 offers a more mature and professional aesthetic. The big brother trades in the S63's sports gear for a chrome-accented tailored suit.  Like the S63, the company's signature gaping mesh grill and large three-pointed star emblem feature prominently in the S65's front fascia. From there, character lines pull the eye back towards the a-pillar and eventually to the car's tapered rear end.  Mercedes has not officially announced prices for the S65 AMG Coupe, though Motor Trends predicts the car will be priced similarly to the $215,500 2014 CL65 AMG it will replace. Mercedes expect the first cars to arrive in dealerships at the end of the year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Gus RuelasRupert Murdoch, April 29, 2013.Stocks are higher on a busy day that has seen huge merger news and the second day of Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaking on Capitol Hill. The Dow up 62 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 7 points, and the Nasdaq is up 17 points. The biggest news of the day is Rupert Murdoch's offer to buy Time Warner for $80 billion, which Time Warner rejected. Shares of Time Warner were up more than 15% following the news.  In economic news, the producer price index for June showed prices rose 0.4% over last month, more than the 0.2% that was expected. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.2%.  Homebuilder confidence in July rose to 53 from 49, according to data from the NAHB, better than the 50 that was forecast by economists and the first reading above 50 since January.  Industrial production data showed that in June, production slowed to 0.2%, below expectations for a gain of 0.3% and down from May's revised reading of a 0.5% increase.  CNBC is also hosting its Delivering Alpha conference today, featuring a number of noted hedge fund managers, including Leon Cooperman, who gave his 12 favorite stock picks, which included KKR, Citigroup, and Thermo Fisher. Our wall-to-wall coverage of Delivering Alpha will be on Clusterstock all day.   FREE AppDownload
At almost the very moment that Yahoo was reporting its disappointing quarterly earnings, and saying it would keep a bigger stake in the hot Chinese internet company Alibaba after its IPO than originally planned, the woman responsible for the Alibaba deal was on stage at the Fortune Brainstorm conference in Aspen, Colorado.  She was talking about her merger and acquisitions strategy. Jacqueline Reses is chief development officer for Yahoo and is also the head of Yahoo's HR department. Reses joined in September 2012, shortly after CEO Marissa Mayer took the helm. Mayer lured her away from a career as a private equity investor for Apax Partners. Reses is not a typical corporate mouthpiece. On stage she was funny and irreverent. At one point, when asked to give a yes/no answer on if she thought competitor AOL would be acquired in the next two years, without missing a beat she joked, "Not by us." The room laughed and the line went viral on Twitter. It says a lot about Yahoo's turnaround strategy to combine M&amp;A with HR and hand both roles to a dealmaker. Reses has done an exhausting 41 transactions in the past two years, she says, and if the pace has slowed down recently, that's mostly because she's focused on the Alibaba IPO. She's a board member for Alibaba, and Yahoo owns roughly 24% of the company. It's expected to go public sometime this fall in a huge IPO. The Chinese e-commerce site is valued by investors at $200 billion. Yahoo was supposed to have to sell 208 million Alibaba shares in the IPO. But Reses renegotiated so that Yahoo would sell 140 million shares, the company said on Tuesday. Keeping a larger stake of such a fast-growing company should be good for Yahoo's investors. Here's what she told Brainstorm attendees about her dealmaking: She makes three kinds of acquisitions: talent, tech, and strategy. For an acqu-hire she looks at the "quality of the people." For a "tech" buy, she looks at how well the tech can integrate with Yahoo's existing tech. A strategy buy is considered "transformational," such as Yahoo's $1.1 billion purchase of Tumblr. Except for a handful of big, publicly disclosed deals, all of the deals have been fairly small. "In the 10s and 20s," she said, referring to $10 million to $20 million. However, many of them are far smaller than that. From January-March, Yahoo bought five companies, and the total purchase price for these acquisitions was $23 million, it said. Does that mean that Yahoo is low-balling its offers? Maybe. "When we do a transaction, we make an offer. We care greatly about the success of team. If investors take the transaction, then they think the valuation is fair," she said. The biggest factor in making an offer is if the culture and people are a good fit with Yahoo, she says. Of the 41 deals, almost none of them involved some kind of bidding war nor did they involve investment bankers. Tumblr was an exception in that it did involve bankers. She didn't comment on whether a bidding war happened, but the presence of bankers usually indicates an effort to shop a company around for other offers. There was some speculation that Facebook was interested. Yahoo starts measuring the "success" of the acquisition right away, she said, looking at the stuff you would expect: productivity of the people for an acqu-hire; how quickly the tech has been integrated to Yahoo's offerings for a tech buy; and looking at growth, revenue, and trajectories for a strategic buy. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidIconic hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, the founder of Duquesne Capital Management, skewered the Federal Reserve at the CNBC Delivering Alpha conference.  He says today's Federal Reserve policy is as  "baffling" as he's ever seen.  Druckenmiller said that the current Fed policy "makes no sense from a risk/reward perspective" and that it will "end badly."  He doesn't see it being like 2008 or 2009, though, because it's "not systemic."  Druckenmiller explained that it's textbook to use monetary policy after a financial crisis to repair balance sheets.  However, Druckenmiller pointed out that the labor market has "largely healed," industrial production is at a new high, and that retail sales have normalized. He also compared the U.S. CPI to Japan's Core CPI. He said there's "no similarity whatsoever" to Japan's deflation and that it's time to move on from that argument.   "If you landed from Mars and saw the five charts I just showed, would you understand the Fed's actions?" he asked. Druckenmiller said that he really hopes he's "wrong," but thinks the Fed's policy will have bad effects.  "I made a living analyzing the future, not the past. The Fed's monetary experiment will be more disruptive down the road than anticipated," Druckenmiller said. He continued: "Every ounce of intuition in my body is that the potential costs have crossed the potential benefits in Fed policies." "I don't know what's in the Fed's forecasting record that allows them to make such a bet."  FREE AppDownload
Time WarnerIs a former Rupert Murdoch confidant turned Time Warner communications executive helping engineer 21st Century Fox's acquisition of Time Warner? 21st Century Fox, formerly known as News Corporation, recently made an $80 billion offer to buy competing media company Time Warner. Time Warner rejected the deal. But this is likely just the beginning of a dance that could well end with Murdoch's control of the rival media company. If that happens, Gary L. Ginsberg will be the man in the middle.   USA Today's Michael Wolff reports: Murdoch's business is largely run on the strength of whoever has his ear. Murdoch's former lieutenant, Gary Ginsberg, is the lieutenant of Time Warner CEO Jeffrey Bewkes. Ginsberg, forced out of Murdoch's inner circle in a power struggle with Murdoch's son James, nevertheless has kept close to Murdoch, playing his own long game to return. Wolff noted in GQ in 2012 that Ginsberg, who was vice president of global marketing and corporate affairs at News Corp., was "closer to Rupert than almost anyone else." But Rupert's son James reportedly pushed Ginsberg out of his father's inner circle. The reason, it's said, was partly the access Ginsberg afforded Wolff while the author was writing his biography of Rupert. Murdoch himself didn't seem concerned with how Wolff would portray him. But the book ultimately infuriated many in the News Corp. camp, and James blamed Ginsberg for mishandling the incident, according to a 2010 report in New York Magazine. In his book, Wolff described Ginsberg as "the point man for all of the information going out of the company, as well as all of the information going into the company." He is called the "Murdoch interpreter." From "The Man Who Owns The News": Ginsberg is everybody's point man. ... Everybody confers with Ginsberg about what [Murdoch] is thinking — not least of all because the old man doesn't necessarily ever say what he's thinking, or say what he's thinking to any one person in any consistent way — or if he does, he mumbles so much, and his accent is so thick, that you might not understand him anyway. Everybody tends to have just their piece of the story — Ginsberg pieces together the pieces. Rupert seemed reluctant to let James force Ginsberg out of the company, but once Ginsberg heard that his job was in danger, he resigned. He then took on a similar role at Time Warner. During his 11-year tenure at News Corp., Ginsberg was a liaison between conservative Murdoch and the Democratic Party, The New York Times notes. Ginsberg had connections to the Clintons through his former job as a White House lawyer. Ginsberg organized a lunch for Murdoch and Bill Clinton in 2002, and the New York Post endorsed Hillary Clinton for Senate in 2006, the same year that Murdoch held a fundraiser for her at News Corp.'s headquarters in New York, according to the Times. But Ginsberg's attempts to cultivate a relationship between Murdoch and President Barack Obama did not lead to an endorsement ahead of the 2008 election. Now Ginsberg is at Time Warner serving as a senior adviser to CEO Jeffrey Bewkes. He helped recruit Jeff Zucker to run CNN and aimed to take on a senior position there. But he was blocked from doing so by "internal politics at Turner," which oversees the cable news network, according to Wolff. Even though Time Warner turned down 21st Century Fox's first offer, Wolff writes in USA Today that "it would be unlikely, if not unimaginable, that [Murdoch] would allow a move of this magnitude to become public without a high degree of confidence that it will succeed." Wolff notes that Murdoch also leaked the Dow Jones offer in 2007 as a strategic move. Ginsberg was one of the people closest to Murdoch during the Dow Jones deal. And Ginsberg might be anxious to get back into Murdoch's inner circle. Wolff writes that he's "become quite restless at Time Warner after the excitement of working for Murdoch." FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesJeff Bewkes.At USA Today, Michael Wolff has the perfect one-paragraph explanation of why Time Warner is a target for 21st Century Fox: [Time Warner CEO Jeff] Bewkes is 62 and, in effect, wrapping up his tenure at the company. It is a company he has transformed, but he has not made it bigger and greater -- rather, smaller, more discrete, more niche. Gone are its cable assets, AOL and Time, Inc. magazines. He's reduced its ambitions. He is almost proudly the opposite of a visionary. One would be hard pressed to say what else he can do with the company. In a sense, he's prepared Time Warner for sale. Before Bewkes took over, Time Warner owned Time Warner Cable, AOL, and Time Inc. He broke the company up, spinning out all of those businesses into their own public companies, streamlining Time Warner to make it a lean, TV and movie-making machine. This has led to Time Warner's almost doubling since he took over as CEO. However, as Wolff notes, there's a question of what's next. It seems like Rupert Murdoch has the answer.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kieran DohertyThe Airbus Industrie A380 aircraft comes into land after its display at the 2014 Farnborough International Airshow in Farnborough, southern England July 14, 2014.FARNBOROUGH England (Reuters) - Airbus and Boeing climbed close to the $100 billion mark for plane deals at the Farnborough Airshow on Wednesday, demonstrating healthy demand for new passenger jets despite concerns raised by their already record full order books. Recent profits warnings from the likes of Lufthansa and Air France-KLM have stoked fears of a sharp slowdown in demand for new aircraft or even cancellations. On Wednesday, however, Gulf carrier Qatar Airways finalized a $19 billion order for 50 Boeing 777-9 X planes and added options to buy a further 50, potentially doubling the size of the deal. Canada's Bombardier also reached the 500 mark for deals for its Q400 turboprop model and for its CSeries airliner as it announced three contracts involving 20 aircraft on Wednesday. Aircraft leasing firms also continue to splash out, dominating orders at the world's biggest air show this week as they bet on years of growth in emerging markets in the Middle East and Asia. Reflecting the flurry of activity around chalets in the first three days of the show, the biennial event has already outsold the 2012 show which saw $72 billion of orders and commitments. The tally hit $135 billion at last year's Paris Airshow. Such deals range for provisional letters of intent to firm orders, and can include the announcement of transactions that may have been listed in order books to unidentified buyers. Airbus has racked up around $60 billion in orders and commitments at the show, highlighted by this week's launch of the A330neo twin-aisle jet, a re-engined, more fuel-efficient version of its popular A330 series. Boeing led the order race ahead of the event, gaining 649 net orders as of July 8 versus 290 for Airbus. (Additional reporting by Sarah Young, Andrea Shalal, Jason Neely, Jack Stubbs; writing by Mark Potter; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
isafmedia/flickr The primary driver of future projected debt and deficits has been the growth of federal healthcare spending, something that has alarmed economists as a wave of baby boomers retires and more people are added to the Medicare and Medicaid rolls.  But over the last four years, healthcare spending has grown at a historically slow rate. Economists credit the Affordable Care Act in part, as well as other reforms. And according to new projections from the Congressional Budget Office, the trend could continue. In in its annual 25-year forecast of the federal budget, the CBO projected growth of federal spending on healthcare programs will continue to slow at a healthy rate over the next 25 years. In a startling but continuing reversal of projection, the CBO said Tuesday that the federal government would spend about $250 billion less on major federal healthcare programs than it had forecast in 2010, the year the Affordable Care Act was signed into law.  The CBO's new projections say federal spending on major healthcare programs — Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program, and federal subsidies for people buying insurance on the new Obamacare-established exchanges — will rise from about 4.9% of GDP this year to about 7.5% in 2035. The latter number is 2.2 percentage points lower than the CBO projected five years ago.  Medicare, in particular, is on an even better path. In 2006, the trustees who monitor the Medicare and Social Security programs said the trust fund that pays hospital bills would be broke by 2018. Now, that trust fund is expected to be solvent until at least 2030, according to the CBO. Overall, Medicare expenditures in 2035 are 2.6 percentage points of GDP lower than the office projected in 2009. Projected Medicare spending is down 35% from five years ago. Peter Orszag, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget, told Business Insider it's the equivalent of the "biggest fiscal development" in more than three decades. "Healthcare spending has always been the core fiscal problem facing the United States," Orszag said. "If we had passed legislation that knocked down long-term Medicare spending projections by 35% it would easily qualify as the biggest fiscal development since the early 1980s — and the fact that the changes are occurring for multiple reasons doesn’t alter that conclusion." From the Brookings Institute, here are two charts where you can see the healthcare and Medicare spending slowdown in action: Brookings InstituteBrookings Institute What's behind the continued healthcare slowdown? The CBO attributed it to many different causes, including slower overall projected economic growth and lower-than-projected interest rates in the future. But the CBO also suggested for the first time that the federal government may be able to keep growth costs in line with overall inflation, based on requirements set in the Affordable Care Act. "Other evidence suggests that hospitals and other providers may be able to achieve significant productivity gains or to restrain the growth of their costs in some other way," the CBO report read. Here's the big caveat: Though the healthcare spending growth decline is expected to continue, it doesn't mean the federal government is out of the woods. The "silver tsunami" of baby boomers will soon begin to retire, adding to an already aging population that will add more to the Medicare rolls and make healthcare spending the federal government's biggest expense by about 2030. Congressional Budget Office Overall, the CBO says federal debt is still on an unsustainable path and projects it to reach 102% of GDP by 2039. The primary reason for that will be spending on the healthcare programs and Social Security, which are still projected to grow to about 14% of GDP together by 2039.  Orszag, though, thinks the projections might still be a little too pessimistic, despite the sudden stroke of optimism in the CBO report. Medicare spending is up about 1.2% this fiscal year, significantly lower than projections. "If that continues," Orszag said, "the fiscal picture looks even brighter." FREE AppDownload
ReutersHarvard came in at No. 1 on last year's list of the World's Best Business Schools.Is an MBA costing two years of your life and $150,000 or more really worth it? The question is more controversial than ever, with cheaper online degree programs growing rapidly as well as free online business courses providing important skills. Given powerful new technology and fundraising techniques, it may also be easier to start a business than ever. But with increasing global competition and a tough job market, business school may hold the key to getting ahead, providing specialized knowledge, valuable contacts, and an impressive resume booster. Of course, choosing the right business school makes all the difference. For Business Insider's annual ranking, we are surveying the people who matter most: professionals in diverse fields who have MBAs or who have experience hiring or managing MBAs. If you have these qualifications, then please take our survey below. We will filter the survey based on qualifications of respondents to obtain the optimum sample. Our survey asks several general questions about business school as well as the big question: which schools will really help your career. FREE AppDownload
As it stands now, if Argentina doesn't pay a group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion by July 30, the country could go into default. For the Republic, that means money printing, inflation, and general disaster. For investors, like Michael Novogratz of Fortress Investments, that means buying, buying, buying. "If something doesn't happen and there's a default we're going to see a sell-off," said Novogratz at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference on Wednesday, "but that's an opportunity for capital coming in." To Novogratz, Argentina follows his macro-investing theme of looking at countries that are "so bad, they're good." These are countries that could very well be on the road to improvement — he mentioned India (where a recent election brought in a reform government), Japan (still experimenting with "Abenomics"), and Brazil (where President Dilma Rousseff could soon be on the way out). Argentina fits this bill because, even if it does manage to avoid default, its current regime will be on the way out by 2015. If it does default, though, everything will hit rock bottom. This was when the group of "vulture" hedge fund managers, who Argentina refuses to pay, bought the country's sovereign debt. So if it does default, history repeats itself, and Argentina will set itself up to be "vulture" food yet again. "We're long stocks, long bonds, long currency," said Novogratz. "We'll know [if the country will default] in two weeks." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingLeon Cooperman.Value investor Leon Cooperman, the founder of Omega Advisors, gave his favorite stock picks at the CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference. Cooperman has been presenting at the conference for three years now. This year, he's not so optimistic.   "I'm not as optimistic about my list year as the market is fully valued," he said, adding it had to do with his "view of the market."  As a value investor, Cooperman says he tries to buy stocks with more growth.  "Buying something at the right price is half the game," he said. His picks for 2014 include Actavis (ACT), Citigroup (C), Thermo Fisher Scientific (TMO), Atlas Energy (ATLS), Gaming and Leisure Properties (GLPI), KKR &amp; Co. LLP (KKR), Nordic American Offshore Ltd. (NAO), QEP Resources (QEP), Supervalu Inc. (SVU), Louis XIII Holdings (577 HK), Monitise PLC (MONIF), and Sandridge Energy Inc (SD).  CNBC's David Faber asked him about Citigroup. Cooperman said he thinks the economy is coming back. Cooperman was also asked about Bank of America, which wasn't on his list.  "I missed that one. I should’ve stepped into the same bathtub as Buffett," he responded, referring to the time Warren Buffett said he got the idea to invest in BofA after taking a bath.  Last year, Cooperman presented 10 of his favorite stocks — Express Scripts (up 2.6%), Qualcomm (up 26%), Thermo Fisher Scientific (up  34%), Qualicorp (up 74%), Sandridge Energy (up 26%), Arbor Realty Trust (down 3%), Atlas Resource Partners(down 10%), Chimera Investment Corp (up 6%), THL Credit (down 12%), and KKR Financial Holdings (up 5%).On an equally weighted basis, his picks last year returned about 27%. Here's the slide with his stocks: Here are Leon Cooperman's 10 picks, blow it up y'all. RT @DeliveringAlpha: Sure thing! @lopezlinette #DeliveringAlpha pic.twitter.com/iqVC73zlNf FREE AppDownload
BlackBerry's stock was down as much as 8% Wednesday morning following Tuesday's news that IBM and Apple are partnering to sell iPhones and iPads to big business customers. Since BlackBerry's line of BlackBerry 10 smartphones failed to sell well, the company, under its new CEO John S. Chen, is going after enterprise customers instead. But the Apple-IBM partnership could put a damper on BlackBerry's plans. IBM has a large salesforce that can push Apple gadgets to enterprise customers. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidBank of America is reported to be offering $13 billion to settle a U.S. mortgage securities probe stemming from mortgage backed bonds it sold to investors that in part led to the financial crisis, report Devlin Barrett and Christina Rexrode at the WSJ.  Bank of America met with the Justice Department on Tuesday but could not arrive at a deal as the latter wants billions more.  The bank announced Q2 earnings earlier on Wednesday and said it had resolved a lawsuit with AIG over mortgage securities sold during the financial crisis.  "The AIG settlement amount of $650 million was covered by litigation reserves as of June 30, 2014," according to the press release. Bank of America has now resolved approximately 95 percent of the unpaid principal balance of all RMBS as to which RMBS securities litigation has been filed or threatened for all Bank of America-related entities" Since the financial crisis Bank of America has spent over $60 billion in legal fees, buybacks, and settlements settlements to resolve issues tied to mortgage securities. FREE AppDownload
Is Rupert Murdoch's play to buy Time Warner calling a market top? This chart from UBS's Art Cashin, which comes to us from CNBC's Sara Eisen on Twitter, shows the last two major acquisitions by Murdoch's media company and the ensuing reaction in the stock market. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 are near record highs, and the Fed is close to ending its QE program, which many have attributed to the rise in the stock market. And so now, we wait. @SaraEisen FREE AppDownload
Google Maps Hedge fund manager Ken Griffin was asked about how many swipes of the security badge it takes to get to Citadel's trading floor in the Chicago office. Citadel, which was included in Michael Lewis' high-frequency trading book "Flash Boys," is known for being supersecretive.  CNBC reporter Kate Kelly pointed out that a government employee only needs two card swipes to get to his/her desk, while a trader at Citadel would need five.  "We need to protect our intellectual property," Griffin responded after going through the swipes he does every day — the parking garage, the building entrance, elevator, trading floor, etc.  FREE AppDownload
In 2014 mergers &amp; acquisitions have roared back in a big way. This morning's news of a proposed $80 billion deal between 21st Century Fox and Time Warner is yet another massive announcement in a year that saw seen the highest first-half volume of announced merger activity since 2007. In just the last two days, more than $100 billion in M&amp;A has been announced. In addition to the Time Warner deal, yesterday tobacco giant Reynolds American announced a deal to acquire Lorillard in a deal worth $27.4 billion. And the tobacco and media deals are in addition to a number of smaller — but still large — deals that have been announced just this month.  Tyson Foods is acquiring Hillshire Brands in a deal worth $8.55 billion, and engineering firm AECOM is acquiring URS Corporation in a $4 billion deal. On June 30, we highlighted this chart from Goldman Sachs that showed M&amp;A activity had hit $750 billion through the end of June, an annualized rate of about $1.5 trillion, on track for the most since 2007. Goldman Sachs Of course there's no guarantee that this deal will ever happen, but here's some perspective on how the above chart might be updated in light of the latest news. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBob Doll.Everyone's buzzing about 21st Century Fox's rejected $80 billion bid for Time Warner. Both companies have said that deal talks are currently not happening. But that doesn't mean anything's over. "It seems as though Time Warner has moved from 'in play conceptually' to 'in play for real,'" said Nuveen's Bob Doll to Business Insider this morning. "Anyone who has had a passing or long term interest now has to decide whether to entertain getting involved, or potentially pass forever." Since the financial crisis, companies have been struggling to find ways to grow in this slow growth environment. With borrowing costs very low and corporate cash levels high, one option has been to buy growth through mergers and acquisition. However, for much of the recovery, corporate executives have been unwilling to commit to bigger deals. But that sentiment appears to have turned in 2014, with M&amp;A activity on pace for one of its biggest years in recent history. "This talk buttresses the view that our 'less fear, more confidence' theme for 2014 is correct," he said. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThis morning, Andrew Ross Sorkin reported Time-Warner rebuffed a $85/share buyout offer from Fox. The total valuation would be $80 billion.  Moments ago, Sorkin said what number Time-Warner would actually be looking for: $100/share. "The number I keep hearing? $100. Give me $100 and maybe we can talk" - @andrewrsorkin, on $TWX $FOXA @CNBC Time-Warner shares were trading up about 18% to $83.76 FREE AppDownload
Reuters / Kevin LamarqueReuters / Kevin LamarqueThere was a noticeable change in the way that the rockstar investors were talking about China at this year's annual CNBC/Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference. It was more skeptical than ever. China's 7.5% GDP growth number, released Tuesday night, was discussed throughout the panel on global opportunities, and all comments related to that number and its country were bearish. They sounded like this: "China came out with it's very predictable 7.5%," said Mary Callahan Erdoes, head of JP Morgan Asset Management. "China is a value trap... or a value add value trap," said Paul Marshall, CEO of Marshall Wace. ""If you're looking for bubbles to avoid... Chinese internet stocks," said Jane Mendillo, President and Chief Executive Officer, Harvard Management Company. It isn't uncommon for people to wonder about data coming out of China, but in the three years that Business Insider has attended this conference, we've never seen a panel with absolutely no China bulls on it. There is good reason for investors to go dark. Despite President Xi's promise to rebalance the economy, real reforms have yet to take shape.  "They want to walk this sort of very delicate balance between stimulating to ensure a basic seven, eight, nine percent nominal rate of GDP growth, and then on the other side, pushing through some reforms," says Standard Chartered’s Head of China research Stephen Green told Marketplace. And this is what that stimulating has looked like recently, according to Dr. Ed Yardeni is the President and Chief Investment Strategist of Yardeni Research, Inc.: The Chinese government is no longer providing massive economic stimulus to prop up China’s growth rate. Instead, the government is targeting spending in a more rifle-shot approach. That’s the official mini-stimulus story. It just doesn’t jibe with the latest “social financing” data, which show that China’s economy continues to be flooded with credit. It worked in the past, and it should work now. But one day, it won’t work, and the economy could sink rather than float on the sea of credit. Let’s review the latest data: (1) Social financing rose $320 billion during June. That’s not an annualized number. It is the amount of borrowing by all sectors just during that one month. On a ytd basis, it totals a staggering $1.7 trillion compared to $1.6 trillion over the same period last year. (2) The totals above include bank loans, which increased $175 billion during June and $934 billion ytd. Chinese bank loans totaled a record $12.6 trillion during June, 64% more than the loans held by US commercial banks. Meanwhile, Xi is cracking down on corruption in China. That means the wealthy aren't flaunting their wealth as much at home, and they may want to hold off on buying that NYC condo they were dreaming about. Investors are taking notice. FREE AppDownload
DealBook Conference Hedge fund billionaire Ken Griffin, who runs Chicago-based Citadel, says that a Century Fox and Time Warner deal "makes a lot of sense." Earlier today, it was reported that Century Fox offered to buy Time Warner in a deal valued at $80 billion.  Time Warner has rejected that offer. Griffin told the audience at the CNBC Delivering Alpha Conference that both media companies have "great assets" and that it would be a good deal for both of them.  Citadel's portfolio includes both Time Warner and Century Fox.  "I think we'll get to 'yes,'" he said.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanThe NAHB housing market index (HMI), a gauge for homebuilder confidence, surged to 53 in July. This beat expectations for a rise to 50, and is up from 49 in June. This is also the first time the index climbed above 50 since January. Moreover all three components of the HMI climbed as well. "An improving job market goes hand-in-hand with a rise in builder confidence," NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe said in a press release."As employment increases and those with jobs feel more secure about their own economic situation, they are more likely to feel comfortable about buying a home." Homebuilder confidence took a hit early this year on the back of a severe winter. But improving weather and pent-up demand has helped boost homebuilder confidence. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
    Meat. For many of us, it’s what’s for breakfast, lunch and dinner. It’s been that way since the prehistoric age. And thanks to a growing middle class, worldwide demand for meat is exploding. By 2022, meat production in China and India is expected to grow by 80 percent. But plenty of obstacles exist. Raising cattle is expensive and hard on the environment. And meat is high in fat and cholesterol.  Game Changers all over the world are trying to come up with viable meat alternatives. In the Netherlands, scientists developed the world's first in-vitro hamburger. And the Missouri-based company Beyond Meat thinks it has the solution to satisfy our cravings:  food that looks and tastes just like meat — but is made of plants.  It is such a good imitation, in fact, that Whole Foods customers couldn't tell the difference when a brief mix-up occurred last year. Produced by Graham Flanagan. Edited by Sam Rega. FREE AppDownload
The art of the argument is a tricky one. Despite your burning desire to simply prove your opponent wrong, the real way to win an argument takes a more careful, tactical approach. Watch and learn. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Narration by Matt Johnston.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The Fed says June industrial production growth slowed to 0.2%. Consensus was for a gain of 0.3%, compared with a revised 0.5% in May. Capacity utilization came in at 79.1%, unchanged from May and slightly below expectations for 79.3%.  Here's what it's looked like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
APFour public interest groups have claimed that AT&amp;T and Verizon have been leveraging their large networks to force competitors to pay them excessive fees for data roaming. This causes the smaller carriers to charge higher prices to their own subscribers, which allows the big companies to keep their rates high as well, the group wrote in a filing with the Federal Communications Commission.  Public Knowledge, the Open Technology Institute at New America Foundation, Benton Foundation, and Common Cause submitted a document to the FCC in support of T-Mobile's Petition for Expedited Declaratory Ruling filed with the commission. T-Mobile wants the FCC to force AT&amp;T and Verizon -- by far the biggest mobile phone companies -- to negotiate lower rates when customers of other companies "roam" on their networks. In 2011 the FCC adopted rules requiring that the terms of any data roaming agreement be "commercially reasonable." T-Mobile now wants a "prospective guidance and predictable enforcement criteria for determining whether the terms of any given data roaming agreement or proposal" meet that standard.  AT&amp;T and Verizon oppose T-Mobile's request. In 2011 the FCC determined that AT&amp;T and Verizon have both the incentive and the capability to raise data roaming rates (or deny data roaming entirely), hurting or crippling its competitors. The commission attempted to put measures into place that would prevent that. T-Mobile's complaint states that those steps haven't worked. The document filed in support of the T-Mobile complaint states that growth in demand for smart phones and data packages has enhanced the ability of AT&amp;T and Verizon to leverage their market power to impose higher costs on their rivals, hurting all subscribers. The complaint further details how AT&amp;T and Verizon are using the size of their networks and the fact that smaller companies have to make deals with them to keep prices high: To the extent AT&amp;T and Verizon can artificially increase the cost of data roaming for rivals, rendering aggressive price competition economically unfeasible, it does more than extract monopoly rents from competitors. It allows Verizon and AT&amp;T to charge artificially inflated prices to their own customers as well. In this case, Verizon and AT&amp;T maintain strict data caps and overage fees and are able to maintain these strategies by rendering truly unlimited plans for competitors economically unfeasible.  T-Mobile is right to complain and it's good to see the company getting support from major public interest groups. The only thing that makes the FCC act in favor of regular citizens seems to be focused media attention and an interested American people. While Sprint and T-Mobile -- especially if they merge, as appears to be in the works -- have the heft to take on AT&amp;T and Verizon, smaller carriers are much more vulnerable.  T-Mobile's petition says that small carriers have reported problems, including "offers of wholesale data roaming rates many orders of magnitude higher than the offering carrier's retail rates to its own data customers, delays of more than eight months to obtain even initial responses to roaming requests, requests for detailed long-term traffic projections, and proposed hefty penalties for any resulting deviations from those projections." AT&amp;T and Verizon operate using wireless spectrum licensed from the United States government as administered by the FCC. The commission has the ability to dictate terms of those licenses as it does with other areas it controls.  By being able to charge essentially whatever they want for roaming under whatever terms they desire, AT&amp;T and Verizon can freeze out competitors. It would be like allowing UPS andFedEx to own major highways and then set whatever fee it wants for Amazon or Domino's Pizza delivery vehicles to use those roads. If the public raises a fuss the FCC will likely side with T-Mobile at least partly. This could force AT&amp;T and Verizon to create a reasonable, transparent cost structure for wholesale roaming. That could result in savings that allows Sprint and T-Mobile to lower prices, which could force AT&amp;T and Verizon to follow. If the FCC steps in it could also make it easier for smaller, regional carriers to compete. Without public attention, however, the FCC will probably do little more than offer more vague language that only helps the biggest players.  The wireless airwaves are a public commodity that should be used in the best interests of the American people. The FCC should be pushing the companies licensing them into doing what's best for as many people as possible even if that hurts the bottom line. Unfortunately, it seems the FCC only sides with the American public over large corporations when the public is paying attention. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoWhen Lionel Messi and the rest of the Argentine World Cup team got home from Brazil, likely dejected after their loss, their president dealt them another cruel blow. "As you know, I'm no soccer fan," said President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, while standing next to Messi and Argentina manager Alejandro Sabella. "I didn't see a single match, not even the one yesterday (on Sunday). Even so, I called Alejandro (Sabella) because for me, and for 40 million Argentines, they had won the match." Brutal. It was widely publicized that Fernandez de Kirchner would not attend the match in neighboring Brazil because of a throat ailment, but to not even watch?! Cold. Watch the video below (in Spanish) from ESPN: FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Diane BondareffShares of media giants like Disney, Comcast, and Discovery Communications are all higher after The New York Times reported that 21st Century Fox made an offer for Time Warner. In pre-market trade, Discovery shares were up nearly 3%, while Comcast — which owns NBC — advanced 0.9%, and ABC-owner Disney gained 0.8%. The offer, according to The New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael De La Merced, was rejected by Time Warner and valued the company at a bit more than $85 per share.  Following that report, other content providers are also ticking higher. BI's Jay Yarow broke down some the dynamics at play in the cable industry, noting that a consolidation on the distribution side, like the deal for Comcast to buy Time Warner Cable and AT&amp;T's play for DirecTV, will cause ripple effects on the content side.  Following the initial report, 21st Century Fox issued a press release announcing that it is currently not in talks with Time Warner, but the market reaction from Time Warner seems that investors believe a deal for the company will happen one way or another.    FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Chinese government is no longer providing massive economic stimulus to prop up China’s growth rate. Instead, the government is targeting spending in a more rifle-shot approach. That’s the official mini-stimulus story. It just doesn’t jibe with the latest “social financing” data, which show that China’s economy continues to be flooded with credit. It worked in the past, and it should work now. But one day, it won’t work, and the economy could sink rather than float on the sea of credit. Let’s review the latest data: (1) Social financing rose $320 billion during June. That’s not an annualized number. It is the amount of borrowing by all sectors just during that one month. On a ytd basis, it totals a staggering $1.7 trillion compared to $1.6 trillion over the same period last year. (2) The totals above include bank loans, which increased $175 billion during June and $934 billion ytd. Chinese bank loans totaled a record $12.6 trillion during June, 64% more than the loans held by US commercial banks. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Solid Sales. (1) US business sales at new high. (2) Lots of indicators pointing to 5% revenues growth for S&amp;P 500. (3) Analysts forecasting 5% revenues growth for lots of sectors. (4) Upward revision for consumer spending during Q2. (5) Wages and salaries outpacing inflation by about 2 percentage points. (6) YRI Earned Income Proxy showing solid income growth driving retail sales. (7) Chinese government still flooding economy with credit. (8) Investment advice from the Fed. (9) Yellen is a liberal. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated Retailers. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzThe Producer Price Index rose 0.4% over last month. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.2%.  Expectations were for prices to rise 0.2% over last month, and excluding food and energy, also rise 0.2%. On a year over year basis, prices rose 1.9%, and excluding food and energy prices rose 1.8%. On a year over year basis, prices were expected to rise 1.9% and excluding food and energy, rise 1.7%. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Much better core than implied by NFIB survey; it can't last... We expected a much bigger core number in the wake of the further increase in selling prices reported by the NFIB... The underlying economic story here, we think, is that firms are expecting to have to pay rather higher wages and are seeking offsetting prices increases." Last month, prices unexpectedly contracted, falling -0.2% and -0.1% excluding food and energy. May's ex food and energy number, however, was revised up to unchanged. On a year over year basis, however, May prices rose 2% for both the headline and ex food and energy measures. This chart from Pantheon also shows the strength in the NFIB selling price index compared to core PPI, with the firm expecting a catch-up in the next few months. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters Ma, the founder and executive chair of Alibaba Group Holding, speaks during the SoftBank World 2014 event in TokyoHONG KONG/BEIJING (Reuters) - When a fast-growing private equity firm co-founded by Jack Ma sought funding from institutional investors for the first time in early 2013, almost all had one major concern, its chairman said: Was the firm independent from Ma, the influential executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding, China's e-commerce giant? The investors were worried that Yunfeng Capital might not put their interests first, said David Yu, a long-time friend and business associate of Ma, speaking to Reuters in a rare interview at his Hong Kong office on July 3. Yu said the independence of Yunfeng from Ma was "the number one concern institutional investors had". He named several high-profile investors that came on board after getting assurances Ma played no direct role in Yunfeng's investment decisions. However, four other institutional players told Reuters they opted out because they said they were worried Ma's role as one of China's most active private investors could conflict with his responsibility to Alibaba shareholders. They declined to be identified because their talks with Yunfeng were private. "You can look at Yunfeng and you can say there are clearly a lot of synergies with Alibaba and Jack Ma, but you can also say it's a clear conflict of interest. It's a double-edged sword," said one person whose firm turned down an opportunity to invest. To be sure, it is not unusual for successful businessmen in China or elsewhere to invest personal wealth in private equity and venture capital firms. In Silicon Valley, lines between entrepreneurs and their companies can also become blurred, leading to complaints about conflicts of interest. Yunfeng still raised $1.1 billion for its latest fund, but its challenge attracting institutional investors underscores the long-standing concerns some investors have had about Ma as he prepares to take Alibaba public next month in a New York IPO that could raise more than $15 billion. Alibaba acknowledged the broader issue of potential conflicts in its IPO prospectus issued on May 6, saying that given Ma's other roles it could not guarantee he would "act in the best interests of our company should any conflicts of interest arise". Alibaba declined to comment or make Ma available for an interview for this story. There are plenty of links between Alibaba and Yunfeng, a firm Ma and Yu founded in 2010 and which has a total of $3 billion under management. The two entities have invested in each other, according to filings from Chinese online gaming firm Giant Interactive Group Inc &lt;GA.N&gt; with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and sportswear maker China Dongxiang Group Co Ltd &lt;3818.HK&gt; with the Hong Kong stock exchange. Yuzhu Shi, the chairman of Giant, and Yihong Chen, the CEO of Dongxiang, are both founding partners of Yunfeng, according to Yunfeng's website. Ma also has personal money invested in China-based Yunfeng, Alibaba's filings show. Giant and Dongxiang were also among around a dozen investors that poured about $500 million into Alibaba in 2011 via Yunfeng, the two firm's filings show. The investment was part of a $1.6 billion tender offer to Alibaba employees that allowed some Alibaba staff to cash out their shares in the company. Yunfeng and Alibaba have also invested in at least three deals together, starting in 2010 when they paid $24 million for a combined 16 percent stake in a Chinese online search engine company called Sogou Inc, a subsidiary of Sohu.com Inc &lt;SOHU.O&gt;. Yu said the firm told institutional players that Ma did not sit on its investment committee, which decides which companies to invest in. Yunfeng also showed investors documents to prove it sourced its deals independently, Yu added. Among the investors that bought into the fund were Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC [GIC.UL], Yu said. Alibaba's arch-rival, Chinese Internet firm Tencent Holdings Ltd &lt;0700.HK&gt;, was another. Yu declined to say which entities expressed concern about Yunfeng's independence or if any of those that did chose not to invest. GIC did not respond to calls and emails seeking comment. Tencent declined to comment. "There is a very clear separation of duties," said Yu, who sits on the four-member committee that makes investment decisions. According to Alibaba's SEC filings, Ma donates any profits he makes from Yunfeng to charity. Ma and Yu agreed to form the private equity firm to invest some of their personal wealth after a boat ride in June 2009 at West Lake in the eastern Chinese city of Hangzhou, Alibaba's home base. Also on the boat was global financier George Soros, who was visiting Alibaba's headquarters, and who discussed their idea of helping a new generation of entrepreneurs in China, Yu said. Soros Fund Management declined to comment. This year, Yunfeng has invested around $182 million alongside Alibaba in two deals totaling close to $1.4 billion. The most recent was in April, when the two agreed to pay $1.22 billion for an 18.5 percent stake in online video website Youku Tudou Inc &lt;YOKU.N&gt;, a business akin to Google Inc's &lt;GOOGL.O&gt; YouTube. (Additional reporting by Gerry Shih in San Francisco, Saaed Azhar in Singapore and Paul Carsten in Beijing; Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
APRupert Murdoch, center, chairman and CEO of News Corp., walks with his sons Lachlan, left, and James, right, at the Allen & Company Sun Valley Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.21st Century Fox has put Time Warner in play.  According to Andrew Ross Sorkin, 21st Century Fox offered to pay $85 per share to buy Time Warner. At that price, the deal would be valued at $80 billion. Why is 21st Century Fox interested in buying Time Warner?  It is likely related to Comcast's buying Time Warner Cable, AT&amp;T buying DirecTV, and Sprint reportedly looking at buying T-Mobile.  Those companies control distribution. As they consolidate, they gain more power over the content companies — 21st Century Fox, Time Warner — that rely on them for distribution.  Here's how the TV business works: Fox News, which is owned by 21st Century Fox, gets almost $1 per subscriber from Comcast and other cable companies. That $1 causes tension between the two companies. For Fox, it's the lifeblood of its operations. It gets ad revenue, too, but the ad business comes and goes; subscriber fees don't. They remain steady and are steadily growing.  It's not just Fox News that gets those fees. All the channels these companies own — HBO, TBS, TNT, FX, Fox Sports One, etc. — get fees from companies. All the distributors — Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Verizon, etc. — fight to keep those fees low to protect their own profits.  With consolidation on the distribution side, those distribution companies have better leverage in any deal over subscriber fees. It's a lot easier for Comcast to say, "We're not paying you more for Fox News" if it has more control over the TV market. It can really choke out Fox News, and cut down on how many homes it's in. That cuts down on ad revenue and obviously eliminates the subscription fee altogether. But if Rupert Murdoch, the CEO of 21st Century Fox, can go to Comcast and say, you better pay up for Fox News otherwise we're going to pull access to TNT, TBS, Fox Sports, and so on, he's going to be able to negotiate from a better position of strength.  This is a particularly important time for something like this. The trend of cord-cutting is slowly starting to take shape. Technology companies are getting smarter about investing in content and building digital-video offerings. That could lead to downward pressure on subscriber fees. By having a bundle of channels, 21st Century Fox will have a better shot of protecting its fees during negotiations.  FREE AppDownload
APRupert Murdoch, center, chairman and CEO of News Corp., walks with his sons Lachlan, left, and James, right, at the Allen & Company Sun Valley Conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.21st Century Fox has put Time Warner in play.  According to Andrew Ross Sorkin, 21st Century Fox offered to pay $85 per share to buy Time Warner. At that price, the deal would be valued at $80 billion. Why is 21st Century Fox interested in buying Time Warner?  It is likely related to Comcast's buying Time Warner Cable, AT&amp;T buying DirecTV, and Sprint reportedly looking at buying T-Mobile.  Those companies control distribution. As they consolidate, they gain more power over the content companies — 21st Century Fox, Time Warner — that rely on them for distribution.  Here's how the TV business works: Fox News, which is owned by 21st Century Fox, gets almost $1 per subscriber from Comcast and other cable companies. That $1 causes tension between the two companies. For Fox, it's the lifeblood of its operations. It gets ad revenue, too, but the ad business comes and goes; subscriber fees don't. They remain steady and are steadily growing.  It's not just Fox News that gets those fees. All the channels these companies own — HBO, TBS, TNT, FX, Fox Sports One, etc. — get fees from companies. All the distributors — Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Verizon, etc. — fight to keep those fees low to protect their own profits.  With consolidation on the distribution side, those distribution companies have better leverage in any deal over subscriber fees. It's a lot easier for Comcast to say, "We're not paying you more for Fox News" if it has more control over the TV market. It can really choke out Fox News, and cut down on how many homes it's in. That cuts down on ad revenue and obviously eliminates the subscription fee altogether. But if Rupert Murdoch, the CEO of 21st Century Fox, can go to Comcast and say, you better pay up for Fox News otherwise we're going to pull access to TNT, TBS, Fox Sports, and so on, he's going to be able to negotiate from a better position of strength.  This is a particularly important time for something like this. The trend of cord-cutting is slowly starting to take shape. Technology companies are getting smarter about investing in content and building digital-video offerings. That could lead to downward pressure on subscriber fees. By having a bundle of channels, 21st Century Fox will have a better shot of protecting its fees during negotiations.  FREE AppDownload
Myth #1 – You Too Can Become Warren Buffett Few myths in the world of finance are more pernicious than the many that surround the career of Warren Buffett. Warren Buffett is the most glorified and respected investor of all time.  After all, it’s widely believed that he became the world’s wealthiest man by essentially picking stocks. But Warren Buffett is also remarkably misunderstood by the general public.  I personally believe the myth of Warren Buffett is one of the greatest misconceptions in the financial world. To most people Warren Buffett is a folksy frugal regular old chum who just has a knack for picking stocks.  He works hard at finding “value stocks” and then just let’s them run forever, right? It’s the old myth that you can buy what you know (say, Coca-Cola because you like Cherry Coke or American Express because you like its credit cards), go through the annual report, plop down a portion of your savings in the common stock and watch the money grow through the roof.  Well, nothing could be further from the truth and here we sit with an entire generation who believes the simplistic approaches of value investing or buy and hold are the single best ways to accumulate wealth in the market.  Contrary to popular mythology, Warren Buffett is an exceedingly sophisticated businessman.  In order to understand how dangerous this myth is we have to dive deep into Buffett’s story.  To a large extent, the myth of Warren Buffett has fed a stock market boom as a generation of Americans has aspired to make their riches in the stock market. And who better to sell this idea than financial firms?  After all, a quick allocation in a plain vanilla “value” fund will get you a near-replica of the Warren Buffett approach to value investing, right?  Or maybe better yet, reading six months of Wall Street Journals and reviewing the P/E ratios of your favorite local public companies will send you on your way to successful retirement.  By oversimplifying this glorified investor named Buffett the general public gets the false perception that portfolio management is so easy a caveman can do it. And so we see commercials with babies trading from their cribs and middle aged men trading an account in their free time.  And an army of Americans pour money and fees into brokerage firms trying to replicate something that cannot be replicated. Financial firms want us to believe the myth of Warren Buffett.  In fact, many of their business models rely on our believing the myth of Warren Buffett.  Let me begin by saying that I have nothing but the utmost respect for Mr. Buffett. When I was a young market practitioner I printed every single one of his annual letters and read them front to back.  It was, and remains the single greatest market education I have ever received.  I highly recommend it for anyone who hasn’t done so. But in digging deeper I realized that Warren Buffett is so much more than the folksy value stock picker portrayed by the media. What he has built is far more complex than that. In reality, Mr. Buffett formed one of the original hedge funds in 1956 (The Buffett Partnership Ltd), and he charged similar fees to the fees he now condemns in modern hedge funds. Most important, though, is that Buffett was more entrepreneur than stock picker.  Like most of the other people on the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest people, Buffett created wealth by creating his own company. He did not accumulate his wealth in anything that closely resembles what most of us do by opening brokerage accounts and allocating our savings into various assets. Make no mistake: Buffett is an entrepreneur, hedge fund manager, and highly sophisticated businessman.  The original Buffett Partners fund is particularly interesting due to Buffett’s recent berating of hedge fund performance and fees. Ironically Buffett Partnership charged 25 percent of profits exceeding 6 percent in the fund. This is a big part of how Buffett grew his wealth so quickly.  He was running a hedge fund no different than today’s funds.  And it wasn’t just some value fund.  Buffett often used leverage and at times had his entire fund invested in just a few stocks. One famous position was his purchase of Dempster Mill in which Buffett actually pulled one of the first known activist hedge fund moves by installing his own management at the firm.  Buffett, the activist hedge fund manager?  That’s right.  He was one of the first. His venture to purchase Berkshire Hathaway was quite similar. Berkshire Hathaway isn’t just your average conglomerate. The brilliance behind Buffett’s construction of Berkshire is astounding. He effectively used (and uses) Berkshire as the world’s largest option writing house. The premiums and cash flow from his insurance businesses created dividends that he could invest in other businesses.  Berkshire essentially became a holding company that he could run this insurance-writing business through while using the cash flow to build a conglomerate. But Buffett wasn’t just buying Coca-Cola and Geico. Buffett was engaging in real investment in many cases by seeding capital and playing a much more active entrepreneurial role in the production process.  He was also placing some complex bets (short-term and long-term) in derivatives markets, options markets, and bond markets. The perception that Buffett is a pure stock picker, as many have come to believe, is a myth.  It’s also interesting to note that the portfolio of stocks he has become famous for is the equivalent of just about 28 percent of Berkshire’s enterprise value as of 2013. His most famous holdings (Coke, American Express &amp; Moody’s Corporations) account for roughly 8 percent of the total market cap. Interestingly, two of Buffett’s most famous purchases weren’t traditional value picks at all but distressed plays. His original purchases of American Express and Geico occurred when both companies were teetering on the edge of insolvency. These deals are more akin to what many modern-day distressed debt hedge funds do, not what most of us think of as traditional value investing. Make no mistake – Buffett has the killer instinct prominent in many successful business leaders.  Just look at the deal he struck with Goldman Sachs and GE in 2008. He practically stepped on their throats when they needed to raise capital in the depths of the financial crisis, demanded a five year warrant deal, and profited handsomely.  Of course Buffett described the deal as a long-term value play. If a distressed-debt hedge fund (which is a role Berkshire often plays) had made the same move, reporters might have described the fund manager as a thief who was attacking two great American corporations while they were down.  Warren Buffett is a great American and a great business leader, but do your homework before buying into the myth that you will one day sit atop the throne of “world’s richest person” by employing a strategy that is, in fact, nothing remotely close to what Berkshire and Mr. Buffett actually do.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi Rupert Murdoch, chairman and CEO of 21st Century Fox.Media giant 21st Century Fox offered to buy competitor Time Warner for $80 billion. CNBC reported it first this morning. Both companies have since confirmed the bid took place. Time Warner rejected the offer, saying "Time Warner’s strategic plan will continue to drive significant and sustainable value for Time Warner stockholders." In other words, Time Warner is telling 21st Century Fox to up its bid.  21st Century Fox's big valued Time Warner at $85 per share, reports The New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael De La Merced. Despite the rejection, the stock is reacting. Shares of Time Warner, which closed at $71.01 on Tuesday, shot up by 15% in reaction to the news. Rupert Murdoch, the CEO of 21st Century Fox, has a history of doggedly pursuing companies he wants. For instance, he was initially rebuffed when he tried to buy Dow Jones. But he kept at it and nine months later he closed the deal to buy Dow Jones. But that was a different case entirely. Dow Jones was only $5 billion. And it was owned by a large family that was acutely aware that the newspaper business was dying. Murdoch was a last chance to cash out.  Time Warner, on the other hand, is a thriving corporation run by a smart CEO in Jeff Bewkes. He has much more leverage in any negotiation. The details of the deal are interesting. "As part of Fox’s proposal to buy Time Warner, people briefed on the proposal said, Fox indicated that it would sell CNN to head off potential antitrust concerns since Fox News competes directly with CNN," reported New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin and Michael De La Merced. "Putting CNN on the auction block would likely stir up a bidding war for the news channel; both CBS and ABC, a unit of the Walt Disney Co., have long been seen as interested suitors." Shortly after Sorkin broke the story, Bloomberg's Jeffrey McCracken reported "Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. is prepared to offer more than $85 a share for Time Warner Inc." Murdoch's interest in Time Warner likely relates to the consolidation in media distribution companies. Comcast is buying Time Warner Cable, AT&amp;T buying DirecTV, and Sprint reportedly looking at buying T-Mobile. As those companies gain more power, Murdoch thinks he needs to gain more control and power for his content companies.  Here is Time Warner's complete explanation of why it rejected the deal: The Time Warner Board, after consultation with its financial and legal advisors, determined that it was not in the best interests of Time Warner or its stockholders to accept the Proposal or to pursue any discussions with Twenty-First Century Fox. The Board is confident that continuing to execute its strategic plan will create significantly more value for the Company and its stockholders and is superior to any proposal that Twenty-First Century Fox is in a position to offer. In making its determination, the Time Warner Board considered, among other things, that: Time Warner’s Board also noted the consistent track record of Time Warner’s proven management team in achieving superior returns as well as completing a series of transactions to unlock value in related businesses, including the separation of AOL, Time Warner Cable, and Time Inc. Under its strategic plan, Time Warner has delivered a total shareholder return of more than 150% since 2008, almost tripling the return of the S&amp;P 500 over the same period, as management has pursued a disciplined approach to position the Company as a global leader in media and entertainment while managing its operations and capital structure to maximize shareholder returns.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookBank of America announced Q2 financial results that were stronger than expected. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $0.41 per share, which was much stronger than the $0.29 expected. One big adjustment during the quarter was litigation costs which slashed $0.22 from the bottom line. "The economy continues to strengthen, and our customers and clients are doing more business with us," said CEO Brian Moynihan. "Among other positive indicators, consumers are spending more, brokerage assets are up by double digits and our corporate clients are increasingly turning to us to help finance business expansion and merger activity. We are well positioned for further progress." Here are some bullets from BAC's earnings announcement: •    Total Period-end Deposit Balances up $54 Billion, or 5 Percent, From Q2-13 to a Record $1.13 Trillion •    Funding of $13.7 Billion in Residential Home Loans and Home Equity Loans in Q2-14 Helped Nearly 43,000 Homeowners Purchase a Home or Refinance a Mortgage •    More Than 1.1 Million New Credit Cards Issued in Q2-14, With 65 Percent Going to Existing Customers •    Global Wealth and Investment Management Reports Record Revenue of $4.6 Billion and Record Total Client Balances of $2.47 Trillion •    Global Banking Average Loan Balances up 6 Percent From Q2-13 to $271 Billion •    Bank of America Merrill Lynch Maintained a Leadership Position in Investment Banking with Total Firmwide Fees of $1.6 Billion and Record Equity Issuance Fees in Q2-14, Excluding Self-led Deals •    FICC Sales and Trading Revenue, Excluding Net DVA, up 5 Percent From Q2-13(B) •    Noninterest Expense, Excluding Litigation, Down 6 Percent From Q2-13 to $14.6 Billion(C) •    Credit Quality Continued to Improve With Net Charge-offs Down 49 Percent From Q2-13 to $1.1 Billion; Net Charge-off Ratio of 0.48 Percent Is Lowest in a Decade FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonPeople stand with umbrellas during a rainstorm along the 43rd street at Times Square in New York July 15, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: IBM And Apple?! "Apple announced Tuesday a partnership with IBM that will help the company greatly increase the presence of its mobile devices in the enterprise," reported BI's Sam Colt. "IBM will use its sales force to sell iPhones and iPads to its network of business customers. IBM will also develop cloud services optimized for iOS, the operating system for iPhones and iPads." China's Answers The Growth Question. China's GDP grew at a 7.5% rate in Q2, up from 7.4% in Q1. This was stronger than economists' expectations for a 7.4% rate. "The major driver is Beijing’s stimulus measures focusing on increasing spending on railway and social housing with its own money," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu. "The negative impact of the stimulus on the financial system is thus relatively small. We believe Beijing is quite serious about its 7.5% growth target as it needs a stable economic and financial backdrop as it steps up its anti-corruption campaign, so the new government will most likely continue its mini-stimulus in the face of higher base effect and some strong headwinds in 2H." Yahoo! Whiffs. "Our top priority is revenue growth and by that measure, we are not satisfied with our Q2 results," said Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer. Revenue ex-traffic acquisition costs fell 3% to $1.04 billion, missing expectations for $1.09 billion. Intel Beats. "The second quarter came in above the expectations we provided in the April Earnings call, and consistent with the revised outlook we released on June 12," said Intel CFO Stacy Smith. "It was a good quarter representing financial growth and solid momentum as we approach the second half of the year." Intel reported Q2 EPS of $0.55 on revenue of $13.8 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings per share of $0.52 on revenue of $13.71 billion. The Inflation Story Just Got Serious. The Hershey Company announced that it would be raising prices in response to rising costs. "A weighted average price increase of approximately 8 percent across the company's instant consumable, multi-pack, packaged candy and grocery lines is effective today," said the company in a Tuesday afternoon press release. Markets Are Up. Dow futures are up 52 points and S&amp;P futures are up 5.8 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.93%, France's CAC 40 is up 1.4%, and Germany's DAX is up 1.2%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.1% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 0.2%. CNBC and Institutional Investor will host their annual Delivering Alpha conference today in New York City, and these events always have the potential to move markets. Attendees will include hedge fund giants John Paulson and Leon Cooperman. We'll have live coverage of the event at BusinessInsider.com/Finance. An Inflation Update. The June producer price report will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate PPI climbed by 0.2%. Year-over-year, they estimate prices climbed by 1.9%, with core PPI climbing 1.7%. "Farm prices declined again in June and should put downward pressure on producer prices," said Nomura economists. "However, the jump in energy prices should put upward pressure on headline PPI." An Industrial Production Update. The June Industrial Production report will be published at 9:15 a.m. ET. Economists estimate industrial production increased 0.3% in June as capacity utilization climbed to 79.3% from 79.1%. "A small gain in factory hours worked in the employment report and industry figures pointing to a modest drop in motor vehicle assemblies ahead of a scheduled rise to an eleven-year high in July point to a 0.2% gain in manufacturing output after a 2.8% surge over the prior four months," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Some upside in utility production after a sharp spring pullback following a surge in the winter and a continued strong trend in oil and gas drilling should provide additional boosts to overall IP." A Housing Market Update. The July NAHB Housing Market Index will be updated at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this homebuilder confidence index ticked up to 50 in July. "Sentiment had been above 50 until February when presumably the harsh weather weighed on builder expectations," noted BofA Merrill Lynch economists. "New home sales have improved, and it seems that the late start to the spring season will support the homebuilding industry." Fed And More Fed. Fed Chair Janet Yellen presents her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the House Committee on Financial Services at 10:00 a.m. ET. She'll be repeating what she said before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday. Fed watchers are likely to pay closer attention to the Fed's Beige Book, which gets released at 2:00 p.m. ET. Here's Credit Suisse: "The pictures painted by recent Beige Books may not illustrate robust growth, but they suggest the economy is at least moving in the right direction (with that -2.9% Q1 GDP print looking like a significant aberration). The July 16 Beige Book may provide real-world anecdotes to supplement the better labor market data reported recently. Any observations from business contacts related to wage growth or pricing power also would be of particular market interest at this juncture." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungThere are two significant economic datapoints coming out in the US today. Here they are, via Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM, the Producer Price Index for June from the BLS. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in prices. • At 9:15 AM, the Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for June. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase in Industrial Production, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 79.2%. One reason these are both interesting is that they may help shape the debate about inflation. The Producer Price Index (PPI) is itself an inflation measure, which attempts to capture the cost of raw goods that go into making things. And "Capacity Utilization" tells us how much of our current produciton infrastructure is in use or idle. The higher that number gets, the less slack there is in the system. The question of whether inflationary pressures are building in the economy is one of the biggest, and most important questions of the moment. Right now, the Fed's view is that there isn't much inflation pressure, and that signs of rising prices are "noise." It's this view which allows it to indicate that rate hikes won't come for quite awhile yet. If the Fed is wrong, and there isn't much slack in the system, and prices for all kinds of things start to tick up, then the Fed could be forced to hike sooner. FREE AppDownload
SamsungSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is losing smartphone ground not only to cheaper Chinese rivals but also at the high end to Apple Inc, a survey showed, in an ominous sign for the South Korean giant as Apple readies to launch its next-generation iPhone 6. Samsung last week gave second-quarter earnings guidance that was far weaker than expectations and is on track for its worst quarterly profit in two years, a performance the company attributed in part to price competition and higher inventory levels in China. Research firm Counterpoint's survey of 35 markets accounting for nearly 90 percent of global sales found that sales for the eight-month-old iPhone 5s stood at 7 million in May, compared with about 5 million for Samsung's flagship Galaxy S5, which was in just its second full month of sales after a late March release. Counterpoint said that the Galaxy S5 appeared to be doing worse than the Galaxy S4 had done in its early launch against the iPhone 5, with each selling about 7 million units a month. The data measure retailers' sales to consumers as opposed to typical industry data that look at shipments made by the manufacturer. Galaxy S5 sales probably remained at about 5 million units in June, said Tom Kang, Seoul-based analyst for Counterpoint. He said the Galaxy S5 fell short of market expectations in terms of display quality and by using a plastic case. "They made one mistake, one product that didn't hold up to expectations and they are paying the price," he said in a phone interview. "They will have to move forward and leave behind what has failed and focus on the next product." The data suggests that Samsung's problems run deeper than just the inventory buildup in mid-to-low tier devices that the company reported earlier in the month after disclosing weaker-than-expected second quarter guidance. Samsung declined to comment on Counterpoint's data or disclose shipment figures for the Galaxy S5, though a Samsung executive in April said that the new flagship device was expected to outperform its predecessor. "We will strengthen our product competitiveness by reinforcing our premium brand reputation, powerful product line-up, and cutting-edge technology," the company said in an email statement on Wednesday. Data from research firm Canalys showed that Samsung's market share in the first quarter of 2014 fell to 18 percent from 20 percent a year earlier, while the likes of China's Xiaomi and Lenovo Group Ltd &lt;0992.HK&gt; made gains. Analysts said Samsung's new products such as the S5 did not offer enough to entice consumers to pay a premium over cheaper alternatives that were rapidly improving in quality. "Most major smartphone brands worldwide are battling brand fatigue at the moment," said Strategy Analytics analyst Neil Mawston. "Consumers love their smartphones but almost all hardware, software and apps now look, feel or cost the same." Apple, however, continues to be able to charge premium prices. Its iPhone 6 generation, expected to be launched as soon as September, is anticipated to sport bigger screens which would encroach on what has been a key Samsung advantage. The Counterpoint data also suggest that Apple's smartphone sales have remained resilient even as anticipation for the new product launch builds. The U.S. company is expected to report its fiscal third-quarter results later this month.   SLOWING MARKET Some slowdown for Samsung was expected following a record year of profits in 2013. Strategy Analytics forecasts global smartphone shipments growth this year to slow to 21 percent from 41 percent in 2013, while faster growth for cheaper smartphones was also expected to undermine margins. Samsung's worse-than-anticipated operating profit guidance of 7.2 trillion won ($6.96 billion) for the April-June period caught analysts by surprise. Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S survey shows that 28 of 50 analysts polled have cut full-year profit forecasts for the company since the guidance was issued on July 8. A worker at a South Korean carrier shop in central Seoul said sales of the iPhone 5s and the Galaxy S5 were roughly equal at his store, even though the Apple device had been on the market since October in South Korea. "IPhone sales have been consistent and the differentiating factor for it is the design," said the worker, who only wanted to be identified by his surname Kim as he was not authorized to speak to the media. "There isn't much difference in the design of a Galaxy phone or an LG phone." Some analysts said Samsung should bite the bullet and cut prices across the board, trading short-term margins for market share, while others say Samsung should look at more innovative change such as introducing flexible displays. Counterpoint's Kang said Samsung may also need to consider adopting a new brand for its high-end products. "The Galaxy brand has been weakened because it's selling $100, $200, $300 phones while Apple only sells $400 and above, so they might even need to throw away their Galaxy brand," he said.   (Additional reporting by Paul Carsten in BEIJING and Kahyun Yang in SEOUL; Editing by Tony Munroe and Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian President Putin, Indian Prime Minister Modi, Brazilian President Rousseff, Chinese President Xi and South African President Zuma talk at a group photo session during the 6th BRICS summit in Fortaleza FORTALEZA Brazil (Reuters) - Leaders of the BRICS emerging market nations launched a $100 billion development bank and a currency reserve pool on Tuesday in their first concrete step toward reshaping the Western-dominated international financial system. The bank aimed at funding infrastructure projects in developing nations will be based in Shanghai and India will preside over its operations for the first five years, followed by Brazil and then Russia, leaders of the five-country group announced at a summit. They also set up a $100 billion currency reserves pool to help countries forestall short-term liquidity pressures. The long-awaited bank is the first major achievement of the BRICS countries - Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa - since they got together in 2009 to press for a bigger say in the global financial order created by Western powers after World War Two and centered on the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The BRICS were prompted to seek coordinated action following an exodus of capital from emerging markets last year, triggered by the scaling back of U.S. monetary stimulus. The new bank reflects the growing influence of the BRICS, which account for almost half the world's population and about one-fifth of global economic output. The bank will begin with a subscribed capital of $50 billion divided equally between its five founders, with an initial total of $10 billion in cash put in over seven years and $40 billion in guarantees. It is scheduled to start lending in 2016 and be open to membership by other countries, but the capital share of the BRICS cannot drop below 55 percent. The contingency currency pool will be held in the reserves of each BRICS country and can be shifted to another member to cushion balance-of-payments difficulties. This initiative gathered momentum after the reverse in the flows of cheap dollars that fueled a boom in emerging markets for a decade. "It will help contain the volatility faced by diverse economies as a result of the tapering of the United States' policy of monetary expansion," Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff said. "It is a sign of the times, which demand reform of the IMF," she told reporters at the close of the summit. China, holder of the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, will contribute the bulk of the contingency currency pool, or $41 billion. Brazil, India and Russia will chip in $18 billion each and South Africa $5 billion. If a need arises, China will be eligible to ask for half of its contribution, South Africa for double and the remaining countries the amount they put in. Negotiations over the headquarters and first presidency were reached at the eleventh hour due to differences between India and China. The impasse reflected the trouble Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa have had in reconciling stark economic and political differences that made it hard for the group to turn rhetoric into concrete action. "We pulled it off 10 minutes before the end of the game. We reached a balanced package that is satisfactory to all," a Brazilian diplomat told Reuters. Negotiations to create the bank dragged on for more than two years as Brazil and India fought China's attempts to get a bigger share in the lender than the others. In the end, Brazil and India prevailed in keeping equal equity at its launch, but fears linger that China, the world's No. 2 economy, could try to assert greater influence over the bank to expand its political clout abroad. China, however, will not preside over the bank for two decades. Facing efforts by leading Western nations to isolate Russia for annexing Crimea and stirring revolt in eastern Ukraine, the BRICS summit provided President Vladimir Putin with a welcome geopolitical platform to show he has friends elsewhere, economic powers seen as shaping the future of the world. The BRICS abstained from criticizing Russia over the crisis in Ukraine and called instead for restraint by all actors so the conflict can be resolved peacefully.   (Editing by Tom Brown and Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
APMicrosoft CEO Steve BallmerHELSINKI (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp is planning to cut 1,000 jobs in Finland from its mobile phone unit, a Finnish daily said on Wednesday, quoting anonymous sources. Some 25,000 Nokia workers moved this spring to Microsoft with the cellphone unit acquisition, 4,700 of them in Finland. Globally, Microsoft now has 127,000 employees, far more than rivals Apple and Google. Wall Street is expecting Chief Executive Satya Nadella to make some cuts, which would represent Microsoft's first major layoffs since 2009. News agency Bloomberg said on Monday that total job cuts could be the biggest in Microsoft history, topping the 5,800 jobs lost in 2009. Finnish daily Helsingin Sanomat said on Wednesday Microsoft planned to close former Nokia research and development unit in Oulu, northern Finland. The Oulu unit employs 500 people, mainly working on software used in basic cellphones. The other half of the cuts would come from other locations in Finland. Finland is struggling with a severe economic recession. Its economy has already contracted for two years in a row and some analysts expect this year to make it three. (Reporting by Sakari Suoninen) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA labourer works at the Drum Tower in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China's economy grew 7.5 percent between April and June from a year earlier, slightly above expectations and quickening from the 7.4 percent pace in the first quarter, reinforcing hopes that a recovery is under way after a flurry of government stimulus measures. Other data released alongside the gross domestic product (GDP) report on Wednesday showed factory output rose 9.2 percent in June from a year ago, beating expectations for a 9.0 percent increase. Fixed asset investment, a mainstay driver of the Chinese economy, climbed 17.3 percent in the first six months compared with a year earlier, above forecasts for a 17.2 percent rise. Retail sales rose 12.4 percent in June from a year ago, in line with analysts' predictions. China's economy, the world's second-largest, got off to a weak start this year as unsteady foreign and domestic demand dragged on exports, investment and industrial output, prompting the government to announce a slew of stimulus measures. Many economists believe more policy support may be needed in coming months to sustain any recovery, particularly if the already cooling property market begins to deteriorate more sharply. Premier Li Keqiang said last month that targeted growth of 7.5 percent for 2014 is a minimum level, reinforcing expectations that Beijing is ready to roll out more stimulus if needed. (Reporting by Shao Xiaoyi and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Nati HarnikBerkshire Hathaway Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett donated a record $2.6 billion to five charities.  Hello! Here's what you need to know for Wednesday. 1. IBM announced it was partnering exclusively with Apple to sell iPhones and iPads to its clients. IBM will develop cloud services that are optimized for the iPhone and iPad operating system and Apple will provide hardware support for the devices. 2. The first Israeli was killed near the Gaza border after an Egypt-proposed cease-fire agreement between Israel and Palestinian militants unraveled. Hamas rejected the deal and airstrikes between the two nations have resumed, continuing a week-long battle that has killed 200 Palestinians. 3. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said in a testimony to the Senate Banking Committee that "significant slack" remains in labor markets despite the recent strong jobs report.  Yellen defended a loose monetary policy until the economy has fully recovered from the financial crisis, but was optimistic that "the economy would continue to grow if supported by the Fed's current low interest rates," Reuters says . 4. California is imposing tough water restrictions during the state's third-worst drought ever seen. Residents will be fined up to $500 a day for wasteful outdoor watering of gardens, lawns, or car washing. 5. General Motors records obtained by the New York Times appear to cast "doubt on how forthright the automaker was with regulators over a defective ignition switch that G.M. has linked to at least 13 deaths over the last decade." The Times says, reportedly, that the company "repeatedly found a way not to answer the simple question from regulators of what led to a crash." 6. A Japanese nuclear plant was given preliminary approval for meeting safety regulations required after the meltdowns at Fukushima. The Sendai plant in Tokyo is the first to meet these safety upgrades and is a step closer to coming back online. 7. The world's worst-ever Ebola outbreak in West Africa has killed at least 68 people in the last week. Ebola, one of the world's deadliest viruses, is spread through contact with blood and bodily fluids of infected people or animals. 8. At least 10 people were killed as Typhoon Rammasun tore through Manila, the capital of the Philippines. More than 370,000 people were evacuated from their homes as strong winds brought down trees and power lines, causing widespread blackouts.  9. Berkshire Hathaway Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett donated $2.8 billion in securities to the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation and four other charities. This is most Buffett has ever donated to these charities since he began his  2007 pledge to give away nearly all his wealth through annual contributions of his stock in Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 10. Hillary Clinton evaded questions from Jon Stewart on "The Daily Show" about a possible presidential run in 2016, but when asked if she prefers a work space with "no corners" — like the Oval Office — Clinton responded: “I think that the world is so complicated, the fewer corners that you can have, the better.”  And finally... A 24-year-old British woman spent nearly $30,000 on plastic surgery, teeth whitening, spray tans, and a new wardrobe to look like celebrity Kim Kardashian. The Kimitator is now $10,000 in debt, the New York Daily News reports.  FREE AppDownload
