Among the things that lead normal, well-balanced people to conclude that the IT industry is crazy are the valuations at which internet companies are launched on the stock market and the prices these companies pay to acquire apparently minuscule start-ups. One thinks, for example, of the $104bn valuation of Facebook when it launched in May 2012. Or of the $19bn that Facebook then paid to acquire WhatsApp last February. And then there’s last Thursday’s flotation of the Chinese internet firm Alibaba in New York, which valued the company at $168bn. (The really big news here is the flotation’s confirmation of the shrewdness of the 2005 deal in which Yahoo acquired a 40% stake in Alibaba for $1bn; Yahoo still owns 22.4% of the company and is expected to sell off some of that after the IPO.) These are not just telephone-book numbers, but astronomical ones. And not surprisingly they are leading some people to wonder if we’re in the middle of another tech bubble like the one that spectacularly popped in 2000. These fears were given an extra boost by a report published last month by PricewaterhouseCoopers that showed that venture capitalists in the US are pouring increasing amounts of money into tech companies. In the second quarter of this year, for example, venture capital investments in seed stage, early stage and expansion stage companies were up 55% over the corresponding quarter last year, which apparently is the largest quarter-over-quarter growth since the last quarter of 1999 – the last gasp of the first internet boom. This raises two questions. First, is history repeating itself? The answer is no, because history never really repeats itself. All booms have some generic features in common – outbreaks of irrational exuberance, for example, and availability of cheap money. But the specific circumstances of each boom are different. In the first internet bubble, for example, much of the money was blown on buying servers, renting offices and trying to buy market share in improbable or nonexistent markets (think of Pets.com and Petopia.com). In the current boom, instead of buying servers, startups rent computing time on Amazon’s Elastic Compute cloud service; their “offices” are often virtual (at least at first) and they’re not spending fortunes on advertising. In fact, they’re not paying for advertising full stop. So even if things were to go belly-up there’s less at stake. A more interesting question is: does it matter if we’re in another bubble? For individual investors, obviously the answer is yes. But for society as a whole, perhaps not. As William Janeway pointed out in his splendid book on innovation, the irrational exuberance that characterises bubbles may also be beneficial in that they generate technologies that will prove significant in the longer term. If one wanted to be critical, the most annoying thing about the current bubble is the way the visions and ambitions of startup founders seem to have narrowed. Many of them claim, of course, that what they want to build is a company that in the long term will transform the world or disrupt a particular market. But in actual fact their strategy is to create a product or a service that is sufficiently interesting or annoying to induce Google, Amazon, Facebook, Yahoo or Microsoft to buy the upstart venture. The poster child for this is WhatsApp, a fine company with a viable business model that did not depend on monitoring users and which was run by a chap who fervently declared his resolve to build a great, sustainable enterprise that treated its users well. And he doubtless believed that right up to the moment that Facebook offered him $19bn. And who can blame him: you only live once, after all. At the end of the day, though, what’s much more worrying than the spectacle of venture capitalists blowing investors’ money is the fact that everywhere state funding for the kind of long-term, fundamental research that is needed to produce the technologies of tomorrow has been shrinking. The current wave of innovation and economic development enabled by the internet has only come about because 60 years ago the US government funded the project that produced first the arpanet and then the internet. Private enterprise would undoubtedly have produced computer networks, but it would not have created the free and open platform for “permissionless innovation” that we got as a result of public investment. And we would have all been poorer as a result. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFour centuries ago, a whole country went completely crazy for tulip bulbs. But why do we still talk about these flower-obsessed Dutch traders. As you'll read, the story of tulipmania involves many timeless issues like behavioral biases, malfunctioning markets, inequality, and basic economic concepts like supply and demand imbalances. Dutch tulips were the first speculative asset to see prices shoot through the roof, and then quickly crash. And of course they weren't the last. With the help of historian Anne Goldgar's 2007 "Tulipmania," Business Insider brings you this unusual and enlightening story. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider writer Rob Wile contributed to an earlier version of this feature. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzA child walks between the 'Bulle und Baer' (Bull And Bear) sculptures next to Frankfurt's stock exchange.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Boerse &lt;DB1Gn.DE&gt; stopped wooing German listings of Chinese companies a year ago, the stock exchange operator said on Wednesday, a day after a German-listed Chinese shoemaker Ultrasonic said top managers and cash had vanished. A spokesman for Deutsche Boerse said the decision was taken for commercial reasons, without elaborating further on why a marketing campaign in China had been discontinued. Deutsche Boerse managers used to host marketing campaigns in China, but stopped courting smaller Chinese companies after auditors had difficulties verifying the accounting of some the smaller firms' Chinese operations, two people familiar with the companies thinking said on Wednesday. The scandal surrounding Ultrasonic &lt;US5.DE&gt;, which said most of its cash in China had disappeared, is a thorny issue for the exchange operator which is seeking to promote Frankfurt as a financial center. It follows similar problems with Chinese companies. German-listed Chinese manufacturer, Youbisheng Green Paper &lt;YB1.DE&gt;, started insolvency proceedings earlier this year after its CEO went absent without explanation. Chinese fashion group Kinghero &lt;KH6G.DE&gt; accused its former chief executive of breach of fiduciary trust and later sought to delist. "One can only advise investors to refrain from investments in unknown Chinese stocks," said Daniel Bauer, board member at German private investor lobby SdK. He added that investors should consider taking auditors and underwriting banks to court. "Trying to sue the perpetrators in China seems pointless." The Frankfurt-based exchange operator started promoting its trading platform in China in 2006 and opened a representative office in Beijing in 2008 in the hope of attracting large Chinese listings.               TELLING GOOD FROM BAD Asked by Reuters what Deutsche Boerse plans to do to prevent similar incidents in future, the company said in a written statement all companies listed on its exchange had met strict disclosure requirements and that it was the role of the capital market to tell good from bad investments. "(Investors buying shares in an IPO) should be capable of evaluating the opportunities and risks associated with business models as well as management's corporate governance," the exchange said. Currently twenty-five Chinese companies are listed on the exchange, Deutsche Boerse said. Snowbird, a Chinese maker of down bedding and clothing that is in the bookbuilding phase ahead of a Frankfurt stock market debut, on Wednesday said it was shocked by developments at Ultrasonic. "One more black sheep that destroys all the trust-building measures we have done so far," Snowbird CEO Yan Changzai said in a statement. The largest Chinese company by market value in Deutsche Boerse's Prime Standard trading segment is Joyou &lt;JY8G.DE&gt;, a maker of bathroom fixtures and fittings worth about 280 million euros ($362.68 mln). The others have market values of below 100 million euros.              (Additional reporting by Alexander Huebner and Jonathan Gould; Writing by Ludwig Burger; editing by Susan Thomas and William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
WikimediaJesse Livermore.Jesse Livermore is perhaps the most famous stock trader of all-time. Back in the early part of the 20th century, Livermore made and lost millions shorting the market. "Reminiscences of a Stock Operator" by Edwin Lefevre, a fictionalized account of Livermore's path from small-time bucketeer to big-time stock trader, is one of the most widely-read and revered books on trading. In the introduction to a recent edition of "Reminiscences," William O'Neil, founder of Investor's Business Daily, wrote that, "in my 45 years of experience in this business, I have only found 10 or 12 books that were of any real value — Reminiscences is one of them." Today, many in the market know Jesse Livermore from the pseudonymous Twitter account of the same name. And while the modern "Livermore" offers some some great market commentary, the real Jesse Livermore offered the most incisive commentary on markets, all of which still holds up today. Back in early 2013, Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut reflected on Livermore in his weekly commentary, writing that, "Years ago I studied the tactics of Jesse Livermore, along with a number of other stock market operators, and have found many of those strategies to be as valid today as they were decades ago." In that commentary Saut included Livermore's 21 trading rules, written in 1940.  More than 70 years later, these are rules every trader needs to keep in mind: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hyungwon KangU.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson looks over his entourage after announcing that the Treasury Department will take equity stakes in potentially thousands of banks totaling about $250 billion at the Treasury Department Cash Room in Washington, October 14, 2008.Six years ago, the financial crisis crippled the American banking industry, and the devastating effects ripple across the world. Businesses went down, and people lost their jobs. But the memory of the key events of the financial crisis is slowly fading. Hearings, lawsuits, bailouts — it all gets muddled together. Business Insider has outlined the major moments from 2007 to 2009.   From the initial reports of subprime defaults to the collapse of Lehman Brothers to AIG's second bailout, here are the 27 scariest moments of the financial crisis. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider reporter Steven Perlberg contributed to this feature. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStanford University claims the No. 1 spot on our list.Oh, how the mighty have fallen. After a four-year reign atop our annual list of the Best Colleges in America, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) slipped to second place. For the first time in years, Stanford University took the top spot on our list. In fact, schools with strong tech and engineering programs reigned over our list, with Caltech rounding out the top 3 schools. For our sixth annual ranking of the Best Colleges In America, we surveyed over 1,500 people who said they had hiring experience in a variety of fields, from finance to tech. Respondents rated top colleges across the country based on how well they prepare students for success. Click here to go to a one-page list of the top 25 colleges » Read the full methodology for this list »   FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama / Getty ImagesStudents walk on the Columbia University campus.At 11 o’clock on a Tuesday night, Amanda, a senior at Princeton University, got her first text message from Stephen, a 60-something Wall Street banker. He wanted her at his New York City apartment. Immediately. “I told him it was too late—the trains just stopped running,” Amanda said. “He said he’d send a limo.” Amanda agreed, on the condition that she’d be back on campus for her 10 o’clock class the next morning. After dinner at a fancy restaurant, sex, and some post-sex apartment decorating, Amanda was back in the limo. When she got back to Princeton, she had just enough time to change her clothes, grab her books, and run to class. Stephen is just one of the many men Amanda has met on Seeking Arrangement, a website that connects “sugar babies”—young, pretty women—with “sugar daddies”—usually rich, older men. Seeking ArrangementScreen shot of Seeking Arrangement websiteOn Seeking Arrangement, the most important part of the profile is the number at the top of the page: net worth. Men with annual incomes of over $5 or $10 million get the most attention. The site advertises “mutually beneficial relationships,” in which young women shower men with attention in exchange for “the finer things in life”—fancy dinners, extravagant vacations, or monthly allowances. What the site doesn’t talk about is sex. But sex, I was told by multiple sugar babies, is what everybody’s thinking about. “’Sugar babies are escorts,” said Tammy Castle, a professor at James Madison University whose research includes analyzing the content of escort websites. “[The administrators of the Seeking Arrangement] are trying to avoid the negative stigma of prostitution by advertising this as just another dating website, but money is exchanged for arrangements that may include sex.” In 2013, Seeking Arrangement announced that approximately 44 percent of its 2.3 million “babies” are in college. This is a trend that the website encourages—if babies register with a .edu email account, they receive a free premium membership(something the guys have to shell out as much as $1,200 for). Seeking Arrangement creates the illusion that the sexual element of these relationships isn’t forced, but organic. No one associated with the website wants to admit that what it’s doing is facilitating sex-for-money exchanges. The large number of college women on the site helps preserve this illusion, for both the daddies and the babies. “Dating a college woman fulfills these guys’ wildest dreams. They want someone highly educated who is eager to learn,” said Parinda Wanitwat, director of the documentary Daddies Date Babies, which profiles several college sugar babies living in New York City. In almost every message Amanda receives on Seeking Arrangement, sugar daddies comment on how intelligent she sounds in her profile. Amanda has met more than 50 men through the site. All of them are well-educated, the majority are business executives. When she first signed up for Seeking Arrangement, Sarah, another sugar baby who recently graduated from college, was surprised by how many men sent her messages. Sarah has a curvy figure and is originally from Southeast Asia.  She expected the men to be interested in girls who were skinny, blonde, and white—“sorority Barbies.” “That’s just not me,” she said. Seeking ArrangementScreen shot of Seeking Arrangement website And yet, Sarah got a lot of attention on Seeking Arrangement. So did Sophie, a 27-year-old graduate student in New York City. She describes herself as an intellectual with pretentious glasses and curly brown hair. “I look like what I am, and the men like that,” Sophie said. “They want someone who doesn’t look like a bimbo.” On Seeking Arrangement, intellect is important—maybe even more important than looks. If the sugar baby can understand what the “daddy” does at work and engage in topics he finds interesting, he is more likely to feel he’s in a real relationship. “The guys eventually want to feel like, ‘That girl likes me for me,’” Amanda said. While some men on the site use it exclusively for sex, the majority want sex and something else. They want someone to come along on business trips, go to company events, and meet their friends—someone who understands and appears interested in what they have to say. Most importantly, they want someone who will help them pretend that the relationship is not a transaction. Only one sugar baby I interviewed said she discussed her fee upfront, on the first date. The rest said they preferred to let the issue of compensation “come up naturally.” The women I talked to found that avoiding a conversation about money actually led to more of it. When she first signed up on the site, Rebecca, a sophomore at NYU, asked potential sugar daddies about money right away—sometimes even before the first date. After a few months of making far less than her friends on the site, she decided to stop asking. She started waiting for the daddy to bring up the money issue and was immediately more successful. Like Rebecca, Amanda never directly asks for money. Instead, she waits until the sugar daddy is comfortable enough to give her a credit card in his name. “I get to a point in these relationships when the guy starts to naturally want to pay for things for me. They prefer giving me a credit card because it feels more informal. There is no direct exchange of money,” Amanda said. In this way, it’s easier for the men—and, to a certain extent, the women—to pretend the transaction never actually happened. “I found that some, if not most, of the guys don’t want to talk about money. I suspect that’s because it kills the fantasy,” said Wanitwat. “They’re trying to pretend that these smart, beautiful women actually want to hang out with them.” Flickr / danisabellaThe illusion works the other way, as well. When a friend of mine started to think about joining Seeking Arrangement in our senior year, she told me the site was extremely popular among college students. She said tons of girls at Columbia and NYU had profiles to help pay tuition bills. This made the website seem safer, and less like prostitution. If half the women on the site really were college students—and the guys had a particular interest in meeting college students—maybe the work wasn’t just purely physical. Maybe it really was about the conversation and companionship, not just the sex. When we consider what it means to be a high-end prostitute, we generally think about Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman—a desperate young person willing to trade some of her dignity for the chance to avoid working on curbs at two in the morning. A college education seems fundamentally at odds with that image. By actively seeking out college students, and publicizing the high numbers already in its ranks, Seeking Arrangement makes it easier for smart, young women with bright futures to rationalize the decision to join Seeking Arrangement: If so many college women are signing up for the site, it must be something different. It must be more socially acceptable somehow. It can’t really be prostitution. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFor baseball fans, it is hard to beat this time of year. The pennant race is hot and the excitement of the playoffs will soon be upon us. For investors, the time between now and the Fall Classic could be equally action-packed. There is the battle between doves and hawks at the Federal Open Market Committee, and what I believe will be a near-term period of volatility before we cross into seasonal strength that generally coincides with, you guessed it, the start of the World Series. On Wednesday, dovish Fed policymakers opted not to grant concessions to the hawks or indicate a willingness to modestly increase rates sooner than the market had previously anticipated. That decision was reflected in the FOMC's statement that rates would stay near zero for a “considerable time” after quantitative easing ends, and came after weaker-than-expected inflation data and the central bank lowering its GDP forecast for 2015. In her post FOMC press conference, Fed Chair Janet Yellen went to great pains to express the committee’s concern for the plight of the unemployed, for whom she displayed great empathy. On more than one occasion, Dr. Yellen commented that, based on the Fed’s own projection for unemployment by the end of 2015, the U.S. economy would still not have reached full employment by that time. Comments such as these soothed the market despite the fact that the Fed’s own projection for interest rates – signaled in the so-called “dots” – forecast the federal funds rate at 1.375 percent by the end of 2015, 25 basis points higher than its June forecast of 1.125 percent. Reconciling these seemingly conflicting messages is the challenge for market participants in the coming year. The debate between the hawks and the doves has not yet reached its conclusion, and still, the U.S. economic recovery seems to be gaining momentum. Economic data, after a lull in July, has shown solid gains and we expect third-quarter U.S. GDP to be about 3.2 percent. Both small-business optimism and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence survey are climbing toward post-recession peaks. The net monthly change in U.S. credit has finally stabilized. Now, credit card debt is no longer shrinking, but instead is consistently expanding, along with loans for big-ticket items such as automobiles and appliances. The bottom line is things are looking pretty good, but while financial markets are in encouraging shape longer term, now is often the worst time of year for markets. Indeed, October is remembered for the stock market crashes of 1929 and 1987, and the 2008 financial meltdown. The buy signal for the S&amp;P 500 traditionally coincides with the first game of the World Series, so we may have to wait to relax, at least until October 21, when the Fall Classic is scheduled to begin. Until then, investors will likely go through some periods of higher volatility. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTea stand, Grand Bazaar, IstanbulWhile we watch the war unfolding against the Islamic State (IS) in Syria and Iraq, it is critical to keep an eye on neighboring Turkey. There is a lot at stake; Turkey holds a key position. The news reports today are replete with commentary about Turkey as it takes a very soft role in fighting IS. Turkey was worried about 49 Turkish diplomats and their families. They were hostages of IS. Their rescue or release or escape is being reported this morning.  There are also accounts of 31 Turkish truck drivers taken hostage by IS. Their whereabouts are still unknown.  Reports of the Turkish hostage takings started this month. Turkey’s government is trying to walk a fine line between (1) not alienating IS to the point where Turks have to witness the beheading of a Turkish citizen on the one hand and (2) maintaining some forms of security internally and with its NATO alliance on the other. Meanwhile Turkey has a high-risk, porous border with Syria and Iraq. In other words, Turkish leaders are trying to walk a line between two difficult masters. Turkish internal politics and demographics make this a very risky venture. It is important to note that Turkey is a NATO member with a strong military. It has the largest Air Force among the NATO countries with the exception of the United States. That air force has not been reported to be engaged in airstrikes.  Perhaps the IS holding of hostages restrained the Turkish government.  We have no way to know about these internal Turkish decisions.  Turkey is looking to upgrade its Air Force from F-16 fighters to newer versions. Further, according to Capital Alpha briefing report, a “senior commander of the Turkish Air Force” has confirmed in a presentation that Turkey “is developing its own precision-guided weapons as well as satellites.” Meanwhile, Turkey’s largest export customer is Germany, a country that is dealing with its own energy supply problems caused by the Russia-Ukraine tensions. Turkey’s second largest export market is Iraq. That country is in a downward spiral. Turkey’s credit ratings are falling. Fitch has taken Turkey to a BBB-, which is the lowest level of investment grade. Other rating models point to downgrades. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has threatened to cut ties with the rating agencies. The president may not like what the rating agencies say, but Turkey has a current account deficit of over 6% of GDP and growing. The country’s debts are rising, and its foreign exchange reserves are under pressure. Its currency is falling against the US dollar. The complexity of its situation is exacerbated by reports of internal IS recruitment. There are reports that discuss IS offices in Turkish cities. There has been a German report that IS has made Turkey an official recruiting location. That report also notes that prospective IS fighters from poorer neighborhoods in Turkey can find their way to an office in Istanbul. There are other reports of “Jihadist gift shops” and IS branded T-shirts. Newsweek reporters Alev Scott and Alexander Christie-Miller have described IS recruitments of young men from Sunni Muslim districts “plagued by poverty and drug addiction.” Some Turkish officials have estimated that more than 1,000 Turkish citizens are fighting for IS. At Cumberland Advisors, we do not own any Turkish investment exposure with the exception of a broad-based exchange-traded fund (ETF) that has a very small Turkish component (0.7%) as part of the full index. We avoid risks associated with this deteriorating situation on the Turkish border with Syria and Iraq. We think risks are rising in the neighborhood. American policy against IS has only limited chances of success if Turkey is passive. Our investment position is to manage risks where we can assess them. The risk in this region is impossible to measure. It is driven by news flow that rapidly impacts risk premia. In some cases, one can identify risks such as oil flows through Turkey, Turkish debts and stocks, or other types of risks such as the Mosul Dam. In other cases, there are secondary effects that are difficult to measure. In any event, we avoid Turkey. And to counter risk, we have a cash reserve in most of our separately managed ETF accounts. We follow reports as closely as we can. Turkey belongs on everyone’s radar. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoDale Carnegie reads aloud from his book "How to Win Friends and Influence People." Some of the most influential business books are available for next to nothing (or even nothing) in the Amazon Kindle store. For less than $5, you can gather timeless wisdom from classics like Dale Carnegie's "How to Win Friends and Influence People," build your economic background with world-changing texts like John Maynard Keynes' "The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money," and get insight from ancient texts like Marcus Aurelius's "Meditations." A few modern classics, like Susan Cain's "Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking" are also available. If you've got a Kindle and a few bucks to spare, it's time to get reading. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAkihabara electronics district in JapanIn 2014, the strongest equity returns in Asia have come from the south. Benchmark indices in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand are all up 20 percent or more year-to-date, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 index is down 2.5 percent, and the MSCI Korea index is down 0.4 percent. Stocks in China and Taiwan are up 9 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively, but much of that gain came in a single late-summer rally. Should one stick with the winners? Bob Parker, a Senior Adviser at Credit Suisse, doesn’t think so. In fact, says Parker, Asian markets are in the early stages of a great investment migration from south to north. China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan are under-owned relative to countries such as India and Thailand, where global emerging market funds are overweight 111 and 71 percent, respectively, compared to the MSCI Emerging Market index. (In other words, global funds own 2.11x as much India as is in the index.) Funds are underweight 4 percent in China, 29 percent in Korea, and 40 percent in Taiwan – even after foreign investors poured $13 billion into Korean equities and $18 billion into Taiwan since May. By comparison, investors put just $166 million and $441 million in Indonesia and the Philippines, respectively, while they pulled some $7 billion out of Thailand and $3.5 billion out of Malaysia. India is a major exception to the south-to-north trend. Foreign investors excited about the election of reform-oriented Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent more money to Indian equity markets than any other Asian market, some $20 billion, since the spring. Call it a portfolio rebalancing. The most obvious reason: Stocks in Southern Asia have gotten pretty expensive of late, making North Asia look quite cheap by comparison. As of Sept. 4, China and Korea were the cheapest markets in Asia, with stocks trading at 9.3x and 9.9x forward earnings, respectively. Japan and Taiwan were more expensive, with both trading at 13.5x, and Singapore at 13.7x, but both were still cheaper than their southern counterparts. The Philippines was the most expensive Asian market at 18.6x forward earnings, followed by India (16.1x), Malaysia (15.3x), and Indonesia (14.7x). Thailand is the only Southeast Asian market that looks relatively cheap at 12.8x forward earnings. Cheaper and less crowded is certainly attractive, but it isn’t the full story. Many Japanese companies, for example, are particularly well poised to benefit from an expected acceleration in the growth of global industrial production in the remaining months of this year. That’s because as a whole, Japan has higher operating leverage (that is, a greater ratio of fixed costs to variable) than any other country in the world, meaning its performance is more susceptible to fluctuations in sales. And cyclical stocks make up more than half of Japan’s total market capitalization, offering investors plenty from which to choose. Credit Suisse also believes the Bank of Japan will announce additional quantitative easing before year-end, making Japanese equities attractive relative to those in the U.S. and U.K., where policy is expected to tighten. Though the Chinese economy has had a bumpy ride this year, neither the housing collapse nor the debt crisis that investors feared earlier in the year has materialized. In a report entitled “A Micro Story,” Credit Suisse Head of China Research Vincent Chan says Chinese companies have protected profits during the slowdown by slashing selling, general and administrative expenses as well as capital expenditures. That’s an important change, Chan notes, as Chinese companies used to spend freely no matter what the economic conditions, confident in the country’s long-term growth outlook and willing to sacrifice short-term profits in order to keep expanding. Chinese managers’ newfound discipline has resulted in stronger profit growth than sales growth since the first quarter of 2013, and Chan expects earnings results to continue improving over the next few quarters. This summer, Chinese shares bumped higher afterthe announcement of an impending rule change allowing foreigners to buy Shanghai-listed stocks through Hong Kong starting in October. Finally, Credit Suisse believes companies in Korea, where exports make up 47 percent of GDP, should fare very well in the event global industrial production does boom. In August, Korea’s Purchasing Managers Index reading rose to 50.3, and anything above 50 indicates expansion. Given the benign inflation environment, Credit Suisse expects the Korean central bank to remain dovish well into 2015, which should also support Korean equities. Attractive valuations, under-owned markets, and improving fundamentals – the northward trek has only just begun. FREE AppDownload
8% fewer homes will transact than normal in 2014, purely due to student debt. This week, our clients received a 30-page paper that assesses the impact of student loans on home buying for households under the age of 40. Our conclusion is that 414,000 transactions will be lost in 2014 due to student debt. At a typical price of $200,000, that is $83 billion per year in lost volume. The analysis was quite complicated and involved a few assumptions, but we believe it is conservative, primarily because we looked only at those under the age of 40 with student debt. At a high level, the math is as follows: While we applaud the increasing education, we need to realize that it comes with a cost known as student debt. We raised the red flag on student debt back in 2011 and continue to believe that this debt will delay homeownership for many, or at least require that they buy a less expensive home. John Burns Real Estate Consulting FREE AppDownload
QQ.com by TencentAlibaba's headquarters looked like the NYSE for its huge IPO party.September 19, 2014 will go down in history as a great day for the market, trading, and getting rich. That night Alibaba Group employees and Tencent Tech got together at Alibaba's headquarters, “Taobao City," for a once-in-a-lifetime sleepless night. On the other side of the world, at the New York Stock Exchange, Alibaba's shares opened trading 36.3% above IPO pricing. That opening price meant Alibaba's market cap was $228.2 billion, more than Facebook, IBM, Oracle, and Amazon; just behind tech and Internet giants Apple, Google, and Microsoft. The IPO turned Alibaba Executive Chairman, Jack Ma, into a Chinese yuan trillionaire, with a net worth of over $20 billion. Many of the other employees at the party held stock in the company, and also came out winners. Ma was joined at the stock exchange by kung fu star, Jet Lee, as well as Youku Tudou chairman, Victor Koo, Evergrande Real Estate Group chairman, Xu Jiayin, founder and president of Giant Interactive, Shi Yuzhu, and president and CEO of Sina, Charles Chao. After ringing the bell, Ma sent a text to all Alibaba employees saying, “The IPO is going to be a winner.” QQ.com by TencentAlibaba employees celebrated the IPO in Hangzhou.The light rain falling on Hangzhou from five o'clock on through the night didn't seem to spoil the mood of Alibaba employees one bit. Their excitement seemed to rise just as their company's stock price did on the other side of the ocean. Of course the reason for that was all the fortunes being made. Sources indicate that Alibaba Group offers stock options to any employee who has been with the company for three years or more. That includes over half of their 20,000 employees. The value of shares held by employees who exercised stock options is estimated to exceed $46 billion. Over a thousand are expected to become millionaires.  Before the official opening, Ma was joined by vice chairman, Joseph Tsai, and CEO Jonathan Lu at the New York Stock Exchange where he gave a speech via video-link to Alibaba employees in Hangzhou, and hundreds of Chinese media outlets eager to witness every minute of the IPO. Outside of the hall in Taobao City where employees had gathered to hear the speech, a replica of the outside of the New York Stock Exchange had been built for employees to take photos with. A giant statue of a golden bull stood in front of it perfectly expressing the bullish mood of the market that day. A Marriage Proposal at Alibaba Headquarters Taobao City was still packed at midnight. One Alibaba employee chose that day to propose marriage, another celebrated a birthday. All around people were singing, dancing, and watching the fireworks. This writers' friends' Weibo (Chinese microblogging platform similar to Twitter) feeds were full of excited posts about the IPO made by giddy Alibaba employees. QQ.com by TencentA man proposed in the middle of all the action.It was around 11:50 at night in China when Alibaba's stock started trading and the price of stocks immediately shot up. It may have been a mad rush in New York but in Taobao City the mood was euphoric. Employees kept reporting the stock price over the PA system. The ringing of the bell was met with cheers and applause. Everyone seemed to be recording the moment on their phones. Of course there are two sides to every coin, and at this IPO banquet alongside the people rejoicing were some who were worried. One employee who had been with the company a little over six months told Tencent Tech that as someone new to the company, none of the wealth being celebrated at the party would affect him very much. However, with a few people in the company becoming so much richer, housing prices and other living costs in the surrounding area were bound to rise. That would raise his expenses and put additional pressure on him. Another employee, who had been playing the stock market, looked even more dejected. The week before, she had bought China concepts stocks (China concepts stock refers to the stock of a company whose assets or earnings have significant activities in China.) hoping that Alibaba's IPO would stimulate the market and raise the value of her investment. On the contrary, she ended up losing a lot of money on the day of Alibaba's IPO, when China concepts stocks fell nearly across the board. It is also worth noting what former CEO of Alibaba's B2B company, David Wei, had to say on Weibo. “A string of new records are about to be set. This is as exciting as having a new baby. It's a page in the history of China and the Internet, and I consider myself fortunate to have been a part of two thirds of the 15 years that lead up to this. I have no regrets in this life! Seeing Joseph Tsai looking dapper in those photos tonight really made me want to go out in my best suit again.”  David Wei was just the most famous of the many former Alibaba members of staff to share their feelings online. One senior manager at Alibaba said “Going public is a necessary step that a company must take. It's not the final victory. Everything still needs to be handled calmly. After the IPO, senior managers and employees usually have to wait for the end of the IPO lock-up period, which could last months or even years, before they are allowed to sell their shares. You don't really see any of that wealth until after stock-splitting and taxes.” QQ.com by TencentThere were even fireworks at the party. QQ.com by TencentWhile in New York, Jack Ma texted all Alibaba employees: "The IPO is going to be a winner." QQ.com by TencentThe history of Alibaba, including drawings of its different headquarters from the past. QQ.com by Tencentparty goers watched a live feed of the IPO at the NYSE. QQ.com by Tencent This article was originally published by QQ.com. Translated by Tyler Olson. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFederal Reserve Chair Janet YellenThe Federal Reserve could surprise a lot of folks and raise interest rates as soon as next March, which would be much sooner than the second-half 2015 initial hike many economists are expecting. Analysts at Capital Economics wrote Thursday that a pick up in US economic activity will prompt the Fed to tighten monetary policy sooner than the market is ready for.  According to traders polled by Reuters, there's a roughly 74% chance that the Fed will first hike rates in July 2015. Here's Capital Economics: The recent strength evident in much of the incoming survey and activity data suggests that we were right to believe GDP growth would accelerate once credit conditions eased and the fiscal drag faded. We expect the economy to expand at an annualised pace of 3% over the next 18 months, prompting the Fed to begin raising its policy rate from near-zero next March.  One key argument in support of low rates has been what Fed chair Janet Yellen had called labor market slack. On Wednesday, Yellen said that the labor market still hadn't recovered and continues to make "gradual process." But here's Capital Economics' view: We think that the disappointing 142,000 rise in payroll employment in August is a temporary blip rather than the start of a sustained slowdown. Our forecast that GDP will grow at annualised rates of around 3% over the next couple of years is consistent with payrolls rising by close to 200,000 a month. Yellen said that inflation has increased since the beginning of this year, and the FOMC sees a decreased likelihood that inflation will continue to run below 2%, the Fed's stated inflation goal. Capital Economics says inflation will rise much faster than the Fed anticipates. We believe that the biggest surprise of next year will be a faster acceleration in core inflation than either the Federal Reserve or the financial markets are expecting. inflation will also be boosted by the continuing structural rebound in medical care inflation from last year’s 40-year low. The downward influences from the Affordable Care Act and the so-called drugs patent cliff are fading fast and we expect medical care inflation to rise from 2.0% in August to 3.5% by the end of next year. We do not expect inflation to take off. Instead, we just believe that a rise in both the main measures of core inflation above 2.0% early next year, and subsequently towards 2.5%, will catch the Federal Reserve off guard. The analysts cited other factors that will compel the Fed to raise rates sooner than expected, including a little-changed budget deficit, and growth in business investment and consumption. Fed watchers obsessed over the phrase "considerable time" ahead of the FOMC statement on Wednesday. The statement kept the phrase, with Janet Yellen providing no clues on the exact timing of rate hikes. Stocks tumbled when she said in March that the phrase meant as soon as six months. March 2015 is roughly six months from now. FREE AppDownload
The US Census Bureau just released information on same-sex couples as part of its release of the 2013 American Community Survey data. Here are some of the highlights from the release. Same-sex couples are a bit more educated than straight couples. While both married and unmarried gay and lesbian couples are about equally likely to have both partners holding at least a bachelor's degree, unmarried heterosexual couples are half as likely for this to be the case as married straight couples: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Along with being more likely to have higher educational attainment, same sex couples tend to have higher incomes than straight couples. Gay male couples, both married and unmarried, have very high average annual incomes, while lesbian couples, married or unmarried, make about the same as married straight couples. Unmarried straight couples had the lowest average income: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Married couples of all orientations are more likely than unmarried couples to own their own houses. Unmarried same-sex couples are more likely than unmarried straight couples to be homeowners: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Both partners are more likely to be employed in unmarried couples of all three orientations than in married couples: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Both married and unmarried heterosexual couples are more likely to have children than gay and lesbian couples: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Interracial marriages are more common among same-sex couples than among heterosexual couples: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey Same sex couples are, on average, a little older than heterosexual couples. Unsurprisingly, married couples tend to be older than unmarried couples: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2013 American Community Survey  For more data, check out the Census Bureau's site here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAlibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma (2nd L) poses as he arrives at the New York Stock Exchange for his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York September 19, 2014.For New York Stock Exchange, the listing of Alibaba, a giant Chinese e-commerce website, seems like a triumph. As The Economist went to press, the firm was pricing the offering; its shares were due to begin trading on September 19th. Amid all the excitement about whether the IPO would prove the world's biggest, another of its striking features has been largely forgotten: shareholders will have little control over how the firm is run. Alibaba only listed in New York because Hong Kong Stock Exchange, a more natural home, insists that shareholders have a say over management in keeping with their stake. The firm's owners, who balked at this notion, took their business to a more pliable venue. Technically, every Alibaba share has equal rights, but they are circumscribed ones. A pre-defined cabal of 30 managers of Alibaba or related companies, including the firm's chairman, Jack Ma, will control nominations to a majority of seats on the board. According to Alibaba's prospectus, this group "may make decisions with which you [the shareholder] disagree, including decisions on important topics such as compensation, management succession, acquisition strategy, and our business and financial strategy". Alibaba says this structure is needed to preserve the firm's culture. It is not that different from many tech firms, both Chinese and American, that have two or more categories of shares, some of which confer more say in the running of the company than others. Advocates of such skewed set-ups argue that they allow the founders of fast-growing firms to raise the necessary capital to pursue their long-term ambitions without having to deal with short-term mood swings among investors. By the same token, media companies with similar rules claim that allowing a small group of shareholders to maintain control preserves editorial integrity. "Dual-class" structures were common in America in the 1920s but were largely stamped out in a populist campaign led by William Ripley, a Harvard professor who labelled the practice a "crowning infamy" to "disenfranchise public investors", according to a paper by Stephen Bainbridge of the University of California Los Angeles. There were exceptions--notably the listing of Ford in 1956 on NYSE and of media firms on the American Stock Exchange, a second-tier market--but Ripley's philosophy was largely intact until the 1980s when the rise of corporate raiders brought less democratic regimes back into fashion. REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAlibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma arrives at the New York Stock Exchange for his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York September 19, 2014. The Securities and Exchange Commission, the main market regulator, responded with a ban in 1988 but a court ruled that the agency had exceeded its authority. In a comprise, the SEC gave companies substantial discretion to choose their structure at the time of an offering, but not thereafter, on the grounds that this would allow investors to understand what they were buying and invest accordingly. Tech firms, led by Google, embraced the idea; few now list without some arrangement that guarantees the founders' continued sway. As a consequence, America accounts for the lion's share of public companies that give disproportionate rights to certain shareholders, with 55% of the 524 such companies in the global database of MSCI, a financial-data firm. Canada is a distant second with 40, although many firms in Europe resort to other measures that distort ownership rights. Britain used to have many such listed firms, but largely abandoned the practice under pressure from big investors. The Financial Conduct Authority, Britain's market regulator, recently issued a formal ban on skewed voting structures for firms listed on the London Stock Exchange's main market. AP ImagesJack Ma at the NYSE.Several jurisdictions seem to be moving in the other direction. The European Union considered imposing a one-share, one-vote rule on all members in 2007, but abandoned the idea as the financial crisis set in. Earlier this year France adopted the "Loi Florange", designed to block unwanted foreign takeovers. It doubles the voting rights of shares held by the same owner for more than two years at all listed French firms unless by-laws are amended to say otherwise. Almost two-thirds of the CAC-40, France's largest quoted companies, already offered multiple voting rights to loyal shareholders, says Jean-Nicolas Caprasse of Institutional Shareholder Services, an advisory firm. France also allows a form of listed limited partnership in which it is very hard to dislodge the boss, points out Hubert Segain of Herbert Smith Freehills, a law firm. Hermes, a fashion house, is one and Lagardere, a media group, another. Last month Hong Kong's bourse published a "concept paper" on corporate structures that would give control to select shareholders. The public has three months to comment. While the exchange itself has said it is undecided either way, Charles Li, its head, has given every indication that he would like to see the rules relaxed. "Losing one or two listing candidates is not a big deal for Hong Kong, but losing a generation of companies from China's new economy is," he wrote last year. Singapore also bans dual-class shares but, partly as a result, has struggled to attract tech start-ups. It also lost out in 2012 on the listing of Manchester United, a football team, due to the desire of the controlling family to cash in without forfeiting control. The finance ministry has proposed changing the rules to allow dual-class listings; investors and lawyers believe it is only a matter of time. Despite the temptations of blockbuster tech listings, investors dislike the idea of diminished control. The Asian Corporate Governance Association surveyed its members, including big international asset managers, pension funds and universities, about the possible introduction of dual-class structures in Hong Kong. On average, they said it would lower their valuations of firms listed there by 13%. "It would be a disaster," says Mark Mobius of Franklin Templeton Investments, a fund manager. There are good grounds for such misgivings. In addition to the risks that potentially lucrative takeovers may be prevented and poorly performing managers might prove impossible to dislodge, there is also the danger that those controlling a firm will make decisions that benefit them, at the expense of other shareholders. A study published in 2012 by the Investor Responsibility Research Centre Institute, a think-tank, concluded that American companies that diverge from the principle of one-share-one-vote suffer from lower returns, higher share-price volatility and various other ills including weak accounting controls and damaging transactions with related parties. Much other research corroborates these findings. It does not help that Alibaba does not own the websites that generate its revenues (it could not list in New York if it did, since Chinese law bars foreigners from owning local websites). Instead, the listed firm owns the rights to those revenues, under a type of contract that it believes to be valid but, its prospectus admits, is the subject of "substantial uncertainties" under Chinese law. If there is one lesson to be learned from the mix of bargains and dross on Alibaba's e-commerce sites, it is "buyer beware". Its shares and those of similarly structured companies may reinforce that idea. Click here to subscribe to The Economist   FREE AppDownload
Daron Dean/ReutersSailor George Collins and more than 150 members of the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department, the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, the Air and Army National Guard, the Coast Guard, the Marines and the Navy unfurl an American Flag as two F-15 Eagles from the 125th Fighter Wing of the Florida Air National Guard, based in Jacksonville, flyover EverBank Field before the start of the Tennessee Titans at Jacksonville Jaguars NFL game in Jacksonville, Florida September 11, 2011.Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has asked for a review of the connections between the military and the National Football League following the scandals over the arrests of players for domestic and child abuse, the Pentagon said Friday. "The secretary wants to get a sense of the scope of the interaction" between the Defense Department and the NFL, said Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary. Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesRay RiceA spotlight has been placed on NFL players' off-field behavior since a video was released of former Baltimore Raves running back Ray Rice punching his wife in an elevator. A few days later Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson was arrested for child abuse charges after he admitted to striking his 4-year-old child with a tree branch. Thursday, an Arizona Cardinals running back was arrested for head butting his wife and throwing a shoe at his 18-month-old son. Kirby stressed that Hagel had not asked for a formal investigation on the connections with a possible view to severing ties with the NFL. However, he said "we have high expectations of the organizations with whom we partner." NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell is scheduled to hold a press conference to discuss the NFL's stance on domestic and child abuse at 3 p.m. on Friday. For years, the U.S. military has worked closely with the NFL in providing fly-bys and personnel for patriotic themes at games in which the NFL has featured its relationship with the military. "Supporting the military is part of the fabric of the NFL," the NFL said on its website. "This support takes place both at home and abroad, with NFL players and coaches traveling overseas to salute the troops, as well as with team recognition of our servicemen and women through the Salute to Service campaign." Kirby also noted that since 2012, the Defense Department and the NFL have collaborated on research into concussions and traumatic brain injury. At West Point in 2012, Army Gen. Ray Odierno, the Army's chief of staff, joined Goodell to hail the collaboration on concussions and TBI research. Odierno noted the similarities between NFL players and soldiers. "Mental and physical toughness, discipline, team over self and stressing the importance of resilience are fundamental to the cultures of both the NFL and the Army," Odierno said. "We have the Warrior Ethos, reinforced by the Soldier's Creed." "We are seeking to educate both players and soldiers about TBI, to empower them to seek treatment both on the battlefield and playing field," Odierno said. Earlier Friday, President Obama referred to the NFL domestic violence scandals in joining with the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) and other groups in the "It's On Us" promotional campaign against sexual assaults on campus. "The issue of violence against women is now in the news every day. We started to, I think, get a better picture of what domestic violence is all about," Obama said. "The fact is from sport leagues to pop culture to politics, our society does not sufficiently value women," Obama said. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/OracleLarry Ellison is stepping down as CEO of Oracle.  In honor of his long career, let's take a look back at his life.  Ellison is a true rags-to-riches story. After growing up in a poor neighborhood in Chicago, he decided to drop out of college and drive across the country to California, where he would found Oracle.  He now has a net worth of $51.3 billion and the fabulous lifestyle to go along with it. He's been called "the nation's most avid trophy-home buyer" and has all but taken over entire neighborhoods in Malibu and the Lake Tahoe area. He even purchased the entire Hawaiian island of Lanai for an estimated $300 million in 2012. He also has an amazing collection of supercars, planes, and yachts. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis BehrakisThe power plant of Kardia in seen through destroyed houses in the village of Charavgi in the valley of Ptolemais near the town of Kozani some 500 km north of Athens.Overall, property prices around the world continue to rise. However, some countries aren't doing so well.  Even the once-hot Chinese housing market has been seeing prices tumble for months. The Global Property Guide has compiled and analyzed the property price performance of the world's big economies. We've put together a list of the nine worst markets based on year-over-year, inflation-adjusted price performance as of Q2. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Germany's Rheinmetall AG is outside the company's headquarters in the western German city of DuesseldorfFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany's defense industry lobby has warned that companies were looking into shifting production abroad in response to the country's restrictive arms export policy. "All large defense contractors in Germany are assessing whether they can stay in the country in the long run," Armin Papperger, the chief executive of Rheinmetall and head the German defense industry association, was quoted as saying by newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung on Saturday. Earlier this year, Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel said he would tighten rules on arms exports, curbing sales to states such as Qatar and Saudi Arabia, whose purchases had previously helped make Germany the world's third largest arms exporter. In August, Germany permanently halted Rheinmetall's planned export of combat simulation equipment to Russia, going beyond newly-imposed European Union sanctions which block future defense contracts. Papperger told Sueddeutsche new restrictions left arms manufacturers with the choice of cutting output and jobs or moving production abroad. "Other countries such as Switzerland, France and the United States would be happy for us to invest there. There, we could export more easily," he was quoted as saying. The defense industry, which employs some 80,000 people in Germany, has strongly criticized the stricter rules. The chief executive of aerospace and defense group Airbus earlier this month said Germany's restrictive arms export policy could deter international cooperation on future defense projects.  (Reporting by Ludwig Burger; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPassengers wait at check-in counters during Air France one-week strike at Marseille airportPARIS (Reuters) - Air France pilots have voted to extend their week-long strike over cost cuts and plans for its Transavia unit by a further four days until Sept. 26, the head of the SNPL union said on Saturday. More than four-fifths of the 74 percent of pilots who took part in the ballot agreed to pursue the industrial action beyond Monday, according to Jean-Louis Barber, head of the Air France section of the SNPL. "It could continue subsequently, given the very strong mandate," Barber added. Air France said on Friday it expected to operate 45 percent of its flights on Saturday, based on an estimated 60 percent of pilots walking out. It has said the strike is costing it 10 million to 15 million euros ($13-$19 million) per day.  (Reporting by Gregory Blachier; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPhoto illustration of one hundred dollar notes in Seoul NEW YORK (Reuters) - The asset with the greatest prowess of late has been the U.S. dollar, and if its rally continues, it threatens to eat into the earnings of multinational companies. The greenback's recent gains have lifted the dollar index &lt;.DXY&gt; - a measure of the dollar's value relative to six currencies - for 10 consecutive weeks. That marks the dollar’s longest rally since the index was created in 1973 - and could pose significant headwinds to dollar-sensitive sectors of the market, particularly companies that respond to commodity prices affected by the greenback, and multinationals that do much of their business overseas. “For the past few years, the U.S. dollar has been trading in a relatively quiet trading range. This summer, something changed. We are now seeing a new uptrend develop,” said Adam Sarhan, founder and CEO of Sarhan Capital in New York. Analysts have already pointed fingers at the dollar for the decline in prices of commodities like precious metals, corn and oil in recent weeks. U.S. multinationals with large streams of revenue from overseas also stand to lose. “If you’re a consumer products company that does a lot of business overseas, it’s not going to help you. If you’re a large tech company and you do a lot of business overseas, that’s not going to help you,” said Larry Glazer, managing partner at Mayflower Advisors in Boston. “If you look at Exxon, as well, they’re clearly very diversified but affected by the consequences of currencies.” Shares of Exxon Mobil &lt;xom.n&gt; have lost 5 percent over the last 10 weeks even as the broader market hit repeated new highs. About 36 percent of Exxon's revenue comes from the United States, the rest from overseas. Yet dollar-driven losses in some parts of the market may be offset by gains in others, especially retail. Lower oil prices favor the consumer, who can pocket the savings or spend the cash in stores. “The stronger dollar benefits U.S. consumers because they are the lion’s share of the economy, and any time you get a tailwind for consumers, it’s good for the U.S. economy, at least in the short run,” Glazer said. Much of the calculus of whether the dollar’s rise will become a net negative for U.S. stocks depends on domestic inflation rates, as well as the speed and scale of the currency’s gains, market watchers said. "The euro zone is fragile ... the British pound is also weak, and geopolitical or economic woes remain a threat. As long as it is a healthy and normal advance, they should be able to adjust and prepare for it," Sarhan said. "But if the move is very large, fast or erratic, those consequences [could] be immeasurable."   (Reporting By Akane Otani; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
