NEW YORK (Reuters) - The recent wobbly stretch in both stocks and bonds may persist for the short term if the U.S. Federal Reserve next week lives up to expectations and signals the days of near-zero interest rates are numbered, but it is unlikely to tip valuation scales in favor of bonds any time soon. Anxiety over the two-day Fed policy meeting, centered on expectations the central bank will likely drop its pledge to keep interest rates low for a "considerable time," was a primary driver behind stocks snapping a five-week winning streak this week and bonds absorbing their steepest losses in at least two months. Top economists at several firms say they see at least even odds the Fed will nix the phrase from its forward guidance, which some traders may interpret as meaning that rate hikes could come as early as next March. "If investors feel the Fed is becoming more hawkish, that's actually a negative for all asset classes with the exception of the dollar," said Chris Gaffney, senior market strategist at EverBank Wealth Management in St. Louis, Missouri. Still, few expect such a move would translate immediately into a long-term change in investors' bullish view of stocks, especially relative to bonds. To be sure, signs of sooner-than-expected interest rate hikes could chip away at investors' optimistic view of stocks, which scaled to new heights in no small part thanks to the Fed’s quantitative easing program and decision to hold interest rates near zero percent for nearly six years now. But with bond yields still extraordinarily low by historic standards, and unlikely to rise drastically, many investors see equities as one of their few prospects for long-term growth. Market watchers say it is unlikely the prospect of interest rate hikes will significantly dampen investors’ taste for stocks or prompt a large-scale reallocation of funds into bonds. Mario Tama/Getty Images “There's no doubt that there will be some volatility in the short term, but at some point equilibrium will come into the market,” said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial inNewark, New Jersey. While measures such as the forward price-to-earnings ratio on the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; suggest stocks are their priciest in nearly a decade, other measures of relative valuation to bonds remain skewed in favor of equities. The S&amp;P's so-called earnings yield, the inverse of the price/earnings ratio and a common yard stick for comparing equity valuations against bonds, is roughly 6.3 percent. That is 3.7 percentage points higher than the 10-year Treasury yield, currently 2.6 percent, whereas the long-term spread between the two is about 1.5 percentage points. When measured against corporate junk bonds, the bond market's biggest competitor to stocks for asset flow, valuation math is tilted even more heavily in favor of equities. The average yield to maturity on junk bonds is just 6.3 percent, according to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch fixed income index data, but the long-term average junk yield is 9.4 percent. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque Moreover, U.S. corporate earnings are projected to resume double-digit growth in coming quarters, according to Thomson Reuters data, which would keep a lid on P/E multiple expansion, perhaps even compress it if profit growth outpaces stock price increases. That suggests stocks remain the better bet for returns, at least until interest rates rise significantly enough to return relative valuation measures between the two to historic norms. In the current market environment, "There’s not really a better alternative to stocks right now," says Gaffney.   (Reporting by Akane Otani; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - Hackers accessed dozens of servers at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co in a cyberattack launched in June, though no money was taken, the New York Times reported on Friday, citing people familiar with the investigation into the case. “We are confident we have closed any known access points and prevented any future access in the same way," the paper quoted JPMorgan spokeswoman Kristin Lemkau as saying. She added that the bank had “not seen any unusual fraud activity” since the intrusion was discovered and said there was no evidence that they have taken any proprietary software or had a blueprint of the bank’s network, according to the Times. JPMorgan disclosed late last month that it had been the victim of a cyberattack and was working with U.S. law enforcement authorities to determine its scope. The Times said the attack began in June, was detected in July and that the bank last week briefed financial regulators on the extent of the damage. The report said that hackers accessed information on about 1 million customer accounts. It cited one source as saying that hackers had not gained access to financial information or Social Security numbers, and may have only been able to review names, addresses and phone numbers. Bank spokeswoman Trish Wexler told Reuters she could not elaborate on Lemkau's statements to the paper or otherwise comment on the report.   (Reporting by Jim Finkle in Boston) FREE AppDownload
OppenheimerWe're back at all-time highs.  Despite a jobs report on Friday that disappointed, the S&amp;P 500 closed at a fresh all-time high of 2,007. In his investment strategy update for September, John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, sees a chance for stocks to run higher still. "In the near term we expect that investors could just as easily bid stocks somewhat higher as they seek a catalyst for some profit taking. So long as tensions in the Middle East, Ukraine, and elsewhere around the globe remain on the front burner, a certain unquantifiable degree of uncertainty is likely to remain an overhang to market performance," Stoltzfus writes. Overall, Stoltzfus still reiterates his call for the S&amp;P 500 to finish the year at 2,014, with volatility likely persisting, "as both the bond and stock markets practice price discovery in anticipation of adjustments that could lie ahead in Fed policy and interest rates as the world turns and the economic expansion moves forward." Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to run the presentation. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVBinky Chadha.Deutsche Bank Chief Global Strategist Binky Chadha joins peers Adam Parker at Morgan Stanley and Jonathan Golub at RBC Capital Markets who believe the 5-year-old bull market in stocks has a couple more years left in it. In a new 92-slide presentation, Chadha lays out his asset allocation recommendations, which include being overweight US equities thanks to dependable growth. Chadha included a chart of rolling 10-year returns, which we see every once in a while. "History suggests equities are poised for a period of strong performance after the 10 year return bounced in March 2009 from its Great Depression lows," Chadha wrote. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders wrote about this chart last October. "Investors don't spend a lot of time hanging around the mean line, but instead the market tends to trend in one direction for multi decades (well-overshooting the mean) before heading back down to well-undershoot the mean," Sonders said. "Being less than five years into the upcycle, history suggests we have more room to run." Sonders said that a year ago, which implies another four years are left before the upcycle turns. Chadha's report comes a week after a report from David Bianco, Deutsche Bank's Chief US Equity Strategist, who recently flipped bullish. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettFormer British Prime Minister Gordon Brown speaks at a party rally in Glasgow, Scotland September 12, 2014.The referendum on Scottish independence will take place on September 18, when Scotland will vote whether or not to end the 307-year-old union with the rest of the United Kingdom. The United States is just starting to think about the upcoming elections (for whatever reason, the vast majority of people don’t focus on politics until after Labor Day), but there is another election happening “over the pond,” where the polls have just made everybody do a double-take. I am of course referring to the referendum on Scottish independence, which will be held next week. Voters opposing the measure were a clear majority for months, but their numbers began slipping a few weeks ago; and as of last few days the contest is basically even, with the election probably to be decided by the undecided. A “yes” outcome would have significant ramifications not just for the United Kingdom but for all of Europe. Can a region of a country just decide it wants to be independent? You take a vote and that’s it? To everyone’s credit in the United Kingdom, they are being quite civilized about it. However, I imagine if Scotland votes to leave, the negotiations will be rather less cultured. There will be a big bill to be paid before everybody gets to leave the restaurant. Just who ran up what part of the tab over the last 300 years is an issue that has the potential to turn into a rowdy soccer – pardon me, football – match. In today’s Outside the Box we explore a few aspects of the potential break-up. And not just what it would mean for the United Kingdom (it would not be good) but for all of Europe. Note that Spanish bonds are beginning to fall as people wonder what it might mean for Scotland to be allowed to declare independence. There are a couple regions in Spain that would very much like to do the same. And frankly, the Catalan region has a much better economic rationale for being on its own than Scotland does. (From this side of the pond, I cannot see what Scotland would have to gain economically from independence. They are a net consumer of taxes. But the whole independence thing is clearly about more than just economics, so this is one bar fight among friends where I think I’ll just retreat to my corner and watch.) First, let’s look at a few comments from Bloomberg: Spain’s government bonds fell, undermined by the Catalan region’s crescendoing push for independence, as polls 1,000 miles away in Scotland showed increased support for its own bid to break from the U.K.… “It’s a question of raising the flag to more event risk,” Harvinder Sian, a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, said today by phone. “Where the U.K. government has decided to guarantee all government debt, the Catalonia region is too large for the rest of Spain to absorb. It’s a much more problematic issue for Spain with regard to its debt markets.”… “If Catalonia were to become independent it would be a strong drag on Spain’s growth and doubts would resurface regarding the sustainability of Spanish public debt,” said Marius Daheim, a Munich-based senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische Landesbank. “Liquidity rules.” Today’s OTB features a piece by Stratfor’s George Friedman on the implications of an independent Scotland. Do the Belgians get to split their country in two? Which regions of Spain might move for independence? How about the Northern League in Italy? What about the rest of the world? Can parts of Ukraine simply take a vote and leave? Where does it end? Then Anatole Kaletsky over at GaveKal thinks about the implications for British politics. You could have the odd situation of Scotland’s representatives in Parliament, who are overwhelmingly from the Labour Party, voting with a possible labor majority to put into place a very liberal policy agenda and then leaving Parliament after less than a year, which might then leave the Conservatives in the majority. Were those votes really legitimate if it was already known that Scotland was leaving? Exactly how does that work? Before putting you in George and Anatole’s capable hands, let me offer two additional links, from opposite sides of the political spectrum. The first is from my friend Niall Ferguson, here, musing back in 2007 on the question of what it takes to make a nation-state. Then, I offer this link to Paul Krugman’s blog in the New York Times. Paul gets my vote for best line I’ve read so far about the election: Well, I have a message for the Scots: Be afraid, be very afraid. The risks of going it alone are huge. You may think that Scotland can become another Canada, but it’s all too likely that it would end up becoming Spain without the sunshine. Spain without the sunshine, indeed. This may be one of the few occasions on which you will find Niall Ferguson and Paul Krugman in agreement. Right now the London bookies still think the vote for independence will fail. I think that conclusion is largely based on the assumption that many Scottish citizens who say they are “yes” voters today will go into the polling booth and realize at the last moment that their personal economic interests lie in remaining in the union. But as of today, it looks to be very close. Just the fact that they can take a vote on such a question is really rather remarkable. I don’t remember there being a vote in the movie Braveheart. My father told me that our family was kicked out of Scotland and then kicked out of Ireland before we made it to the colonies (back when they were still colonies). The name was Muldoon in Scotland and Ireland and was Americanized when we hit these shores. We can’t find any records to prove the family legend, and it’s been a few centuries since anyone in the family had the right to vote over there. But there’s a part of me that might be looking at the numbers a wee bit sentimentally, so let me close by wishing my Scottish friends Go n-éirí an bóthar leat! (That’s Gaelic, which is as close to an ancient Scottish language is there is, though it’s more commonly thought of as Irish.) Your wondering if I’ll need a passport to see Edinburgh again analyst, John Mauldin, Editor Outside the Boxsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   Stay Ahead of the Latest Tech News and Investing Trends... Click here to sign up for Patrick Cox’s free daily tech news digest. Each day, you get the three tech news stories with the biggest potential impact. By George Friedman, Stratfor September 9, 2014 Polls released today showed for the first time that a majority – an extremely small majority, but a majority nonetheless – of Scots favor independence, although other polls suggest the no camp remains in the lead. A poll is not the election, which will be held Sept. 18, but it is still a warning that something extraordinary might happen very soon. The political union between Scotland and England might be abolished after 300 years. The implications of this are enormous and generally ignored. Obviously, this raises a host of question about how such a divorce might take place, whether the expected time frame – divorce by 2016 – will be adhered to, and how state property might be divided. It also raises the question of Scottish foreign policy. Will Scotland remain in NATO? Will it have membership in the European Union? Will it continue to use the pound sterling, and if not, how will it roll out its own currency? These are important questions, but far more important issues will follow. One of the principles of the postwar world was the inviolability of Europe's borders. Border disputes were the origin of centuries of war, and so Europe's borders were frozen after World War II to avoid discussion. This may have left some people of one nationality on the wrong side of a border, but this was accepted since the risk of opening the door to border redefinition was considered far greater than any discomforts stemming from the borders that were locked in place. This principle has been weakened since the end of the Cold War. Still, though the disintegration of the Soviet Union created fully independent states, these were recognized republics within the context of the Soviet Union. One could argue that this did not in fact represent border change. Later, the "Velvet Divorce" of Czechoslovakia into Czech and Slovak successor countries represented another shift, but in a country that had only existed since the end of World War I. The separation of Kosovo from Serbia was a more radical shift but was justified by claims of Serbian oppression. Though each shift weakened the principle of inviolable borders, each came with an asterisk – that is, each had an aspect that stopped it from being the definitive case. Scotland separating from England, by contrast, can't be minimized. If that centuries-old union can be revised, then anything can be revised. Scottish separatists' reason for splitting is that they are a separate nation, that each nation has the right to its own state and the right to determine its own destiny, and that they no longer choose to be in union. But if they have the right to determine this, why shouldn't others in Europe enjoy the same right? For example, modern Spain is an amalgam of regions. One, the Catalan region – which contains Barcelona – has a strong separatist movement. If Scotland can leave the United Kingdom, then why shouldn't Catalonia be allowed to leave Spain? Farther east, the Treaty of Trianon gave Romania and then-Czechoslovakia large portions of Hungary along with the Hungarians living there. Why shouldn't Hungarians living in those territories have the right to rejoin Hungary? Meanwhile, if French-speaking Belgians and Dutch-speaking Belgians wish to part ways and return their two regions to their respective countries of origin, why should they not be allowed to? And why shouldn't the eastern part of Ukraine be allowed to secede and join Russia? Raising the stakes, this is an issue that goes far beyond Europe. There are seemingly innumerable separatist movements in India, China, Africa and so forth. If Scotland has the right to leave the nation-state it is part of and form a new one based on ethnic identity, why can't anyone follow suit? And if anyone can do it, but they are blocked by the state they wish to leave, is resorting to violence in pursuit of independence legitimate? The Scottish issue – the claim that the Scots are a separate nation and that all nations have a right to self-determination – simply cannot be asterisked. Having this happen in the heart of Western Europe would set a clear precedent that would expand geographically and conceptually. It would legitimize similar movements globally and force a reconsideration of what a nation is. Ultimately, a nation would be whatever the majority says it is. It is doubtful that the Scottish precedent could be contained in Europe. And it is hard to imagine how this precedent might not lead to conflict somewhere, not in the British Isles but somewhere where the existing state would be less inclined to grant the right of self-determination to a separatist movement. Of course, the separatists in Scotland may well lose, sentiment might change in the post-election negotiations, and so on. But if England and Scotland divorce, the right to separate will become an integral part of international custom – and it will arouse other movements. By Anatole Kaletsky, Gavekal The probability that the United Kingdom will break apart now appears to be at least 50%. The weekend’s crop of opinion polls agree with each other, and support last Tuesday’s poll showing a powerful swing in favor of a ‘Yes’ vote in next week’s referendum on Scottish independence. Given that up until last Tuesday most investors and analysts (including me) saw no more than a 10%-20% probability of independence, what has happened in the past few days amounts to a genuine exogenous shock of seismic proportions. In response to such a shock it is reasonable to expect further large market movements, especially in the pound, which has now fallen 2.4% against the US dollar in just one week The biggest risk to the pound sterling and gilts lies not in the economic uncertainties that will be generated by future arguments about Scotland’s relationship to sterling, the sharing of the UK’s national debt, or the distribution of North Sea oil revenues. These are all issues with relatively marginal investment impact, which will only be felt in the long term. Much more important are three political questions, not about abstract ideology, but of a kind that is highly relevant to investors: 1) What will a Scottish independence vote mean for British politics and economic management in the next nine months? 2) What will be the impact on the 2015 UK general election and subsequent economic policies, especially taxation? 3) What will all this imply for Britain’s membership of the European Union? The answers to all three questions are more alarming than almost anyone would have predicted a week ago: 1) If the Scots vote for independence it is likely that David Cameron will feel forced to take responsibility and resign as prime minister. If he fails to stand down, a putsch against him by right wing Tories is almost certain. A mutiny may or may not succeed, but Conservative Party politics is extremely febrile and ruthless, and the risk to Cameron’s position is not remotely discounted in the markets. In September 1990 nobody imagined that Margaret Thatcher was vulnerable; less than two months later she was ousted by her closest supporters. Whether Cameron is replaced or not, Britain’s government will be reduced to lame duck status between now and the May 2015 election. The only issues on the political agenda will be the terms of Scottish separation and apportioning blame for the referendum debacle. 2) The sense of shock and national failure resulting from an independence vote would make it much more difficult for the present coalition to win the 2015 election. The probability of a Labour-led government would rise from 40%-50% today to something like 70%. This prospect should be very alarming to investors in sterling. Labour will campaign on a platform of higher taxes and public spending, a tougher property tax regime, hobbling and shrinking the City of London, and abolishing the concessions to foreign residents which make Britain one of the world’s most effective tax havens. If anything, the Liberal Democrats, who would probably be Labour’s coalition partners, would be even tougher both in terms of personal tax reform and in their antagonism to the financial sector. To make matters worse, a Labour or Lab-Lib government would lack the political legitimacy to enact the measures promised in its manifesto, since the government’s majority would rely on Scottish members due for expulsion from the English parliament in 2016. A constitutional crisis would therefore ensue. Presumably Labour would respond by promising another general election in mid-2016, immediately after the Scottish secession. The result would be two years of unprecedented political and fiscal uncertainty for all businesses and investors in Britain. 3) Even in the unlikely event that the Conservative Party or a Conservative-Liberal coalition is re-elected in a 2015 election after a Scottish independence vote next week, the political consequences would be dire. In the event of such an unexpected victory, the Conservative Party would regard its hold on power as assured following the expulsion of Scotland’s 59 members of parliament (only one of whom is Conservative). As a result, the party would swing decisively towards the Euro-skepticism favored by its grassroots activists. A referendum on EU membership would be held in 2017 in which the new prime minister (who might conceivably even be David Cameron after a Damascene conversion to Euro-skepticism) would either adopt a neutral position or actively campaign for an exit. Either way, the odds on the UK leaving the EU would climb above 50%. In the more probable scenario discussed in option (2)—that a Scottish independence vote would lead to a Labour-Liberal victory in the May 2015 general election—there would be no EU referendum in 2017 as promised by the Conservatives. At first that might seem to offer some relief on the European front. In reality, however, it would do nothing to secure Britain’s EU membership. On the contrary, a Lab-Lib government would have to call another general election immediately after Scottish secession in 2016; an election in which EU membership would be straight back on the agenda. The Conservatives, emboldened by their ‘natural’ majority in the UK-minus-Scotland would swing towards outright Euro-skepticism and campaign for an immediate post-election referendum, laying down conditions for renegotiating EU membership which Brussels, France and even Germany would be sure to reject. Thus a Conservative victory in a 2016 election would make Brexit almost certain a year later. If, as is quite possible, the Euro-skeptics overplayed their hand and the Tories lost the 2016 election, the UK would be saddled with a high tax Labour-Liberal government until 2021. As a result, if Scotland does vote for independence next week, it is hard to come up with a positive scenario for British assets, whatever happens subsequently. Of course, there is always the hope that the polls may be wrong or the Scots will change their minds at the last moment once they realize what a Pandora’s box of political uncertainties they are about to open. But hope is not a strategy. We recommend selling sterling and other British assets, apart from those such as resource shares which have little exposure to British politics and which benefit directly from a weak pound. Like Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Outside The Box.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneHaggis to be used at the world haggis eating competition sit in a pile before the event at the Birnam Highland Games in Scotland August 30, 2014. September 18 is the day the citizens of Scotland who are resident there will be able to vote on whether or not they wish Scotland to remain united with England as part of the United Kingdom or to separate and become an independent country. Until about a week ago, the chances for a majority “yes” vote were widely thought to be limited – a “tail risk” for investors. Then several opinion polls indicated that the share of respondents in favor of Scotland’s leaving the UK was roughly equal to the share wishing it to remain in the union. It is not clear that those indicating “yes” to a poll taker will vote the same way in the privacy of a polling booth when they consider the possible economic implications and the great uncertainty as to the outcome of the lengthy negotiations that would follow a “yes” vote. Nevertheless, the possibility of separation has become a significant “event risk" for investors and is already having effects beyond the UK. For example, in Spain, where there also is significant pressure for the separation of the Catalonia region from Spain, bond yields have bounced up. A poll released yesterday gave the “no” vote a slight lead, relaxing investors’ anxiety a bit. But the outcome remains too close to call with any certainty. The list of uncertainties about the outcome of negotiations that Scotland would have to undertake on the path to becoming an independent nation (not only with England but also with the European Union, NATO, and other international organizations) is long; and many have serious implications, the majority rather negative in our view. Here are some of the more important questions. Will Scotland be able to continue to have the pound as its currency? The leader of the independence movement, Alex Salmond, includes keeping the pound as part of his vision of an independent Scotland. However, the governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, threw cold water on this option, saying that a currency union between the United Kingdom and an independent Scotland would be “incompatible with sovereignty.” There will then remain two main options for an independent Scotland – either to follow the pound without being able to have a say in BOE monetary policy and therefore having to rely heavily on fiscal policy, or to have a separate free-floating currency and independent central bank that would have control over monetary policy, though the country would likely face higher sovereign borrowing costs. A separate currency would also impose transaction costs on trade between Scotland and England. Non-oil exports to the rest of the UK amount to about a third of GDP. Some firms may decide to relocate activities in the rest of the UK. This seems most likely for financial firms. Indeed, Scotland would have a banking system that is very outsized. According to Credit Suisse, Scottish banking assets are some 1200 percent of GDP. The Lex column in the Financial Times suggests “the RBS [Royal Bank of Scotland] and Lloyds, seeking certainty on currencies and deposit guarantees, would probably decamp for the UK.” Standard Life has indicated they also would consider moving their headquarters to London if Scotland votes for independence. Who would supervise the banks and other financial firms and guarantee bank deposits and who would be the lender of last resort are other important uncertainties. North Sea oil and gas production raises other important issues. Will production lie largely within Scotland’s territorial waters? The Northern Isles, including Shetland and Orkney, could decide not to be part of an independent Scotland. Their territorial waters cover a large portion of the oil and gas fields. Another uncertainty is membership in the European Union. An independent Scotland might well be welcomed into the EU, but the process may not be smooth or quick. A number of EU members who have separatist movements of their own would be reluctant to appear to endorse a successful breakup of a sovereign country. NATO membership is a question as well. The UK’s nuclear submarine fleet is based in Scotland. We will not go into the complex budgetary and taxation issues a move to Scottish independence raises. We would just note that Scotland relies on transfers from England to balance its capital account. England will remain the guarantor of the existing debt. Scotland will owe its share of the debt to England and is likely to be faced with higher financing costs than England is. Scotland hopes to move to a lower corporate income tax in order to attract business, following the example of Ireland. Their timing may be off on this, as the UK has indicated it will be reducing the corporate income tax, and the same may also happen in the US. While we do not yet know the results of the September 18 vote, nor the eventual answers to the above and other uncertainties that would follow in the event that “Yes for an Independent Scotland” carries the day, we do know that markets do not like uncertainties.  Both the pound and the UK equities market have been hit by concerns about Scotland’s future, despite the relatively strong performance of the UK economy. We are underweight UK-specific ETFs, relative to our benchmark, in our International and Global ETF Portfolios, and we are following developments with great interest. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahA Kurdish Peshmerga fighter holds a rocket-propelled grenade launcher as he takes up position in an area overlooking Baretle village (background), which is controlled by the Islamic State, in Khazir, on the edge of Mosul.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Financial Advisors Are Making Changes To Clients' Portfolios Because Of The Ongoing Geopolitical Volatility (Wealth Management.com) The ongoing geopolitical risks are leading financial advisors to make changes to clients' portfolios.  Several advisors have repositioned their clients' portfolios "more conservatively over the last year, in anticipation of a correction." Additionally, advisors are limiting exposure to international markets. The most threatening risk is ISIS, the extremist Sunni Islamic group attempting to establish a caliphate in the Middle East, according to Diana Britton. Advisors are worried that ISIS will cause disruptions in oil-rich areas, which will subsequently cause crude oil to "spike where if it remains elevated for a significant amount of time could cause further drag on world economies."  "If the Sunni/Shia wars in the Middle East result in a closure of the Strait of Hormuz, then around 17 percent of global energy production would be lost and prices would rise sharply, and the global economic recovery would be at risk," Tom Elliot, international investment strategist at deVere Group added. Envestnet Just Hired The Ex-RIA President In Hopes Getting Closer To Advisory Firms (Financial Planning) Envestnet picked up Jay Hummel, the former president and COO of RIA Lenox Wealth Management in Cincinnati. He's coming on as a senior vice president of advisor relations. Envestnet is a leader in turnkey platform services for advisors (including: client reporting, portfolio and data management, analytics, and 'back office' service and administration).  Hummel has "been charged with making sure the Chicago-based platform provider is giving advisors what they need, and working with advisors to optimally implement the services," according to Charles Paikert. "Jay's expertise in running a large RIA will help us engage with advisors and serve high-net-worth clients in a more scaled, efficient way," says Envestnet president Bill Crager. Low Average Credit Quality Allocation Funds Might Be Bringing In Junk Bonds (Morningstar)  Allocation funds are the "workhorses" in many investors' portfolios, but "with high-quality bond yields ultra low, some allocation funds have assumed an aggressive posture with the fixed-income component of their portfolios," according to Christine Benz. In fact, a small subset of allocation funds currently "have durations longer than the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index's," and a larger number have "ventured down the credit-quality ladder." The major worry about this is that if stocks happen to waver, numerous allocation portfolios with low credit qualities "would be likely to fall further than their high-quality counterparts." However, despite that, investors don't need to "run away" from allocation funds with low average credit qualities. "That positioning has served many such funds well over the past five years, and in some cases over longer periods, too. It's also possible that these funds' managers could lighten up on low-quality bonds at some point in the future, thereby, protecting their charges on the downside." Look At ETFs Now That Emerging Markets Are Having A Moment Again(Blackrock Blog) Investors are turning their attention back to emerging-markets equity, according to the latest research. In August alone, they gained $4.7 billion. Blackrock's Heidi Richardson is suggesting that investors look to "exchanged traded funds (ETFs)." "Actively managed funds seek to outperform a specific benchmark, and portfolio managers often have full discretion over how they attempt to do so. As such, many actively-managed funds aren’t all that precise in the exposure they provide. Today, seeking exposure to a specific emerging or frontier market, or to the broader emerging and developing universe, is easier to do than it would have been just a decade ago as the index-tracking ETF market continues to grow. What’s more, ETFs offer diversification and liquidity; they are also generally available at a lower cost than comparable actively managed funds." This Family-Run Fun Has Been Nearly Doubling The S&amp;P 500 Performance (Investment News) The small Pennsylvania investment firm Biondo Group LLC is the top performer for long-short U.S. equity mutual funds. It saw a 56% gain last year and 17% this year — so far. Both years are almost double the S&amp;P 500's performance. The Biondo Focus Fun holds just 15 to 20 positions at a time, and "much of its success comes from more than tripling its money on Pacira Pharmaceuticals Inc." — whose stock has surged 1,400% since it's 2011 IPO. FREE AppDownload
Daniel GoodmanCome work with us!Business Insider is still looking for a few paid interns to join our editorial team this fall. Specifically, we are looking for applicants who are interested in covering retail, education, transportation, and lifestyle. As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing stories — even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) if their schedule allows. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks and drinks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. APPLY HERE with a resume and cover letter. Please also briefly describe which section of Business Insider interests you most, and why. Please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs for approximately six months, with some flexibility on start and end dates. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA Scotland soccer fan waves a Scottish saltire flag with Big Ben seen behind in Trafalgar Square in central London, August 14, 2013. SCHOOLCHILDREN once imagined their place in the world, with its complex networks and allegiances, by writing elaborate postal addresses. British youngsters began with their street and town (London or Manchester, Edinburgh or Cardiff), followed by England, Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland; then came the United Kingdom (and after that Europe, the World, the Universe.). They understood that the UK, and all its collective trials and achievements — the industrial revolution, the Empire, victory over the Nazis, the welfare state — were as much a part of their patrimony as the Scottish Highlands or English cricket. They knew, instinctively, that these concentric rings of identity were complementary, not opposed. At least, they used to. After the referendum on Scottish independence on September 18th, one of those layers — the UK — may cease to exist, at least in the form recognisable since the Act of Union three centuries ago. As the vote nears, Scotland's nationalists have caught up with the unionist No camp in the opinion polls, and even edged ahead. More and more Scots are deciding that the UK, which their soldiers, statesmen, philosophers and businessmen have done so much to build and ornament, does not cradle their Scottishness but smothers it. This great multinational state could be undone in a single day, by a poll in which just 7% of its citizens will participate. That outcome, once unthinkable, would be bad for Scotland and tragic for what remained of the UK. The rump of Britain would be diminished in every international forum: why should anyone heed a country whose own people shun it? Since Britain broadly stands for free trade and the maintenance of international order, this would be bad for the world. Its status as a nuclear power would be doubtful: the country's nuclear submarines are based in a Scottish loch and could not be moved quickly. Britain would also be more likely to leave the European Union, since Scots are better disposed to Europe than are the English (and are less likely to vote for the Conservatives, who are promising a Euro-referendum if they win next year's general election). The prospect of a British exit from the EU would scare investors much more than a possible Scottish exit from Britain. The people of Scotland alone will decide the future of Britain, and they are not obliged to worry about what becomes of the state they would leave. But — perhaps not surprisingly, given the endurance and success of the union, imperilled though it is — Scots' own interests, and the rest of Britain's, coincide. At the heart of the nationalist campaign is the claim that Scotland would be a more prosperous and more equal country if it went solo. It is rich in oil and inherently decent, say the nationalists, but impoverished by a government in Westminster that has also imposed callous policies. They blame successive British governments for almost every ill that has befallen Scotland, from the decline of manufacturing industry to ill-health to the high price of sending parcels in the Highlands. Alex Salmond, Scotland's nationalist leader, is broad in his recrimination: Labour and the Tories are of a piece, he suggests, in their disregard for Scotland. Dylan Martinez/ReutersScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond poses for a selfie as he meets supporters during a walkabout in Perth, central Scotland, September 12, 2014.But Scotland's relative economic decline is the result not of southern neglect but of the shift of manufacturing and shipping to Asia. If Westminster has not reversed all the deleterious effects of globalisation and technology, that is because to do so is impossible. The nationalists know this, which is why, sotto voce, they would continue many of Westminster's policies. Instead they make much of minor adjustments, such as abolishing the "bedroom tax", a recent measure designed to nudge people out of too-large social housing. To break up a country over such small, recent annoyances would be nuts. The nationalists' economics are also flawed. Scotland would not, in fact, be richer alone. The taxes that would flow to it from the North Sea would roughly compensate for the extra cost of its lavish state, which would no longer be funded by Westminster (last year spending was some £1,300 per person higher in Scotland than elsewhere in Britain). But oil revenues are erratic. They would have earned Scotland £11.5 billion in 2008-09 but only £5.5 billion in 2012-13. If an independent state were to smooth these fluctuations by setting up an oil fund, it would have less cash to spend now. In any case, the oil is gradually running out. In order to maintain state spending after it is gone, taxes would have to rise. And a crunch might come much sooner. Foreign investors and big businesses that mostly serve English customers could well move south. Westminster has ruled out a currency union — correctly, given that the nationalists propose a deficit-widening fiscal splurge and that the assets of Scottish banks are an alarming 12 times the country's GDP. It might relent, but only if Scotland agrees to such strict oversight that independence ends up meaning little. The nationalists say that kinks over currency and the like could be worked out amicably — that it would not be in Britain's interests to antagonise its new northern neighbour, particularly since (they hint darkly) Scotland could refuse to take on its share of the national debt. They are far too sanguine. If Scotland goes, the rest of Britain will be furious, both at the Scots and at their own leaders, who will be impelled to drive a hard bargain. Mr Salmond is on stronger ground when he argues that if Scotland does not leave Britain it might be dragged out of the EU against its will. This is indeed a danger, but in going independent Scotland would swap the possibility of an EU exit for a certain future as a small, vulnerable country. Its best hope of remaining influential is to stay put, and fight the Eurosceptics. In the end the referendum will turn not on calculations of taxes and oil revenue, but on identity and power. The idea that Scots can shape their own destiny, both at the referendum and afterwards, is exhilarating. Yet Scotland already controls many of its own affairs (even if Mr Salmond's Scottish National Party, which runs the devolved government and is driving the Yes campaign, has not done much with its powers so far). Carly PiersonEdinburgh Castle sits on top of Castle Rock in the distance, as seen from Holyrood Park in Scotland.Moreover, as Westminster politicians of all stripes have hastily made clear, if Scotland votes No, the devolved administration will soon get so much clout that the practical difference between staying in the union and leaving it will narrow. That would also lead to the distribution of power away from Westminster and to other bits of Britain, which should have happened long ago. So by staying in, Scots will not just save the union but enhance it, as they have for 300 years. For the UK, with all its triumphs and eccentricities, belongs to Scots as much as it does to the English — even if increasing numbers of them seem ready to disown that glorious, hard-earned heritage, and to simplify their identities by stripping out one of those concentric rings. That goes against both the spirit of this fluid century — in which most people have multiple identities, whether of place, ethnicity or religion — and the evidence of the preceding three. For all its tensions and rivalries, and sometimes because of them, the history of the union shows that the Scots, Welsh, English and Northern Irish are stronger, more tolerant and more imaginative together than they would be apart. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook. Apple is no stranger to secrecy. The company works hard to keep its software and hardware plans under heavy wraps until they're announced to the world. The introduction of Apple Pay — its new mobile payment platform — was no different. Financial institutions bent over backwards to keep Apple Pay a secret, according to The New York Times' Nathaniel Popper. Popper says both Apple and major banks like JP Morgan Chase quickly began use code names for each other after talks around a new payment platform began materializing in early 2013. Card issuer Visa reportedly used an Apple rival as a codename so employees wouldn't become curious about the partnership. At JP Morgan, secrecy was of particular import. The company held sensitive discussions about the Apple Pay partnership in a windowless office room in San Francisco. Only a third of JP Morgan employees involved in the project were aware that Apple was their partner. Chase, JP Morgan's commercial bank, waited for Tim Cook to announce the Apple Pay before telling anyone about their involvement. So when JP Morgan turned on the live stream of Tuesday's event in their flagship Manhattan office (when it was finally working), they couldn't tell anyone why it was on. As soon as Tim Cook made the announcement, Chase happily acknowledged its plans to support Apple Pay. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingActivist investor Jeff Smith, who runs hedge fund Starboard Value, wants to to make a change to Olive Garden's famous unlimited breadsticks and salad. Smith's fund owns an 8.8% in the restaurant group's stock. It's his contention that by eliminating the endless menu option the restaurant will be able to save $5 million per year. He points out that there are too many breadsticks on the table, and they're being wasted. Starboard's main investment thesis is to find undervalued small-cap companies and actively engage with management and boards to unlock value.  Smith's Starboard Value launched in 2002. The fund currently manages around $2.3 billion in assets. He's had some noteworthy shareholder activism campaigns. He took on AOL, but lost his proxy fight. He also took an activist stake in Office Depot with later merged with OfficeMax (He resigned from the Office Depot board the other day).  According to Institutional Investor, Smith has made money on 84% of his fund's activist campaigns.  Before launching his own fund, Smith was a managing director at Ramius LLC (both the head of risk management and head of research at Starboard also worked at Ramius). Before that, he was a Vice President of Strategic Development for The Fresh Juice Company. He began his career in finance working in M&amp;A at SocGen.  He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business.  FREE AppDownload
Starboard ValueJeff Smith and his hedge fund Starboard Value LP have released a huge 294-slide presentation criticizing Olive Garden and its parent company Darden for, among other things, wasting money. Smith and his analysts think management needs to do something about this. However, they don't propose cutting costs with a hatchet. Rather, they go almost item-by-item to reveal where costs can be cut with a surgical knife. For example, they repeatedly go after the company's to-go containers. "The take-out packaging at Olive Garden is specified to be microwave and dishwasher safe," they write. "These requirements over-engineer packaging and drive up costs significantly without necessarily driving any benefit associated with more foot traffic or increased pricing power on customers." Several times throughout the presentation, he references it, calling it the "Cadillac container of the industry." He estimates the company is wasting around $22 million on it. This container just says everything. It represents everything Olive Garden's doing wrong.  Even moreso, it represents what Smith and his team are doing right. Hedge fund managers get paid tons of money by clients to do incredible amounts of excellent work. It looks like Starboard's client are getting their money's worth. Here are the three mentions of the best to-go container out there: Starboard Value Hedge fund Starboard Value Hedge fund Starboard Value Hedge fund FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith(Reuters) - RadioShack Corp confronts an uncomfortable fact as it considers filing for bankruptcy to give it time to overhaul its 4,400 electronics stores: Retailers rarely emerge from bankruptcy. They often liquidate and go out of business. Founded in 1921, the Fort Worth, Texas-based RadioShack said on Thursday that it may file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States, potentially adding itself to the list of non-food retail chains that have disappeared from American strip malls and shopping centers in recent years. Circuit City Stores, Borders Group, Filene's Basement, Linens 'n' Things, Coldwater Creek and plenty of smaller chains have gone out of business after filing for Chapter 11. It was not always like this. Chapter 11 was once a sanctuary for famed retailers from Macy's to Kmart. They would predictably pile up cash over the year-end holidays, file for bankruptcy in January and spend a year or more tinkering with business plans to meet new challenges. Then in 2005, Congress reworked the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The new law set a deadline of 210 days, or roughly seven months, by which time a retailer had to commit to accepting a lease, or rejecting it and vacating a property. That changed everything. In reality, store chains do not even have seven months. Lenders will typically only offer companies about three or four months of financing during bankruptcy to ensure that, if things do not work out, there is enough time to conduct a going-out-of-business sale. "In the old days you could take your time to assemble a new plan for stores," said Peter Schaeffer, a turnaround specialist with GlassRatner Advisory &amp; Capital Group in New York. "Whereas today you really don't have that time." As a result, retailers tend to burn through every last penny to avoid filing for bankruptcy, leaving little value when they finally do. By contrast, many turnaround experts praised American Airlines' successful bankruptcy in 2011, which filed when it still had billions of dollars of cash. RadioShack has done little to transform itself into a destination for mobile phone buyers, losing out to rivals such Amazon.com Inc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The current crisis is not the company's first brush with failure. RadioShack was started by brothers Theodore and Milton Deutschmann who sold radio supplies at a small Boston store. The company's name referred to the small, wooden structures that housed the radio equipment on ships. After branching into the music market, RadioShack nearly went under in the 1960s before Texas businessman Charles Tandy bought it in 1962 for $300,000. RadioShack became the go-to place for the electronics when it introduced the TRS-80, one of the first mass produced personal computers, in 1977, and even employed Apple founder Steve Jobs. Yet the huge shift to digital passed it by, which the company admitted with its self-deprecating Super Bowl ad in February that featured 1980s pop icons such as Alf and Erik Estrada raiding a store to reclaim fax machines and make way for cell phones and Beats headphones. If RadioShack files for bankruptcy, recent history suggests it may not be around much longer. Since the 2005 law changes, only 12 percent of the retail companies were able to restructure and emerge from bankruptcy, down from half before 2005, according to a study by the Cooley law firm that looked at 45 large retail bankruptcies. The study organized by lawyer Lawrence Gottlieb also showed that since 2005 unsecured creditors, such as suppliers, have recovered 16.3 cents on the dollar, down from 33.6 cents on the dollar previously. Fitch Ratings in 2013 found that 55 percent of retailers since 2005 have liquidated. That percentage dwarfs liquidations in other sectors. Of the 86 bankruptcies across all industries followed by Fitch's database over the last decade, only 17 percent, or 14 companies, liquidated. Of those, 11 were retailers, Fitch found. RadioShack does have some glimmers of hope. Its size helps, with 4,400 U.S. stores, mostly rented, and sales of $1.4 billion in the six months to Aug. 2. Landlords and suppliers may need RadioShack as much as the company needs them. Landlords may prefer an out-of-court deal and might agree to mass store closings if it meant a quicker, smoother transition than the uncertainty of months in bankruptcy, according to one source familiar with the thinking of a group of landlords. "There is an incentive to recognize that survival is in everyone's best interest," said Ted Gavin, a turnaround consultant with Wilmington, Delaware-based Gavin/Solmonese. Right now, survival probably means reaching a prepackaged bankruptcy deal, when a company comes to court with a plan that has already been negotiated and agreed to by a majority of creditors. Such bankruptcies are often quicker, cheaper and far less painful than a traditional Chapter 11, although it will almost certainly mean shareholders will get nothing. "If they can get to a prepackaged bankruptcy, this could be the one that survives," Gavin said.  (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware, Nick Brown in New York; Additional reporting by Jilian Mincer in New York; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
The rumor is everywhere – Microsoft wants to buy Minecraft for a whopping $2 billion. It's a move that has tech experts and consumers baffled alike. But when you break down the numbers, the picture looks pretty clear.
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezA "No" campaign poster is seen in a field after being vandalised by a "Yes" supporter on the outskirts of Edinburgh, Scotland September 11, 2014.Stocks fell on Friday after retail sales data came in better than expected, while consumer confidence from the University of Michigan came in at its best level since July 2013.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Retail sales in August grew 0.6% according to the latest monthly report from the Census Bureau. This result was in-line with expectations. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one line: Solid, especially when revisions taken into account. August retail sales rose 0.6%, in line with the consensus. Sales ex-autos rose 0.3%, also matching expectations. But note the +0.5% revision to prior data, making the net report stronger than expected and lifting the y/y rate to 5.0% from 4.2% in July." 2. The preliminary September report on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan showed confidence rose to 84.6 from 82.5 in August. This also beat expectations for a reading of 83.5, and marked the highest reading since July 2013. Following the report, Paul Diggle at Capital Economics said, "Indeed, with the economic recovery continuing to gather pace and wage growth soon to strengthen, this measure of consumer confidence may soon follow the alternative Conference Board index back up to pre-recession levels... The rise in consumer confidence in September adds to the evidence from August's upbeat retails sales report that third quarter consumption growth will come in stronger than we initially expected. It looks like the economic recovery has a good deal of momentum." 3. Darden Restaurants was in focus on Friday after activist hedge fund Starboard released a 294-slide presentation outlining ways to transform the company, namely its Olive Garden restaurant franchise. The presentation covered nearly every aspect of the company's business, from how it executes its unlimited salad and breadsticks promotion, to how the company cooks its pasta, to discrepancies in how Olive Garden's food appears in promotions and in person. Darden shares fell more than 1.5% on Friday.  4. Among the biggest gainers on Friday was digital marketing firm Conversant, which gained 30% after announcing a deal to be acquired by Alliance Data Systems for $2.3 billion, or $30 per share. Also higher were shares of Ulta Salon, which gained more than 17% after the company reported earnings that beat expectations.  5. According to The Wall Street Journal, activist investor Dan Loeb raised $2.5 billion in just two weeks during August, with Loeb planning to use the capital by the end of the year to take activist stakes in companies in the U.S. and abroad.  6. The U.S. announced new sanction against Russia on Friday in a move aimed squarely at crippling the nation's $425 billion petroleum industry by limiting oil exploration. BI's Brett LoGiurato, citing a senior Obama administration official on Friday, reported that the measures are "designed to effectively shut down this type of oil exploration and production activity by depriving these Russian companies of the goods, technology, and services that they need to do this work."  7. The British pound retained most of its rally from Thursday evening after the latest YouGov poll showed that voters now favor remaining in the U.K., reversing results from earlier this week.  Don't Miss: A Hedge Fund Manager Published A Dizzying 294-Page Slide Presentation Exposing How Olive Garden Wastes Money And Fails Customers » FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Olive GardenActivist hedge fund Starboard Value published a 294-page presentation criticizing Olive Garden's management, menu, and customer service on Friday. The firm included photos of Olive Garden dishes that looked drastically different from how they were advertised in the menu. For example, here's the "Crispy Parmesan Asparagus," which looks pretty soggy and unappetizing.  Starboard The firm described the Lasagna Fritta, or fried lasagna bites, as "barely edible." Starboard Olive Garden serves dishes that are "astonishingly far from authentic Italian culture, such as burgers and fries, Spanish tapas, heavy cream sauces, more fried foods, stuffed cheeses, soggy pasta, and bland tomato sauce," Starboard wrote.  Here's the Lasagna Primavera with Grilled Chicken.  Starboard We recently took a trip to Olive Garden and found that the new "Italiano Burger" also looks much different in reality than it does on the menu.  Here's how it's advertised on the website.  Olive GardenAnd here's what we got: Ashley Lutz/Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
The U.K. can expect "considerable financial turbulence" if Scotland goes independent, Credit Suisse warns in a new report on Friday.  The biggest issue Scotland will face if it cuts ties with the U.K in the upcoming Sept 18. independence referendum will be what to use for currency. Will Scotland continue use the pound, create its own money, or join the Eurozone? "Uncertainty over the currency arrangements Scotland would adopt and its extremely large financial sector would create a disequilibrium that financial markets would seek to balance through capital flows and distress," Credit Suisse writes.  The firm — which previously warned that Scotland could "fall into a deep recession" if it leaves the U.K — predicts that such uncertainty will drive financial institutions (which make up large share of total employment and GDP) out of Scotland.  The flow diagram published below "explains how the uncertainty over Scotland's currency and ability to backstop its financial sector can set in train a self-fueling feedback loop of rising risks and costs to the Scottish financial and sovereign sectors, and a steady migration of capital, activity, jobs and taxes," the report said.  Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Rick Wilking/ReutersBerkshire Hathaway Vice Chairman Charlie Munger.On Friday, The Wall Street Journal's Jason Zweig published some great excerpts from comments made by Warren Buffett's right-hand man, Charlie Munger, at the Daily Journal Corporation annual meeting this week. Munger serves as Daily Journal's chairman of the board. Munger joined Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway in 1965, leaving behind a career as a lawyer. It worked out.  Zweig's excerpts include comments from Munger on Benjamin Graham, often considered the godfather of value investing and Warren Buffett's most important influence, who Munger said "had a lot to learn as an investor."  "I don’t love Ben Graham and his ideas the way Warren does. You have to understand, to Warren — who discovered him at such a young age and then went to work for him — Ben Graham’s insights changed his whole life, and he spent much of his early years worshiping the master at close range. But I have to say, Ben Graham had a lot to learn as an investor. His ideas of how to value companies were all shaped by how the Great Crash and the Depression almost destroyed him, and he was always a little afraid of what the market can do. It left him with an aftermath of fear for the rest of his life, and all his methods were designed to keep that at bay." Earlier this week, Munger had some choice words for Daily Journal's auditor, Ernst &amp; Young, saying that the firm's audit of Daily Journal was like, " the doctor who wanted to cure the nosebleed by fishing around in the groin."  And in Zweig's report, Munger's take on accounting firms is more charitable, though just slightly.  Munger said: "Accounting firms now have had to hire so many people that they have had to go way down in the bucket to get all these new employees. The government is asking accountants to be policemen, but the number of people smart enough to be qualified for policing is too low. We shouldn’t be expecting accountants to do the policing. Firms should have the ethical gumption to police themselves: Every company ought to have a long list of things that are beneath it even though they are perfectly legal." Munger also talks about why companies should streamline costs, how to stay within ones "circle of competence," and the decline of newspapers. The whole piece is well-worth a read, and gives some great insight into the mind of one of the best investors of all time.  (via WSJ) FREE AppDownload
Reinhard Krause/ReutersChinese soldiers from an engineering unit practice at an army camp in Qinyang in Henan province on September 15, 2007.This week, China announced that it was sending 700 military personnel to join the UN's peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, an oil-rich east African state and site of an ongoing civil war. China has contributed to UN peacekeeping missions before, but the unprecedented size of its contribution, and its purpose in sending troops, reveals just how complicated China's foreign outreach has become as the country continues its rise to super-power status. As the Wall Street Journal reported, China is deploying troops in order "to help guard the country's embattled oil fields and protect Chinese workers and installations," according to a spokesman for South Sudan's president. China is largely acting to protect its own interests here, rather than regional or international peace.  South Sudan took most of the former Republic of Sudan's oil with it when it was allowed to secede from Khartoum in 2011, bringing a final resolution to decades of civil war and creating the newest country on earth. In 2011, when Sudan was still a single country, it accounted for 5% of China's oil imports. But most of Sudan's oil was in areas that were now a part of an independent South Sudan, where China's policies in the region — which included support for the oppressive Khartoum government that fought the south during a long civil war — made it none too popular. But independence has reshuffled the relationship between Juba and Beijing, and oil is a large part of the reason why. U.S. Energy Information AdministrationOrigins of Chinese oil imports in 2013, by percentageA dispute with Khartoum over the sharing of southern oil revenues resulted in the suspension of South Sudan's entire oil industry in 2011; Chinese imports of Sudanese oil totally halted in much of 2012 and 2013. When South Sudan's oil came back online in 2013, the economically hobbled country wasn't in a position to turn away potential customers, just as a growing China wasn't in a position to alienate potential sources of oil. Relations improved, and China, which held a 40% stake in the united Sudan's state oil company before the country's breakup, became the major investor in South Sudan's oil infrastructure. Beijing continued to hold 40% of a joint partnership to explore and develop South Sudan's oil resources. Then civil war broke out in December of 2013. The rebels managed to threaten not just South Sudan's oil wells, but the integrity of the region's only pipeline as well. The South Sudan turmoil comes within a larger context of Chinese investment in Africa, where it's spent substantial political and economic capital in recent decades. This has allowed Beijing to project its soft power through an emerging region while obtianing access to vital resources and markets — Angola, for instance, was China's second-largest oil supplier in 2013.  But China's Africa policies have also had some blowback. As Howard French recounts in his recent book China's Second Continent: How A Million Migrants Are Building A New Empire In Africa, Chinese overtures in the continent can have an imperialist flavor to them, with Beijing following policies that jeopardize national sovereignty and crowd out local labor and industry.  With many Africans skeptical of China's intentions and impact on their continent, Beijing can't simply send its own troops to protect its investments and citizens when they're in danger, as they currently are in South Sudan. After 20 years of attempting to cultivate Africa as a sphere of influence, China understands that a softer touch is needed — even in situations that might require the use of force. The UN gives them a way out of this dilemma, at least in this case. The UN has a peacekeeping force in South Sudan. This week's announcement means that China is contributing troops to the mission, where they'll fight under the iconic "blue helmet" worn by all UN peacekeepers. As a troop contributor, China's participation is contingent upon what it's willing to let its military do during a peacekeeping deployment — and the UN typically doesn't turn a country down when it volunteers its troops for a mission. After all, peacekeeping missions are contingent upon member states volunteering their forces. So China is effectively using the UN as cover for a military deployment that serves Beijing's specific interests.  It's another sign that China's engagement with the rest of the world is getting more complex as its economic and political power grows — and that the planet's rising superpower is becoming increasingly sophisticated in how it defends its interests. FREE AppDownload
Real Men Real Style These days, when we hear the phrase “dress code” we’re most likely to associate it with workplace rules. A lot of jobs still have written guidelines for employee attire, at varying degrees of strictness. Much rarer are dress codes for social events. These written requests for attendee attire are usually only one or two words long, meant to be printed on an invitation and understood by all the potential guests. Unfortunately, universal understanding of social dress codes is going the way of cursive handwriting: it has an old-fashioned appeal to some people, but most of us don’t bother with it anymore. So if you’ve been invited to an event with a dress code — or you’re planning an event and you want to request a specific sort of attire from your guests — look no further! Wikimedia Commons Formal attire does not mean suits and ties! It is a substantially higher dress code, requiring clothes that most men don’t own. If you request formal attire on an invitation (and you don’t belong to an extremely wealthy and upper class set), understand that you’re probably asking the majority of your guests to go through the rental process. Formal wear for men changes depending on the time of day: in daylight hours, it means morning dress with a tailcoat and vest, while at night it means white tie. Both of these are extremely strict dress codes. It would be unusual (and a bit presumptuous) to request full formal attire for a personal event. Most white-tie affairs are diplomatic events, or high-formality award ceremonies and the occasional British sporting event. Unless you’re a high society heir or heiress throwing a bash at a New York hotel, it’s probably too strict for your wedding or birthday party. Samir Hussein / Stringer / Getty Images Like formal wear, semi-formal attire changes based on time of day. In the evening it is the familiar black tie (tuxedo) ensemble, while in the daytime the stroller (a relaxed alternative to morning dress) is appropriate. Most modern guests will not be aware of the distinction. Tuxedos at daytime events are a depressingly common occurrence nowadays. If you, as the host or hostess, wish men to come attired in strollers, it may be worth your while to print out a phrase such as “Daytime Semi-formal (Strollers for Men)” in the “Attire” or “Dress Code” section of your invitation. It’s a bit clunky, but it prevents confusion. Some men own their own tuxedos, but for the most part this is another dress code that will force attendees to rent attire. Use it sparingly, and only for events of great significance like weddings. It would be very unusual for anyone outside of the jet set to throw more than one or two semi-formal events in his or her lifetime! If you receive a semi-formal invitation, give yourself plenty of time for the rental process. Expect it to take several weeks from your first fitting and outfit selection for the clothes to arrive and be adjusted. Be firm with the sales staff, and make it clear that you are only interested in true black tie (or daytime semi-formal) attire — these days, most of the offerings at rental outlets are cartoon-colored costumes for high school proms and novelty weddings, not real formal and semi-formal wear. Flickr/ Avi and Elina Flax If an invitation has specifically requested business attire, it’s best to err on the side of formality and wear a dark, solid colored or pinstriped suit. Pair it with a white dress shirt, a conservative tie, and black leather oxfords, and you’re — no pun intended — in business. There is a certain amount of leeway at social events, particularly daytime ones, so if you prefer a lighter gray suit or a dark brown one, those are acceptable. For the most part, though, “business dress” means the more formal end of men’s suits. If, on the other hand, the invitation simply says “suits and ties for men” or something along those lines, “social suits” with lighter colors or more vivid patterns are acceptable. This isn’t strictly speaking a dress code, but it is a request you will see from time to time on invitations, particularly to dressed-up but light-hearted affairs like brunches and church outings. Flickr, LeWeb 13 The most conventional dress casual outfit for a man is a navy blue blazer with light to medium gray slacks or khakis. (This is such a common dressed-down alternative to full business attire that it’s sometimes called “the California suit.”) Once the word “casual” is on the invitation, however, a fair amount of flexibility is permitted. Blazers or sports jackets are the dressiest look within the code, while sweaters or dress shirts without a top layer are more dressed-down. In general, you’re better off showing up with a jacket and tie, and then stripping one or both off if you find yourself too overdressed. It’s easy to dress a blazer or sports jacket and slacks down, but hard to dress a plain shirt up. At the bare minimum, a “business casual” invitation still requires slacks or khakis (not jeans) and a collared shirt, as well as leather dress shoes and socks to match the trousers. Shutterstock.com Neckties are definitely not needed, but a casual jacket could still be worn. Similarly, jeans are acceptable if the invitation says “casual,” but they should be dark, fitted jeans, not plain work jeans or anything with rips and tears. Leather shoes and collared shirts are still preferable. The “casual” code tells you that the hosts aren’t putting any stock in formality. They want it to be a relaxed events where guests can be themselves. All well and good — but you should still look like you made an effort! It’s just polite. Occasionally dress codes will come with the word “optional” attached. This is mostly done at the higher levels of formality, i.e. “black tie optional.” What that means is that the hosts are planning on wearing the listed code, and encourage guests to do likewise if they wish. It’s a way of dressing the event up without requiring that every single attendee meet a high standard that might require rental clothing or expensive purchases. With an optional dress code, it is of course always appropriate to meet the listed code (but not exceed it — you wouldn’t wear white tie to a “black tie optional” event). Alternatively, you can wear a close approximation at a slightly lower level of formality. For example, if the event is “black tie optional” and you don’t want to rent a tuxedo, you can instead wear a dark business suit with a plain white shirt and a very reserved necktie. That gives the same general impression of severe formality as a tuxedo, but without the need for exotic attire. A slight variation is the “preferred” dress code: like “optional,” this leaves it up to the guests, but with the indication that the hosts would like guests to dress to the maximum standard if at all possible. “Preferred” leaves a graceful out for guests who absolutely can’t meet the dress code, while “optional” leaves it up to their tastes and preferences entirely. These are good codes for hosts to use when they’re indulging in a very dressed-up appearance, but want to make the event more accessible to friends and relatives. So what do you do if you receive an invitation that doesn’t list a dress code? The simplest suggestion is always to ask the hosts. Don’t be embarrassed, especially in this modern world of e-mails and text messages, to shoot the host with whom you are most familiar a short note saying “how dressed up do you want people at the event?” If you don’t feel comfortable doing that, ask around among other attendees. And if you truly have no one you can ask, consider the time and setting: evening attire should generally be darker and simpler than daytime, outdoor settings are more casual than indoor, and so on. Always err on the side of being a bit overdressed. As we’ve said before, it’s very easy to take off a necktie or shed a jacket and become less formal, but if you only showed up with a shirt and slacks there’s no way for you to become dressier. Finally, in rare cases you may run into an invitation where the listed dress code doesn’t seem accurate — for example, I was once invited to a wedding that requested a “formal” dress code, but I knew from speaking with the groom that he was only wearing a business suit. Since the hosts will always be wearing the most formal interpretation of the event’s dress code, I knew that meant they only wanted nice- looking suits, not true formal wear. It’s a bit of an awkward situation, but in a case like that you should dress to match your hosts, rather than adhering to the written instructions and drawing attention to their error. Don’t even mention it to them — once the invitations are sent, there’s nothing they can do about it anyway! And there you have it. That’s all you need to know about dressing to meet social dress codes as a man. Easy, wasn’t it?    This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee sits next to a logo of Alibaba during a media tour organised by government officials at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou(Reuters) - Stock index provider MSCI Inc &lt;msci.n&gt; is considering changing its rules to allow shares of Alibaba Group Holding [IPO-BABA.N] and other companies that list their shares in faraway markets to be included in its widely used indexes. The company announced that it was considering changing its rules last week, but did not explain the reason for the changes: questions from investors amid the Alibaba initial public offering, Reuters has learned from financial industry sources.  Alibaba, a Chinese online retailer, plans to sell some $24 billion worth of shares next week on the New York Stock Exchange, in a listing that could be the biggest ever IPO. Under MSCI's rules, a company cannot be included in its biggest indexes if it is based in one region and its shares are listed in a different region. Because Alibaba is not listed anywhere in Asia and is listing in New York, it would be excluded from big MSCI indexes. Any changes to the MSCI rules will probably have to wait until next year, according to an individual familiar with the situation who declined to be named because he is not authorized to speak to the media. But the rule changes under consideration could result in investors pouring billions of dollars into shares of companies like Alibaba and Chinese online search engine Baidu Inc. &lt;bidu.o&gt; Funds that track the performance of the MSCI Emerging Markets index and manage some $210 billion could be forced to buy Alibaba shares when the rules change. Funds with some $1.3 trillion in assets aim to duplicate the performance of the MSCI Global Investable Market indexes. Under current rules, Alibaba does not qualify for inclusion in any major global indexes from any provider, although it does qualify for smaller indexes. FUND PRESSURE In recent months, institutional investors have been pressing MSCI and another major international index provider, FTSE Group, to consider changing their rules to include companies that only list abroad, according to sources involved in the discussions, who wished to remain anonymous because they are not permitted to speak to the media. The investors argued that ignoring stocks such as Alibaba prevents them from accurately tracking the performance of international companies. While the issue has been debated for some time, the upcoming Alibaba IPO has brought it to a head, one of the sources said. "MSCI wants to make sure that its indexes are a good measure of the market performance. It's a bigger issue than just Alibaba, but the Alibaba IPO is a symptom of this problem." said another fund executive. "There is a whole slew of major Internet companies that are listed in the United States but are based in China that are affected by these rules," said Dennis Hudachek, a senior specialist with ETF.com, an expert on exchange-traded funds. "But make no mistake about it, this is not a coincidence that they are announcing this consultation weeks before the (Alibaba) IPO."      An MSCI spokeswoman declined to comment. FTSE reiterated on Thursday that under its current rules, Alibaba would not be added to its Global Equity Index Series, which includes its well known FTSE Emerging Markets Index. Those indexes exclude shares from companies that have American Depository Receipts on a U.S. exchange, but no underlying listed shares in their local markets. But a spokesman added that the index provider kept tweaking its rules for indexes, when appropriate, based on investor feedback. Alibaba will be included in five smaller FTSE indexes. However, some fund executives believe that FTSE may change its rules if MSCI does. FTSE Group is a unit of the London Stock Exchange Group &lt;lse.l&gt; Alibaba does not meet the criteria for other major indexes that U.S. investors track: the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index is only for U.S. based companies, for example, and the Nasdaq 100 is only for shares listed on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc's &lt;ndaq.o&gt; exchange.  MSCI said on Sept 4 that it was soliciting feedback from the industry about a proposal to change its rules. The firm is seeking feedback by Nov 28, according to an MSCI presentation about the proposal on its Web site. If the company decides to change its rules, Alibaba could be added to MSCI's indexes as early as March, one of the sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters.   (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel, additional reporting by Ashley Lau in New York, editing by Dan Wilchins and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
Associated Press.Olive Garden stopped salting its water for pasta so that its pots would last longer. The Italian-restaurant chain supposedly breaks a basic rule of Italian cooking — salting the pasta water.  "Shockingly, Olive Garden no longer salts the water it uses to boil the pasta, merely to get a longer warranty on its pots," Starboard writes in its 300-slide presentation. "This appalling decision shows just how little regard management has for delivering a quality experience to guests." We reached out to Olive Garden for comment but haven't heard back. The company's website confirms that the pasta contains a negligible amount of sodium until you add sauce or meat.  This Starboard slide points out that "the first step of Pasta 101 is to salt the water."  Starboard According to Smithsonian Magazine, adding salt to the water gives the pasta a better flavor. "Do as Mario Batali does and salt the water until it 'tastes like the sea,'" the magazine instructs. Starboard believes that Olive Garden should focus on offering authentic Italian cuisine.  The brand's new menu items this year have included Spanish tapas and a burger.    FREE AppDownload
flickr/scallop_holdenChase couldn't say anything about Apple Pay until Tim Cook announced it. Just days after Tim Cook announced Apple Pay — the company's new mobile payment platform — we've learned just how hard Apple tried to keep news of the platform secret. Apple wouldn't let any of its payment partners talk about Apple Pay until Tim Cook unveiled the program himself, according to The New York Times' Nathaniel Popper. Executives at JP Morgan's Chase division went so far as to use a secret code to signal when it was okay to talk about their company's involvement in Apple Pay. Chase chief financial officer Marianne Lake was on stage at a conference around the same time Tim Cook was introducing the iPhone 6 to the masses, but was forbidden to mention Apple Pay until Cook did. But when one of Lake's colleague's put a green Apple on the table next to her, she knew the coast was clear to discuss the new platform. "So we are very excited about Apple Pay, and Chase customers will be able to participate in that," Lake reportedly said to the audience. Apple hopes that partnering with major financial institutions like Chase will galvanize consumers to get on the Apple Pay bandwagon. Apple is also rumored to be discussing loyalty programs with some retailers that it hopes will drive mobile wallet adopters towards Apple Pay instead of its Android counterpart, Google Wallet. FREE AppDownload
There are small towns, and then there are towns with single digit populations. Continuing our ongoing search for demographic outliers, we found the smallest town in every state. Using population counts from the 2010 Census, we found the place — either a legally incorporated town, village, or city, or a Census-designated statistical equivalent — that had the fewest inhabitants in each state, excluding the handful of places with zero population in 2010: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2010 U.S. Census Alaska, Arizona, Nebraska, Utah, and Washington all contain a place with one resident as of the 2010 Census. Here's the list of the smallest place in every state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2010 U.S. Census   
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinNew U.S. sanctions handed down on Friday are designed to effectively "shut off" Russian oil conglomerates from oil exploration projects, U.S. officials said, in a move aimed squarely at Russia's $425 billion-a-year petroleum industry. The measures are "designed to effectively shut down this type of oil exploration and production activity by depriving these Russian companies of the goods, technology, and services that they need to do this work," a senior Obama administration official said Friday.  The official added the intention of the new sanctions was to ensure that "we have effectively shut off the capacity" of Russian oil companies to draw on U.S. expertise for deepwater, Arctic offshore, and/or shale oil exploration projects. The official stressed this was an important step because Russia's companies did not possess the kind of technology needed to undertake the operations. The new sanctions prohibit U.S. companies from exporting goods, services, or technology to support five Russian energy companies in exploration or production for Russian deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects that have the potential to produce oil. The U.S. Treasury Department said companies have until Sept. 26 to wind down existing transactions affected by the new sanctions. The Russian energy companies hit by the sanctions include Gazprom, Gazprom Neft, Lukoil, Surgutneftegas, and Rosneft. European companies will have similar prohibitions, under mirroring sanctions handed down by the European Union.  Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and an expert on previous sanctions leveled against countries like Iran, told Business Insider it was a smart escalation in sanctions.  "The new sanctions are smart and targeted and will impact Russia's access to Western technology and services that are needed to develop Moscow's medium to long-term oil exploration and production capacity," Dubowitz said.  "There will be winners and losers, including companies like Exxon and BP, but Western companies will adjust as they have to past energy sanctions against countries like Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and others. The real pain will be borne by Moscow, for whom energy is their economic lifeblood." REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExxon could be a big loser of the new sanctions. Indeed, Exxon could be set to take a hit from the sanctions. In 2011, it agreed to a $500 billion joint venture to explore for oil in the Russian portion of the Arctic Ocean. And the new sanctions come just weeks after Exxon and Rosneft began drilling in Russia’s Kara Sea. "We are assessing the sanctions. It is our policy to comply with all laws," Alan Jeffers, a spokesman for Exxon, told Business Insider in an email.  London-based BP, meanwhile, holds a near-20% stake in Rosneft, which is the largest direct foreign investment in Russia.  The new sanctions are designed to further punish the Russian economy in an attempt to change the calculus of Russian President Vladimir Putin with respect to the situation in Ukraine. U.S. officials painted the targeting of Russia's oil industry as a significant escalatory step, because each of the companies has either direct or close ties to the Kremlin.  For the West — and Europe especially — the move is risky, because it could ignite retaliatory measures from a government that provides a steady stream of natural gas across the continent. U.S. President Barack Obama said Thursday that the sanctions were being imposed in response to Russia's "actions to further destabilize Ukraine over the last month," including an incursion of at least 1,000 Russian forces into eastern Ukraine to fight with pro-Russian separatists in eastern regions of the country. Obama also said a cease-fire reached last week has not produced "conclusive evidence" Russia has worked to de-escalate the crisis. Here's a map of the oil and gas fields in the Arctic Ocean on which Russia has its eyes: Council on Foreign Relations FREE AppDownload
Starboard ValueStarboard Value, a hedge fund that owns about 8.8% of the Olive Garden owner Darden Restaurants, just published a massive 294-slide presentation outlining ways the company can make more money.  Starboard's argument walks through an array of financial and restaurant-level suggestions that Starboard has for Darden.  For example, Starboard notes that Olive Garden's takeout containers are dishwasher safe, which Starboard says requires Olive Garden to "over-engineer package and drive up costs significantly without necessarily driving any benefit associated with more foot traffic of increased pricing power on customers." Olive Garden's signature unlimited salad and breadsticks offering has been executed inefficiently, and Starboard thinks the company could save up to $5 million by changing its procedures.  Starboard also critiques Olive Garden's food preparation: "According to Darden management, Darden decided to stop salting the water to get an extended warranty on their pots. Pasta is Olive Garden's core dish and must be prepared properly."  Through its company-wide margin-improvement proposal, Starboard believes Darden can earn up to $326 million in additional operating earnings. But financial benefits are just a sliver of the overhauls Starboard thinks can greatly help Darden's restaurants.  FREE AppDownload
Getty / Chip SomodevillaPeter Thiel doesn't hold popular views. Peter Thiel — the billionaire cofounder of PayPal and early Facebook investor — took to Reddit on Thursday for an AMA as part of the run-up to the release of his new book "Zero To One," which will be available Tuesday.  The whole thread is worth the read, but we were intrigued by three targets of Thiel's hyper-articulate ire: b-school grads, the overly dressed, and the cult of Silicon Valley. If there's one thing the uber-libertarian Thiel despises, it's people who act like sheep. And MBAs tend to get caught up in groupthink, he says. While he doesn't have an "absolute ban" on hiring MBAs, he thinks that they tend to be "high extrovert/low conviction people."  That's "a combination that in my experience leads towards extremely herd-like thinking and behavior," he says.  While he cautions that there are "no absolute and timeless sartorial rules," Thiel says that "in Silicon Valley, wearing a suit in a pitch meeting makes you look like someone who is bad at sales and worse at tech."  Maybe that's why he has a simple rule for investing: never bet on a CEO in a suit.  As we've reported before, Thiel says that this rule has helped him avoid making poor bets on slick businessfolk compensating for crap products with well-dressed charm.  "Maybe we still would have avoided these bad investments if we had taken the time to evaluate each company's technology in detail," Thiel writes in his new book. "But the team insight — never invest in a tech CEO that wears a suit — got us to the truth a lot faster." Some of Thiel's A-list entrepreneur/investor peers, like LinkedIn founder Reid Hoffman, insist that Silicon Valley is the place to do great entrepreneurial work, because there are so many influential and intelligent people to bump into and start opportunity-enabling relationships with.  Thiel is less enthusiastic. When a Reddit user asked him if it was possible to successfully found a company without living in Silicon Valley, Thiel's answer was "yes."  "It's more affordable," he says, "in almost all ways." Of course, that affordability has its costs. "You miss out on the network effects of Silicon Valley" by living elsewhere, Thiel says. "But sometimes these network effects lead to negatives, as people end up behaving more lemming-like in the SOMA hotbed," referring to the hip San Francisco neighborhood.  Like the MBA, Thiel considers SOMA just another acronym for groupthink.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration of  U.S. dollar Swiss Franc British pound and Euro bank notesBy Jamie McGeever LONDON (Reuters) - Banks caught up in the British investigation into alleged manipulation of global currency markets are pushing for a coordinated settlement that would reduce their exposure to potential reputational damage, banking and legal sources told Reuters. In the year since the scandal surfaced, regulatory authorities have yet to show proof of criminal activity or manipulation of benchmark exchange rates, the sources said, adding that a deal with Britain's top financial regulator could be agreed by the end of the year. The sources said that a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is now being sought on the basis of banks acknowledging lax internal compliance, oversight failures and market conduct breaches by individual employees, but not deliberate manipulation of the $5 trillion-a-day market. One source involved in the talks acknowledged that all sides are keen to wrap up the main part of the investigation, given how long it has been dragging on, and that the plan is to co-ordinate the settlements. Two separate banking sources with knowledge of the investigation said a settlement could be reached this year, with one of them saying that it is likely be a coordinated agreement. Such a deal would see potential FCA fines levied bank by bank, recognizing the differences between various types of misconduct and the degree of any wrongdoing, but with the watchdog announcing the settlements simultaneously, several sources said. Among the banks cooperating with the watchdog's inquiries are Barclays , UBS , Deutsche Bank , JP Morgan , Citi  and RBS , all of which declined to comment for this article, as did the FCA.  'MOVING QUICKLY' "Regulators are moving quickly on this ... so a push toward a year-end resolution doesn't surprise me," the second source said. "But this is their investigation. It doesn't matter what we (the banks) think." It is unclear how, or through what channels, the banks aim to achieve this common position, and there is no indication how amenable the FCA would be to such a proposal. Any agreement this year would represent a dramatic advance on previous FCA estimates of how long it would take to complete its investigation. The regulator's chief executive, Martin Wheatley, said in February that he would be "surprised" if conclusions were drawn this year, while FCA head of enforcement Tracey McDermott told Reuters in April that the investigation was in a "relatively early stage" and that the FCA was "some way away from saying there was actually misconduct at all". The sources said that a coordinated settlement with the FCA would not remove the wider global investigation's potential for later action from authorities such as the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) and the European Commission, most likely to be on antitrust grounds.  PUBLIC BACKLASH However, a collective settlement would help to insulate the banks from the potential for more severe punishment if they opted to go it alone and could also shield them from the kind of public backlash Barclays felt after the Libor scandal.     Barclays was fined a discounted $453 million by British and U.S. authorities in 2012 because it came clean earlier than others in the rate-rigging scandal. But by doing so, the bank became the focal point for the public's anger, forcing the resignation of disgraced Chief Executive Bob Diamond. Given that the FCA and U.S. authorities have been working together closely on the FX investigation, sources say that the banks hope that a simultaneous settlement could be reached with both regulators. A Washington source familiar with the matter, offered little hope of that being achieved. It is hard enough getting one bank investigation over the finish line, so getting multiple regulators on the same page for a coordinated announcement could prove extremely difficult, the source said.     Banks have set aside billions of dollars to cover litigation costs and regulatory settlements, but estimates for the final cost vary wildly. Banking analysis company Autonomous Research pegs the figure as high as $35 billion, which would be almost six times the $6 billion paid out in Libor settlements. Regardless of collective agreements, the FCA, DOJ and other regulators around the world also have the power to charge individuals as and when they see fit. More than 30 currency operatives at several leading banks - including one at the Bank of England - have been suspended, placed on leave or fired as a dozen authorities have conducted their investigations.  (Additional reporting by Matt Scuffham in London and Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Olive GardenActivist hedge fund Starboard Value published a 294-page manifesto against Olive Garden's management, menu, and customer service on Friday. The firm, which owns about 8.8% of Darden (Olive Garden's parent company), claims food quality and taste have "deteriorated significantly" at the Italian chain, and that some dishes are "inedible." It also criticizes Olive Garden for spending money on renovating restaurants when it should be investing in improving customer service.  Here are the most compelling reasons Starboard gave for why Olive Garden's sales and traffic are falling. 1. Olive Garden serves dishes that are "astonishingly far from authentic Italian culture, such as burgers and fries, Spanish tapas, heavy cream sauces, more fried foods, stuffed cheeses, soggy pasta, and bland tomato sauce," the hedge fund writes.  "We believe many customers find [these dishes] extremely unappealing," Starboard adds. Here are some examples of the menu changes that the firm finds unacceptable. Starboard2. Olive Garden's food looks nothing like it's advertised. Here are some examples: StarboardStarboard described the Lasagna Fritta, or fried lasagna bites, as "barely edible." Starboard The "Crispy Parmesan Asparagus" looks particularly unappealing.  Starboard3. Olive Garden has poor customer service. Darden is spending tons of money remodeling its restaurants instead of improving customer service, Starboard says. The company is spending up to $600,000 per restaurant on renovations. "Why would Darden spend money to attract customers into the restaurant, only to disappoint them with more the same underwhelming food and poor service?" the firm asks. In the graphs below, Starboard compares Olive Garden's Yelp and Facebook reviews to those of its competitors.  Starboard4. Menu design is "confused." For example, Starboard writes, "Olive Garden recently introduced a high-quality, healthy trout dish that is generally prepared well, but by loading half of the oversized plate with bland and mushy pasta, Darden has . . . contradicted the 'healthy' image of the dish." Starboard5. The company's logo change, which was widely criticized, was costly and unnecessary, and it won't change customers' perception of the brand. The change is an example of how Olive Garden management is "out of touch with their core customer," Starboard writes. It's expected to cost the company an estimated $42 million to update signage at all of its restaurants, according to Starboard estimates. "Signage is irrelevant at this moment and is another example of capital misallocation — again this is the same strategy that failed for Red Lobster," the firm writes.  Starboard6. The chain's famous breadsticks have "lost their quality taste." "The lower quality refined flour breadsticks served today are filled with more air and have less flavor (similar to hot dog buns)," Starboard writes. 7. The "overcooked" pasta is "shockingly" unsalted, and sauce is "ladled in a heap" on top of the dish instead of thoroughly mixed throughout.  "Shockingly, Olive Garden no longer salts the water it uses to boil the pasta, merely to get a longer warranty on its pots," the hedge fund writes.  8. The chain has raised prices to offset declining traffic, which is "alienating" customers.  Starboard FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Randall HillA 787 Dreamliner being built for Air India is pictured at South Carolina Boeing final assembly building in North Charleston, South Carolina. In a new Al Jazeera documentary, "Broken Dreams: Boeing 787," the news organization's investigative unit goes behind the scenes of Boeing's manufacturing operations and makes some serious allegations about the company and its 787 Dreamliner aircraft. In the report, which aired this week on Al Jazeera America, anonymous Boeing employees called into question Boeing's quality control standards, and claimed that workers in one of Boeing's plants used illegal drugs. The report, hosted by Al Jazeera's Will Jordan, is the culmination of a yearlong investigation of the American aviation giant. Boeing immediately disputed the accuracy of the documentary.  In statement to Business Insider, Boeing said, "We have not been afforded the opportunity to view the full program, but the promotional trailer and published media reviews suggest that what has been produced is as biased a production as we have seen in some time." One particularly controversial portion of the documentary centers on operations at Boeing's North Charleston assembly plant in South Carolina. At the core of this segment is the testimony of an employee at the facility, which was built specifically to construct the Dreamliner, a midsize widebody aircraft that has experienced a troubled rollout, including battery fires that at one point grounded the entire fleet. In the report, the worker tells Jordan that 90% of problems concerning the Dreamliner are swept under the rug.  Using a hidden camera, that Boeing worker sought opinions within the North Charleston facility on the plant's operations and the Dreamliner from fellow workers. When asked whether they would fly on a 787 Dreamliner, the responses from people building the plane were disturbing.  Youtube/Al JazeeraBoeing South Carolina factory worker responds to Al JazeeraIn response, Boeing said, "This specious production appears to have ignored the factual information provided by Boeing and instead based the majority of its reporting on unnamed sources pursuing their own agendas and a disgruntled former employee engaged in a legal dispute with Boeing."  That legal dispute involves a former Boeing South Carolina engineer who claims he was dismissed from the company after reporting that damaged and improperly repaired parts were being installed on production Dreamliners.  There's no question that the documentary adopts a sensationalistic angle — something that's raised objections among aviation experts. In a review published on Forbes, aviation analyst Vinay Bhaskara writes that "despite its hype, Al-Jazeera’s report falls substantially short on substance, too often falling into a slanted and biased presentation that leaves the piece wanting for objectivity and substance." Youtube/Al Jazeera EnglishAnother Boeing engineer responds to the question of whether he would fly on a Dreamliner he helped build.With such a small sample size of employees and mostly anecdotal evidence, it's easy to ask how much substantive value the documentary has. However, the Dreamliner's path to the skies has so far been anything but smooth. Boeing has had issues with everything from the 787's engines and lithium-ion batteries to its software, and these myriad problems have caused lengthy delays for customers and skepticism about the plane's future. Here's Boeing complete statement on the documentary: We have not been afforded the opportunity to view the full program, but the promotional trailer and published media reviews suggest that what has been produced is as biased a production as we have seen in some time. It is unfortunate that the producers of this television program appear to have fallen into the trap of distorting facts, relying on claims rejected by courts of law, breathlessly rehashing as “news” stories that have been covered exhaustively in the past and relying on anonymous sources who appear intent only on harming The Boeing Company. When first contacted by the producers, we accommodated them in order for them to produce a fair and objective report including facilitating factory access, interviews and providing full and open responses to their questions. The 787 is an outstanding airplane delivering value to our customers, but we have also talked candidly in public about its challenging development process. There are no tougher critics about our early performance than Boeing. Unfortunately, the reporting team appears to have chosen to take advantage of our trust and openness and abused their position from the outset by deliberately misrepresenting the purpose, objective and scope of their planned coverage. This specious production appears to have ignored the factual information provided by Boeing and instead based the majority of its reporting on unnamed sources pursuing their own agendas and a disgruntled former employee engaged in a legal dispute with Boeing. In one instance, the producers resorted to ambush tactics normally seen only in tabloid-style TV news. The anonymous sources the TV program depends on are clearly working with those who seek to harm Boeing and its workers. They appear to have no real interest in truth, safety or better informing the public. Even on-the-record sources seem to have changed their stories for the producers. For example, former Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA) President Cynthia Cole said this about the 787’s first flight in 2009: “Today’s flight is a testament to the skill, hard work and diligence Boeing employees put in to get this airplane ready to fly,” SPEEA President Cynthia Cole said in a news release. “Boeing returned to engineering, and that’s what made today possible and successful.” Now, she states in the documentary trailer that Boeing “shortchanged the engineering process.” Instead of an objective view of the 787’s development, viewers and our employees will see a television program that is neither balanced nor accurate in its portrayal of the airplane, our employees, or our suppliers. This program and those involved with it do a disservice to the hard-working men and women of Boeing and our supplier partners who designed and build the 787. Furthermore, the program presents a false impression of Boeing South Carolina and the quality of work performed there. Airplanes, whether delivered from South Carolina or Washington, meet the highest safety and quality standards that are verified through robust test, verification and inspection processes. Our data of the current 787 fleet in service show parity in the quality and performance of airplanes manufactured in both locations. And here's a short clip from the hour-long documentary, which is available on Al Jazeera's website.  FREE AppDownload
For years, it's been assumed that healthcare spending would just keep spiraling higher, leading the US government into certain fiscal doom. Well, the budget deficit is shrinking rapidly, and healthcare spending inflation has slowed dramatically. Paul Krugman explains to BI how one of the biggest "facts" about the fiscal policy debate is looking wronger and wronger all the time. Edited by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Alex Kuzoian.
Olive Garden's sales are falling, and the brand lost millions of dollars last quarter.  Activist investor group Starboard has released an extensive presentation of changes they believe will save the restaurant. Starboard's critiques include that Olive Garden gives out too many breadsticks and should salt its pasta water.  To prove a point, they created a map showing Olive Garden's average Yelp rating in each state over the last two years.  Starboard Olive Garden's average rating is 3.03 out of 5 stars, compared with the peer group average of 3.27.  Starboard is especially concerned about Olive Garden's rankings in middle America, which represents the brand's core customer base.  While the brand has tried to implement changes like adding Spanish tapas and a burger to the menu, Starboard believes the brand should focus on delivering authentic Italian cuisine. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Alex Wong/Michelly Rall (All Getty)The most powerful people in business spend much of their limited free time on a quiet, contemplative pursuit — reading books.  For example, the third-richest person in the world, Warren Buffett, says he spends 80% of his day tearing through the written word.  We've pored over interviews with some of America's most influential execs — from Bill Gates to Jeff Bezos and Oprah Winfrey — to find out what they read. Here are the favorites.  FREE AppDownload
Jason Kempin and JP Yim/Getty ImagesLauren and Andres Santo Domingo. GRAMERCY PARK — Residents of an exclusive Gramercy Park enclave are up in arms after their neighbors — Lauren Santo Domingo, a New York socialite and Vogue contributing editor, and her Colombian billionaire beer heir husband Andres Santo Domingo — began digging a geothermal well beneath their townhouse. A massive drill for the Santo Domingos' well began pounding on Monday, rendering the gated Gramercy Park "uninhabitable" because of the noise, residents said. Construction staging has dangerously pushed pedestrians from the sidewalk out into the street and trucks for the project have crashed into three street trees, destroying them, residents said.  "Everybody is furious. It's a complete disregard for the neighbors," said Pamela Vassil, who has lived on the north side of the park for 40 years and can hear the drilling even though her apartment faces the back of her building. "The Empire State Building was built in 11 months. This has been going on for four stinking years," she noted of the entire project.DNAinfo/Amy ZimmerThe couple bought the townhouse at 23 Gramercy Park South in 2010 and have been renovating it ever since. DNAinfo/Amy ZimmerA drill started digging a geothermal well on Monday for the townhouse at 23 Gramercy Park South. That work was noisy and disruptive too, but residents kept quiet about their concerns until this week, when ear-splitting construction began on the geothermal well, which will be 1,600-feet deep and will take about five weeks to dig, according to neighbors who said they had seen the plans. Geothermal wells, which need to be deep enough into the earth's crust to tap energy to heat and cool the building, are considered eco-friendly since they reduce carbon footprints. They also allow buildings to be powered without being connected to the grid, which appeals to residents in a post-Hurricane Sandy New York. There are more than 100 geothermal wells across the city, according to The New York Times.   Gramercy is no stranger to big renovation projects, like the Gramercy Park Hotel and the top-to-bottom overhaul of 18 Gramercy Park South. Scaffolding currently encases several buildings around the park. But the Santo Domingos' building has showed a new level of disrespect for the community, many residents said. "We've never had as many phone calls and emails and people stopping us on the street to complain about a construction project as this one," said Arlene Harrison, president of the Gramercy Park Block Association, who is known as the "Mayor of Gramercy Park." "People are telling me they're unable to use the park due to the drilling noise." Tony Hume, a representative for the townhouse, told DNAinfo he was not immediately authorized to speak about the project. Sean Brady, who lives next door to the construction at 24 Gramercy Park South, called the noise "deafening." "The drill is something you seen in the [James Dean] movie "Giant," like for a small oil well. It's like a big piece of equipment you'd use wildcatting on Gramercy Park hoping to strike it rich if you weren't already rich," Brady said. "It's taken over the whole neighborhood." Officials from the Department of Environmental Protection said the agency received five noise complaints on Tuesday and they expected to send an inspector Wednesday to take noise readings. Beyond the noise, Gary Baddeley, president of the co-op board next door, was most concerned about potential dangers caused by the project's removal of the sidewalk, which forces pedestrians to cross the middle of the street — or simply walk alongside the construction barriers in the narrow lane used for traffic.  Residents said they have seen trucks mounting the sidewalk to avoid pedestrians who are forced to walk in the street. Since the street changes — all of which have permits from the Department of Transportation, according to city officials — trucks have hit three nearly 40-year-old street trees, residents said. The Parks Department removed two damaged trees already, officials said, and residents said they were told a third tree will be chopped down soon. Baddeley said that while he's sad about the trees, he is even more concerned about his 11- and 13-year-old kids darting into the street without being able to see oncoming traffic. "It's a shame, and we love those trees, but it's not the same as a human life," Baddeley said.    This article originally appeared at DNAinfo.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow DNAinfo.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
StarboardActivist hedge fund Starboard Value wants Olive Garden to axe its unlimited salad and breadsticks. On Friday morning, Starboard published a 294-slide presentation outlining its transformation plan for Darden Restaurants, the parent company that owns Olive Garden and Longhorn Steakhouse, among other restaurant brands. Starboard currently owns about 8.8% of Darden. As you'd expect from a presentation this long, Starboard outlines more than a few ways for Darden to maximize profit and turn around its business, and Olive Garden's unlimited salad and breadsticks is just one of the firm's targets. Starboard sees an opportunity to save up to $5 million per year by rethinking Olive Garden's staple promotion, with Starboard writing that: Some other gems from Starboard's presentation include the revelation that Darden uses non-standard to-go packaging at its restaurants and that takeout packaging at Olive Garden is dishwasher safe. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Joi ItoWealthfront president and CEO Adam Nash.In case you didn't realize, "robo-advisor" is usually not, among those in the finance industry, considered a nice name. Implied in the moniker is the distinction that this newer method of money management is automated, is impersonal, and most of all, is simply not human. While it's unclear who exactly coined the term (it first appeared in 2002), "robo-advisor" has become a handy way to refer to the variety of online investment platforms. Most often, it's used to reference a company like Wealthfront, which directly manages client assets through an online interface, using an algorithm.  Wealthfront president and CEO Adam Nash isn't a fan. "It's a pretty silly term," he says. "As far as I can tell, it's not used by any consumers. After all, when I use Expedia, it's not a 'robo-travel agent.' Is OpenTable a 'robo-concierge?'" He doesn't think the term is meant to be malicious, but Nash is aware of the implications behind how it's often used. "It has been adopted by the financial advisor community in large part because they seem threatened by new entrants like us," he explains. "We find this strange because we largely serve the clients they typically won't take: young people who don't meet their high minimums." "Unfortunately," he continues, "I think when consumers hear the term, they picture calling a phone number and hearing a computer talking back to them. Of course, nothing could be farther from the truth." Nash says his company hires a "world-class team of PhDs and CFAs" led by economist Burt Malkiel to research investments, and then uses that insight with custom-built software. "We believe that in the next five to 10 years, everyone will be using some form of automated investment service." "I've been with Wealthfront almost two years," he quips, "and in all my time at the company I have not yet found a single robot on the premises. 100% of our employees are human."  FREE AppDownload
The headline to this post basically tells the story of what we've learned about the economy this week. The consumer is spending, the dollar is on a tear, and people keep raising their estimates for US GDP. We wrote about the dollar rally yesterday, but the gist is that as the Fed's extraordinary measures come to an end, and rate hikes come in site, the dollar is crushing other world currencies. This chart shows what a tear that dollar has been on. FRED Meanwhile, the US consumer is really starting to spend. Retail sales surged in August, and the July estimate of consumer spending was revised significantly higher. BIS Meanwhile, US GDP estimates keep getting cranked up. Goldman estimates that Q2 GDP growth was actually 4.7%. And their estimate for Q3 GDP just got raised from 3.1% to 3.3%. So yeah, everything's pretty hot. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry Downing U.S. President Barack Obama prepares to walk out and address students at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The University of Michigan's preliminary reading on September consumer confidence came in at 84.6.  Expectations were for the reading to come in at 83.5, up from 82.5 in August's final reading. That number soundly beat expectations.  Twelve-month economic outlook expectations came in at 99 against a final reading of 88 for August.  Both the consumer confidence index and economic expectations are at their highest levels since July 2013.  The current conditions index came in at 98.5, down from 99.8 in August and below expectations for 100.  The consumer expectations index came in at 75.6, better than expected and better than the 71.3 reading in August.  The UMich consumer sentiment survey comes after the latest report on retail sales showed sales jumped 0.6% in August, while July's figure was also revised upwards.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Larry BusaccaDan Loeb. According to The Journal, Loeb plans to use the capital by the end of the year to take activist stakes in companies in the U.S. and abroad.  The recent round of fundraising also brings Third Point LLC's assets under management to $17.5 billion, the report said.  Third Point's Offshore Fund was up 6.7% year-to-date as of the end of August. The S&amp;P was up 9.9 % during that same time.    FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - TeraExchange on Friday launched a swap based on the bitcoin virtual currency, becoming the first to receive approval from a U.S. federal regulator for a financial product based on the budding technology. The derivative allows clients to protect the value of their bitcoin holdings by locking in a dollar value, offering an insurance against the astronomical price swings that have plagued the computer-generated currency. "For a merchant to take bitcoin, there wasn't until this product a regulated way for them to put on a hedge to manage the risk ... and now with this product they can," Christian Martin, who heads TeraExchange, told Reuters. Unlike conventional money, bitcoin is independent of control or backing by any government - something its advocates like, but that has also led to calls for more oversight and raised questions as to how to treat it for tax purposes. Bitcoin started circulating in 2009 and is accepted as payment by an increasing, if small, number of companies. But huge swings in its value, and incidents where clients lost millions of dollars have hurt its reputation. It took TeraExchange, which was launched in 2010, almost half a year to get the product past the regulator, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, since first announcing its plans to launch the swap in March. The company, one of a handful of platforms to facilitate regulated swaps trading that sprung up after the crisis, had to construct an index to gauge the value of bitcoin that the CFTC was satisfied could not easily be manipulated. The global scandal around the Libor interest rate benchmark, in which large banks were forced to pay billions of dollars, showed how easily traders can skew benchmarks, and then make profits through their swaps positions. The Tera Bitcoin Price Index was based on information from six different exchanges, the company said, a number it expected to grow. It had agreed with the exchanges to share information if there were suspicious price moves. A decision last year by the U.S. Treasury to classify exchangers of bitcoin as money transmitters put such firms under the remit of state regulators, and the industry has met with a fractured response from federal regulators. The decision by the CFTC, which regulates swaps and futures, constitutes the first recognition by a U.S. federal regulator of a bitcoin financial product, even if the product does not itself involve the exchange of actual bitcoins. The swap locks in the dollar value of a given bitcoin amount, and the difference is settled in dollars when the contract expires. At both moments, the contract references the new price index, which is published in real time. TeraExchange said it had signed up some 50 clients that were interested in the products, merchants, hardware suppliers and the so-called miners who retrieve the bitcoins from the computer programs that generate the virtual currency. The swap had been available to trade from Friday morning, and the company would now start marketing it. It had already received commitments from market makers, companies that offer prices for buyers and sellers to facilitate trading. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
European CommissionU.K. boasts the lowest investment spend (as % of GDP) in the EU and it's still falling Britain's economic recovery is leaving the country's manufacturers behind, according to new European Commission figures. The stats show U.K. investment in equipment has fallen, even as the economy has picked up.Weak investment in the sector will concern British policymakers who have been looking to rebalance the economy toward exports. ONSRising UK imports continue to swamp export growth. In recent years, the country has seen the balance of trade deficit increase despite the return of growth as imports have overtaken exports. The manufacturing sector has performed particularly poorly with the £10.2 billion ($16.6 billion) deficit on trade in goods in July marking the widest monthly deficit since April 2012.  Manufacturing was one of the worst hit sectors in Britain through the Great Recession, but it also bounced back more strongly than the economy as a whole. Although its overall share of total output has been in steady decline since the 1970s, falling from a peak of around 30% of the total to just over 10% in 2012, it still accounts for half of exports. Given Britain's extraordinarily poor productivity in recent years (giving rise to the productivity puzzle that has foxed economists) the fate of manufacturing should be an area of particular interest for policymakers. As the author of a parliamentary research briefing pointed out in June: Productivity growth in the manufacturing sector has historically been stronger than in most other sectors of the economy due to its reliance on machinery and equipment, which leaves it better placed to benefit from improvements in technology. What should concern Westminster is that the Commission's figures show investment in that new technology falling well behind international peers. Failure to keep pace could result in the U.K. becoming less competitive and ultimately impact the future prospects for the sector. This threatens to exacerbate the trend of its declining importance. PWCServices output is back around its pre-crisis level, while manufacturing languishesCritics will rightly counter that in contrast to manufacturing, the services sector is looking healthier than ever and is likely to continue to grow in importance for the economy. This is true, but if a large percentage of services jobs are in non-tradable sectors they are likely to do little to improve the U.K.'s trade balance in the near future. The worst news for policymakers is that the traditional pressure value for manufacturing no longer appears to have the intended effect. Despite a 20-25% decline in the value of sterling over the crisis, the cheaper relative prices of their goods did not appear to benefit manufacturers much. This suggests the shift from industries such as coal, steel, and engineering toward high-tech, advanced manufacturing with global supply chains has weakened the impact of currency devaluation. There are no longer any easy answers for those looking to revive the fortunes of British manufacturing. Targeted investment and fostering the growth of new, advanced industries will be critical if its current decline is not to prove fatal. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg / Getty Images Expectations were for sales to climb 0.6% in August, up from flat sales in July. July's report was also revised up 0.3% from flat sales. Excluding auto sales, July's report was revised up to 0.3% from 0.1%.  Excluding car sales, retail sales rose 0.3%, in-line with expectations, and excluding autos and gas, sales gained 0.5%, which was also in-line with estimates.  In August, general merchandise sales, which includes department stores and wholesale clubs, fell 0.1%.  Following the report, Joe LaVorgna at Deutsche Bank said on Twitter: Aug #retailsales were meaningfully better after upward revisions to the past 2 months. The data are consistent with 3%-plus real #GDP growth Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: Solid, especially when revisions taken into account. August retail sales rose 0.6%, in line with the consensus. Sales ex-autos rose 0.3%, also matching expectations. But note the +0.5% revision to prior data, making the net report stronger than expected and lifting the y/y rate to 5.0% from 4.2% in July." These tables from the Census Bureau show the month-over-month and year-over-year change in retail sales. Census And this chart from Bill McBride at Calculated Risk shows the change in retail sales, ex-gas, over the past 20 years.  Calculated Risk In a note to clients ahead of the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said: "The August retail sales numbers should surprise to the upside today, offsetting at least some of July's disappointment." He added: "All the indicators we look at, including auto sales and the chain store sales numbers, suggest that activity rebounded very strongly last month."  FREE AppDownload
Flag Institute Last November, the Flag Institute, which manages the United Kingdom's national Flag Registry, conducted a survey on the future of the Union flag if Scotland becomes independent.  The national flag of the United Kingdom, better known as the Union Jack, combines the crosses of England, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.  In the survey, respondents were asked questions like: "If Scotland becomes independent, do you think the Union flag will or will not change?" (56% said it will change) and "If Scotland becomes independent, do you think the Union flag should or should not change?" (64.8% said it should change.) Along with the survey responses, loads of people also sent in their suggestions for what the new British flag might look like if Scotland cuts ties with the U.K. in the upcoming Sept. 18 vote.  "It should be noted that the Flag Institute is not recommending any of these designs," Flag Institute chief executive Charles Ashburner said in a statement. "However as the UK's national flag charity the role of the Flag Institute is to facilitate and inform any national debate about its flag — nothing more complicated than that." Some of the suggested designs appear below. Have a favorite? Let us know in the comments. This is one of the most popular of the suggested designs, according to Ashburner. Basically, it just removes the blue Scottish bits and replaces it with the black of Wales' cross. Flag InstituteThis one includes black as well as gold from the Wales' St. David flag. Flag Institute This flag has a similar theme.  Flag Institute This flag removes the Scotland part and replaces it with elements of the Welsh Dragon flag.  Flag Institute The Welsh-oriented suggestions are less popular, says Ashburner.  Flag Institute A dizzying cross-based design submitted by John Yates and titled as "United Britain" really stands out from other flags already out there.  Flag Institute A lot of designs just stitch the flags of the remaining home nations together.  Flag Institute Flag Institute The two flags below are rather intricate. Flag Institute Flag Institute In this design, the blue has been replaced with black and there's a border of flowers that represent the different home nations.  Flag Institute FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCompany logo of Gazprom Neft is seen on a service station roof in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Any further Western sanctions which may aim at technology for Russia's modernizing oil refineries could lead to gasoline shortages, an energy ministry official said. The latest Western sanctions, imposed on Friday, have targeted technology for Russia's Arctic oil exploration and shale oil projects. Yury Zolotnikov, a deputy head of the oil refining department, said his ministry already expected gasoline shortages next year and in 2016, with Russia on "a dangerous balance" of production only marginally higher than consumption. "So far, there have been no such sanctions, but they obviously could create problems (for refinery modernization)," Zolotnikov told Reuters in an interview. Sanctions have limited the ability of Russian companies to borrow from the Western capital markets and hit Rosneft, Russia's top oil producer, which has had to cut its staff as its production falls. Russia is particularly dependent on the West for catalysts, refining equipment and gas turbine parts, meaning complicated refinery modernization work to improve fuel quality is seen as almost impossible without the access to Western expertise. Rosneft needs to invest more than $21 billion annually until 2017 to launch new fields and upgrade refineries. It said last week it planned to replace all equipment and technology imports from the West as the U.S. and EU sanctions. In May, Energy Minister Alexander Novak asked President Vladimir Putin to boost funding for domestic producers because a quarter of all equipment used in oil output enhancement was imported. The modernization drive is estimated to cost about $55 billion this decade. Zolotnikov said Russian refineries were unable to sharply increase production over the next two years, which may lead to shortage of gasoline. He added that the increasing number of accidents and routine maintenance work at refineries also pointed to possible fuel supplies disruptions. "You can't rule out incidents at the plants, maintenance seasons in April-May and September-October, risks are being created. It is necessary that production is higher than consumption by at least 3 million tonnes," he said. According to his data, production of gasoline of 3, 4 and 5 grades in Russia is seen at 38 million tonnes in 2014. It would only reach 38.3 million tonnes in 2015 and 38.8 million in 2016. Russia has faced several gasoline shortages in the past, the latest in May 2011, when domestic refineries boosted exports in search of higher margins. A fuel shortage for Russia's drivers would be a politically damaging for the Kremlin. Zolotnikov said one way to avert the crisis was to increase gasoline imports from neighboring Belarus which currently run at 1.5 million tonnes a year. In January-July, Russia increased shipments of gasoline from Belarus by a third, to 812,000 tonnes.   (Reporting by Olesya Astakhova; writing by Vladimir Soldatkin, editing by Elizabeth Piper and William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA gasoline station board displaying fuel prices stands beside a sign owned by a BP petrol station in MoscowBRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union tightened sanctions on Russia on Friday over its role in the Ukrainian conflict, restricting access to financing for top Russian banks, defense and energy firms and freezing the assets of senior politicians and rebel leaders. The United States was set to follow suit with its own tougher sanctions later on Friday, heaping pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin after Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea region and sent troops to back pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. However, the drive for tougher EU sanctions faces growing opposition from a number of EU countries that fear retaliation from Russia, the bloc's biggest energy supplier. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the EU was "choosing the path of disrupting the peace process", and that Moscow would respond "calmly, appropriately and, most of all, from the need to protect our interests", the Interfax agency reported. In a move to assuage critics, the EU has said it could lift some or even all of the sanctions within weeks - if Moscow abides by a fragile truce in Ukraine and respects a peace plan. Publishing the latest sanctions list in the EU's Official Journal, EU governments said it was "appropriate to take further restrictive measures in response to Russia's actions destabilizing the situation in Ukraine". Russia has already banned all imports of food from the United States and all fruit and vegetables from Europe in response to previous Western sanctions. Its response to the latest Western sanctions may include caps on used car imports and other consumer goods, a Kremlin official was quoted as saying on Thursday. At the same time as stepping up sanctions, the EU will offer Russia more time to adjust to a European trade pact with Ukraine at Brussels talks on Friday, diplomats say, moving to ease tensions over an accord at the center of the Ukraine crisis.   POLITICIANS TARGETED The latest sanctions included asset freezes and travel bans on Igor Lebedev and other deputy speakers of the Russian lower house of parliament, on Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, and on a number of leaders of pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Also targeted was Sergei Chemezov, described as a close associate of Putin's from his days as a KGB officer in communist East Germany. Chemezov is chairman of Rostec, a leading defense and industrial group that includes arms supplier Rosoboronexport and a firm that is planning to build energy plants in Crimea. This brings the total of people under EU sanctions to 119, while 23 entities remain under asset freeze in the EU. State-owned Rosoboronexport said it did not expect the sanctions to have an impact on its business. (Full text: http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=OJ:L:2014:271:FULL&amp;from=EN) The new sanctions bar EU firms from providing services such as drilling and well-testing for deep water oil exploration and production, Arctic oil exploration and production, or shale oil projects in Russia. As EU officials have said before, the new sanctions put Russia's top oil producers and pipeline operators, Rosneft , Transneft and Gazprom Neft, on a list of state-owned firms whose ability to raise capital on European markets will be restricted. EU sanctions do not include the gas sector and in particular state-owned Gazprom, the world's biggest gas producer and the biggest gas supplier to Europe. The battle-tank maker Uralvagonzavod [URALG.UL], the aerospace firm Oboronprom [GKROSO.UL], maker of Mil military helicopters, and the state-controlled United Aircraft Corp (UAC), which produces MiG and Sukhoi warplanes, are barred from raising new capital in Europe via securities with a maturity of more than 30 days.   MILITARY TECHNOLOGY RESTRICTED The EU barred the export of technology that can have military uses to nine Russian firms, including Kalashnikov, maker of the famous AK-47 assault rifle. An earlier round of EU sanctions barred EU investors from buying or selling new bonds or equity with a maturity of more than 90 days issued by major state-owned Russian banks Sberbank, VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Vneshekonombank (VEB) and Russian Agriculture Bank (Rosselkhozbank). The latest measures bar trade in new securities issued by the same five banks with a maturity exceeding 30 days. Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko said the fresh EU sanctions highlighted the support his country was receiving: "I never felt before this level of solidarity," Poroshenko told a conference in Kiev, also citing the pledges of support he received at a NATO summit in Wales last week. "I feel myself a full member of the European family." Ukraine made an historic shift away from Russia in June by signing a free-trade accord with the EU, turning its back on its old Soviet master and on a customs union with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Rows over the pact late last year triggered the unrest that toppled Ukraine's Moscow-backed leader in February. European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht was to set out ways to avoid penalizing Russian exporters in meetings with Russian Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin in Brussels later on Friday. Some European officials believe Moscow could use disruptions to the natural gas deliveries on which the EU depends as its trump card in the confrontation over Ukraine. Slovak gas importer SPP saw a roughly 10 percent decrease in gas supplies from Russia for a third day in a row on Friday, a spokesman said.   (Editing by Alastair Macdonald and Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
Eggs have gotten a bad reputation over the years, but research by scientists and nutritionists shows they have tremendous positive effects on your health. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP ImagesCarl IcahnBOSTON (Reuters) - Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who has built his reputation on rebuilding companies, won three board seats at Hertz Global Holdings &lt;htz.n&gt; on Thursday, sending the car rental company's stock price higher in after-hours trading. Hertz invited Icahn's nominees onto the board less than four weeks after the New York-based investor announced that he had become the company's biggest investor with an 8.7 percent stake and that he planned to push management for changes. The company's stock price, which has been under pressure this year, climbed $1.32, or 4.76 percent, to $29.07 in after-hours trading on news that Icahn deputies Vincent Intrieri, Samuel Merksamer and Daniel Ninivaggi would join the board. The trio will replace three board members who are stepping down. Icahn said that, in exchange for the seats, he would not run a proxy contest. "This agreement eliminates distraction and ensures that we stay sharply focused on delivering the significant potential of the business," Linda Fayne Levinson, Hertz' independent non-executive board chair, said in a statement. For Hertz, it has already been a tumultuous week, kicked off with news on Monday that Mark Frissora, the company's chairman and chief executive officer, had stepped down amid pressure from Icahn and others. Hedge fund Fir Tree said publicly last month that the CEO had "lost credibility." It declined to comment on Thursday. A day later, an administrative error made by Icahn's team in a regulatory filing incorrectly suggested that the billionaire had upped his ownership in Gannett Co Inc &lt;gci.n&gt; while in fact he was only converting Hertz options into common stock. Two of Icahn's representatives will join the search committee to find a permanent replacement for Frissora, the company said. Last month, some big-name investors said they wanted Scott Thompson, former CEO of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, to replace Frissora. Calling Hertz a great company and a great brand, Icahn said in a news release that he expects the "right new CEO will return it to its former glory," and said he was happy that his nominees will now be instrumental in finding a new leader. He was not immediately available for further comment on Thursday. Hertz last month withdrew its full-year financial forecast, blaming a shortage of cars due to motor industry recalls and an accounting error, which sent its stock price tumbling. At 78, when most people are living off their investments, Icahn is still casting around to make new bets and is busier than ever in shining the spotlight on management teams he feels are underperforming. In the last few months he has pressured eBay &lt;ebay.o&gt;, Family Dollar Stores &lt;fdo.n&gt; and Apple &lt;aapl.o&gt;. He is also fond of saying that investors should buy a stock when his representatives get on the board and not sell until they leave, promising that good things inevitably happen when he becomes involved. Hertz also said it would amend its shareholder rights plan, a so-called poison pill it adopted last year to prevent any one shareholder from gaining control of the company as activist investors began circling. The trigger for the poison pill will be increased to 20 percent from 10 percent.   (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
© AFP William WestJohn McFarlane, pictured in 2006, has been named as new chairman of Barclays BankLondon (AFP) - Barclays chairman David Walker will step down next year, the British bank said on Friday, having spent more than two years steering the business through fallout from the Libor rate-rigging scandal. John McFarlane, chairman of British insurer Aviva, will replace Walker following Barclays' annual general meeting on a date to be decided in 2015, Barclays said in a statement. "I am delighted that Barclays has appointed John McFarlane to succeed me as chairman," Walker added.   "We are making good progress toward the delivery of our strategic objectives and I have every confidence that John will work very successfully with (chief executive) Antony Jenkins in leading this great bank through the next phase of that journey." Banking industry veteran Walker became chairman in 2012, succeeding Marcus Agius who resigned over the Libor rate-rigging scandal. Barclays recently launched plans to shrink its investment bank and to axe 19,000 jobs across the entire group in the next two years, as Jenkins shakes up the company following a series of recent scandals. Barclays, which was at the heart of the Libor interest-rate rigging affair, also faces investigations along with other major lenders over possible manipulation of foreign exchange trades. The Libor scandal erupted when Barclays was fined £290 million in 2012 by British and US regulators for attempted manipulation of Libor and Euribor interbank rates between 2005 and 2009. Euribor is the eurozone equivalent of Libor, and interbank rates are the rates at which banks lend to each other. The Libor rate is a benchmark on which are based vast numbers of financial contracts around the world. Royal Bank of Scotland, Swiss lender UBS, Rabobank and broker Icap also received heavy fines over the scandal.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters(Reuters) - Darden Restaurants Inc &lt;dri.n&gt; reported a quarterly loss after same-restaurant sales fell again at its Olive Garden chain, which contributes about two-thirds to profit. Darden reported a net loss of $19.3 million, or 14 cents per share, from continuing operations for the first quarter ended Aug. 24 compared with a profit of $42.2 million, or 32 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 4 percent to $1.59 billion. Same-restaurant sales at its Olive Garden chain fell 1.3 percent, but rose 2.8 percent at its LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore and Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe Betsey Johnson Spring 2015 collection is modeled during Fashion Week on Wednesday in New York.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Scottish Independence Takes A Blow. A new pole revealed that 52% of Scottish voters would vote "no" for independence from the U.K. This is a reversal of last week's pole that showed 51% of respondents saying "yes" and comes less than a week before the country's referendum next Thursday. Pound Surges. The British pound immediately surged, jumping against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. However, we're not yet in the clear. "A victory by Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond’s Yes campaign would mean a 5% to 10% slide versus the dollar within a month, said 61 percent of the 31 respondents polled by Bloomberg Sept. 5-11," reported Bloomberg's Lukanyo Mnyanda, David Goodman, and Andre Tartar. "Sterling is already down 5.5% from a five-year high in July, and touched its lowest level in 10 months this week as momentum for the separatists increased. " The US Dollar Is On A Tear. "The U.S. dollar headed for its ninth straight week of gains on Friday, some measure of how the economic fortunes of the United States and its major economic peers are diverging after six years of financial turmoil," reported Reuters' Catherine Evan. We Might Be Witnessing The Final Humiliation Of The Fed Haters. "Over the last several years, anti-Fed 'policy bears' have been warning about how the extraordinary steps taken to juice the economy would end in disaster," wrote Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal. "Some predicted surging interest rates. Some people predicted runaway inflation. And a lot of folks said that the Fed was murdering the dollar. Well, none of that has happened. And not only that, the dollar is one of the strongest currencies in the world." Markets Are Mixed. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is flat, and Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.3%. U.S. futures are just a hair above breakeven. Apple Store Crashes. "Apple's website collapsed under increased traffic early Friday morning after eager customers waited until midnight to order the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus," reported Business Insider's James Cook. Carl Icahn Gets 3 Seats On Hertz. "Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who has built his reputation on rebuilding companies, won three board seats at Hertz Global Holdings on Thursday, sending the car rental company's stock price higher in after-hours trading," reported Reuters' Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Ankit Ajmera. "Hertz invited Icahn's nominees onto the board less than four weeks after the New York-based investor announced that he had become the company's biggest investor with an 8.7% stake and that he planned to push management for changes." HTZ shares are up 3.8% in pre-market trading. A Welcome Sign From Europe. Eurozone industrial production climbed 1.0% month-over-month in July, beating expectations for a 0.7% gain. "The eurozone industrial sector is starting the third quarter on a strong note with a significant beat of the consensus," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. Sales Check. The August retail sales report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate sales climbed by 0.6% in August, or 0.5% excluding autos and gas. "While retail sales growth has been softening on a month-over-month basis, we continue to see relatively strong year-over-year gains," Wells Fargo's John Silvia said. "The recent pickup in revolving consumer credit may help support retail sales going forward, as consumers become more comfortable relying on their credit cards again for spending amid continuing improvement in people’s views on the economy and financial standing." Confidence Check. The University of Michigan's preliminary September confidence index will be released at 9:55 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index of sentiment climbed to 83.3 in September from 82.5 in August. "With broad equity indexes near record highs and gasoline prices falling, the University of Michigan’s consumer sentiment index for early September probably will reflect some of the improvement already captured in late August," said Credit Suisse economists. "However, the gain in the headline sentiment index probably will be mitigated by continued pessimism about future wage growth." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsVenezuela's President Nicolas MaduroCARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela said on Thursday it would extend an overnight closure of its border with neighboring Colombia for another three months in a campaign to stop widespread fuel and food smuggling. The measures to stop traffic crossing between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., and limit the movement of cargo vehicles during the day, were introduced in mid-August to combat the lucrative business in smuggling heavily subsidized Venezuelan products. "We are going to pursue and punish smugglers with double severity," President Nicolas Maduro said, announcing the three-month extension. "They are looting the republic." Venezuela's gasoline is the cheapest in the world, and many other goods from cooking oil to corn flour are sold with large discounts in state stores, enabling thousands to live off a thriving contraband trade along the border with Colombia. Maduro said 512 people had been arrested since the anti-smuggling campaign began last month, and thanked Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos' government for its cooperation. Opposition parties say Maduro should first tackle alleged collusion between Venezuela's armed forces and the smugglers. Some economists contend the large price disparities between the cost of goods in Venezuela and neighboring countries mean the latest measures are unlikely to have a long-term impact on the smuggling problem. Subsidies on products, first introduced in late socialist leader Hugo Chavez's 14-year presidency until 2013, are hugely popular among Venezuelans. Despite Maduro's thanks, Colombia's Foreign Minister Maria Angela Holguin has criticized Venezuela's measures as "unilateral" and unlikely to control contraband along the 2,219 km (1,378 miles) of border. (Reporting by Andrew Cawthorne; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
elliot brown on FlickrScotland's largest banks and financial firms will abandon the country for Britain if Scots vote "Yes" to independence on Sept. 18. The news adds to fears that independence could prove to be an economic disaster for Scotland. Here is the full list of companies that have confirmed plans to leave in the event of a breakup: We will continue to update this list as the story develops so check back in with us for the latest news! Elsewhere, The Lawyer reports that a leading Scottish law firm is already moving its money out of Scottish banks and the chairman of John Lewis warned that supermarket prices could rise if Scotland goes it alone. Perhaps most seriously for a future independent Scottish government Bob Dudley, the chief executive of BP, warned that a "yes" vote could impact North Sea oil investment plans: The opportunities today are smaller and more challenging to develop than in the past ... Much of this activity requires fiscal support to be economic, and future long-term investments require fiscal stability and certainty ... As a major investor in Scotland – now and into the future – BP believes that the future prospects for the North Sea are best served by maintaining the existing capacity and integrity of the United Kingdom. The decision by these firms to make their contingency plans public ahead of the vote shows how uncomfortable the industry has become with the prospect of a breakup of the U.K. It also shows just how close people are now expecting the vote to be. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe U.S. dollar headed for its ninth straight week of gains on Friday, some measure of how the economic fortunes of the United States and its major economic peers are diverging after six years of financial turmoil. Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yields rose to their highest in over a month, while European stocks shrugged off weakness in Asia to inch higher. &lt;.FTEU3&gt; A broad rise for the greenback was the main bet of most major investment houses this year, but it has taken a very long run of relatively good U.S. numbers and a surge in concern over European and Japanese growth for the currency to deliver. Investors are convinced a Federal Reserve meeting next Wednesday will rubberstamp a shift toward higher interest rates next year suggested by a study by researchers from the U.S. central bank this week. A 2 percent rise on the week in response took the U.S. currency to a six-year high of 107.39 yen on Friday &lt;JPY=&gt;. Against the euro it gained 0.2 percent on the week at 1.2921, broadly flat on the day. &lt;EUR=&gt; "The dollar generally remains firm but the dollar index has started to show some hesitation," Swedish bank SEB said in a note to clients on Friday. The dollar index, a measure of the greenback's value against a basket of six major currencies, remained on course for its longest streak of weekly gains since the first quarter of 1997. A range of political shocks to the system, from turmoil in the Middle East to fighting in Ukraine and a referendum on Scottish independence, have added to the backing for the dollar against a range of emerging and developed world currencies. But the euro, hammered by worsening economic numbers and further easing of monetary policy by the European Central Bank in the past month, has begun to find some support in the last few days. Sterling was also looking more robust, helped by a poll that showed supporters of preserving Scotland's 300-year old political union with England four points ahead with less than a week to go before the Sept. 18 vote. The poll also helped Britain's top equity index rise for the first time in six sessions &lt;.FTSE&gt;, driven by Scottish-based shares such as Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt;, soft-drink group AG Barr &lt;BAG.L&gt; and utility SSE &lt;SSE.L&gt;.  The rise in volatility on currency markets — at a four-year high on sterling on Friday — more broadly has prompted some investors to pare back on carry trades, where they borrow at low rates in euros and yen to buy higher-yielding assets such as commodity-linked or emerging market currencies. Victims included the Canadian dollar, which plumbed a five-month low of C$1.1030 &lt;CAD=D4&gt;, while Australia's dollar hit a six-month low of $0.9053 &lt;AUD=D4&gt;. The dollar gains have also pushed oil prices to their lowest in two years &lt;LCOc1&gt;, while gold sank to an eight-month trough and copper fell to a three-month low. In contrast, the dollar's gains on the yen were considered positive for Japanese exports, corporate earnings and equities. The broad Topix index &lt;.TOPX&gt; added 0.2 percent and reached its highest level since July 2008. Stocks elsewhere in Asia fared less well as investors fretted that even the hint of a shift in Fed policy might spark a withdrawal of funds from emerging markets. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was down 0.3 percent at one-month lows. In Europe, Germany's DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; and France's CAC 40 &lt;.FCHI&gt; were down 0.2 and 0.1 percent respectively. U.S. retail sales numbers later Friday may fuel speculation over interest rates. Economists expect a solid rebound of 0.6 percent in August, up from a disappointingly flat reading in July and fueled by a boom in auto sales. A strong result would only add to speculation the Fed might refine, or even drop, its commitment to keeping rates low for a "considerable time" after its asset purchase program ends. That has put yields on two-year Treasuries &lt;US2YT=RR&gt; on track for their highest weekly close since April 2011. "The market will be on the defensive going into next Wednesday's Fed meeting due to the growing contingent who are convinced a hawkish language change is imminent," said William O'Donnell, head of Treasury strategy at RBS. "But bearish expectations may surpass what the Fed will deliver," he added. "We think September is a bit premature for a language change and that the Fed is just looking to have the conversation." (Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phill MagakoeOlympic and Paralympic track star Oscar Pistorius during judgment at the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Thursday. A South African judge on Friday found Olympic track star Oscar Pistorius guilty of culpable homicide, the equivalent of manslaughter. The sentencing will come at a later date.  The athlete was also found guilty of negligently handling a gun in a crowded restaurant. Pistorius, 27, was found not guilty of murder on Thursday. He was also cleared of common law murder. Pistorius was accused of murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on Valentine's Day of last year. Pistorius said he mistook her for a burglar, but prosecutors argued he shot Steenkamp intentionally as the result of an argument. Before adjourning court on Thursday, Judge Thokozile Masipa said Pistorius "acted too hastily and used excessive force" and that "his conduct was negligent." Masipa also criticized Pistorius for not calling security if he thought he heard an intruder in his home. "Calling security … and running to the balcony to scream for help and to attract attention probably would have taken as much time, if not less, as it took to go to the bathroom and to discharge those four shots," she said. Pistorius' defense tried to justify his actions by detailing the paranoid environment he grew up in — his mother reportedly slept with a firearm under her pillow — but Masipa said many South Africans have been victims of crime and do not act the way Pistorius did. "I believe the conduct of the accused might be better understood when looking at his background, however, the explanation of the conduct of the accused is just that: an explanation," she said. "It does not excuse the conduct of the accused." Pistorius was charged with premeditated murder, firing a gun in a public space, and illegally possessing ammunition. His trial spanned about six months, and 37 witnesses testified. The gun charge he was convicted on relates to a 2013 incident in which a gun went off in a crowded restaurant. No one was injured. Pistorius said he didn't pull the trigger, but Masipa said that didn't absolve him of guilt, according to The Independent. During the trial, Pistorius said he fired four shots through a locked bathroom door at his Pretoria home because he thought Steenkamp was an intruder. He said he woke up and heard a noise in the bathroom, remembered there were no bars on the bathroom windows, and thought contractors working on the property had left ladders outside. He said he assumed Steenkamp was still in bed next to him. But neighbors who testified at the trial said they heard arguing and a woman screaming at Pistorius' house the night Steenkamp died. And in a text conversation just weeks before she died, Steenkamp told Pistorius that she was "scared of [him] sometimes." The burden was on the prosecution was to prove that Pistorius meant to kill Steenkamp. As The Independent points out, prosecutors had to show that their version of events was "the only version of events that can possibly be true." FREE AppDownload
ReutersA new poll shows support for Scottish independence sliding — unfortunate news for pro-independence leader Alex Salmond.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Friday: 1. The United States and the European Union have agreed to broaden sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis. U.S. President Barack Obama said he would offer more details on Friday. Sources told Reuters that the U.S. planned "to sanction Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, and to further limit other Russian banks' access to U.S. capital." 2. Olympic track star Oscar Pistorius was found guilty of culpable homicide on Friday after being cleared of murder charges on Thursday for shooting his girlfriend last year.  3. Australia raised its terror threat from medium to high over the growing threat of militant groups in Iraq and Syria. In a news conference, Prime Minister Tony Abbott stressed that the country was not in imminent danger, but there is growing evidence of Australians connected to Islamist groups.  4. T.J. Lane, a 19-year-old serving a life sentence in prison after killing three high school students in 2012, was captured early Friday after escaping with two other inmates in Lima, Ohio. One of the prisoners, Clifford Opperud, is still believed to be at-large. 5. Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen's charity will reportedly donate $9 million to help fight the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Reuters said.  6. Support for Scottish independence seems to be fading after a new YouGov poll for the Times found the No vote leading by a slight margin of 4 percentage points.   7. The CIA updated its estimate of the number of Islamic State fighters from 10,000 to between 20,000 and 31,500.  8. Documents released Thursday showed that in 2008, the U.S. government threatened to fine Yahoo $250,000 a day if the tech giant didn't hand over user data as part of an expanded surveillance program.  9. A U.S. Ebola patient being treated in Nebraska appears to be getting better after receiving "every treatment [doctors] can think of," Maggie Fox of NBCNews reports.  10. Deutsche Bank released a major report stating that bonds may be the world's last mega-bubble.  And finally... Cleo the cat walked away with only a small cut after falling 17 stories.  FREE AppDownload
