REUTERS/DevadasanA worker refreshes himself in the afternoon heat as he works on a construction site in Dubai June 19, 2006.Dubai has been one of the most exciting and volatile economic stories of the 21st century. It's global, glitzy, and growing like crazy. It also has a red-hot property market that has experts warning of a collapsing bubble. Related concerns have been tied to recent crashes in Dubai's stock market. Still, the tiny economy has developed into a world city that is a business and cultural focal point in the Middle East, and it has the attention of the world. Tourism and real estate drive the economy, and there seems to be a never-ending development of innovative and over-the-top projects. FREE AppDownload
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Advisors Can Handle The Investment Trade-Off Between Risk And Return (The Wall Street Journal)  Investment is a trade-off between risk and return writes Mark Keating, senior adviser at Willow Creek Wealth Management, in a WSJ column. "Is it better to preserve capital by overweighting portfolios with conservative investments like bonds? Or to emphasize purchasing power with more volatile investments like stocks?" according to Keating.  "Advisers should tailor this conversation about risk around the particular circumstances of a client's life. Are they willing to reduce their standard of living or work longer if their portfolio does not outpace inflation based on their risk aversion? "Once the risk/return level has been determined, advisers should implement a trading strategy that takes advantage of short-term market volatility. Rebalancing a portfolio to its intended risk/return targets after substantial market movements helps control risk in the short term." If You Want To Benefit From The Surge In M&amp;As Invest In Banks Doing The Deals (Reuters)  Mergers and acquisitions are up 73% year-over-year. "If you want to get a piece of the action as an investor, you're best off betting on the banks that have a hand in arranging or advising the mergers - or an even larger pool of stocks," writes John Wasik at Reuters.  "The problem with owning a merger/arbitrage fund is that its managers only focus on a handful of companies. What if the companies picked by the managers don't merge? What if the market doesn't bid up the price of the targeted company?" "…A more profitable strategy is a roundabout way of playing the merger-acquisition game. Instead of picking potential winners, just pick a handful of investment banks doing the most deals when the merger climate is hot. They profit handsomely from setting up these corporate marriages." This World Map Shows Where Things Have The Highest Chance Of Going Wrong (Business Insider) Geo-political tensions are back in the headlines as this week brought ground operations by Israeli forces in Gaza, and as a Malaysia Airlines plane was shot down as it flew over Ukraine. Deutsche Bank has a map that highlights the three main areas of geopolitical risk. Deutsche BankThe Biggest Trend In Emerging Markets Now (Vanguard)  The biggest trend in emerging markets now has to do with the size and weight of China in global benchmarks, Jamie Perrett director of index research at FTSE, tells Vanguard. "If you look at emerging markets indexes today, China’s allocation is about 20%," Perrett's said.  "We can see that doubling in the future, depending on whether China “A Shares” are included in emerging markets indexes. Many funds do not have an allocation to A Shares at the moment, but China may potentially make up a significant proportion of the funds based on FTSE’s indexes. So therefore it is relatively important for advisors to be aware of what’s going on with China and the implications of any changes." These 2 Brilliant Charts Show How Stock Market Returns Become More Predictable Over Time (Alliance Bernstein)  The price-earnings (P/E) ratio is one of the most common ways to measure stock market value. And a P/E ratio of 16x is typically considered expensive for the S&amp;P 500, but that shouldn't be the sole gauge of where the market is going, according to Seth Masters at Alliance Bernstein.  "The left side of the second display ... portrays one-year returns for the S&amp;P 500, arrayed by the price-to-forward earnings at the beginning of each period. When the market has previously been close to its current valuation, there has been a very wide range of returns in the subsequent year. That was also true when valuations were lower or higher. Basically, stocks can be very volatile in the short run, and the market could rise or fall significantly over the next year regardless of its valuation. "If you extend your time frame, however, the behavior of the market looks much more predictable. The right side of the display shows that with a five-year horizon, the range of market returns has been narrower. Furthermore, valuation has mattered over longer horizons: when the price-to-forward earnings has exceeded 20, the subsequent five-year S&amp;P 500 return has, in most cases, been low or negative." Alliance Bernstein FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere’s a lot of chatter these days about extended “valuations” and the “bubble” in the stock market.  For instance, I was reading this piece on MarketWatch by Brett Arends which states that we’re now in the “third biggest stock bubble in US history”.  Arends goes on to cite Andrew Smithers of Smithers &amp; Co. and his analysis showing that the US stock market is overvalued by 80%.  EIGHTY PERCENT!  That sounds like a huge number doesn’t it?  The only problem is, Smithers has been saying this the entire way up:     In November of 2009 Smithers said equities were 40% overvalued (see here also).    In December 2010 Smithers said equities were 70% overvalued.    In March of 2012 Smithers said equities were 50% overvalued.    And now we hear the citation about an 80% overvaluation. Smithers uses Tobin’s Q and other valuation metrics to gauge the “value” of the stock market.  And I don’t mean to jump on Andrew Smithers.  But there’s a good lesson to learn here.  Looking at “value” is a lot like looking at “beauty”.  You might think you know what beauty is, but if the market is a Keynesian beauty contest where you’re trying to judge the beauty of contestants relative to the way the other judges perceive beauty then the only thing that matters is what the other judges believe.  Using some historical benchmark of “beauty” could be entirely useless if the benchmark of “beauty” has shifted.  In essence, picking the most “beautiful” contestant isn’t a contest involving your ability to understand “beauty”, but it’s really a contest about your ability to perceive what the other judges THINK is beautiful. In the case of the stock market we’ve now seen a 20+ year period where stocks are “overvalued” by several metrics (Shiller CAPE, Tobin’s Q, Market cap to GDP, etc).  So I think it’s worth asking yourself how useful all of these metrics really are.  Can you afford to go through a 20 year period relying on a rear view mirror dataset assuming that the market is overvalued when the other participants might not be using the same gauge of “beauty” as you are? I’ve spent a good deal of time over the last 10 years trying to put “value” metrics to work.  I even cite them here on occasion just for perspective.  But I have found it nearly impossible to apply these metrics in any useful sense.  And if the last 20 years tell us anything it’s clear that many of these valuation metrics are junk and relying on them will lead you astray.  None of this means there aren’t potential risks in the market at present or that stocks aren’t in a bubble.  It just means that relying on these metrics to tell you that is probably not a very good indication of bubbles let alone anything…. FREE AppDownload
Christie's International Real EstateThe Greenwich, Connecticut, estate of the late Leona Helmsley, the hotel tycoon who earned the nickname "Queen of Mean," is on the market for $65 million, according to Christie's International Real Estate, which is selling the home. The estate last sold for $35 million to an undisclosed buyer in 2010, who made major renovations and put it back on the market, reports The Wall Street Journal. It was originally built in 1918, and now has 17,000 square feet with nine bedrooms and 11 bathrooms. The mansion has iron gates and a winding stone driveway lined by trees. It sits on 4o acres of land, and has two additional cottages and garage space for up to six cars. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVJeremy GranthamJeremy Grantham has published his latest quarterly letter to GMO clients. In it, he continues to deliver his message of caution, warning that the stock market is expensive and is priced to deliver paltry returns for years to come. And he continues warn that we are heading for a bubble. "[M]y recent forecast of a fully-fledged bubble, our definition of which requires at least 2250 on the S&amp;P, remains in effect," he reiterated. In this letter, Grantham commits some time addressing the current M&amp;A boom that we have been witnessing this year. He actually believes the next leg of this boom could be a truly historic one. "Don’t tell me there are already a lot of deals," he writes. "I am talking about a veritable explosion, to levels never seen before." He gives reasons why he predicts this: 1) Cheap debt: "...when compared to other deal frenzies, the real cost of debt this cycle is lower..." 2) High profit margins: "...profit margins are, despite the first quarter, still at very high levels and are widely expected to stay there..." 3) Young-looking recovery: "...the economy, despite its being in year six of an economic recovery, still looks in many ways like quite a young economy..." Grantham notes that there is slack in the labor market and room for capital spending. "If I were a potential deal maker I would be licking my lips at an economy that seems to have enough slack to keep going for a few years," he writes. Grantham, also observes that investors are "just now picking up their courage" after getting crushed in the last crash. Furthermore, the low interest rate environment has forced companies to find new ways to offer growth. "I think it is likely (better than 50/50) that all previous deal records will be broken in the next year or two," he writes. "This of course will help push the market up to true bubble levels, where it will once again become very dangerous indeed." So, there you have it. Grantham is forecasting that this bubble could be the one marked by M&amp;A. Read the whole letter at GMO.com. FREE AppDownload
TubeMogulTubeMogul CEO Brett WilsonShares of TubeMogul, a digital branding company, surged more than 60% in their public debut Friday. TubeMogul priced its IPO at $7 per share, and the stock finished Friday at $11.50 for a gain of 64% on its first day of trade. At its current stock price, TubeMogul's market cap is about $329 million. TubeMogul is a software company that operates a video advertising platform.  According to TubeMogul's most recent filing with the SEC, in 2013 its revenue totaled $57.2 million, while the company lost about $3.5 million, or $1.12 per share. In the quarter ended March 31, the company's revenue totaled $22 million. Here's a chart of TubeMogul's intraday performance. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
SAPSAP founder, chairman, Hasso PlattnerBill Gates, Larry Ellison, and Jeff Bezos are among some of the wealthiest tech tycoons here in the U.S.  But there are plenty of extremely wealthy tech executives across the globe who are making major contributions to their country's tech scenes. With the help of Forbes' Billionaires List, we've rounded up the wealthiest tech tycoon in 14 countries across the globe. They've each played a major role in technological advances around the world, and they've raked in billions doing it. FREE AppDownload
Alliance BernsteinOne of the most common ways to measure stock market value is to take the price and divide it by earnings. This is the price-earnings, or P/E, ratio. Trading at a P/E of around 16 times expected earnings, the S&amp;P 500 appears to be expensive. But this is not to say that investors should dump stock because a sell-off is imminent. In fact, history shows that these P/E ratio will often drift away from long-term average for long periods of time. But this also doesn't mean we should completely ignore what P/E ratios are telling us. It turns out that the predictive power of P/E ratios becomes more precise the longer your time horizon. "History suggests that market valuation tells us little about near-term market direction," writes Alliance Bernstein's Seth Masters. Masters demonstrates this with two absolutely brilliant charts. Here's his language: The left side of the second display ... portrays one-year returns for the S&amp;P 500, arrayed by the price-to-forward earnings at the beginning of each period. When the market has previously been close to its current valuation, there has been a very wide range of returns in the subsequent year. That was also true when valuations were lower or higher. Basically, stocks can be very volatile in the short run, and the market could rise or fall significantly over the next year regardless of its valuation. If you extend your time frame, however, the behavior of the market looks much more predictable. The right side of the display shows that with a five-year horizon, the range of market returns has been narrower. Furthermore, valuation has mattered over longer horizons: when the price-to-forward earnings has exceeded 20, the subsequent five-year S&amp;P 500 return has, in most cases, been low or negative. Here's Masters' charts with a few skitches showing how the range of observed annualized returns at a given valuation narrow when you extend the time horizon. Alliance Bernstein"We think that current stock market valuations are not a clear signal of what will happen in the next year or two," wrote Masters. "Stocks could drop, and if they did, we’d likely see it as a buying opportunity. Or the market could soar, possibly to a point where we would recommend paring back. But, most likely, we’ll see modest returns in the next few years." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/POOL/Ben GurrBritain's Queen Elizabeth meets construction workers as she attends the official opening of the refurbished Reading Station, west of London, July 17, 2014. Stocks rallied, erasing most of their losses from yesterday's sell-off, as all the major stock indices finished the week higher. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The day's lone economic data point for the session was the University of Michigan's preliminary consumer sentiment survey, which came in a bit below expectations. The reading for July slipped to 81.3 from 82.5 in June, also below expectations for 83.0. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said the dip was likely due to gas prices. "The dip is due entirely to a 2.4-point decline in the expectations component, which we think is due to the temporary spike in gasoline prices triggered by the chaos in Iraq. We expect a rebound in August," wrote Shepherdson.  2) In mergers &amp; acquisitions news, AbbVie agreed to acquire Shire in a deal worth $53 billion that will allow the company to move its tax base to Jersey, an island in the English Channel. The deal is the latest in a series of deals in the pharmaceutical space that have been so-called "tax inversion" deals in which the acquiring company moves its tax base to enjoy lower a corporate tax rate.   3) Noted hedge fund manager Dan Loeb published his latest quarterly letter to clients, revealing both a new stake in a Dutch nutrition company and his thoughts on Fed policy. Loeb said his Third Point fund recently initiated a position in Royal DSM, which last year had about $12 billion sales. In regards to Fed policy, Loeb said that waiting for the Fed to hike rates is like "Waiting for Godot," Samuel Beckett's play in which two friends wait for a friend to arrive that never does.  4) Forbes Media, the publisher of Forbes magazine, agreed to sell a majority stake in the company to a group of international investors, with the investment valuing the company at about $475 million.  5) Sotheby's, the auction house in which Dan Loeb has previously been involved, announced that it will reduce headcount in both the U.S. and U.K. as part of a restructuring plan. The plan will result in the company taking a $13 million charge in the third quarter, with the company expecting to fully implement the reductions by the end of 2014.  Don't Miss: Bacon Prices Are Surging » FREE AppDownload
Vancouver home prices were up 6.1% on the year in June, but down 1% month-over-month. It is also the most expensive Canadian city, for the second year running. We reached out to Vancouver's Planning Department for photos of the same areas in Vancouver 25 years apart. The images on the top show Vancouver in 1978, while the images below show the city in 2003. Vancouver Planning Dept/Business Insider
ShutterstockLike everything else we wear, belts are a reflection of our personality and fashion sense. This small accessory gives your body a balanced look while creating symmetry.  And let’s not forget their original purpose – belts hold up our pants. They typically fall into two categories: Formal and Casual. Formal, or dress belts, should be worn with suits, dress slacks, and most business-casual pants. Simple rule: if you are wearing dress shoes, wear a dress belt. Your dress belt should match your dress shoes, both in leather finish (sheen) as well as leather texture. Formal belts tend to be thinner (between 1 and 1 ½ inches wide), and typically have a glossy finish that shines. Dress belts are always leather with sleek and subtle belt buckles. Some are also reversible with black on one side and brown on the other. Casual belts are worn with casual pants like jeans, chinos, khakis, and shorts. They are typically wider than formal belts, and can range in width up to the width of the pants’ belt loops. There are two main casual belt options: leather and fabric/synthetic. The casual belt buckle comes in every size, shape, and material you can imagine.  Now that we have the basic breakdown of the two different belt styles, these are the 3 belt types that every guy needs in his style arsenal. shop.nordstrom.com and shop.nordstrom.com(Left: Salvatore Ferragamo Reversible Belt, $320; Right: Salvatore Ferragamo 'Twirl' Belt, $460) The color of the dress belt is going to be determined by the color of your favorite dress shoes.  If you are a “black shoe because it matches everything” kind of guy, go with a black dress belt to compliment and match your favorite black shoes.  If you are a brown dress shoe fan, however, the belt selection process is a bit more complicated. Black is black, but there are about 50 shades of brown. When selecting your brown dress belt, bring your shoes into the store with you to help with color matching, since trying to match browns from memory is impossible. Remember, some black dress belts are reversible and have brown on the flip side, so make sure to check out the backs. www.jcrew.com and www1.macys.com(Left: J.Crew Wallace &amp; Barnes Roller Belt, $98; Right: Lauren by Ralph Lauren Leather Casual Belt, $30) This belt is going to be your dress belt's casual counterpart.  The casual leather belt will be thicker, with less shine than your dress belt. It’s the perfect option to wear with your favorite jeans, shorts, or chinos. Pair these with a great pair of casual brown leather loafers, boat shoes, chukkas, or boots. www.gap.com and www.neimanmarcus.com and www.jcrew.com(Clockwise from left: Gap Textiled D-Ring Belt, $20; Salvatore Ferragamo  Suede Double Gancini Belt, $340; J.Crew Mountaineer Belt, $30)  One can't exist on leather belts alone. Fabric belts pair well with tennis shoes, fashion sneakers, sandals, or flip flops. From braided cotton to suede to patterned, these belts don't need to "match" — they need to coordinate with your outfit. Find one you love, and then build out your arsenal from there. For more detailed videos and articles about belts, head over to the I Am Alpha M. website. FREE AppDownload
APGerman police officers in front of a remaining section of the Berlin Wall. "UNDER capitalism", ran the old Soviet-era joke, "man exploits man. Under communism it is just the opposite." In fact new research suggests that the Soviet system inspired not just sarcasm but cheating too: in East Germany, at least, communism appears to have inculcated moral laxity. Lars Hornuf of the University of Munich and Dan Ariely, Ximena García-Rada and Heather Mann of Duke University ran an experiment last year to test Germans' willingness to lie for personal gain. Some 250 Berliners were randomly selected to take part in a game where they could win up to EUR6 ($8). The game was simple enough. Each participant was asked to throw a die 40 times and record each roll on a piece of paper. A higher overall tally earned a bigger payoff. Before each roll, players had to commit themselves to write down the number that was on either the top or the bottom side of the die. However, they did not have to tell anyone which side they had chosen, which made it easy to cheat by rolling the die first and then pretending that they had selected the side with the highest number. If they picked the top and then rolled a two, for example, they would have an incentive to claim--falsely--that they had chosen the bottom, which would be a five. Honest participants would be expected to roll ones, twos and threes as often as fours, fives and sixes. But that did not happen: the sheets handed in had a suspiciously large share of high numbers, suggesting many players had cheated. After finishing the game, the players had to fill in a form that asked their age and the part of Germany where they had lived in different decades. The authors found that, on average, those who had East German roots cheated twice as much as those who had grown up in West Germany under capitalism. They also looked at how much time people had spent in East Germany before the fall of the Berlin Wall. The longer the participants had been exposed to socialism, the greater the likelihood that they would claim improbable numbers of high rolls. The study reveals nothing about the nature of the link between socialism and dishonesty. It might be a function of the relative poverty of East Germans, for example. All the same, when it comes to ethics, a capitalist upbringing appears to trump a socialist one. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoAuction house Sotheby's said in a securities filing that it will  reduce its headcount in the U.S. and U.K. as part of a restructuring plan.  "The restructuring plan is the result of a strategic review conducted by management and will result in the reallocation of resources to collecting categories and regions with the highest growth opportunity in the future. The restructuring plan is expected to result in employee-related restructuring charges in the range of approximately $13 million recognized in the third quarter of 2014 and the corresponding headcount reductions are expected to be fully implemented by the end of 2014," the company said in an 8-K filing. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported that Sotheby's said it will cut a "modest" number of employees globally. The cuts are expected to come from the back-office, the report said citing unnamed Sotheby's insiders. The stock was last trading up about 3%.  This news also comes just over two months after Daniel Loeb, who runs $14 billion Third Point LLC, joined Sotheby's board. The activist investor owns 6.65 million shares, or a 9.65% stake in the auction house. Meanwhile, back in April, famed short-seller Jim Chanos, the founder of Kynikos Associates, recommended shorting Sotheby's. At the time, he shared a chart about how the company's stock price peaks with stock market bubbles.  Twitter.com/SquawkCNBC    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/POOL/Ben GurrBritain's Queen Elizabeth meets construction workers as she attends the official opening of the refurbished Reading Station, west of London, July 17, 2014. Stocks rallied, erasing most of their losses from yesterday's sell-off, as all the major stock indices finished the week higher. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The day's lone economic data point for the session was the University of Michigan's preliminary consumer sentiment survey, which came in a bit below expectations. The reading for July slipped to 81.3 from 82.5 in June, also below expectations for 83.0. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said the dip was likely due to gas prices. "The dip is due entirely to a 2.4-point decline in the expectations component, which we think is due to the temporary spike in gasoline prices triggered by the chaos in Iraq. We expect a rebound in August," wrote Shepherdson.  2) In mergers &amp; acquisitions news, AbbVie agreed to acquire Shire in a deal worth $53 billion that will allow the company to move its tax base to Jersey, an island in the English Channel. The deal is the latest in a series of deals in the pharmaceutical space that have been so-called "tax inversion" deals in which the acquiring company moves its tax base to enjoy lower a corporate tax rate.   3) Noted hedge fund manager Dan Loeb published his latest quarterly letter to clients, revealing both a new stake in a Dutch nutrition company and his thoughts on Fed policy. Loeb said his Third Point fund recently initiated a position in Royal DSM, which last year had about $12 billion sales. In regards to Fed policy, Loeb said that waiting for the Fed to hike rates is like "Waiting for Godot," Samuel Beckett's play in which two friends wait for a friend to arrive that never does.  4) Forbes Media, the publisher of Forbes magazine, agreed to sell a majority stake in the company to a group of international investors, with the investment valuing the company at about $475 million.  5) Sotheby's, the auction house in which Dan Loeb has previously been involved, announced that it will reduce headcount in both the U.S. and U.K. as part of a restructuring plan. The plan will result in the company taking a $13 million charge in the third quarter, with the company expecting to fully implement the reductions by the end of 2014.  Don't Miss: Bacon Prices Are Surging » FREE AppDownload
Instagram/anewyorkertravelsThe remains of 33-year-old stock trader Harry Devert were discovered in Mexico, NBC New York reports, citing authorities.   Harry Devert, a Westchester native who worked as a trader for H&amp;H Capital, was riding his motorcycle from New York to Brazil for the World Cup. Attending the World Cup was No. 3 on Devert's "bucket list," according to his personal website "anewyorkertravels.com". "...having lived in Rio, and with my friends sending me pictures of the setups  they had on the beach for World Cup 2010, heading there for the next World Cup is a no brainer. Barring any extended hospital visits (and even that I don’t think would stop me) I’ll be back in Rio after a 3- year hiatus for the World Cup 2014. Can’t wait," he wrote on his website. Devert left New York in December and was last heard from on January 25. A Facebook page "Help Find Harry" said that they believed he was traveling to Zihuatanejo. Authorities in Mexico discovered remains earlier this month, the NBC New York report said. A DNA test confirmed the identity as Devert's.  Devert was born in Paris and raised in New York. He has spent many years traveling the world.  We came across his "about me" on his LinkedIn profile and he definitely had a positive and inspiring outlook on life. Check it out:  I’m the owner of a big smile and a broad taste for adventure. I haven’t always (or barely ever) walked the beaten path, and I try and live by my ever-evolving set of rules and values as well as I know how. I try to be a good human being. I am a life observer, a world traveler and a resident, light and dark, good and bad, a thinker, an admirer and a critic, a lover and a fighter. I’m passionate about life and I LOVE living. I’m not sure what the purpose of this life is, but I love to talk and debate about it endlessly. I’m a nature lover, an adventure lover, a music lover, a book lover, a sports lover, an arts lover, an animal lover, and above all a human lover. I am still exploring who I am. A simple guy, friendly, open minded, sarcastic, a gypsy at heart. Occasionally I surprise myself…and I like it that way. I will forever be grateful to my parents for giving me deep roots and soaring wings. They nurtured my take on the world and let me choose my path. I walk that path with my eyes and my heart open. Beauty moves me….in nature, an idea, art, literature, architecture or music. I love photography. Each moment in time is miraculous. Striving to capture the perfection of a certain moment in a photograph speaks to me. Knowing that I have the power to let people linger on amazing moments by simply clicking a button feels incredible. I see people. I hear them. Everyone has something interesting to say. It’s up to me to find out what that is. I've been in some of the poorest and some of the most dangerous parts of the world and to many of the finest, and I still can’t tell which I liked more. I think that life is a pilgrimage. My life is something like a small boat in the middle of an ocean driven by the weather and the tide. All I carry is faith. I dream, I search, I love, I live. FREE AppDownload
@chipotlemexicangrill on InstagramOn July 10, Potbelly shares got sliced 25% after the company announced that it expects same-store sales to decrease in the quarter and mild overall sales growth of 6.9% year over year. When Potbelly had its IPO in October 2013, some were hopeful that the company's prospects and performance might compare to those of Chipotle Mexican Grill, which has delivered a return of more than 1,300% to investors since it went public in 2006. Despite these hopes, Potbelly's latest struggles merely confirm that investors should exercise extreme caution when comparing the sandwich chain to Chipotle.  Where Chipotle was in 2006 Chipotle went public in February 2006 and the company quickly demonstrated its superiority both as a restaurant and a business. For its first year as a public company, Chipotle reported that its same-store sales increased 13.7% and overall restaurant sales increased 31.1% to $822.9 million. Moreover, Chipotle opened 94 restaurants in 2006, and this increased the company's total restaurant tally to more than 570 restaurants. Even with this quick expansion, Chipotle produced $6.3 million in free cash flow. In other words, even after it expanded its restaurant base by roughly 20% in a single year, Chipotle still had cash left over to put in the bank. That is an impressive feat for a rapidly growing business, and I believe it is one of the primary reasons why we have not seen "the next Chipotle" yet.  Where Potbelly is struggling todayIn the second quarter of this year, Potbelly is expecting same-store sales to decrease 1.9%. Potbelly lowered its guidance for the year as well, and now projects 40-48 new shop openings and flat-to-negative same-store sales in 2014. This new shop growth represents approximately 14% shop growth with Potbelly's current base of more than 300 shops.  One major differentiating factor between the financial performances of Potbelly and Chipotle is free cash flow. Chipotle is managing to increase its free cash flow production each year while maintaining extensive domestic expansion (the company now has well over 1,600 restaurants in the US). On the other hand, Potbelly barely inched out as free-cash-flow positive in 2013 and the company's overall cash flow production decreased 21.5% year over year in the first quarter of 2014.  The economic climate is certainly different today than it was in 2006 when Chipotle arrived on the scene, so it makes sense to focus on comparing the performances of these businesses today. Chipotle's 2013 sales measured $3.2 billion compared to Potbelly's $300 million. Despite being a much larger business, in the first quarter of 2014 Chipotle actually grew sales 24.4%, same-store sales increased 13.4%, and the company expanded free cash flow by an astonishing 49.3%. In the same quarter, Potbelly's sales expanded 7.5%, same-store sales decreased 2.2%, and the company's cash flow also decreased by more than 20%.  Foolish bottom line Potbelly's underwhelming performance has contributed to the stock's steady decline since its November 2013 IPO. The business itself is showing slow-to-negative growth and is not producing sufficient or consistent cash flow to finance expansion.  Investors who are in a rush to find the next Chipotle shouldn't be so quick to write off Chipotle itself. Chipotle's results are unprecedented when it comes to restaurants, and the company still has room to expand in the US. Its fledgling Pizzeria Locale and ShopHouseconcepts could also represent significant opportunities for growth over the long haul. While Chipotle shares are certainly trading at a premium with a P/E of 56, it is worth remembering Warren Buffett's adage:  It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.... when buying companies or common stocks, we look for first-class businesses accompanied by first-class managements. After its recent drop, Potbelly may come close to being a fair company trading at a wonderful price. I would much prefer to invest in the wonderful and proven business that is Chipotle at a fair price.  FREE AppDownload
If you feel like you're working way too many hours per week, you should consider moving to Finland, France, or Sweden. Bond Vigilantes released a graph of the actual number of hours worked per full time employee in 2013 in European countries. You can see the chart below. Full time employees in Finland, France, and Sweden worked less than 1700 hours per year.  Only the full time employees in Greece and Romania worked greater than 2000 hours per year. The average 9 to 5 job (40 hours per week) is approximately 2080 hours per year, and the average American works around 1,700 hours per year. Interestingly enough, even though full-time employees in Greece worked the second most amount of hours, Greece has the highest unemployment rate at 27.30%. The countries with the least amount of hours worked had lower unemployment rates. As of May 2014, Finland was at 10.70%, France was at 10.10%, and Sweden was at 8%. @BondVigilantes FREE AppDownload
China's property market isn't looking too well. Earlier today, we learned prices in June fell in 55 of 70 major cities. One of the problems is that supply exceeds demand. "With a substantial chunk of demand driven by speculators, falling prices threaten an exodus of buyers. Even holding cash in a bank deposit now offers better returns than real estate," writes Tom Orlik, economist at Bloomberg. But some state media are "moving shamelessly into line behind supporting demand," writes Orlik who points out the headline from state newspaper Changzhou Daily that reads "Now is a good time to buy property." Changzhou Daily The article explains that home prices have fallen but the decline has been pretty small and that there's a lot of demand for good housing at low prices. It points out that Jiangsu has been ranked fifth in the country for real estate, behind Shanghai, Nanjing, Suzhou and Hangzhou. Changzhou it argues is the third best for real estate within Jiangsu province.* Meanwhile, economists warn that the worst of China's property downturn isn't behind us yet. *Translation: Stephanie Yang FREE AppDownload
BIIBitcoin is most often discussed as a volatile digital currency. But where Bitcoin's real value lies is as a payments technology that has the potential to revolutionize the legacy payments industry.  Bitcoin offers merchant a low-cost payments system, and consumers a virtually frictionless payments experience. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants to pay extortionate transaction fees. But, while the emergence of Bitcoin brings with it numerous advantages, it also faces incredible hurdles. In  a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report:  For full access to all BI Intelligence reporting, analysis and daily briefs on the payments industry, sign up for a free trial.   FREE AppDownload
Bob Yip/ReutersPart of a shipment of 33 rhino horns seized by Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department Parts from some endangered species are worth more than gold or cocaine AT $10 billion a year, illegal wildlife makes up the world's fifth-largest illicit market behind drugs, counterfeit products, trafficked people and smuggled oil. An intergovernmental conference in Geneva from July 7th-11th revealed the special worries about ivory smuggling in Thailand, rhino-horn trafficking through Mozambique and trade in tiger parts across South and South-East Asia. According to TRAFFIC, a lobby group, the street value of rhino horn is $60,000 per kilo--more than the price of gold (see chart). Gram for gram, a bear's gall bladder sells in Japan for more than six times as much as cocaine in Asia. Booming demand from Asia's growing middle classes is pushing some species close to extinction. As supply dwindles, prices rocket, which tempts criminal gangs to sink their claws in even further. Elephant ivory is valued for aesthetic reasons. Demand for rhinoceros horns, the paws and bile of Asiatic black bears and sun bears, tiger bones and penises, and deer musk, is stimulated by the healing powers ascribed to them in traditional Chinese medicine. Rhino-horn shavings boiled in water are said to cool and to cure headaches; the brew is akin to fingernail clippings in water (both are mainly keratin, an indigestible protein). Bear bile does help with gallbladder and liver problems--but no more than the synthetic version of ursodeoxycholic acid, its main component. In February 41 countries, including China and Japan, and the European Union signed a declaration against trade in illegal wildlife products. Chinese law punishes the purchase or consumption of endangered species with up to ten years in jail. But in May, when Philippine forces seized a Chinese vessel carrying sea turtles, giant clamshells and live sharks off the disputed Half Moon Shoal, China expressed outrage at the "provocative action"--not the illegal cargo. The Economist Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusDaniel S. LoebHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb says that anticipating a rate hike from the Fed is like "Waiting for Godot" referring to Samuel Beckett's play where two friends wait for a friend to show up and he never does.  For a while now, the chatter in the investing world has been about when the first rate hike will happen. After years of waiting, economists now expect the Fed will begin hiking in the middle of 2015. But until that happens, we wait.  "We believe we are entering a decisive period and normalized Third Quarter economic growth will mark a key inflection point," Loeb writes in his fund's second quarter investor letter. "Until then, anticipating a rate hike has been like waiting for Godot. If growth is approximately 3% during the second half of this year, we expect the market will look to the Fed to take action in early 2015. If growth moves closer to 2%, the Fed is likely to remain on hold for longer. While typically markets have applauded that course of action, at current S&amp;P multiples, lower growth could instead cause a modest de-rating as corporate earnings growth will likely disappoint." So far this year, Third Point is up 6% year-to-date, while the S&amp;P is up 7.1%.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb has just sent out Third Point LLC's Q2 investor letter and he's disclosed a new long equity position in a nutrition company.  Third Point, which has more than $14 billion in assets under management, recently initiated a long position in Dutch nutrition company Royal DSM (RDSMY). The company focuses on dietary supplements, personal care and medical devices, etc.  DSM's stock was last trading up more than 3.9%.  Here's Loeb's analysis from the letter:  Over the past three years, Royal DSM NV (“DSM”) has transformed itself into a leading global life sciences company focused on health and nutrition with ~$12 billion of sales and ~$1.7 billion of EBITDA. DSM’s portfolio of businesses also includes legacy activities in materials sciences. While the Materials segments account for ~55% of sales, their profit contribution to the DSM group (~30% of EBITDA) has been greatly surpassed by that of the Nutrition segment (~70% of EBITDA). Earlier this year, DSM shares sold-off following: i) a profit warning in the Nutrition segment, and ii) growing skepticism about DSM’s ability to execute on its plan to divest its commodity caprolactam business. The weakness in DSM’s share price served as an opportunity to build our position. We believe that the profit warning in Nutrition was driven by cyclical factors and abnormally adverse weather rather than any structural changes in the underlying fundamentals. We are also optimistic that management can successfully separate its commodity caprolactam exposure through either a sale or joint venture. Finally, near-term trends are positive in both of DSM’s businesses, with Nutrition starting to show signs of reverting to a more normalized growth rate and Performance Materials starting to inflect from depressed levels given its exposure to rebounding European automotive and construction markets. DSM group currently trades at 7.5x forward EV/EBITDA. Based on our analysis, we believe that both the Nutrition and Performance Materials segments should command higher multiples than DSM’s current group multiple. The low group valuation is driven by the continued presence of the Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates segments. These businesses have de minimis end-market overlap or synergies with Nutrition. Furthermore, the non-nutrition businesses are structurally more volatile and have lower returns, making the combined entity cumbersome for investors to analyze and appropriately value. Comparable companies to DSM’s Nutrition segment trade in the 11x-13x EV/EBITDA range. Given the segment’s secular growth characteristics and high return-on-capital, we believe this multiple range is justified. DSM’s Nutrition business benefits from global scale and presence across the downstream value chain. The company offers customers a unique value proposition through its ability to manufacture and distribute a broad portfolio of nutritional supplements and work collaboratively to create differentiated, customformulatedproducts. It is clear from our research that these competitive advantages have helped DSM win new business. These capabilities are especially relevant given that customers are increasingly outsourcing R&amp;D and supply chain functions. In the Performance Materials segment, DSM has strong positions in many specialty plastic products and is a global leader in its ultra-strength Dyneema fiber. We believe there would be strategic interest in accessing DSM’s downstream plastics engineering capabilities and high-quality customer relationships. In addition, 40% of the segment’s end-market exposure is to the building and construction and automotive sectors, which are just beginning to show signs of recovery. Given these factors, the value of the businesses within Performance Materials to potential acquirers suggests that a blended multiple of 8.5x EV/EBITDA is achievable for the segment. DSM offers compelling risk-reward as its portfolio continues to shift toward that of a highquality, higher multiple life sciences company. Exiting the caprolactam business should begin to address the ~40% discount that the group trades at relative to our sum-of-theparts valuation. With its successful history of divesting noncore businesses, we look forward to DSM management’s future efforts to unlock shareholder value via portfolio streamlining. Loeb didn't specify the size of the equity position.  FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of ZillowDespite the sluggish housing market, homes at the high end of the spectrum are still being listed for record amounts. In Beverly Hills, there's a home selling for a whopping $135 million, and New York City has a $118.5 million penthouse on the market. We've compiled a list of the most expensive homes currently for sale in every state. From a lakeside New Hampshire home with tennis courts and a private helicopter pad to an Aspen ski house, these homes are certain to suit the lifestyles of the rich and famous.  The listings come from Zillow, Christie's International Real Estate, Sotheby's International Realty, Coldwell Banker, and other real estate websites. Properties categorized as farms or ranches were not included on the list. FREE AppDownload
Unemployment and changes in unemployment continue to vary across the country. The Bureau of Labor Statistics just released the June 2014 unemployment rates for each state. In every state except Alabama, unemployment rates have dropped since June 2013. South Carolina had the biggest drop, falling 2.5 percentage points to 5.3%. Alabama had a 0.3 percentage point increase year over year to 6.8%: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics This next map shows the current rate. The lowest unemployment rate among the states was in North Dakota, at 2.7%, and the highest was in Mississippi and Rhode Island, both at 7.9%: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics Here are the June unemployment rates in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics For more detail, check out the BLS press release.
Bob Yip/ReutersPart of a shipment of 33 rhino horns seized by Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department Parts from some endangered species are worth more than gold or cocaine AT $10 billion a year, illegal wildlife makes up the world's fifth-largest illicit market behind drugs, counterfeit products, trafficked people and smuggled oil. An intergovernmental conference in Geneva from July 7th-11th revealed the special worries about ivory smuggling in Thailand, rhino-horn trafficking through Mozambique and trade in tiger parts across South and South-East Asia. According to TRAFFIC, a lobby group, the street value of rhino horn is $60,000 per kilo--more than the price of gold (see chart). Gram for gram, a bear's gall bladder sells in Japan for more than six times as much as cocaine in Asia. Booming demand from Asia's growing middle classes is pushing some species close to extinction. As supply dwindles, prices rocket, which tempts criminal gangs to sink their claws in even further. Elephant ivory is valued for aesthetic reasons. Demand for rhinoceros horns, the paws and bile of Asiatic black bears and sun bears, tiger bones and penises, and deer musk, is stimulated by the healing powers ascribed to them in traditional Chinese medicine. Rhino-horn shavings boiled in water are said to cool and to cure headaches; the brew is akin to fingernail clippings in water (both are mainly keratin, an indigestible protein). Bear bile does help with gallbladder and liver problems--but no more than the synthetic version of ursodeoxycholic acid, its main component. In February 41 countries, including China and Japan, and the European Union signed a declaration against trade in illegal wildlife products. Chinese law punishes the purchase or consumption of endangered species with up to ten years in jail. But in May, when Philippine forces seized a Chinese vessel carrying sea turtles, giant clamshells and live sharks off the disputed Half Moon Shoal, China expressed outrage at the "provocative action"--not the illegal cargo. The Economist Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
via Buckley DenimJeans in summer? Not always recommended – especially when the temperature climbs above 90 and it’s humid outside. Having lived in Corpus Christie, Tx. and Pensacola, Fla., I learned quickly as a young man that jeans are not always comfortable. So what are your options? Should you give up jeans this summer? Is there a way to wear denim in hot weather without sweating your face off? Well yes – there is! If you’re buying from someone that knows what they’re talking about, you can get pretty technical with your jeans. In big box stores, this isn’t so much of an option (it’s one good reason to seek out a custom or boutique jeans maker, rather than a large retail brand). But if you get the chance, a little research can go a long way toward picking out jeans that are going to stay comfortable even in the heat of summer. First things first, take a look at what your denim weighs. Denim is measured in ounces, like most textiles used in clothing. It’s usually much heavier than wool or finer cotton weaves. That gives it sturdiness, but also makes it warmer in the summer. Traditional denim jeans usually use cloth that weighs between 12 and 16 ounces per yard. That’s thick enough to be tough, but not too stiff. Anything above 16 oz. is getting into one of two niche markets: truly rugged work-wear for men who punish their jeans severely, and monstrously thick “raw denim” designed to fade and crease in dramatic patterns. You don’t want to wear either of them in hot weather if you can help it. Below 12 oz., on the other hand, you’re looking at jeans that can actually feel better than some khakis and chinos in the summer. Denim is a fairly breathable weave. Trousers in a very tight cotton weave can actually be more stifling than jeans made from denim an ounce or two heavier, simply because of the airflow. Serious denim fans will talk for hours about the different ways to weave raw bolts of denim cloth. You don’t need to know quite that much, but there are a couple things worth keeping in mind for your summer wear. First off, keep it 100% cotton. Summer is not the time for “stretch denim.” The synthetics that make denim stretchier don’t breathe the way cotton fibers do, making the jeans more prone to trapping sweat and hot air against your skin. Summer’s also a time when you want looser, breezier fits that allow a little airflow, and if you’re wearing your jeans comfortably loose they don’t need to be stretch denim anyway. Second, pay attention to how the denim was treated. “Raw” or “dry” denim, in which the cloth is not washed after its dying, will be stiffer and less breathable until broken in. On the opposite end of the scale “distressed” denim that’s worn through in patches will obviously give you the most airflow. For most men, the happy medium is in between: lightweight denim that’s been washed before wear. If possible, break it in while the weather is still cool, so that you don’t have any stiffness fighting you in the hot and humid months. Unless you’re going for a specific look, there’s no reason to go out of your way for either raw or distressed jeans. So have you got yourself a nice pair of well-washed, broken-in, less-than-12-oz.-denim jeans? Awesome. Here’s how to wear them: with other light clothing and not too many layers. Rolling your cuffs in the summer is totally acceptable when you’re just bumming around. If you go into a sit-down restaurant or anywhere more formal than that, roll them down, but on the street or the beach or whatever the roll is fine. It’s a particularly popular style with guys who buy selvedge denim, as selvedge jeans tend to leave the distinctive colored stripe of the cloth’s edge visible on the underside of the cuff. You’ll see some very careful rolls designed to flaunt those if you watch fashionably-dressed young guys in the summer. A simple rule for cuffs and footwear, though: if you’re rolling the cuffs, no socks. Wear slip on shoe styles like boaters or sandals. Jeans with the cuffs worn down can be worn without socks as well, but generally look better if you’ve got a sturdier shoe and a pair of socks. Jeans go with most things that aren’t more denim. In the summer, plain old jeans and a T-shirt works fine. It’s about as casual a look as you can get, so don’t expect to start any new fashion trends, but it serves its purpose. To keep it classic, go with a tight-fitted white T-shirt and sturdy work shoes or boots — if it was good enough for Marlon Brando, it’s good enough for you. Other good options include henleys and polos (similar to T-shirts, but they show a touch more style), light long-sleeve crew-necks, and casual dress shirts of both the long- and short-sleeved variety. Most of these are worn un-tucked. At the point where you’re somewhere formal enough that you need to tuck your shirt it, you might as well wear a different sort of lightweight summer trousers — chinos, seersucker, etc. — and leave the jeans at home. They’re for casual summer street wear, not office potlucks at the picnic shelter. Ok, so your jeans are rolled and you have on a hot weather collared shirt.  What to wear on your feet? Sandals – yes, I know many of you all hate them.  But I find a well made, leather pair feel great in the summer.  Just make sure your feet are clean and your toenails don’t look like claws from a science fiction horror movie.  Seriously – good grooming habits here gents.  You don’t have to get a pedicure but this isn’t the time to show the world your inability to cut your nails. Slip-on casual shoes, from boat shoes to espadrilles to something dressier like a double-strapped monk.  I wear my slip on Sperry boat shoes without socks – but I do clean them and if you expect to walk across Manhattan in the summer consider an invisible sock for comfort and making sure your shoes aren’t ruined by drenching in sweat. This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere has been another tax inversion. Earlier this morning, AbbVie, which is based in Illinois, announced a deal to acquire Ireland-based Shire in a $53 billion deal that will allow the drugmaker to move its tax base to Jersey, an island in the English Channel. A "tax inversion" is a deal in which a company, say one based in the U.S., acquires another based in Ireland and moves its tax base to pay a lower corporate tax rate. U.S. lawmakers don't like this, because they no longer get a company's tax revenue.  In 2013, AbbVie's income tax expense was $1.2 billion.  The AbbVie-Shire deal is the latest in a series of moves by companies in the pharmaceutical industry to shift their corporate domiciles to enjoy more favorable tax treatments.  Earlier this week, Mylan announced a deal to acquire Abbott Laboratories' non-U.S. developed generic drugs business in a $5.3 billion all-stock deal. The deal involves the creation of a new public company that will be domiciled in the Netherlands, and Mylan said it expects the new company's tax rate to fall into the high-teens within its first couple years.  Last month, Minnesota-based medical-device maker Medtronic acquired Covidien in a $42.9 billion cash and stock deal that will allow the company to move its tax base to Ireland. Earlier this spring, AstraZeneca rejected Pfizer's takeover efforts, as Pfizer had sought to shift its tax base to the U.K., where AstraZeneca is based.  And Valeant, which has been seeking to acquire Allergan in the most controversial M&amp;A deal this spring, was once the beneficiary of a tax inversion deal, shifting its tax base to Canada from the U.S. with its 2010 acquisition of Biovail.  On Monday, Mylan CEO Heather Bresch appeared on CNBC following announcement of its deal to acquire Abbott's generics unit, and her appearance resulted in a kind of weird conversation about the issue of the tax inversion and Bresch's emphasis on the "strategic rationale" for the deal. Bresch told CNBC's Bill Griffeth, however, that the company would have "absolutely" done the deal without the tax inversion benefits. A New York Times report earlier this week said Treasury Secretary Jack Lew sent letters to members of Congress urging action to stop the rush of companies that have shifted their tax base abroad. And an April report from Reuters said that since 2008, two dozen U.S. companies have moved their legal base abroad as part of a merger, the same number that did so over the previous 25 years.  But analysts aren't holding their breath on a change in the laws.  In a note to investors late last month, Marc Goodman at UBS highlighted some of the firm's top picks in the pharmaceutical space ahead of second quarter earnings. Names included Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Endo Pharmaceuticals, Mallinckrodt, and Perrigo.  Where do you think these companies are based?   FREE AppDownload
Asking for a raise can be a tricky and often nerve-wracking venture. And simply mustering up the courage to ask for one can be a daunting task in itself. However, getting the raise you deserve can be achieved by following these three simple tips. Watch the video to make sure you know when, how, and how much to ask for.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Google Street View/David Coates/The Detroit NewsThe transformation of Garland Street from 2007 to 2014. Editor's note: This post originally appeared at DetroitNews.com. We are grateful to them for allowing us to republish an abbreviated version here.  Detroit has averaged 4,000 to 5,000 suspicious fires a year since 2000. The vast majority are believed to be intentional. Authorities say they are able to investigate only about a third of the suspicious fires because of limited resources. Of those, insurance fraud remains the top motive. Revenge is No. 2: 300 of 1,500 investigated cases last year were considered acts of revenge. Garland Street has been particularly hard hit. In the one-mile stretch between the two fires that consumed nine homes last month, at least 21 homes show obvious signs of fire damage. “They’ve been burning everything up. It’s crazy,” said John Kiner, who has lived next door to Arnold on the east side of the street for 10 years. The latest spark on Garland began when police arrested Sylvestor D. Ford, 27, for torching a neighbor’s car. His rap sheet includes convictions for operating a chop shop, felonious assault and receiving and concealing stolen property. Hours after he was jailed, the home he was staying in at 4511 Garland was intentionally set on fire in the middle of the night, investigators say. By the time firefighters arrived, the 710-square-foot house was engulfed. So was the vacant house next door. Charles Simms, arson chief of the Detroit Fire Department, said he’s hopeful Detroit is improving. His squad brought aboard nine new investigators last month, practically doubling its size. The investigators are now concentrated in designated areas of the city to better spot trends. Simms also said Mayor Mike Duggan’s anti-blight efforts will reduce arson. Click here to read the full story at DetroitNews.com » This article originally appeared at The Detroit News.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Ray DumasThe University of Michigan's preliminary read on consumer sentiment in July was a bit disappointing. The headline index slipped to 81.3 from 82.5 in June. Economists estimated the headline index would climb to 83.0. The economic conditions sub-index climbed to 97.1 from 96.6. However, the outlook sub-index fell to 71.1 from 73.5. "The rise in gasoline prices was behind the dip in consumer confidence in July," said Capital Economics' Paul Diggle. "But rising equity prices and the improving labour market should help consumer confidence to increase before too long." FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Eugene HoshikoChinese home prices declined in 55 of 70 cities in June, with prices overall down 0.5%. This was the second straight monthly decline, following the 0.15% fall in May. On a year-over-year basis, home prices were up 4.2% in June, compared to 5.6% the previous month. "With a substantial chunk of demand driven by speculators, falling prices threaten an exodus of buyers. Even holding cash in a bank deposit now offers better returns than real estate," wrote Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik. But property data in general has been coming in weak. New housing starts contracted 10.5% year-over-year in the second quarter, compared with a 25% contraction in Q1.  Property investment climbed 12.6% YoY, the slowest pace since Q2 2009. And in June, property sales were down 0.2% YoY, compared with a 10.7% fall in May, which was largely attributed to a base effect. While the pace of decline is slowing, "this does not mean that the worst of China's property downturn is behind us," UBS' Tao Wang wrote in a July 16 note. "Weak market sentiment and sluggish sales, elevated and rising inventory (especially in Tier 3 and 4 cities), and increasing financing difficulties in the property sector will all continue to weigh on the industry's outlook," according to Wang. "While we expect developers to speed up construction in the coming Fall sale season, to accelerate sales and digest inventory, downward pressure on prices and new housing starts will likely grow. We expect construction to slow further as the Fall peak selling season passes, leading to a fresh negative drag on related heavy industries and the economy at large." It's isn't just about home prices. Wang previously explained that we need to look beyond a slump in prices to a possible construction slump. Even in the absence of a decline in prices, a drop in construction activity "would likely have serious negative impact on the industrial complex and, through that, economic growth and bank balance sheets," Wang wrote. "Given that property investment accounts for almost a quarter of fixed investment, construction value-added is 13% of GDP, and there are extensive linkages between property and industrial sectors including steel, cement and construction machinery, the impact on the economy from a drop in construction volume is bigger than that from a worsening household balance sheet and consumption," she wrote. We recently saw a surge in Chinese credit which is expected to support the property sector. For now, the Chinese property market is looking ugly. Here's a chart from Bloomberg's Michael McDonough: Michael McDonough via Twitter FREE AppDownload
Reuters Forbes Media — the publisher of Forbes magazine — has agreed to sell a majority stake in the company to a group of international investors. The company has been known for a long time to be looking for a buyer of its magazine and website. Instead, the company will sell a majority stake to a group of investors lead by a group in Hong Kong. According to Re/code's Peter Kafka, the stake reportedly gives the company a $475 million valuation. Current investor Elevation Partners will no longer hold a stake after the transaction, the release said. Here's the full release:  NEW YORK, NY (July 18, 2014) -- Forbes Media LLC today announced an agreement under which a group of international investors will purchase a majority stake in the company.  The Forbes family will retain a significant ownership stake, will stay actively involved in Forbes Media and will work with the investor group to further increase market share of the existing Forbes Media product lines in media, digital, technology, as well as brand extensions.  Upon closing, Elevation Partners will fully exit its investment in Forbes Media.  The terms of the transaction were not disclosed.The newly formed Hong Kong-based investor group Integrated Whale Media Investments (“IWM”) is composed of international investors.  The group is led by Integrated Asset Management (Asia) Limited (“IAM”).  IAM, which was founded by Tak Cheung Yam, is a Hong Kong-based investment company primarily engaged in public and private equity investments, with expertise in telecommunications, finance and technology.  Another significant investor in IWM, Wayne Hsieh is the Co-Founder of ASUSTeK Computer Inc., one of the world’s leading PC vendors and the No.1 motherboard manufacturer in the world.  He is based in Singapore.The investor group will provide capital, as well as financial and operational expertise, and intends to leverage its international relationships to strategically enlarge Forbes Media’s reach on a global scale.  In partnership with IWM, Forbes Media will build on the wide and rapidly expanding appeal of the Forbes brand that today reaches approximately 75 million people worldwide with its business message through print, digital, TV, conferences, research, social and mobile each month.  The group supports Forbes Media’s ongoing transformation into a global media, branding and technology company.  Forbes Media is profitable and, in 2013, achieved its best financial performance in the last six years.  Forbes Media LLC will retain its operating name and will remain a privately-held, independent company headquartered in the U.S.  Steve Forbes will maintain his role as Chairman and Editor-in-Chief, and current President and CEO Mike Perlis will continue to lead the company’s management team.  Forbes Media’s Asian business will continue to be directed out of Singapore under Forbes Media CEO/Asia Will Adamopoulos.  “This is a major milestone for the company and our family, and we’re pleased to partner with a forward-looking investor group to further drive the evolution and growth of this exceptional company,” said Steve Forbes, Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of Forbes Media. “Our partners respect our brand and values, and support our longstanding mission of championing entrepreneurship and free market capitalism through quality, independent business journalism.  The best evidence of their commitment to what we stand for is their insistence on the continued involvement of the Forbes family, the current management and our highly talented editorial team.  I will remain deeply involved in the future of the company.“We are investing in the Forbes brand, history, family involvement and a management team that is successfully transforming the company. Forbes Media is built around a brand that is synonymous with success and a mission that has tremendous respect and global appeal in established and growing markets around the world.  As more market-based economies emerge globally, interest in the information that Forbes provides and the message it delivers resonates with a growing audience,” said Tak Cheung Yam, Chairman and Founder of IAM.  “Given the tremendous growth of digital in the past decade, Forbes Media’s future plans will include additional internet and social media expansion projects.  Together with the Forbes family and the management team, along with the appropriate strategic and financial support, we will find new ways to unlock the value of the Forbes brand.”   “We see enormous potential to extend the Forbes brand, building on its innovation and the solid foundation of a media company known for excellence in business journalism with an extensive print and digital footprint and a diverse array of branded products,” said Wayne Hsieh, Co-Founder of ASUSTeK Computer Inc“This significant investment in the company is a strong endorsement of the global strength of our brand, as well as our progress and innovative plans for continued growth,” said Mike Perlis, President and CEO of Forbes Media.  “We are combining the best of our historic legacy with an infusion of new resources, capabilities and expertise to accelerate Forbes Media’s global growth.  We already work with members of IWM’s management through our existing real estate and financial services lines of business.  Our partners fully appreciate the power of the Forbes brand to attract new audiences in diverse markets all over the world – a foundation we look forward to building on together.” Forbes Media has built a diversified portfolio of assets, while maximizing the power of the Forbes brand across multiple categories, including media, digital, technology and branded products.  In the U.S., Forbes magazine, the iconic front door to the Forbes brand, has increased its readership to more than 6 million.  Internationally, since 2008, Forbes has expanded its publishing activities from 9 licensed local editions around the world to 36, covering 63 countries in 21 different languages.  Forbes’ digital footprint has exponentially broadened as Forbes.com has transformed from a web site to a robust publishing platform.  Currently, Forbes has 24 international web sites.  The company’s growth has also been fueled by new brand extensions, including conferences, real estate, education, financial services and technology license agreements. “Elevation has been a great partner with Forbes Media over the past eight years.  This collaboration has enabled us to position ourselves for the next phase of growth that we see ahead with IWM,” added Steve Forbes.Completion of the transaction is expected to take place this year and is subject to customary closing conditions.Deutsche Bank served as financial advisor, and Cadwalader, Wickersham &amp; Taft LLP served as legal advisor to Forbes Media.  Credit Suisse (Hong Kong) limited served as financial advisor, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp;. Flom LLP and LKP Global Law LLP served as legal advisors.  RSM Nelson Wheeler performed the financial and tax due diligence work for the investor group. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Chip EastTraders of Virtu Finalcial work at a newly renovated section of trading stations on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, November 13, 2012.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has been seeking information on 10 registered broker dealers as part of an ongoing investigation into high-frequency trading strategies, according to an internal SEC document reviewed by Reuters. The regulator told its staff in late March that it was interested in seeing any tips, complaints, or referrals that they receive concerning the brokers and high frequency trading. The firms listed are Allston Trading LLC; Hudson River Trading LLC; Jump Trading LLC; Latour Trading LLC, which is an affiliate of Tower Trading; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &amp; Smith, owned by Bank of America Group; Octeg LLC, which has been merged into a unit of KCG Holdings Inc; Tradebot Systems Inc; Two Sigma Investments LLC; Two Sigma Securities LLC; and Virtu Financial. They are all some of the largest trading firms in the U.S. Allston and Jump are both based in Chicago. Hudson River, Latour, Merrill, Two Sigma, and Virtu are headquartered in New York. KCG is in Jersey City, New Jersey, and Tradebot is based in Kansas City, Missouri. Jump, Latour, Bank of America, Hudson River, Tradebot and KCG declined to comment. The other firms did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Their number and the open-ended quest for information shows that the SEC is casting a wide net as it looks to unearth wrongdoing in the marketplace. It is not known if the SEC found any violations of securities laws at any of the firms. The SEC declined to comment. A number of government agencies, including the SEC, New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have said they had active probes into high-speed and automated trading. The SEC has been seeking evidence of abuse of order types, as well as traditional forms of abusive trading like "layering" or "spoofing" and other issues relating to high-frequency trading that might be violations of the law, SEC Director of Enforcement Andrew Ceresney told Reuters in May. Spoofing and layering are tactics where traders places orders that they cancel before they are executed to create the false impression of demand, aiming to trick others into buying or selling a stock at the artificial price. High frequency trading firms account for more than half of all trades in the U.S. stock market, and are often seen as modern-day market makers. They make it easier for investors to trade by stepping in and taking the other sides of many orders and profiting off of trading spreads. Scrutiny around high-frequency trading intensified following the March 31 release of best-selling author Michael Lewis' book, "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt." In the book, Lewis contends that high-frequency traders have rigged the stock market, profiting from speeds unavailable to others. FREE AppDownload
Elena HolodnyFor bacon-lovers, things are only getting worse. According to the June consumer price index report from Canada, the price of bacon increased by 5.8% month-over-month, and 26.8% year-over-year. Last month, the price of bacon surged by 9.3% month-over-month. This chart was tweeted by Bloomberg News' Ilan Kolet. You can see the chart below. Bacon prices have been significantly increasing because of supply issues. In June, there was a breakout of a pig virus which led to the killing of millions of baby pigs. Overall, inflation is heating up. Over the last month, the Producer Price Index rose 0.4%. Bacopalypse now. Bacon price sizzles higher @bySamRo @tomkeene @TheStalwart @darlin @boes_ @DanielMossDC pic.twitter.com/GnxHJiVl4m FREE AppDownload
Google's second quarter financial results revealed further growth for the internet giant, as its revenues rose 22% year-on-year to $15.96bn. The company's net profits were up 5.9% to $3.42bn. Google's own sites accounted for $10.94bn of its revenues in the last quarter, with advertising on other sites generating $3.42bn. The company also highlighted the growth of its Google Play store for apps, music, video and ebooks. The "other revenues" category in Google's financial results was up 53% year-on-year to $1.6bn, with chief financial officer Patrick Pichette telling analysts that "digital sales of apps and content in our Play Store drove the year-over-year growth" for that part of Google's business. His colleague, chief business officer Nikesh Arora – who is about to leave Google for a new job at SoftBank – added that "Google Play continues to grow at breakneck speed across all types of digital content". He also pointed to the announcement during the recent I/O developer conference that Google had paid out more than $5bn to Android app developers in the last year alone. "Clearly, it is a growing business for us as well." Another point of interest from Google's financials was the company's growth in the UK, where revenues jumped 22% year-on-year to $1.6bn, compared to 12% growth in the US to $6.6bn. The fastest growth came from the rest of the world, though, where Google's revenues rose 31% to $7.7bn for the second quarter. YouTube was prominent during Google's earnings call with analysts, although Pichette declined to comment on a recent claim by technology site The Information that the online video service made $3.5bn in 2013. "We don’t comment on outside estimates," he said, although Arora was keen to talk up YouTube's growing business attracting advertising from big brands. "Whereas digital used to be just one channel, today’s brands are putting digital at the centre of the brand building campaign," he said. "We see this from our clients as well and video seems to be the linchpin of the strategy. YouTube continues to be driven by the insanely popular channels from some of our top content creators like Breakout hit Epic Rap Battles of History and new sensation Vice News." Arora also hailed the impact of an initiative launched in April called Google Preferred, which packages together the most popular YouTube channels and sells ads across them up front, in the same way that traditional TV ads are sold. He said that advertising agency groups Digitas and Omnicom, as well as brands like General Motors, Coca Cola, Universal Pictures and Adidas have all signed up for the initiative. "Our monetisation model in YouTube is working. It’s a phenomenal model. It is now the linchpin of each of our brand strategies if our partners and advertisers want to come work with us to create brand campaigns," said Arora. "YouTube allows you to actually target a fragmented set of interests in a most efficient fashion, as opposed to try and do burst advertising that you would do in television and broadcast." Analysts were keen to find out how Google's efforts to fund more original content on YouTube – it's rumoured to be in talks with various Hollywood studios and independent producers to offer $1m-$3m towards new YouTube-only projects – might dovetail with its Google Fiber business, which has made Google a broadband ISP in 34 US cities. The potential is for Google to effectively become a cable TV provider, except with the channels coming from YouTube as well as traditional networks. "Bandwidths will continue to increase. People’s appetite for bandwidths will continue to grow up," said Pichette. "It’s clear that people will consume content more and more in a non-linear fashion. And its clear that content will come from different places, not just the traditional mechanisms of cable and television." Meanwhile, Pichette warned analysts not to expect Google's more experimental projects, including self-driving cars, to make lots of money in the near future. "In some cases like self driving cars, obviously multi-year... we think of kind of half decade, sometimes even a bit longer before... you can get kind of real momentum on revenue and profitability," he said.   This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Retired Marine General James Mattis has some advice for men and women looking to inspire and motivate employees in the corporate world: Lead by example. It's a lesson Mattis learned over more than 40 years of leading troops, which culminated in his last assignment as the commander of U.S. Central Command. The four-star general, currently writing a book on leadership and strategy, offered guidance on Wednesday in a talk with business students at Stanford University, where he serves as a visiting fellow. Business Insider attended his lecture, and pulled out the key takeaways leaders can use. If you want to motivate your subordinates, Mattis says you need to be personally motivated, and be passionate about your work. "They may not reach your level, but that's certainly what you're coaching to try and do," he said. With workers feeding off a leaders' passion and belief in the mission, they will also tend to let mistakes made by a leader slide, as the general found out firsthand. "[In Iraq] I managed to get my battalion surrounded in the open, flat desert," Mattis said, noting that he was very tired and should have spotted the danger. His men pulled him out of the mess, but they weren't angry — they jokingly asked, "you were just testing us, right?" Earning the trust of those you lead is important, and stressing mistakes as an employee learning opportunity — as opposed to something that needs to be punished — can work wonders. On getting his battalion in a jam, Mattis recalled his own superior officer only saying, “Did you learn anything today?” He knew I learned something, and he didn’t need to tell me how stupid I was, Mattis told the audience. As a leader, Mattis said, you should tell subordinates they just need to focus on their job, and say “I will take the stress that's coming down on your shoulders, you let me have that.” On the flip side, a bad leader who reacts poorly to subordinate mistakes can be toxic. “You want to really pollute your system, you start promoting people that act like little tyrants to workers.” Mattis made a powerful argument for the importance of delegation, by drawing upon the British Navy during the 18th and 19th century. It was long considered the best navy in the world at the time under Admiral Horatio Nelson, but as Mattis explained, over the following years it became entrenched in strict regulations, and promoted officers based on how fast they could follow orders, rather than if they could think critically under fire. The changes did not serve the British Navy well early in World War I, when it was bested by Germany at the Battle of Coronel. Mattis said officers having "no responsibility for taking initiative" was a big reason. Officers were entirely dependent on higher leadership to tell them exactly what to do. “Many big companies, by the way, have this problem.” Ideally, you want to delegate to the lowest capable level to get the job done, and reward risk-takers, he said. There are many challenges organizations can overcome, but having a bad culture is not one of them, Mattis argued. “You can overcome wrong technology. Your people have the initiative, they see the problem, no big deal … you can’t overcome bad culture. You’ve gotta change whoever is in charge.” Culture starts at the top, and a good or a bad leader sets the tone for how the organization does business. “[Culture] is whatever the seniors say it is,” Mattis said. “That’s what it comes down to.” FREE AppDownload
Unemployment fuels unrest and anger. Political instability tends to escalate in regions with lots of economic volatility and limited employment opportunities, particularly for young people. In a new presentation to clients, Deutsche Bank's Raj Hindocha and Marcos Arana include this chart of countries with "youth bulges." These are the countries where young males make up a significant share of the population. "A weaker US role in [the Middle East and North Africa] exacerbates geopolitical risk in the region, which could lead to higher oil prices and curb global growth," write Hindocha and Arana. "Geopolitical risk is ever-present but unpredictable by nature," they said. "While a large scale geopolitical risk event is not our base case, investors should be mindful of alternative scenarios relative to the benign outcome currently expected by markets." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Michael DwyerIn this Thursday, July 10, 2014, photo, students taste a cannabis-infused dipping sauce prepared during a cooking class at the New England Grass Roots Institute in Quincy, Mass. MONTPELIER, Vt. (AP) — Move over, pot brownies. The proliferation of marijuana edibles for both medical and recreational purposes is giving rise to a cottage industry of baked goods, candies, infused oils, cookbooks and classes that promises a slow burn as more states legalize the practice and awareness spreads about the best ways to deliver the drug. Edibles and infused products such as snack bars, olive oils and tinctures popular with medical marijuana users have flourished into a gourmet market of chocolate truffles, whoopie pies and hard candies as Colorado and Washington legalized the recreational use of marijuana in the past year. "You're seeing a lot of these types of products like cannabis cookbooks," said Erik Altieri, spokesman for the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. "They've always been popular among a subset of marijuana, but with the fact that more and more people from the mainstream are able to consume, there's a lot more interest." Many pot users turn to edibles because they don't like to inhale or smell the smoke or just want variety. For many people who are sick or in pain, controlled doses of edibles or tinctures can deliver a longer-lasting therapeutic dose that doesn't give them the high. And there's money to be made. BlueKudu, in Denver, started producing marijuana chocolate bars for medicinal purposes three years ago. Since recreational use became legal this year in Colorado, owner Andrew Schrot said, the wholesale business has more than doubled its sales from several hundred chocolate bars sold a day through dispensaries to more than 1,000, at $9 to $17 a piece. "There seems to be quite a bit of intrigue about the infused products from the general public and consumer, especially tourists," Schrot said. Cooking classes have sprung up. One in Denver — led by a chef who has turned out chocolate-covered bacon and Swedish meatballs with a marijuana-infused glaze — has grown so popular that it will be offered every week in August. It's also part of a vacation package that provides pot tourists with a stay at a cannabis-friendly hotel (vaporizer and private smoke deck included), a visit to dispensaries and growing operations, and the cooking class. Students are advised not to smoke before they come to class because there's a lot to learn about the dosing and they will be sampling foods along the way. "By the end of the class, everybody's pretty stoned," said founder J.J. Walker. Mountain High Suckers in Denver sells lollipops and lozenges for medical marijuana users and plans to release treats for recreational users at the end of August. The company hopes they will take off. "People are turning the corner and making lots of money in the rec department, and we expect to almost double the business in a year," said Chad Tribble, co-owner of Mountain High Suckers in Denver. High Times, a 40-year-old monthly magazine based in New York, has always featured a cooking column with a recipe. At least 40,000 people attended its Cannabis Cup in Denver in April, a sort of trade show that includes judging of marijuana edibles, said editor-in-chief Chris Simunek. "Like everything else in marijuana at the moment, it's sort of experiencing a renaissance where the more people get interested, the more experiments they do with it," Simunek said. The magazine said its "Official High Times Cannabis Cookbook" is the top-selling title of the five it offers. It's not just a hobby or business; there's a science involved. THC, marijuana's psychoactive chemical, must be smoked or heated — as in cooked — to be activated. When ingested rather than inhaled, it provides a longer-lasting and often more intense feeling. Users of pot edibles, such as cookies, are often advised to eat only a portion so they don't get too high. Education about proper dosing has become a priority after at least one death and a handful of hospital visits were linked to consuming too much of an edible. The Washington state Liquor Control Board adopted rules to require recreational marijuana products to be labeled clearly as such; to be scored so a serving size is easy to distinguish; and to be approved by the board before sale. In Vermont — one of 22 states that allow the use of medical marijuana, along with the District of Columbia — the Legislature this year passed a bill that allows more people to get medical marijuana and called for a study of financial effects if the state were to allow recreational use. Bridget Conry, general manager of Champlain Valley Dispensary in Burlington, Vermont, and of Southern Vermont Wellness, another medical marijuana dispensary in Brattleboro, is already creating infused olive oils, tinctures and a gluten-free cracker. She expects soon to be making pestos and other infused foods, in manageable amounts that allow people to control dosing. "We've always come from the perspective of like, who eats a quarter of a cookie?" Conry said. "We're trying to make our things portion-specific, because you know you want to eat the whole cookie." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
In the wake of yesterday's Malaysia Airlines crash and the start of ground operations by Israeli forces in Gaza, the world is again attuned to the various geopolitical hotspots where risk exists for major conflict to crop up. Deutsche Bank published the map below last Thursday laying out the three main areas of the globe where the risk of conflict escalation is particularly acute.  And though the map doesn't include the most recent developments, these regions still remain the major flash points of geopolitical tensions. As news regarding the situations in Ukraine, Russia, and the Middle East continues to break, this map is a useful guide to orienting yourself with where tensions are high and risks exist. Deutsche Bank
Dave Lutz of JonesTrading passes along the top topics about which traders are talking today: Euros noting how quiet it is despite the headlines as the globe digests the worst Air Tragedy since 9/11. Yesterday was the 8th largest VIX percentage gain. Bespoke notes On 22 days the VIX rose 30%+, yesterday’s 1.2% decline in S&amp;P 500 was the mildest of them all. Average drop on days when VIX rises 30% is 3.6%. We have some Haven demand waning – Gold getting hit, Yen is softer, and US Yields are higher after closing at 52week lows. The Micex is off another 1%, but Ruble is stabilizing as the UN Security Council schedules an emergency meeting at 10amET. Airline stocks recorded substantial losses in early European trade, but moves were less pronounced by midmorning -Other Sectors to keep an eye on include Potash stocks, Palladium, EU/Asia Natty Prices, Airlines, Oil players, and Wheat among others. Heavy Technical damage done yesterday – XBI (Biotech) under 200dma as it lost 14% in 2 weeks - IWM (Smallcaps) and IWO (Russell Growth) breaking downside 200dma. IWO is off 7% in 2 weeks. ITB (Homebuilders) off 7%, under 200dma a first in 2 months, and XRT (Retail) breaking the 200dma for a first in 6 weeks. Credit focus is in Junk, where the HYG (HY) breaks the 200dma for a first since February. US Futures just poked positive, with NDX and SPX up 20bp early on earnings – The DAX is off 60bp, but recovering from session lows quickly as US traders brace for Options Expiry today. Volumes are heavy in Europe, with Germany trading double it’s 20day averages right now. Over in Asia, the Nikkei lost 1% in very light trade, China had a small pop on declining property prices – Aussie gained small as Miners advanced on metal prices overnight, while Malaysia’s market lost 50bp (Malaysia Air still above May Lows). Keep an eye on Treasuries, as some of the PIIGS debt is weaker and EU Fins are getting slammed with the SX7E dancing on July Lows. The DXY is showing some life, gaining against both Yen and Euro, providing a headwind for commodities – Oil remains bid, but both WTI and Brent are nearing session lows – Gold has reversed lower, while Copper continues to see profit-taking, losing 70bp. Scheduled Catalysts today include: Canadian CPI at 8:30, Michigan Confidence at 9:55, Leading Index at 10, along with Regional and State Employment and Unemployment for June. There is NO POMO at 11. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCOPENHAGEN (Reuters) - The U.S. hearing aid market grew 6 percent year-on-year in June, driven by an increase in sales to Veterans Affairs (VA), a government program for military veterans, data from Bernstein Research showed on Friday. U.S. sales can make a significant contribution to the results of several European companies. Military veterans account for about 20 percent of all hearing aid units dispensed in the United States. Hearing aid sales to the VA rose 12 percent in June from June 2013, up from a year-on-year increase of 4 percent in May, the data showed. Switzerland's Sonova and Danish companies William Demant and GN Resound, a unit of GN Store Nord, each generate about 35 to 45 percent of their revenues from North America, with most of that coming from the United States. Three Danish firms - William Demant, GN Store Nord and unlisted firm Widex A/S - together supply about half of the world's hearing aids. Sonova has the biggest VA share at around 55 percent, while GN Store Nord and William Demant have around 8 percent each. At the start of 2014, hearing aid sales were hit hard by severe winter weather, when consumer spending in general fell. Sales contracted 4 percent in January but bounced back to grow in the last five months "mainly on the back of strong performance in the Veterans Administration program", Bernstein Research analyst Lisa Clive wrote in a note. Growth in the U.S. private market, where 2.4 million hearing aid units were sold last year, was 4 percent in June, the data showed. According to data from the Hearing Industries Association released earlier this week, U.S. hearing aid sales increased by 2.9 percent in the first half of 2014.   (Reporting by Stine Jacobsen; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettVitamins made by Shire are displayed at a chemist's in northwest London. LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. drugmaker AbbVie &lt;ABBV.N&gt; bought Dublin-based Shire &lt;SHP.L&gt; on Friday in a 32 billion-pound ($54.7 billion) deal that will allow it to slash its tax bill by relocating to Britain. The London-listed company, which makes expensive medicines to treat rare diseases, fought off four earlier bids from AbbVie until the U.S. firm raised its price to 52.48 pounds per share - made up of 24.44 pounds in cash and 0.8960 new AbbVie shares. Chicago-based AbbVie is buying Shire to cut both its U.S. tax bill and its reliance on arthritis drug Humira, the world's top selling medicine which loses U.S. patent protection in 2016. AbbVie, which generates nearly 60 percent of its revenue from Humira, had until Friday to announce a firm offer for Shire, extend the deadline or walk away under UK takeover rules. It now plans to create a combined company incorporated in Jersey, the Channel Islands, which will pay an effective tax of about 13 percent, sharply lower than its current rate of about 22 percent, making the deal one of the biggest driven by the tactic known as tax inversion. America's Pfizer Inc tried a similar tactic earlier this year when it made a bid for Britain'sAztraZeneca plc &lt;AZN.L&gt; though its $118 billion deal was rejected. Shire's board had said on Monday it was ready to recommend the higher offer from AbbVie, signaling the end of a lengthy courtship. AbbVie's agreed price represents a premium of about 53 percent to Shire's share price on May 2, the last business day before AbbVie's first offer, which was rebuffed by Shire. Shares in Shire, which will own about 25 percent of the combined group, rose 1.9 percent to 48.99 pounds by 1027 GMT on Friday after the agreed deal was announced. Separately, Shire raised its earnings guidance for the year on Friday, to low-to-mid 30 percent growth, from mid-to-high 20 percent growth. The company, which also produces hyperactivity drug Vyvanse, reported record revenue of $1.5 billion for its second quarter and a 42 percent jump in its preferred earnings measure of non-GAAP adjusted earnings per ADS to $2.67. Commenting on the final takeover deal, AbbVie chairman and chief executive Richard Gonzalez said the combination would have a best-in-class product development platform, a stronger pipeline and better R&amp;D capabilities. "The combination of AbbVie and Shire is attractive for shareholders of both companies," he said. Shire was advised by Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Evercore and Citi, while AbbVie was advised by J.P.Morgan. ($1 = 0.5847 British Pounds) (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Erns/ReutersWhile Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation US$80 billion takeover bid for fellow US media giant Time Warner has been rejected - for now - there is no doubt the future ownership of this historic company is in play. For Murdoch personally, it would almost certainly be his last big media takeover bid and there appears to be an element of personal mission about the plan. But the bid should also be seen as a defensive play against the seemingly inexorable rise of companies such as Google and Apple. All media industries have dramatically consolidated their ownership in recent decades, as the rise of digital platforms and the convergence of media forms has undercut traditional sources of profitability. For News Corporation, a takeover of Time Warner would consolidate its position as one of the few giant global media content businesses. Alongside the more high-profile news offerings such as CNN and Time magazine, Time Warner is also behind Home Box Office, Warner Bros movies, DC comics, and the digital platforms of the US national Basketball Association and Major League Baseball. For a teenager or 20-something, the company is more likely to be known as the home of Game of Thrones as for CNN or Time. Similarly, while we may think of News Corporation as being about newspapers and cable channels such as Fox News, its bigger and more profitable offerings are in its entertainment division, with blockbuster films such as Avatar and the X-Men franchise, and TV shows such as The Simpsons, 24 and Modern Family. Both News Corp and Time Warner are major players in US sports broadcasting. News Corporation formalized the division between its print and entertainment media businesses in June 2013, when it restructured around two companies: 21st Century Fox, which consists primarily of media outlets, and News Corp, which manages publishing assets. A takeover would cement News Corp’s place alongside content companies such as Disney. But the bid should also be seen as a defensive play against structural forces sweeping the media industry. Power has shifted decisively from the big media content providers to content aggregators and those who control digital distribution platforms. As Robert Chesney has observed in his 2013 book Digital Disconnect, the biggest US corporations are now Apple, Microsoft, Google and Amazon, as well as IT companies such as IBM, Intel and Cisco, or network service providers such as AT&amp;T, Verizon and Comcast. Indeed, Murdoch himself argues the takeover needs to be supported by investors and regulators to maintain a strong bargaining position for the media content industries in their dealings with the platform providers and content aggregators. The days in which “Content is King” was the mantra for the internet have long passed. Any move that suggests Murdoch will be able to enhance his media power will automatically have its critics. But the bid is likely to be less contentious in the US than it would be in Britain or Australia. Unlike Comcast’s takeover bid for Time Warner Cable, it has few implications for threshold issues such as net neutrality, and there is a history in both companies of dealing with their news and entertainment businesses quite differently. It has been argued that anti-trust provisions would be unlikely to be triggered by such a merger. The biggest implication of the bid is probably for the future of cable news provider CNN. Once the unquestioned giant of global 24-hour news channels, CNN now struggles both domestically and internationally. In the US, it has been caught in the crossfire of growing political polarization, with Fox News being the preferred service of the political right, and MSNBC providing the key counterpoint for political progressives. Internationally, CNN is challenged for leadership by a plethora of state-funded broadcasters, that include BBC World and Al-Jazeera, but also the “soft power” players such as China’s CCTV and Russia Today. A merged News Corp-Time Warner entity would face questions from the Federal Communications Commission about controlling both CNN and Fox News. Moreover, it is hard to see the two co-existing at an organizational level, since each defines its own mission at least in part in opposition to the other. For CNN, its most likely future would be to merge with one of the major TV networks, such as ABC or CBS, in order to better pool resources between a dedicated news channel and a broad appeal network that nonetheless has news as a core activity.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai An employee of a foreign exchange trading company watches a TV programme the downed Malaysian Airlines MH17 as the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the Euro (R) are pictured, in Tokyo July 18, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: MH17. U.S. intelligence believes a surface-to-air missile was fired at Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, killing the 298 people aboard. The act has been tied to pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine. Russia Passes The Blame. "Without doubt the government of the territory on which it happened bears responsibility for this frightening tragedy," said Russian President Vladimir Putin. Investors Sell Russia. Russia's MICEX stock index is down 1.5%. The rationale is that harsher sanctions would come down should Russia be tied directly to the tragedy. Today's trading activity follows Thursday's sharp sell-off, which came after the U.S. announced harsh sanctions against Russian energy and financial firms. Wall Street Is Split. Some experts believe this too shall pass. "Over time MH17 will be seen as a human tragedy with regional implications more than a geo-political crisis and next week should see the focus return to yield-hunting," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. But This Time Could Be Different. "If there's something that could take this dangerous Cold War-era standoff to a whole new level, this is it," said Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "[I]t's possible that markets, which continue to brush off all sorts of country-specific and geo-political risk events after brief periods of nervousness, will perceive the MH17 crash as a development which forces Russia to change course and disassociate itself from the separatist insurgents in eastern Ukraine.  This looks like wishful thinking for the time being." Markets Are Mixed. In western Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down by 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%, Germany's DAX is down 0.6%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.0% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.3%. Google Whiffs. Search giant Google reported Q2 earnings of $6.08 per share, missing expectations for $6.25. However, revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs was strong at $12.67 billion versus $12.32 billion expected. The stock is up by around 1% in pre-market trading. IBM Beats. IBM Q2 earnings came in at $4.29 per share, beating expectations for $4.32 by a hair. "We performed well in our strategic imperatives around cloud, big data and analytics, security and mobile,” said CEO Ginni Rometty. “We will continue to extend and leverage our unique strengths to address the emerging trends in enterprise IT and transform our business, positioning ourselves for growth over the long term." The stock is down by 1.6% in pre-market trading. Sentiment Update. At 9:55 a.m. ET, we'll get the University of Michigan's preliminary read on consumer sentiment in July. Economists estimate the headline index climbed to 83.0 from 82.5 in June. "Rising equity markets, combined with moderately lower retail gasoline prices and financial market volatility, suggest that consumer sentiment should remain on a broadly upward trend," said Barclays economists. "A rise to 83.0 in July would put the six-month moving average at 82.2, up from 81.9 in June, and be consistent with the recent uptick in consumer spending following only modest growth in the first quarter." CBS-CNN? "We've always talked about doing things with CNN," said CBS CEO Les Moonves. "We'll see. It's something I'm sure we will look at if that becomes available." Earlier this week, Morgan Stanley's Benjamin Swinburne estimated CNN's value at ~$10 billion. FREE AppDownload
Moscow ExchangeRussian markets are tumbling again. Russia's MICEX stock index is down 1.5%. This comes after a Malaysian commercial airline was shot down in Ukrainian airspace, killing over 300 people. It appears that pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine were responsible. Russian President Vladmir Putin, however, is blaming Ukraine. "Without doubt the government of the territory on which it happened bears responsibility for this frightening tragedy," said Putin. Today's trading activity follows Thursday's sharp sell-off, which came after the U.S. announced harsh sanctions against Russian energy and financial firms. Malaysian Airline System fell 11% on the Bursa Malays. Meanwhile in western Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down by 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%, Germany's DAX is down 0.6%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.0% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.3%. U.S. futures are flat. "Over time MH17 will be seen as a human tragedy with regional implications more than a geo-political crisis and next week should see the focus return to yield-hunting," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. "But a lack of data and the end of a mid-July week make for a nervous start today in Europe." FREE AppDownload
Steve Jennings/Getty ImagesSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc's reshuffle of its senior ranks underscores the Internet company’s evolving business ambitions, analysts say. Four years after co-founder Larry Page took the reins back as chief executive officer, his team of lieutenants is clearly undergoing a refresh. On Thursday, Google announced the surprise departure of its veteran business chief Nikesh Arora, who will become Vice Chairman of SoftBank Corp. Arora represents the latest in a string of personnel changes within Google’s top ranks over the past 16 months, affecting major divisions from Youtube to its popular Android mobile software. In some cases, the moves appear to be the result of personal circumstances or opportunities. Arora’s role at SoftBank represents a promotion, analysts say. But a half-dozen other top executives have left or switched roles in recent months. They included the departed Vic Gundotra, who oversaw the Google+ social network; and Salar Kamangar, who was CEO of YouTube before moving to another role. Fresh faces now pictured on Google’s senior management page include Craig Barratt, whose responsibilities include efforts building broadband networks and delivering wireless Internet access, and Lorraine Twohill, the head of marketing who was recently promoted to senior vice president. It is unclear what motivated each individual move. But analysts say they suggest a general desire to have fresh eyes on key parts of the business as Google pursues growth areas. “The opportunities they’re chasing are so much bigger now,” said BGC Partners analyst Colin Gillis. “They weren’t digging up fiber four years ago. They didn’t have Chromecast,” he said, referring to Google’s ultra-high-speed fiber network and a device for streaming Web content to televisions. Google’s transition to smartphones represents a key success in recent years. Now, it is seeking to extend Android’s reach into televisions, smartwatches and cars. This week, Google announced that former Ford Motor Co CEO Alan Mulally was joining its board, bringing expertise and connections as Google seeks to play a bigger role in automobiles with its Android software and self-driving car technology. Andy Rubin, credited with making Android a hit, is now focused on building another potential area of growth for the company: robots. Other initiatives, such as the Google+ network launched to take on Facebook Inc, appear to have receded in priority, with the service barely mentioned at this year's developer conference. Meanwhile, Google’s online advertising business remains a reliable money-making machine, with revenue up 22 percent to $16 billion in the second quarter. Arora's departure should not cause any major hiccups, analysts said. He will be replaced for now by Omid Kordestani, one of Google’s early sales executives. “Google is a pretty efficient machine, so I think they’ll be able to plug in the up-and-coming person,” said Needham &amp; Co analyst Kerry Rice, referring to Kordestani. “I don’t think it will be too detrimental.”   (Reporting by Alexei Oreskovic; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewPresident and CEO CBS Corporation Leslie MoonvesLOS ANGELES (Reuters) - CBS Corp Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said on Thursday the media company would take a look at Time Warner Inc's cable news network CNN if it goes up for sale as part of a merger with Rupert Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. Moonves was asked by reporters at a Television Critics Association meeting whether he wanted to buy CNN if Fox decides to sell the channel in order to clear regulatory hurdles in a possible merger with Time Warner. Fox's initial offer was rebuffed. "We've always talked about doing things with CNN," Moonves responded. "We'll see. It's something I'm sure we will look at if that becomes available."   (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNews Corporation CEO Rupert Murdoch waits to testify before the House Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security and International Law Subcommittee on Capitol Hill in WashingtonNEW YORK (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch looks to have been canny in his $80 billion takeover approach to Time Warner Inc, cornering the media giant at a time when potential "white knight" bidders are busy absorbing their own large deals. The absence of potential counter-bidders leaves Time Warner's investors with a dilemma. They can either engage with Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox Inc to negotiate a higher price, or play for time and wait until there are more potential buyers available. Time Warner, owner of many highly-prized assets from HBO to Warner Bros, has rejected Fox's initial cash-and-stock proposal of $85 per share. An eventual deal would transform the U.S. media landscape and cement Murdoch's status as the most powerful magnate in U.S. media and entertainment. When Time Warner's board rebuffed the approach it indicated it believes now is the wrong time to sell because the environment isn't conducive to getting the best price, people familiar with Time Warner's thinking said on Wednesday. That is mainly because a range of major media, telecom and technology companies are for various reasons not in a position to make a rival offer. Verizon Communications Inc, which last year paid $130 billion to buy Vodafone out of its U.S. wireless business Verizon Wireless, is hampered by the $140 billion debt load that it took on as a result. Comcast Corp, which completed the acquisition of NBC Universal last year, has its hands tied while waiting for the government to approve its proposed $45 billion takeover of Time Warner Cable. Bidding for Time Warner while that is going on could scuttle the chances of getting the cable deal approved. Elsewhere, AT&amp;T Inc, another large telecom company that hardly produces any programming, is trying to close its $48.5 billion takeover of satellite TV company DirecTV, which is also awaiting regulatory approval. As the media industry landscape evolves, technology companies such as Google, Apple or Amazon could also be tempted into bidding for Time Warner as opposed to trying to produce video content on their own, people familiar with Time Warner's thinking said. Time Warner shareholder Mario Gabelli told Reuters Insider TV on Wednesday that he thought both Google and Apple were possible bidders. But for now, Google's investment in content is focused on its YouTube unit while Amazon has spent money on original TV shows for its online video service. Apple's media bets have so far been on music, illustrated by its purchase of Beats Music in May for $3 billion. "If I were Time Warner, I would wait. A year or two from now, they will have competition for the assets actually," said an industry banker who is not involved either with Time Warner or Fox. "The only downside of waiting is if you believe that multiples are going to contract in the next year or two. Nobody assumes that the markets are going down," the banker said. For Fox, stars seem to be aligned for a deal. Financing remains cheap, making it easy for Fox to borrow the cash it will need for the deal. Its stock, which Fox wants to use to finance 60 percent of its bid, is trading at a lofty multiple to earnings. "In our experience, if Mr. Rupert Murdoch wants an asset, he will wait and pay to get it," ISI analyst Vijay Jayant said.   UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE Still, Time Warner shareholders have told Reuters that Murdoch will have to raise his bid and increase the cash component to stand a chance of succeeding. Also companies don't always get to choose the place and time of a battle. Fox's overture could force another company to think hard about making a competing bid, and Murdoch could get trumped. Investors in cable and media have seen this movie before. Earlier this year, Charter Communications went public in its pursuit of Time Warner Cable and ended up losing out to Comcast, which swooped in as a white knight with a surprise offer of its own in February. People familiar with Comcast told Reuters at that time that while it had historically been intrigued by the idea of buying Time Warner Cable, such a deal was not high on its priority list until Charter started pursuing the company. "By going public you could run into the unintended consequence that other people start to think it's important for them and they go after it," said a second industry banker.   (Reporting by Liana B. Baker, Editing by Soyoung Kim and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
YouTube(Reuters) - Oregon, Washington and Vermont sued the makers of 5-Hour Energy on Thursday for allegedly deceptive and misleading advertising, and said similar suits will follow in other states in the coming weeks. The Oregon lawsuit was filed in Multnomah County Circuit Court against the makers of the caffeine-charged beverage, Michigan-based manufacturer Living Essentials and its parent company Innovation Ventures [IVLL.UL]. Washington and Vermont filed similar suits, according to a statement released by Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson. All three states are seeking a permanent injunction prohibiting 5-Hour Energy’s allegedly deceptive marketing practices, as well as civil penalties and restitution to consumers. “Plainly and simply, in Oregon you cannot promote a product as being effective if you don’t have sufficient evidence to back up your advertising claims,” Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum said in a statement. A representative for 5-Hour Energy described the Oregon suit’s allegations as “grasping at straws” and “civil intimidation” and said the companies would fight to defend themselves. In its lawsuit, Oregon said advertising for 5-Hour Energy claimed the drink contained a unique combination of ingredients to boost energy, whereas its only effective ingredient was a concentrated dose of caffeine. The lawsuit also said consumers had been misled with claims that the drink would not cause them to experience a “crash” like the one that typically follows a caffeine high, and that it had been recommended by doctors. Living Essentials said it sells about 9 million bottles of 5-Hour Energy each week. A spokeswoman for Rosenblum said other states would file similar suits over the next few days, and still more in the coming weeks. The lawsuits are the result of an investigation launched in 2012 by 33 states, in which Oregon, Tennessee, Maryland and Vermont have taken the lead. Living Essentials and Innovation Ventures are also facing pending civil lawsuits from consumers over 5-Hour Energy in other U.S. courts. The Oregon case is State of Oregon ex rel Ellen Rosenblum v Living Essentials LLC and Innovation Ventures LLC, Circuit Court of the State of Oregon. The Washington case is State of Washington v Living Essentials LLC and Innovation Ventures LLC, King County Superior Court of the State of Washington. Details of the Vermont suit were not immediately available.   (Reporting by Patience Haggin; Editing by Ted Botha and Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
NASA Webb TelescopeNASA's view of the honeycomb-shaped James Webb telescope.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Friday.  1. A Malaysia Airlines plane carrying 298 passengers exploded and crashed in eastern Ukraine on Thursday, killing everyone on board. The flight headed from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, is believed to have been shot down by pro-Russian separatists, although there are "strong indications that those responsible may have errantly downed what they had thought was a military aircraft only to discover, to their shock, that they had struck a civilian airliner, The New York Times reports.  2. Some of the world's top AIDs experts, headed for an international conference in Melbourne, Australia, were passengers on the Malaysia Airlines flight that crashed over Ukraine. It's believed that the former president of the International AIDS Society, Joep Lange, was among those killed, Xinhuanet reports. 3. The Israeli military launched a large-scale ground invasion in the Gaza strip after Hama militants rejected a truce brokered by Egypt. The goal of the new phase after 10 days of fighting is to "target Hamas' tunnels that enable terrorists to infiltrate Israel and carry out attacks," The Israeli Defense Force tweeted. "This requires precise operations," they added. 4. The massive layoffs at Microsoft on Thursday mark one of the highest workforce cuts in the company's nearly 40-year history. Microsoft CEO Satay Nadella said the company would cut 18,000 jobs — 14% of the workforce — over the next year.  5. Google revenue jumped 22% in the second quarter to nearly $16 billion, which was better than the expected $15.6 billion. During the call, chief business officer Nikesh Arora also announced that he will be leaving the company to join SoftBank. 6. New York City transit authorities said they reached a tentative deal with labor unions from the Long Island Rail Road, dodging a transit strike that would have stranded thousands of passengers over the weekend. According to Reuters, the contact provides a 17% raise over the next 6.5 years, but workers must pay healthcare benefits for the first time.  7. Bloomberg reported on a Russian-led cyber attack on NASDAQ's central servers that took place in 2010. The hack represents "the only time a digital weapon has been planted inside a critical U.S. system," the Daily Beast reports. The hack, while intercepted, was an attempt to steal information for Russia's owns stock exchanges.  8. Many flights have been cancelled in Libya as air controllers go on strike after the terminal of Tripoli's main airport was hit by shells of a rival militant group.  9. German World Cup midfielder Mesut Özil has donated nearly $600,000 of his personal winnings to more than two dozen surgeries for sick children in Brazil. Özil considers the contribution "a personal thank-you for the [country's] hospitality," The Telegraph said.  10. Broadway icon Elaine Stritch died at the age of 89 at her home in Michigan. Stritch appeared in movies and T.V. shows but was best known for on stage performances, winning five Tony awards and three Emmys in her lifetime. And finally... Scientists say they expect to find alien life on another planet in the coming decades, aided by the launch of NASA's next-generation James Webb Space Telescope. FREE AppDownload
