Hasbro is in talks to acquire DreamWorks Animation, according to a report from Deadline.com. Deadline reports that DreamWorks and Hasbro are in talks to create a combined family entertainment company that would be called DreamWorks-Hasbro, and says the deal is at least 60 days away from being finalized. DreamWorks currently has a market cap of about $1.9 billion and is the studio responsible for producing animated films including, "Shrek", "Madagascar", and "How to Train Your Dragon." Deadline's report said DreamWorks CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg is looking for Hasbro to pay $35 a share for the company, which would be more than a 50% from the $22.37 that DreamWorks shares closed at on Wednesday. The New York Times, citing a person briefed on the matter, is also reporting that Hasbro and DreamWorks are in talks regarding a deal. That report said only that Katzenberg is seeking a deal worth more than $30 a share.  These reports come about six weeks after The Wall Street Journal reported that Japanese conglomerate SoftBank was in talks to acquire DreamWorks, though the Journal later reported that these talks cooled for reasons that weren't known at the time.  The Times' report on Wednesday also said it isn't clear why those talks broke down. Deadline also reported that in a separate deal, DreamWorks is looking to form a joint venture with The Hearst Corporation involving its AwesomenessTV arm.  DreamWorks acquired AwesomenessTV for more than $100 million in May 2013. AwesomenessTV operates a network of YouTube channels.  Deadline broke the news after 8:00 pm ET, which is when stocks no longer trade in the after hours, but shares of DreamWorks are likely to rise sharply on Thursday following the news.  You can read Deadline's report here, and The New York Times report here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report PIMCO/GROSSNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Pimco Total Return Fund, whose long-time manager Bill Gross unexpectedly departed on Sept. 26, ended October with a slight decrease in U.S. government-related holdings and a slight increase in mortgages, the first full month under the portfolio's new three-person management team. The Pimco Total Return Fund had exposure of 35 percent in October, down from 38 percent in U.S. government-related securities in September and 41 percent in August, according to the Newport Beach, Calif.-based firm's website on Wednesday. The U.S. government category may include nominal and inflation-protected Treasuries, Treasury futures and options, agencies, FDIC-guaranteed and government-guaranteed corporate securities, and interest rate swaps.  (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockHere is something investors want: higher bond yields. Here is something investors fear: rising interest rates. Higher bond yields won't become a reality until interest rates rise.  A post from ThinkAdvisor's Janet Levaux on Wednesday, which was pointed out to us by Bloomberg's Mary Childs, cites a poll from Franklin Templeton Investment that shows the contradiction in the desires of fixed-income investors. The poll found that 50% of bond investors say low bond yields are a "top concern" when investing in fixed income, while 74% of investors worry about how rising rates will affect their portfolio. The poll also found that 71% of investors believe rates will be higher in 2016.  As Levaux writes, "Fixed-income investors want to have their cake and eat it, too." According to Franklin Templeton's poll, 48% of investors know that bond prices go down when interest rates go up, indicting that a majority of bond investors are unaware of how these assets work. The main reason bond yields won't rise unless interest rates rise is that bond yields are sensitive to interest rates. So, if interest rates are low, really safe assets like CDs, money market funds, and government bonds won't yield much. As a result, investors might choose to invest in riskier assets like stocks to get returns. This is called the "search for yield."  When interest rates rise, the opposite happens.  Here's the chart that shows this dynamic: FRED Bond investors should get their story straight. FREE AppDownload
*NOTE: The price of brent crude fell to $67.90 on Nov. 30, the lowest level since February 2010. It's down by more than $40 per barrel since this past summer. Oil prices have been tumbling, with brent crude down sharply* from about $115 earlier this summer. A research note from Societe Generale's Michala Marcussen takes a look at the possible effects of a drop in oil prices on the world economy. She plugged a sustained $20/barrel drop in oil prices into Britain's National Institute of Economic and Social Research's NiGEM software, a sophisticated global macroeconomic model, and saw what would happen to global GDP in the following years. Oil-exporting countries would experience an immediate negative shock to GDP growth as a result of the oil price drop. Meanwhile, there might be a strong bump in GDP growth for oil-importing countries, most notably the US, Canada, and some countries in Asia. The researchers include numerous caveats, given that economic simulations and predictions of this nature are always filled with assumptions and uncertainties. Societe Generale's results are summarized in the chart. The blue part of the bars show the effect of the price drop after one year, brown after two years, and gray after three years. "As seen from the chart, a $20/b decline in the oil price adds 0.26pp to World GDP after the first year of the shock," Marcussen wrote. Russia stands out as the big loser in the first year. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Pessimists Are Completely Wrong About The Low Oil Prices (Lord Abbett)  "A few months ago, when the rise of ISIS pushed up oil prices, articles abounded about the danger posed to the US and the global economy. Now that oil prices are failing, articles abound about the dangers to the economy of lower prices, sometimes by the same people. Can pessimism really have it both ways? The answer is 'no,'" says Milton Ezrati. In fact, the three main concerns that pessimists have are wrong, argues Ezrati. First, he suggests that the lower prices do not threaten the fracking revolution. Second, although the oversupply is suggesting that low prices will continue, these "straight supply-demand calculations" are "less secure" that many believe. And finally, as long as oil prices say low, consumers will benefit — which will in turn boost the economy. Morgan Stanley Will Spend $50 Million Reimbursing Clients Who Didn't Receive Prospectuses (The Wall Street Journal) Morgan Stanley has set aside $50 million to "reimburse clients who didn't receive prospectuses after they purchased securities, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing made on Tuesday," reports Michael Wursthorn. In late 2013, the firm noticed that some clients never got electronic prospectuses, and they have decided to reimburse them. Originally, Morgan Stanley was planning on paying back $20 million, but the firm saw "an increased level of rescission offer acceptances during October 2014" according to an SEC filing. Not All Liquid Alternatives Are Created Equal (Investment News) The biggest risk of investing in liquid alternatives is the extreme performance disparity, argues Jeff Benjamin, which was exhibited by Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. The former bank's fund performed significantly worse than the latter's: Morgan Stanley's was down 1%, while Goldman's was up 7.2%. "Most alternative strategies are designed around capturing alpha above a market benchmark at the individual manager level. That means performance dispersions can be dramatic between the best and worst alternative funds in a given category," writes Benjamin. Don't Merge If You Like To Be In Control (Wealth Management) Advisory firms are increasingly feeling the pressure to merge with another firm to grow their businesses. However, there are three reasons merging may not be the best decision for a small firm. First, if you have not found the right partner, don't merge with just anyone.  Second, advisers who prefer to be in complete control of the firm should avoid merging. When you add more people into your practice, you have to give up control in exchange for resources and support. "It is the reason you are likely to meet many advisers with a small practice of their own who are much happier than the advisor with the largest practice in, say, the Chicago office of a national firm," argues Philip Palaveev. And finally, working for oneself allows for a better work-life balance. Having more employees adds pressure on advisers to "maintain a similar workload and contribution, as it's difficult to be lifestyle oriented in an ambitious team of people," writes Palaveev. Focus Just Added A $1.4 Billion RIA (Think Advisor) Focus Financial Partners added a huge $1.4 billion RIA, Strategic Wealth Partners. All together, Focus has added 23 new partners in 2014. Focus sees "tremendous potential" with the Chicago-area Strategic Wealth Partners. They are hoping to establish a regional presence in the "highly fragmented nature of the Chicago RIA market," according to Vamsi Yadlapati, a managing director at Focus. Strategic Wealth Partners was founded in 2008 and has 14 staff members. FREE AppDownload
Bill Pugliano/Getty ImagesFCA CEO Sergio Marchionne.Fiat Chrysler Automobiles made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange about a month ago. Since then, the stock — which represents that official financially conjoining of Fiat and Chrysler after the former took over the latter after the financial crisis — has climbed 30%. A big spike came a few weeks ago when FCA announced that it would be spinning of Ferrari as a separate business. When FCA started trading (under the ticker FCAU), it was essentially a mechanism for converting Fiat stock to shares in the new, fully merged company. Yahoo FinanceUp! The stock hit the NYSE at about $9 per share. It closed on Wednesday just below $12. Since the Ferrari announcement, shares have been trading between $11-12, for the most part. Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas likes the company and in a recent note suggested that it's worth investigating, along with Tesla. FREE AppDownload
Earlier this week, President Obama announced that he would like the FCC to reclassify internet service providers as “common carriers,” which would make them much more like a utility provider under the eyes of the law. Currently, they're classified as “information service” providers, which means they are not held to the high standards for providing access of what's known as a common carrier (like a gas or electric company). For more, see The Oatmeal's cartoon explaining the idea. Here are the main ideas in President Obama's proposal: 1) no blocking as long as the site is legal; 2) no throttling, or intentionally slowing down or speeding up specific content; 3) increased transparency, and 4) no paid prioritization (Netflix or Hulu can't receive either faster or slower service based on whether the company pays a fee to the ISP).  What does this mean for the cable companies' business as it currently exists? Shares of companies like Comcast, Time Warner Cable, and Charter Communications all tumbled on the news. However, Morgan Stanley's cable/satellite industry research team doesn't see much pain, largely because not much will change. The President's proposal mostly keeps things as they are, mandating that cable companies can't take steps to slow down the internet. There isn't a lot of evidence that they have really done this yet, other than to Netflix during the beginning of 2014. And even without prioritizing certain traffic the cable companies aren't exactly hurting for revenue. So cable companies will continue to make as much money as they had before, just maybe not a ton more. The real winners of a fast lane on the internet, Morgan Stanley says, would be the Hulus and the Netflixes of the world — companies big enough to be able to pay for prioritization on the web. (These companies, by the way, are are some of the biggest public supporters of net neutrality.)   Here's an excerpt from Morgan Stanley analyst Benjamin Swinburne's research note:  ...these specific four asks are extremely benign and would have essentially no impact on the outlook for broadband revenue growth. We believe this to be the case because first, #1-3 are already essentially in place, and second, because we have never expected any material revenue lift from charging for prioritization in our outlook for cable. In fact, the primary beneficiaries of paid prioritization would be scale content providers such as OW rated Netflix and EW rated Google, which have the financial position to pay for prioritized traffic to differentiate versus smaller competitors. Here you can see that Morgan Stanley projects that high speed data (HSD) will continue to become a larger part of the cable companies' profit margins in the years ahead, even without charging for a "high speed" lane on the web. Morgan Stanley Research Editor's note: A previous version of this article said that big web video companies like Netflix are publicly against net neutrality. That is the opposite of correct. Netflix is a vocal supporter of net neutrality and always has been. We regret the error. FREE AppDownload
It reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.54 which beat expectations by 1 cent. It reported revenues of $12.24 billion (up 1.3% year over year) which also beat expectations. Cisco Systems was expected to report $12.16 billion in revenue and EPS of $0.53. The stock was up immediately after the report, but leveled off after middling guidance on the earnings call. The company now expects $0.50 to $0.52 EPS in its next quarter. Analysts were looking $0.53. Cisco now projects revenue will grow 4% to 7% in its next quarter. Analysts were looking for 8.40% growth. Cisco also announced that its CFO Frank Calderoni is leaving at the end of the year. Cisco is promoting Kelly Kramer to the role. She's currently senior vice president, Business Technology and Operations Finance of Cisco. Here's the press release. Cisco Reports First Quarter Earnings SAN JOSE, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 11/12/14 -- Cisco (CSCO) Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, today reported its first quarter results for the period ended October 25, 2014. Cisco reported first quarter revenue of $12.2 billion, net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis of $1.8 billion or $0.35 per share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.8 billion or $0.54 per share. "We are pleased with our results and are very comfortable in our strategy to deliver innovative solutions which enable the next generation of IT and the Internet of Everything. This was our strongest Q1 ever in terms of revenue, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP EPS," stated Cisco chairman and CEO John Chambers. "We continue to make progress towards becoming the #1 IT company in the world. We are still in a tough environment, but seeing encouraging trends as cities, businesses, governments and schools are becoming more digitized. Our solutions continue to drive positive outcomes and enable productivity through the combination of collaboration, mobility, security and efficiency across our customers' businesses."                                GAAP Results                                     Q1 2015        Q1 2014    Vs. Q1 2014                                 -------------- -------------- -----------Revenue                          $ 12.2 billion $ 12.1 billion         1.3%Net Income                       $  1.8 billion $  2.0 billion        (8.4)%Earnings per Share               $         0.35 $         0.37        (5.4)%                             Non-GAAP Results                                     Q1 2015        Q1 2014    Vs. Q1 2014                                 -------------- -------------- -----------Net Income                       $  2.8 billion $  2.9 billion        (2.3)%Earnings per Share               $         0.54 $         0.53         1.9%A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income is provided in the table following the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Cisco will discuss first quarter results and business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. Call information and related charts are available at http://investor.cisco.com. CFO TransitionFrank Calderoni recently notified Cisco of his decision to step down as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Cisco, effective January 1, 2015. Cisco plans to appoint Kelly A. Kramer to succeed Mr. Calderoni. She is currently senior vice president, Business Technology and Operations Finance of Cisco. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program "We had a solid quarter delivering results for Q1 consistent with our expectations," stated Frank Calderoni, Cisco executive vice president and chief financial officer. &amp;quot;Our strong cash flow, balance sheet, and ongoing commitment to return capital to shareholders demonstrates the strength of our financial strategy.&amp;quot; Internet of Everything Fast IT Innovation FREE AppDownload
APIncome and wealth inequality continue to be a major political issue in the US and around the world. The World Economic Forum just surveyed its list of Global Agenda Council Members on the biggest issues facing the world, and rising inequality came in at number one. On a number of measures, inequality in the US has been rising for the last few decades. We put together a dozen charts and maps that show some of the core issues of inequality. FREE AppDownload
Kimberly White/Getty ImagesTwitter CEO Dick Costolo.Stocks on Wall Street went nowhere on Wednesday, with the Dow and S&amp;P 500 falling slightly and the Nasdaq gaining 0.3%. Shares of social media company Twitter were big winners on Wednesday, gaining more than 7% as the company held an analyst day for the investment community.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The economic calendar is light this week, but on Wednesday we got the latest report on wholesale inventories, which rose 0.3% month-on-month in September, better than consensus expectations for a 0.2% rise. In a note to clients following this report, Jesse Hurwitz at Barclays said that the changes in the report, which included slight downward revision to August's data, "suggest a slightly stronger profile than previously estimated," though Hurwitz and Barclays kept their third quarter GDP tracking estimate at 3%.  2. The big stock mover on Wednesday was Twitter, which rose more than 7%, its best day since the summer, as the social media company held an analyst day and made some bullish predictions about its future. Business Insider's Jay Yarow has the full report on comments made by Twitter CEO Dick Costolo regarding some of the company's future plans, but the big news out of its analyst day was this chart from Twitter CFO Anthony Noto. The chart shows Twitter's revenue growing to $14 billion in ten years, and while Noto said this is not a forecast, Jay noted that this is an unusual — and risky — chart that puts a big target on Twitter's back.  3. Goldman Sachs announced its new partners on Wednesday, and Business Insider Julia La Roche has the full list of the firm's 78 new partners. This brings the list of partners at Goldman to 467, or 1.6% of the firm's full-time staff.  4. A big loser on Wednesday were shares of SeaWorld, which fell more than 9% after the theme park operator again reported a decline in attendance. The drop in SeaWorld shares of Wednesday follows a more than 30% drop in the stock price seen back in August, as the company still struggles with the fallout from CNN's documentary "Blackfish."  5. This morning, Macy's cut its earnings and sales outlook for the year, while also reporting a disappointing 1.3% decline in revenue during the third quarter. "We knew we were up against very strong third-quarter sales growth for our company last year, and thus we had anticipated that our year-over-year comparison would be lower," Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren said. "Even so, sales did not live up to our expectations in the quarter." 6. Wednesday marked four weeks since the stock market bottomed on October 15, and in an email on Wednesday morning, Jonathan Krinsky at MKM Partners highlighted some impressive facts about the recent stock snapback. Overall, the S&amp;P 500 fell about 9% peak-to-trough through late summer to the October bottom, but rose 12% after bottoming out in just 19 trading days. In the fall of 2012, stocks fell by a similar amount, but didn't rise 12% from the bottom for 49 days. And as of Tuesday, the S&amp;P 500 had been trading above its five-day moving average for 18 straight days, one of the longest streaks since 1996, which indicates strong short-term momentum in the stock market.  Don't Miss: Ben Graham Revealed The Big Problem With Earnings Announcements Decades Ago » FREE AppDownload
If you know anything about Wall Street, you know that there are rules. Most of them are not written anywhere, you simply learn them through observation. Part of learning is observing how people follow those rules, and another part is laughing when people get punished for breaking them. There are rules for clothing, rules for eating, rules for everything — even drinking. "Guys get made fun of when they drink anything from a martini glass," said Dan Nathan, a veteran trader and editor of Risk Reversal.  That is, unless it's a martini. Dry. "[They get made fun of] when they drink anything with Campari in it," Nathan added. Unless of course it's a Negroni — but even that, says Nathan, feels contrived.  Wall Streeters are, historically, drinkers of brown liquor. Neat. But that is changing. Talk to bartenders around Manhattan and they'll tell you that some cocktails are beginning to creep into the mix. Yes, the global cocktail craze has reached Wall Street. Here's what happens when you get a bunch of bankers at the bar these days: "One of two out of the group of 15 are ordering cocktails," says John McCarthy, a mixologist at NYC bars Cedar Local in the Financial District and Bathtub Gin in Chelsea. "Whereas before no one would have a cocktail. It was Goose and soda, Macallan 12, and beer." Now this isn't to say that the old spirits are dying. You can still put a bottle Macallan on a string and watch as a bunch of bankers start to follow it up and down Midtown. But bartenders around Manhattan started to notice a subtle shift around 2011.  This shift, of course, had to be served up in a rocks glass however. Globally, the cocktail craze ushered another subtle change along with it — the rise of the craft distillery. On Wall Street that has translated into smaller brands of liquor gaining traction, like Tito's Vodka. "All the people 5 years ago that you couldn't get to drink Tito's are drinking it now," said McCarthy. Back then he was at a bar in the Lower East Side, and only real vodka-heads and cocktail snobs knew about the brand. But now instead of a 'Goose and soda', bankers are asking for a 'Tito's and soda.' Here's the thing about Wall Street — all you really need is for a few of the higher-ups to take to something, and you'll see others start to follow suit. "People are posers when it comes to drinking," Nathan told Business Insider. Posers? On Wall Street? Get out of here. FREE AppDownload
Think about this for a moment. The stock market is comprised of thousands of companies doing business in the economy. Therefore, it only makes sense that the value of the stock market should be a reflection of the economy. As the economy ebbs and flows, so should the values of the companies that are operating within it. This idea can be demonstrated by looking at the real, inflation-adjusted, price of the S&amp;P 500 as a percentage of real GDP. StreettalkFrom 1960 through 1980 the economy was growing faster than asset prices as the U.S. was the manufacturing powerhouse of the post-WWII industrialized nations. However, beginning in 1982 the economy begin to shift from a production and manufacturing-based society to a service based economy with finance at the core. As interest rates and inflation began a 30-year decline, the demand for credit rose to offset a rising standard of living that outpaced both economic and wage growth. Between 1982 and 2000 the price of the market caught up with, and eventually surpassed, real economic growth. Following the turn of the century, prices have continued to push higher as continued declines in inflationary pressures and interest rates were enhanced by sequential floods of liquidity from mortgage equity extractions, easy credit terms and recently direct injections from the Federal Reserve. Since 2000, the price of the market has far outpaced the growth of the underlying economy. Another way to look at this phenomenon is by using the inflation-adjusted market capitalization of the S&amp;P 500 Index (price times the number of shares outstanding) as a percentage of real GDP. Streettalk  You can see it again here. Prior to 1990, the price of the market was more of a reflection of real economic growth rather than financial engineering. However, since 2009 the price of the market has far outpaced real underlying economic growth to an extent greater than what was witnessed at the peak of the last two market "bubbles." [Note: It has been clearly stated by the majority of mainstream economists and analysts that the market is currently "NOT" in a bubble. While that may be the case, it is worth remembering that is what was also said at the peak of the last two major market cycles that were eventually called "bubbles" in hindsight.] Over the last decade in particular, financial engineering has distorted the relationship between the financial markets and the underlying economy. Corporations have resorted to a host of tools to maintain asset prices in the face of weak economic growth. To wit: "In order for profitability to surge, despite rather weak revenue growth, corporations have resorted to four primary weapons: wage reduction, productivity increases, labor suppression and stock buybacks. The problem is that each of these tools create a mirage of corporate profitability." This point was reiterated recently by Goldman Sachs in a recent report where they estimated that cash spending by companies in the S&amp;P 500 index will increase by 12% to $2.3 trillion in 2015. Of that increase in spending 51% will be used for spending and 49% will be returned to shareholders. The analysts estimate that S&amp;P 500 companies will put around $740 billion into capital expenditures next year alone. This is roughly a 6% growth rate in Capex down from 8% in 2014. This decline in capex spending is going to disappoint market bulls who have been anxiously awaiting the revival of massive capex spending as companies ramp up to meet burgeoning consumer demand. The problem, however, continues to be a lack of demand follow through to justify further increases in capital expenditures. With oil prices falling due to global demand pressures, the resurgence in capex will likely be put on hold for another year as the energy sector makes up roughly one-quarter of the total S&amp;P 500 capex and R&amp;D spending. StreettalkThe problem for the "economic growth is coming" crowd is that corporations are indeed spending their cash, but not in ways that directly impact economic growth like capex and R&amp;D does. It is estimated that in 2015 companies will increase cash used for acquisitions by 37%, which generally results in layoffs and consolidations, 31% of the budgeted cash will be used for "stock buybacks," up from 29.4% in 2014, and 17.6% will be distributed to shareholders as dividends which is down from 18.2% in 2014. StreettalkSince dividends flow primarily to the top 20% of the country that have assets invested in the markets, there will be very little impact from the distribution of dividends to shareholders on economic growth. Stock buybacks boost earnings per share reports which supports assets prices, but again has very little impact on the 80% of the economy has little or no money invested in the financial markets. (Read: For 90% of America, There Has Been No Recovery for supporting evidence to the statement above.) The analysts at Goldman Sachs noted that stock buyback trends have resumed over the past several months.  They state: “The slow pace of recovery and recurring threat of economic stagnation has biased managements in recent years toward returning cash to shareholders.Although we expect a gradual shift toward investing for growth via capital expenditures and M&amp;A as confidence in the U.S. economy grows, the popularity of dividends and buyback should continue…” The next chart shows the real problem for the economic growth bulls in the quarters ahead. StreettalkFirst, it is important to understand that capital expenditures by corporations can not offset any significant drag in personal consumption expenditures which comprises almost 70% of economic growth. Secondly, capital expenditures are a function of aggregate end demand. Therefore, if the personal consumption expenditures slow the demand for increased levels of capital expenditures by businesses will also wane. Lastly, topline revenue growth remains extremely weak since the end of the last recession. As shown in the chart below revenue per share has increased by a total of 32% from 2009 through the second quarter of 2014 while reported earnings per share has exploded by 261%. This has been due to the near record level of companies buying back shares to artificially boost profitability. StreettalkThe problem with this activity, along with cost cutting, employment reductions and other measures to increase profitability, is that they are all finite in nature. Eventually, either revenue growth must accelerate, or earnings are at risk of a significant disappointment. As shown in the chart below, earnings have never attained the currently expected growth rate...ever. StreettalkThe recent mid-term elections sent a very clear message to Washington, D.C., which was simply "the economy sucks." While statistical economic data suggests that the economy is rapidly healing, it has only been so for a very small percentage of the players. For most Americans they have only watched the "rich" prosper as the Federal Reserve put Wall Street before Main Street. Stock buybacks, dividends and acquisitions are great for those that have money invested in the financial markets, however, for the rest of America it is only a spectator sport. The risk to the markets currently is that the wave of deflationary pressures engulfing the globe have only begun to wash back on the domestic economy. The drag on exports, combined with the potential for extremely cold winter weather, puts both economic and earnings growth rate projections at risk. With the markets in extremely overvalued territory, the risks to investors clearly outweigh the rewards over the long-term. This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
ReutersA window washer uses a squeegee to clean windows on the morning of the summer solstice in New York's Times Square, June 21, 2013.Two window washers were dramatically rescued today after being caught dangling from WTC 1. The workers were secured in the scaffolding after a cable broke and it began to hang from the building. One World Trade Center is the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere. It may be something that hundreds do every day in New York City, but don't let the routine-ness of it fool you, it's dangerous business working that high up in the air. Back in February 2013, Adam Higginbotham of The New Yorker spent some time with window washers at the Hearst Tower on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan to get a sense of what their lives and work are like. It was an eye-opening article. "Having completed their safety checks, the three-man crew at Hearst climbed into the cleaning basket for their trip down the side of the tower. Bob Menzer stood alone at one end, separated from Brown and Kasparek by one of the unique features of the rig—a cylindrical turret around which either end of the platform could fold toward the other, forming a ninety-degree angle. The boom arm lifted the basket from the roof, forty feet into the air and out over the building’s parapet, and the thirty-six-and-a-half-ton roof car began almost imperceptibly to move along its track toward the corner of the building," Higginbotham wrote.  "When I went out on the scaffold myself, this proved to be the most unnerving stage of the process: as the basket cleared the parapet, a frigid wind scythed across Columbus Circle, humming in the rigging overhead, and each time I shifted my weight the narrow platform swayed sickeningly, like the world’s most appalling fairground ride. Menzer, resting his elbows on the edge of the basket with the serenity of a man watching ducks on a village pond, controlled each of the rig’s movements using a set of sixteen buttons on a remote-control box. When the car reached the northeast corner of the tower, the basket hung in the air above Eighth Avenue and slowly folded into a right angle. It was ready for a 'bird’s mouth' drop." One of those drops takes around four hours on an average day, and "given good weather, it takes a month to clean the whole tower from top to bottom." Delicate business indeed, and not for the faint of heart. Higginbotham noted that being a window washer in the US is "significantly safer than driving a cab."  With that in mind, the danger is real as most of the occupational injuries are from falling from elevation: "Even from thirty feet, only half of those who fall survive." Window washer Ron Zeibig told the New Yorker that the "rule is four floors. Two-hundred-pound man, four floors—you’re dead.” And one added complication these days is the buildings tend to be much more slanted now. "Years ago, it was just straight up and down, flat glass. Bing! Now everything they’re building is all angles.” Here are some photos from the rescue today: Screenshot/ABC7 NYHere was the view from the 68th floor: Now: #FDNY rescuing workers trapped on scaffolding outside 1 World Trade Center. View from the 68th floor. pic.twitter.com/3c7Oi8EZPD Port Authority: Window washers stuck near 68th floor of One World Trade after apparent cable break - @JoshMargolin pic.twitter.com/F3q6mqVB7f Manhattan *High Angle Rescue* Box 8084- 1 World Trade Center. Photo By: RavazziArt pic.twitter.com/emBPBEzr93 FREE AppDownload
Pascal/FlickrEarnings season is almost over. As of Monday morning, about 93% of the S&amp;P 500's combined market cap had reported their third quarter financial results, and on the whole, earnings for the index's members rose 8.5% during the third quarter (or 7.9% ex-legal fees, which for some banks were quite large).   But are we totally sure that this is how much companies actually earned during the quarter? Back in October, Matt Levine at Bloomberg View wrote a great column outlining the multitude of problems with Bank of America's earnings report. As Levine wrote, the bank made, more or less, $168 million in the quarter, though given the size of the $186 billion bank it seems that, 1) it would be almost impossible to know this for sure and, 2) this amount really doesn't matter to Bank of America. (This turned out to be a prophetic piece of analysis: Bank of America later revised their earnings, and they made less than $168 million.) And if we go to what many would call the Bible of investing, Benjamin Graham's "The Intelligent Investor," we find that companies not exactly giving investors a 100% clear picture of what their earnings are is not a new trend. In "The Intelligent Investor," Graham walks through Alcoa's 1970 earnings statement. Alcoa, which is an aluminum giant and still a major economic bellwether, was an even bigger stalwart in the global economy 44 years ago. And so unlike Bank of America, which is in the business of playing with numbers, you'd imagine that an industrial company might have a more straightforward review of their financial results.  APBenjamin Graham was one of Warren Buffett's mentor.But this was not the case. For one, Alcoa presented four different earnings measures for 1970: primary earnings, net income (after special charges), fully diluted (before special charges), and fully diluted (after special charges).  And after several pages of discussing Alcoa's accounting treatment of special items and after-tax effects, the answer to the question, "What were the true earnings of Alcoa in 1970?" comes out to: we're not sure.  And if the earnings of a company for a year cannot be known with complete confidence, Graham writes that, "The more seriously investors take the per-share earnings figures as published, the more necessary it is for them to be on their guard against accounting factors of one kind and another that may impair the true comparability of the numbers."  "An obvious remark here would be that investors should not pay any attention to these accounting variable if the amounts involved are relatively small," Graham writes. "But Wall Street being as it is, even items quite minor in themselves can be taken seriously." Graham also writes about Dow Chemical's annual earnings report for 1969, in which the company included a $0.21 charge that impacted the company's growth comps — taking them to 4.5% year-over-year from 9% — and Graham writes that it seems "rather absurd" that this exact percentage would matter for an investor looking at the company's future average profits or growth.  So then what to make of the S&amp;P 500's earnings growth this quarter, or any quarter? In a note to clients on Monday, RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub wrote that companies in the S&amp;P 500 who reported earnings and sales that beat expectations saw their stocks rise 1.4% following the announcement, while those that missed saw shares tumble 3.1%. RBC Capital MarketsQ3 earnings growth, via RBC Capital Markets And so the risk-reward seems pretty clear: don't miss on earnings.  And while you could argue that a company's earnings are what they are (and though this argument is often more forcefully made for sales, there are creative ways companies can roll forward and backwards revenue recognition, too), lots of people would argue that a company's earnings are what they say, and add that these two statements are not the same thing.  As Graham writes, "Corporate accounting is often tricky," which seems a little like an understatement (though: see Levine again on the tension between whether or not things journalists and others say are complicated actually are).  But as Graham concludes his chapter, "stock valuations are really dependable only in exceptional cases," and earnings reports are part of this equation.  Earlier this week, we highlighted commentary from Julian Emanuel at UBS, who expects the S&amp;P 500 to rise to 2,225 by the end of next year, and as part of this thesis cited, among other things, 7% earnings growth.  Now, of course if this is the earnings growth the market is expecting, and subsequently what companies deliver (whether as a result of looking to meet expectations or not), than investors can't ignore the market's realities: stocks will probably rise. And just last week, we highlighted academic research that highlighted the curious relationship between companies that beat on earnings reports and those that employ former stock analysts.   But as Graham writes, "For most investors it would be be probably best to assure themselves that they are getting good value for the prices they pay, and let it go at that."  At some point, you've just got to believe the magic.  FREE AppDownload
					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Facebook				 Fox Business Network's senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino joined Fox News' "Outnumbered" to show off his push-up skills following Steelers linebacker James Harrison's viral video cranking them out with a 300 lb. teammate on his back.  "Can you really do a one-armed push-up?" host Sandra Smith asked.  "This is not in my contract. You know that, right?" Gasparino said. "Can you do it without splitting your pants?" Rachel Campos Duffy chimed in.  "You will see my very large rear-end... Alright I'll do it. I'll do it," Gasparino said. "We'll find out if he's wearing Spanx under there," Duffy said.   "What are Spanx?" Gasparino asked before cranking out six one-armed pushups.  "Now can you do it with Harris on your back?" Smith asked.  "I might be able to do a regular pushup," he said.  "With me on your back?" Harris Faulkner asked.  He did it.  They looked impressed. We are too.  FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/GettyPeople wait in line to file taxes last-minute.Taxes are often an overlooked, but very real, cost of investing. And while there’s still a lot of time before April 15, there’s likely some tax preparation you need to do before the year ends. Here’s what you need to know, from The Blog. In today’s low yield and high tax environment, every dollar counts. That’s why constructing the most tax efficient, low cost and diversified portfolio is essential. Even if you’re seeing excellent pre-tax returns in your portfolio, it doesn’t mean much if it evaporates on an after tax basis. Let’s take a look at an example. The chart below shows the impact of a 1% annual tax “cost” on a $100,000 portfolio. We see the portfolio grow at an 8% annualized return over ten years. At 0% tax costs, the portfolio balance would have grown to nearly $216,000 at the end of the decade. But, with a 1% tax cost, the investor has an out of pocket expense of more than $20,000 over the same period. Blackrock Blog So how realistic is this example? A 1% tax cost is pretty comparable, as the long-term average annual tax cost for stock mutual funds over the last ten years was 0.9%. The average annual tax cost for bond funds over the same period was 1.6%.** Given those real costs, it can really pay to plan ahead for your tax bill. Here are 5 things you can do going into yearend to reduce your 2014 tax bill: Another great way to employ the best strategy for your portfolio: discuss your options with a tax advisor. * Source: BlackRock. For illustrative purposes only. Does not include commissions or sales charges or fees. Ending balances assume the tax liability of 1% is paid out of fund assets each year. ** Source: Morningstar, as of 3/31/14. “Tax cost” is a Morningstar measure of the impact of taxes on capital gains and income distributions on performance. Averages are calculated using the oldest share class of all Open-End Mutual Funds available in the U.S. (excluding municipal bond and money market funds) with 10 year track records as of 3/31/14. Rob Nestor, head of iShares Retail Product Strategy at BlackRock, contributed to this article.  FREE AppDownload

Buzz Farmers Flickr, CC It's easy to forget that the iPhone was announced just seven years ago. Back then, nobody could predict how people would be using their devices the way they do today — swiping Tinder matches, ordering Uber taxis, and of course, reading Business Insider.  That said, we're looking to find out more about how you use your different devices to read and share stories. Do you prefer reading articles on your smartphone or tablet? How active are you on Facebook and Twitter? Are you a fan of watching videos on your phone?  Click here to take our survey. All we need is five minutes of your time.  Thanks in advance for your candid answers. FREE AppDownload
Last week, Australian Redditor JohnJerryson found out that his wife has been cheating on him for the last decade. The discovery sparked a lengthy post reflecting on his life in the sub-Reddit r/tifu ("Today I F---ed Up"), called "TIFU My whole life. My regrets as a 46-year-old, and advice to others at a crossroad." "I'm a 46 year old banker and I have been living my whole life the opposite of how I wanted," he writes. "All my dreams, my passion, gone. In a steady 9-7 job. 6 days a week. For 26 years. I repeatedly chose the safe path for everything, which eventually changed who I was." Instead of traveling the world and writing the novel he dreamed of in college, connecting with his son, or maintaining a relationship with his wife, John pursued security and wealth — and he regrets it. John's story serves as yet another reminder that money can't buy happiness, and it isn't everything. Rather than being proud of a responsible, dutiful life advancing in his career just like many of us aspire to do, he's sorry that he prioritized earning money over every thing else — even saying goodbye to his dying father. He remembers: I rationalized that financial security was the most important thing. I now know, that it definitely is not. I regret doing nothing with my energy, when I had it. My passions. My youth. I regret letting my job take over my life. I regret being an awful husband, a money-making machine. I regret not finishing my novel, not travelling the world. Not being emotionally there for my son. Being a damn emotionless wallet. John has some advice for the rest of us: If you're reading this, and you have a whole life ahead of you, please. Don't procrastinate. Don't leave your dreams for later. Relish in your energy, your passions. Don't stay on the internet with all your spare time (unless your passion needs it). Please, do something with your life while your young. DO NOT settle down at 20. DO NOT forget your friends, your family. Yourself. Do NOT waste your life. Your ambitions. Like I did mine. Do not be like me. FREE AppDownload
Bureau of Labor StatisticsAt times I imagine Fed Chair Janet Yellen walking purposefully within the cloister of the Fed’s Eccles Building in Washington muttering the words of Ludwig Bemelmans' Miss Clavel (of “Madeline” fame)...."Something is not right!"...as she moves from meeting to meeting. A few months ago Chair Yellen revealed that she had misgivings about the jobs market<U+2015>citing evidence of “labor slack.” More recently, as equity markets gyrated wildly in October, she focused on global deflationary concerns. By the end of the month, however, she crafted a post-meeting statement from the Federal Open Market Committee, points indicating economic improvement. Yet we are left with the feeling that Yellen is profoundly uncomfortable about declaring victory over a seven year economic slump and moving on to monetary business as usual. Our Federal Reserve Board chair is, after all, one of the best labor economists in the profession and must see that present circumstances in the jobs market just don’t feel like anything approaching normal. One elephant in the room is a set of statistics describing the participation in the labor force of those who are employable<U+2015>the so-called Labor Force Participation Rate (LFPR)<U+2015>which remains at low levels unseen since the early 1970’s, when two income families were not yet the norm.   The LFPR, together with the ratio of employed individuals to the population of employable people (the Employment-Population Ratio), are flashing bright red warnings about substantial slack in the U.S. labor force.  Such slack would seem to indicate that there is little concern to be had about sustainable inflation in wages and, moreover, that the increased wages that are necessary for the vibrant recovery and reflation of the U.S. economy are not likely to manifest themselves any time soon.  Much has been written, by me and many others, about these two ratios of late.  So I won’t tie up the reader here with information that has already reached the mainstream press. The other, more brazen but less meaningful elephant that is standing in the corner of the Fed’s boardroom, is the unemployment rate itself, now down to 5.9% from a peak of 10.0% during the Great Recession.  Not quite normal, but given the magnitude and speed of the decline, something on which to ruminate.  I don’t dwell on this figure because the bulk of the reduction in the headline unemployment rate is due to the decline in the LFPR; it is a breathless statistical aberration, not an indication of vibrancy.  The creation of around 9 million private sector jobs since the Great Recession, is of far greater meaning than the unemployment rate. But these new jobs are offset to in part by continued population increases.  That wages have not risen, and in most sectors have fallen relative to inflation for a considerable period of time (even with historically low inflation), is proof that these broader measures are not accurately telling the story. During 2013, job creation did not transmit efficiently into growth because of the quality of jobs created.  Simply put, a significant majority of jobs created last year were in the low-wage sectors of Retail Trade, Administrative and Waste Services, Social Assistance, and Leisure and Hospitality (56% of jobs created, in sectors representing only 36% of total employment). In 2014, the situation improved, with the majority of jobs (61% through September) created being in the higher wage sector. Bureau of Labor Statistics As shown in the Figure 1, 2014 has seen a more robust creation of high wage jobs (although the prior two months of September and October appear to be reversing that trend. And, for the most part as shown in Figure 2, the pace of overall job creation has been roughly consistent with that of 2103. Bureau of Labor Statics So why aren’t we feeling that more in the overall economy, or<U+2015>for that matter<U+2015>in average wages across all job sectors? The answer is twofold.  First, for much of 2014, and for the first time since employment levels began recovering on a sustained basis, we saw wages increase in low wage sectors at a far more rapid and ongoing pace than those of high wage jobs (Figure 3). Bureau of Labor Statistics Second, and more importantly, the growth in the index of aggregate payrolls for low wage jobs has substantially exceeded that of high wage jobs, which have remained nearly flat since March 2014 (Figures 4 and 5).  Effectively, almost all payroll growth has been jammed into the low wage sectors.  The payroll index produced by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics is the product of estimates of average hourly earnings, average weekly hours, and employment (number of jobs) in each sector.  Figure 5, below, is just a zoom in on Figure 4<U+2015>but note in the latter figure that this is the first appearance of such sustained inflection in the period studied: Bureau of Labor Statistics Before we go on, I should define what I mean by low and high wage jobs.  While both exist in every super-sector, there is a very sharp difference between the two super-sectors<U+2015>Retail Trade, and Leisure and Hospitality<U+2015>and two large sub-sectors<U+2015>Administrative and Waste Services (mostly temporary workers) and Social Assistance<U+2015>and pretty much any other large grouping of employees.  Together, these categories total over 42 million jobs, in contrast to the approximately 75 million jobs in the high wage sectors. As of this writing, the data on the distribution of jobs and wages, between high wage (&gt;$22/hour) and low wage (&lt;$19/hour) sectors, is as follows (all jobs data in this report is shown in thousands): Bureau of Labor Statistics The hourly pay gulf between low wage positions and high wage positions is not only very substantial (by a factor of 1.75x) but is exacerbated by the low number of hours worked by people who hold low wage positions<U+2015>particularly in the Leisure and Hospitality and Social Assistance sectors.  As a result, as shown in Table 2, the weighted average annual gross pay for these 42.3 million jobs is well under $26,000 per year. Westwood Capital Why is Job Creation not Transmitting to Consumption Growth?  So there we have it, 36% of the jobs in the U.S. and, more importantly, 45% of all the jobs created since January 2011, gross an average of less than $500/week. Some a bit more, but also many less.  If we are right to be pay attention to both the mix of jobs created as well wage behavior for those jobs in 2014<U+2015>stalling in higher wage jobs (which, after accounting for inflation, saw wages fall for much of the year) yet rising in low wage jobs (where wage growth was actually positive on a real basis in 2014)<U+2015>then we need to focus on the reasons that the sustained growth in absolute number of jobs (and total payrolls) is not transmitting to consumption. Here we move from raw data to interpretation of the above data in light of other factors.  There is, unfortunately, a paucity of currently available data to validate some of these observations, but<U+2015>taken together<U+2015>I believe the below explanation is both robust and highly likely.   First, let’s address consumption itself.  It is worth noting that after growing at an annual pace of 4.0% for the twelve months through June of 2014, the annual rate of growth of personal consumption expenditures slumped to 1.5% in the third quarter of this year (Figure 6).  Is this a trend reflective of the inflection shown in Figure 5, or is it a passing phenomenon? Q4 2014 will tell the tale, but given that the pace of U.S. job growth has remained robust, the foregoing is at least notable. Westwood Capital The most compelling explanation for this disconnect between job numbers and consumption, to my mind, rests in the combination of pay and hours for low wage workers.  These workers<U+2015>a good example being the average leisure and hospitality sector worker making just over $19,000/year<U+2015>are essentially the working poor who are, thankfully, the beneficiaries of federal employee subsidies including the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and, if they make less than certain thresholds at the individual and family levels, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP<U+2015>what we used to call food stamps).  The Child Tax Credit (CTC) also helps lower income families, but because it doesn’t phase out until much higher levels of income, it is not really a factor. These programs are all “means tested,” meaning that the less you make (to a point) the more you receive in support.  The converse, of course, is also true.  The more your pay goes up, the less you receive in benefits. Consequently, many in our population of low wage workers (especially those who earn less than even the low averages set forth in Table 2) really don’t “take home” all net increases in gross pay, as they lose benefits that they were receiving as well.  The burden on government is, of course, relieved<U+2015>but there is no new money to flow back into the economy under such a scenario.   Given the magnitude of these supports relative to the low levels of employee compensation that we observe in the four sectors I have identified above, they would appear to be a factor in addressing the transmission issue.  Depending on the number of children in a household, the credit can be quite substantial.  A single parent, with only one child can qualify for a benefit of up to $3,305, which begins to phase out at $17,830 in income and doesn’t fully phase out until $38,511 in income.  For individuals or couples with more children, the benefit is even more substantial<U+2015>a couple with 3 or more children can qualify for $6,143 in tax credits which phase out between $23,260 and $52,427 in income. SNAP benefits for the lowest income workers<U+2015>especially those with children<U+2015>can amount to another few thousand dollars a year. To appreciate the impact of these benefits on the argument I am making in this paper, if the average worker of the 42.3 million in low wage sector jobs were to get a 3% raise, the amount of that raise would be only $765/year, several hundred of which would be lost to a reduction in the EITC, increased employment taxes and other tax payments.  If that worker also had two children, that raise would knock the worker out of SNAP eligibility for benefits that would previously have been worth more than the rest of the above raise. Please note that I am not writing about social benefit programs to decry the construction of those programs or to argue that they be changed, but merely to point out the math underlying the impact on consumption when wage increases disproportionately impact lower income households (which is, after all, a good thing in many other ways). At the higher end of the jobs spectrum, it would appear<U+2015>given the flattening of hourly wage growth and aggregate payrolls (and the actual nominal declines lately in some high wage sectors)<U+2015>that reentrants and new entrants into several sectors are coming in at substantially lower than prevailing pay levels for existing employees.  As the U.S. in particular exhibits nominal wage rigidity (i.e. we tend not to reduce employee compensation but instead to dismiss excess labor as a way of cutting costs), it is far more likely that soft wage growth (or declines) is spurred by a bifurcation in wage rates between long term employees and those who have entered the 1.3 million high wage positions created thus far in 2014. It is likely that a number of the foregoing reentrants are taking positions after their long term (extended) unemployment insurance benefits have expired.  Since the U.S. Congress failed to extend payments to the long term unemployed in December of 2013, millions lost their insurance benefits (there were 3.1 million of non-qualifying long term unemployed as of July 2014).  While some of these people have dropped out of the labor force, many have also accepted positions at lower wage rates than they had been previously receiving and, likely, were holding out for.  As I forecast in January of this year, this phenomenon appears to have contributed to stalling wages during 2014. There has been some indication of wage firmness in some sectors in recent months, and real wage declines have reversed a bit.  Certain analysts are viewing this as a tightening of the labor market.  I think that is premature, at best, because of (i) the enormous overhang of U.S. labor as illustrated by the LFPR, and the fact that the LFPR has seen no net improvement since the end of 2013, and (ii) the recent improvement in real wages has been to an extent driven by declines in the rate of inflation, as opposed to robust nominal wage growth. AP ImagesJanet YellenPersistent disinflation is a major factor going forward.  Declining oil prices will reflect themselves in coming months’ CPI and PCE inflation statistics. And the toxic combination of disinflation/deflation in other major economies and a strengthening U.S. dollar will see cheap imports build and reduce demand for U.S. exports (witness the growing U.S. trade deficit widening in September to $43 billion from $40 billion in the prior month, even with lower oil prices) at present price levels.  It is hard to imagine U.S. labor having any increased pricing power under such circumstances. We are still playing out the ramifications of the enormous global oversupply of labor and productive capacity relative to global aggregate demand.  This phenomenon has dramatically reduced labor’s share of production (GDP) since the late 1990’s, and increased capital’s share of GDP in the U.S. even while the world experiences a capital glut.  The disinflation/deflation we are seeing in the worlds’ largest economies are a direct result of that oversupply and the failure of inadequate policy “plasters” to heal underlying imbalances. The impact on U.S. wages and payrolls in 2014 has been different from the experience of 2013, but the underlying cause is the same.  And so is the result<U+2015>limited increases in aggregate disposable income. Chair Yellen should heed the inner voice telling her that something is not right, because the foregoing demonstrates a still-ailing labor situation in the U.S., not the vibrancy read into headline statistics. This article originally appeared at Westwood Capital.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
About 40% of Bill Ackman's hedge fund, Pershing Square, is made up of his stake in Allergan. He's been using his stake to pressure the company to sell itself to another pharmaceutical company, Valeant. Now that whole deal could be completely ruined. Bloomberg is reporting that Allergan and another company, Actavis, are about $3 billion away from getting together themselves, foiling Ackman's plans. An Actavis-Allergan merger would be a $60 billion affair — a little over $200 a share. The deal could be done this month. Ackman's involvement with Allergan and Valeant has been a controversial from the get-go. The gentlest critics accuse Valeant of hurting companies it buys by slashing the percentage of revenue that goes to their R&amp;D down to the single digits. Then things only get worse. Short-seller Jim Chanos has accused Valeant of using its many acquisitions to hide the fact that it lacks organic growth. And Allergan has accused Bill Ackman and Valeant of insider trading. Ackman started buying Allergan shares, the company alleges, with Valeant's knowledge and the intention to try to acquire the company. A Judge in California agreed that those allegations may be true, but is letting Ackman use his 10% stake in any vote related to the Allergan-Valeant deal at a board meeting on Dec. 18th.  If this Actavis deal goes down, that may not matter anyway, though. If this deal with Actavis and Allergan goes through, though FREE AppDownload
It's partner day at Goldman Sachs! The list of the 78 new partners is out. (See below.)  That brings the total number of partners at Goldman to 467, or 1.6% of the full-time staff at the firm. Being named a partner at Goldman is a huge deal. It's one of the most coveted titles on Wall Street. The bank picks new partners every two years in an extremely intensive and secretive selection process.  In 2012, the bank tapped only 70 partners compared to 110 in the previous cycle. The size of the partner class isn't pre-dictated, though. However, it usually tends to be between 1.5% and 1.9% of the full-time employee population at the firm.  Here are some quick stats about this year's class: This morning, CEO Lloyd Blankfein and president/COO Gary Cohn personally called folks at their desks to let them know they've been made a partner. The calls usually begin around 5 a.m. EST with the Asia offices and continue until around 9 a.m. EST. "We are pleased to announce that the following individuals have been invited to become partners as of January 1, 2015, the start of our next fiscal year. These appointments recognize some of Goldman Sachs’ most valued senior professionals, their embodiment of our culture and values, and their leadership of the firm’s business and people.  We look forward to their continued strong performance and leadership in the years ahead," Blankfein and Cohn wrote in an internal email to Goldman employees.  Here's the full list:    FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comCalifornia's Redwood City is one of America's priciest housing markets.If you're looking for some of the most desirable and expensive properties on the market, head west. According to Coldwell Banker's annual Home Listing Report, nine of the 10 most expensive housing markets in the US are in California, and the Bay Area dominated, thanks to the success of tech companies located nearby. The Home Listing Report compare the cost of a four-bedroom, two-bathroom home in nearly 2,000 markets, analyzing more than 51,000 homes. It found that the average home in the country's most expensive market costs six times the national average listing price of $295,317. Paige Cooperstein wrote an earlier version of this story.  FREE AppDownload
 Venrock partner David Pakman sat down to a wide-ranging interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, and there was one big take away towards the end — get an engineering degree. "We still prefer [hiring] people who are engineers. People with hardware/software backgrounds, I think, have a great advantage in terms of finding companies and evaluating the strength of the technology..." said Pakman. He said when he and his partners sit down to think about who they should add to their team — a team that has invested in companies like Klout, Dstillery and Dollar Shave Club — they want people who actually get the technology behind the business. Another thing Pakman looks at is a potential hire's networks. Young people are going out and starting companies like never before, and Venrock wants to hire people who know what their peers are doing. "Hyper connected young people with great networks," he called them. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted.   FREE AppDownload
Via Ruth's Chris Steak House A steak from Ruth's Chris Steak HouseDespite all the fancy frills of modern dining, nothing beats a juicy, well-cooked steak.  OpenTable just announced the winners of its Top 100 Steak Restaurants in the United States list, which is based on more than 5 million restaurant reviews submitted by OpenTable diners for more than 19,000 restaurant in the US.  The list of winners spans 32 states, with Texas securing its spot as the beef capital of America with 15 restaurants on the list — more than any other state. As for the best steakhouse in America, Ruth’s Chris Steak House appears on the winning list 13 times.  See the full list below: 2 Johns – Bossier City, Louisiana 801 Chophouse – Des Moines, Iowa Al Biernats – Dallas, Texas Barclay Prime – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Bazaar Meat by José Andrés-SLS Las Vegas – Las Vegas, Nevada Beef ‘N Bottle – Charlotte, North Carolina BIN 54 – Chapel Hill, North Carolina Bob’s Steak and Chop House-Omni Tucson National Resort – Tucson, Arizona Bones – Atlanta, Georgia Bull &amp; Bear Steakhouse – Orlando, Florida The Capital Grille-Buckhead – Atlanta, Georgia The Capital Grille – Charlotte, North Carolina The Capital Grille-Downtown – Chicago, Illinois The Capital Grille – Denver, Colorado The Capital Grille – Fort Worth, Texas The Capital Grille – Kansas City, Missouri The Capital Grille – Milwaukee, Wisconsin The Capital Grille – Minneapolis, Minnesota Carlo &amp; Johnny – Cincinnati, Ohio Carnaval Brazilian Grill – Sioux Falls, South Dakota Chama Gaucha Brazilian Steakhouse – Downers Grove, Illinois Chandler’s Steakhouse – Boise, Idaho CHOP – Sister Bay, Wisconsin The Chop House – Charleston, West Virginia The Chop House – Grand Rapids, Michigan Chophouse New Orleans-Prime Steaks – New Orleans, Louisiana Christner’s Prime Steak and Lobster – Orlando, Florida The City Square Steakhouse – Wooster, Ohio Cole’s Chop House – Napa, California The Copper Door – Hayesville, North Carolina Del Frisco’s Double Eagle Steak House – Washington, D.C. Del Frisco’s Double Eagle Steak House – Fort Worth, Texas Duane’s Prime Steaks &amp; Seafood Restaurant – Riverside, California El Gaucho – Portland, Oregon Estilo Gaucho Brazilian Steakhouse – Frisco, Texas Five O’Clock Steakhouse – Milwaukee, Wisconsin Flame &amp; Fire – Roseville, California Four Winds Steakhouse – Wills Point, Texas Gallagher’s Grill – Covington, Louisiana Hal’s – Atlanta, Georgia Halls Chophouse – Charleston, South Carolina Hannas Prime Steak – Rancho Santa Margarita, California Hanover Street Chophouse – Manchester, New Hampshire Jag’s Steak &amp; Seafood – West Chester, Ohio Jeff Ruby’s – Louisville, Kentucky Jeff Ruby’s Steakhouse – Cincinnati, Ohio Kayne Prime – Nashville, Tennessee Killen’s Steakhouse – Pearland, Texas La Boca Steakhouse – New Orleans, Louisiana Lawry’s The Prime Rib – Las Vegas, Nevada Local Chop &amp; Grill House – Harrisonburg, Virginia Mastro’s City Hall Steakhouse – Scottsdale, Arizona Melrose Grill – Renton, Washington Morton’s The Steakhouse – Naperville, Illinois Mr. John’s Steakhouse – New Orleans, Louisiana New York Prime Steakhouse – Atlanta, Georgia New York Prime Steakhouse – Myrtle Beach, South Carolina Okeechobee Steakhouse – West Palm Beach, Florida Pampas Argentine Steakhouse – Johns Creek, Georgia Pappas Bros. Steakhouse – Dallas, Texas Pappas Bros. Steakhouse – Houston, Texas Pepper Tree Restaurant – Colorado Springs, Colorado Perry’s Steakhouse &amp; Grille-Champions – Houston, Texas Perry’s Steakhouse &amp; Grille-Clear Lake – Houston, Texas Perry’s Steakhouse &amp; Grille – Austin, Texas Perry’s Steakhouse &amp; Grille – Dallas, Texas Porter’s Steakhouse – Collinsville, Illinois The Precinct – Cincinnati, Ohio Prhyme Downtown Steakhouse – Tulsa, Oklahoma Prime13 – Point Pleasant Beach, New Jersey Rafain Brazilian Steakhouse – Fort Worth, Texas Ranch Steakhouse – Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Red Prime Steak – Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Red, The Steakhouse – Cleveland, Ohio Rick Erwin’s West End Grille – Greenville, South Carolina RingSide Steakhouse-Uptown – Portland, Oregon The Royce Wood-Fired Steakhouse at the Langham – Pasadena, California Russell’s Steaks, Chops, and More – Williamsville, New York Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Asheville, North Carolina Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Baltimore, Maryland Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Baton Rouge, Louisiana Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Boise, Idaho Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Columbus, Ohio Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Grand Rapids, Michigan Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Greensboro, North Carolina Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Jacksonville, Florida Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Knoxville, Tennessee Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Memphis, Tennessee Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Minneapolis, Minnesota Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Sacramento, California Ruth’s Chris Steak House – Winter Park, Florida Salacia Prime Seafood and Steaks – Virginia Beach, Virginia Seagar’s Restaurant – Destin, Florida Shula’s Steak House-Wild Horse Pass Hotel &amp; Casino – Chandler, Arizona Steak 44 – Phoenix, Arizona The Steak House at Silver Reef Hotel-Casino-Spa – Ferndale, Washington Texas de Brazil – Albany, New York Texas de Brazil – Fort Worth, Texas Vernon’s Hidden Valley Steakhouse – Los Ranchos De Albuquerque, New Mexico Vic &amp; Anthony’s Steakhouse – Houston, Texas FREE AppDownload
It's partner day at Goldman Sachs! The list of the 78 new partners is out. (See below.)  That brings the total number of partners at Goldman to 467, or 1.6% of the full-time staff at the firm. Being named a partner at Goldman is a huge deal. It's one of the most coveted titles on Wall Street. The bank picks new partners every two years in an extremely intensive and secretive selection process.  In 2012, the bank tapped only 70 partners compared to 110 in the previous cycle. The size of the partner class isn't pre-dictated, though. However, it usually tends to be between 1.5% and 1.9% of the full-time employee population at the firm.  Here are some quick stats about this year's class: This morning, CEO Lloyd Blankfein and president/COO Gary Cohn personally called folks at their desks to let them know they've been made a partner. The calls usually begin around 5 a.m. EST with the Asia offices and continue until around 9 a.m. EST. "We are pleased to announce that the following individuals have been invited to become partners as of January 1, 2015, the start of our next fiscal year. These appointments recognize some of Goldman Sachs’ most valued senior professionals, their embodiment of our culture and values, and their leadership of the firm’s business and people.  We look forward to their continued strong performance and leadership in the years ahead," Blankfein and Cohn wrote in an internal email to Goldman employees.  Here's the full list:    FREE AppDownload
Sure, you love steak and know all the best steakhouses, but are you a true connoisseur? We spoke with New York City's Old Homestead Steakhouse team (including owners Greg and Marc Sherry, and executive chef Oscar Martinez and his culinary team), as well as executive chef David Nichols at the Gerber Group and executive chef Paul Niedermann at BLT Prime Doral in Miami on the steak knowledge that separates the men from the boys. Keep reading to see their answers. A porterhouse steak and a T-bone steak are not the same. Though they look almost identical, both are part sirloin and filet mignon, and both are double-cut, you get more bone and less meat with a T-bone.  Filet mignon doesn’t have to be aged. Because it’s so lean, there’s no fat to break down, making the process unnecessary. The rump is underrated and supremely flavorful. Just because the rump is a tougher kind of meat doesn’t mean you shouldn’t order it. It’s more flavorful than filet mignon and one-third the price. Don’t be afraid of overseasoning, especially if you’re grilling. Niedermann, the executive chef of BLT Prime Doral in Miami, says most of the heavy seasoning will fall off onto the fire anyway. Better to have more flavor than less flavor. Business InsiderSalt and season your steak 45 minutes before grilling.Salt steaks 45 minutes before you sear them. Most people know that steakhouses slather their steak in salt to get that charred, crusty exterior that seals in all the juices and flavor, but give yourself enough time for it to properly set. "Besides the salt adding flavor, it draws moisture, which causes the salt to dissolve," Old Homestead Steakhouse executive chef Martinez told Business Insider. "Letting the salted steaks sit for at least 45 minutes allows the moisture to return into the meat. The salt makes a sumptuous crust on the exterior when it hits the grill."  Make sure your heat source is hot enough. Give your grill or pan plenty of time to preheat and test the heat before putting your meat on. If it's hot enough, you shouldn't be able to hold your hand over the grates for more than two seconds. On the subject of heat, thicker steaks require lower heat than thinner steaks. This one makes sense when you think about it: Cooking a thicker steak on high heat will cause the exterior to burn before the inside has cooked enough. Grilling your steak will give you the best results. According to Nichols, executive chef at the hospitality and nightlife company Gerber Group, grilling retains the best flavors in the meat because it is a slower process and the coals allow the meat to heat evenly.  Business InsiderUse tongs to turn your meat — never a fork. And if you are grilling your steak, don't touch it if it's sticking to the grill — that means it's not ready to be turned. Be patient and touch your steak as little as possible to keep all the juices inside.  Use tongs to handle steak. Never use a fork, which pierces the steak and causes the meat to lose juice and flavor. The less you touch and poke the steak, the better it will be. Sear both sides of steak on high heat first before cooking. Place your steak directly over a flame for two minutes on each side, and then cook the steak off the flame until it’s done. This will seal in the moisture and make steaks extra juicy. See if a steak is done with the finger test. This is an easy test cooks use to see if the steak is done without a meat thermometer. Old Homestead Steakhouse co-owner Greg Sherry outlined for us how to do it: “Without using force, bring together the tips of your index finger and thumb, and then feel the fleshy area below the thumb (that’s what rare feels like)," he said. "Press together the tips of your ring finger and thumb, and then feel the flesh below the thumb (medium feels like this). To see what well-done feels like, gently press together the tips of your pinky finger and thumb, then feel the fleshy area beneath the thumb. Then enjoy your steak cooked to perfection." Let your steak rest for half the amount of time you cooked it. This will let the juices retract and stay inside the meat, not on the plate. Business Insider/Liz O'ConnorWell-aged steak, left, and dry-aged steak. Dry aging steak causes it to lose moisture. Only a few New York steakhouses still have prime rib on the menu. Most have removed the menu item because it's too expensive to feature and what isn't sold at the end of the night has to be tossed. Dry-aged steaks are more expensive because of mold and moisture loss. When meat is dry-aged, it's stored in temperature- and humidity-controlled refrigeration for three to six weeks as the moisture evaporates and the fibrous connective tissue that holds the cow’s muscle together breaks down, giving it a softer texture. A thin layer of mold often develops as well, and that is trimmed before cooking. Couple that with the moisture loss (about 20%), and the beef will weigh less than when it was first bought.  Restaurants pay for the beef preweight loss though, which means as a customer you’re also going to pay more for your dry-aged steak. The cost of beef rises when there’s a drought. No water means less grass, which forces farmers to purchase more expensive grain-based feed, like hay or corn.  Memorial Day — not the Fourth of July or Labor Day — is the biggest day for beef. The other two holidays tied for second, according to Old Homestead Steakhouse. Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderOrder creamed spinach with your steak. 28% of people who order a steak get a baked potato. But really you should try a more classic side, like creamed spinach or a hash brown potato cake. Love steak, but not sure what to order? Follow this guide from Old Homestead Steakhouse: If you want melt-in-your-mouth tender, order filet mignon; tender but slightly chewy, order a sirloin; extremely juicy and flavorful, order a rib eye; can’t make up your mind, order the porterhouse (which is part sirloin, part filet mignon). Now go eat some steak. FREE AppDownload
 Warren Buffett's single biggest profit driver last quarter was a railroad. In 2009, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway bought Burlington Northern Sante Fe, the nation's second-largest railroad, in a deal worth $44 billion.  Roughly five years after the deal, a report from Bloomberg's Noah Buhayar said that by the end of this year BNSF was set to return all the cash Buffett spent on it. Buhayar's report cites Jeff Matthews, who has published a book about Berkshire and who said simply of the BNSF deal: "He stole it." And according to Berkshire's latest filing with the SEC, BNSF was the company's single biggest profit driver, with earnings before taxes coming in at $1.65 billion during the third quarter. Earnings in Berkshire's insurance group totaled $1.92 billion, though this unit includes four separate Berkshire businesses.  On Friday afternoon, Berkshire reported third-quarter results, which showed the company's operating earnings per share came in at $2,876. Revenue in the quarter came in at $51.2 billion.  In Buffett's 2010 annual letter, the first issued following the BNSF acquisition, Buffett called the deal the year's highlight and said at the time the deal was working out better than expected. In his most recent annual letter, Buffett wrote: Our railroad has been diligent as well in anticipating the needs of its customers. Whatever you may have heard about our country's crumbling infrastructure in no way applies to BNSF or railroads generally. America's rail system has never been in better shape, a consequence of huge investments by the industry. We are not, however, resting: BNSF spent $4 billion on the railroad in 2013, double its depreciation charge and a single-year record for any railroad. And, we will spend considerably more in 2014. Like Noah, who foresaw early on the need for dependable transportation, we know it’s our job to plan ahead. Buffett added that the 2009 deal was an "all-in wager on the economic future of the United States," and in an interview back in October, Buffett said the US economy was performing better than he'd expected back then.  And along with this economic performance, BNSF's has followed suit.  AP ImagesTrains turned out to be a valuable investment for Buffett.    FREE AppDownload
 Warren Buffett — now worth more than $71 billion — has had a hunger for wealth since he was a tube-socked teenager. Through numerous schemes, the would-be Oracle of Omaha amassed the equivalent of $53,000 by the time he was 16, enough money that he nearly refused his father's request to go to college, because he didn't see the point. By looking through Alice Schroeder's biography, "The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life," we can see that Buffett has always had a gift for manipulating money — and people.  Here are a half-dozen of his early hustles. Buffett's father, Howard, was elected to the US House of Representatives when Buffett was a teen, and the family had to move from Omaha to the nation's capital. As Schroeder notes, the young Buffett immediately set to work making money with the most traditional of hustles — dutifully delivering newspapers. But by handing out The Post, Buffett was making more money than most grown-ups.  "Just from pitching newspapers a couple hours a day, he was earning $175 a month, more money than his teachers," she writes.  He also sold calendars to his newspaper clients, bringing in a little extra. If you wanted to get a golf ball on the cheap back in the 1940s, you could do worse than buying Buffett's at $6 for a dozen.  Buffett's friends and family thought he scooped the balls out of water traps, but the young entrepreneur got them by ordering from a provider in Chicago.  "They were classy balls," Buffett told Schroeder. "Titleist and Spalding Dots and Maxlis, which I bought for three and a half bucks a dozen. They looked brand new. He probably got them the way we first tried to get them, out of water traps, only he was better."  If you needed a fancy stamp, you could turn to Buffett's Approval Service, which sold collectible stamps to collectors around the country.  The teenage Buffett partnered with his friend Lou Battistone to form Buffett's Showroom Shine. The car-buffing business ran out of Battistone's dad's used car parking lot — though Schroeder reports that the duo abandoned the business when it turned out to be too much manual labor.  When Buffett was 17 he had his biggest money-making idea: pinball.  He made the following pitch to his friend Don Danley:  I bought this old pinball machine for 25 bucks, and we can have a partnership. Your part of the deal is to fix it up. And lookit, we'll tell Frank Erico, the barber, 'We represent Wilson's Coin-Operated Machine Company, and we have a proposition from Mr. Wilson. It's at no risk to you. Let's put this nickel machine in the back, Mr. Erico, and your customers can play while they wait. And we'll split the money.' The pinball machine was a hit: Buffett counted $4 in nickels on the first evening. The pair soon set up pinballs in barbershops all over Washington.  When still in Omaha, the young Buffett found a bull market in the Ak-Sar-Ben arena, a horse-racing track that operated from 1919 to 1995.  He and a friend would go to the race track, and though the duo was too young to make bets, Buffett quickly found a way to make money: by stooping, which was like dumpster diving for race track tickets.  Here's Buffett's description:  At the start of racing season you get all these people who'd never seen a race except in the movies. And they'd think that if your horse came in second or third, you didn't get paid, because all the emphasis is on the winner, so they'd throw away [second-] and [third-place] tickets.  The other time you would hit it big was when there was a disputed race. That little light would go on that said 'contested' or 'protest.' By that time, some people had thrown away their tickets. Meanwhile, we were just gobbling them up.  It was awful; people would spit on the floor. But we had great fun.  And if the boys found any winning tickets, Buffett's aunt Alice would cash them in for the boys.  Buffett went a step further: using his love of math and of collecting information, he and a friend put together a tip sheet for bettors at the race track. Soon they were out hawking "Stable Boy Selections," a tip sheet that the boys typed out on an old Royal typewriter in Buffett's basement. "We were in the track, yelling, 'Get your Stable-Boy Selections!'" Buffett tells Schroeder. "At 25 cents, we were a cut-rate product. They shut down Stable-Boy selections fast because they were getting a cut on everything sold in the place except for us." Like other self-made billionaires, Buffett started early.   FREE AppDownload
"I’m ready to work with you." That's what China's president Xi Jinping told Obama today after two intense days of meetings at the APEC summit in Beijing.He and Obama made some game-changing deals on business, defense, and the environment this week. Here's what you need to know: TRADE MILITARY/DEFENSE (Xi also met with Japan's prime minister Shinzo Abe for the first time in more than two years and shared the world's most awkward handshake.) CLIMATE CHANGE FREE AppDownload
Sydney’s median asking price for freestanding houses passed the $1 million mark for the first time, according to data released by SQM Research, an investment research house. Houses, including terraces but excluding townhouses, hit a median asking price of $1,005,800 this month, as this chart shows: SQM Research Louis Christopher, managing director of SQM Research, says that right now it would be impossible to purchase a freestanding house in Sydney’s inner ring for under $1 million and “will become increasingly difficult” to do so in Sydney’s middle ring. The next highest average asking price is in Perth at $765,000. The Australian capital city average asking price is $755,100 and the national average is $486,600. Official statistics are showing a slowdown in the growth of prices nationally but Sydney’s housing market is still hot with a 14.6% rise for the 12 months to the end of September. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman spoke with our own Henry Blodget about a range of topics. But then Henry asked him what he'd do if he were king and his answer might surprise you. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
League of Conservation VotersJeremy GranthamAdvisor Perspectives welcomes guest contributions. The views presented here do not necessarily represent those of Advisor Perspectives. “Profit margins are probably the most mean-reverting series in finance, and if profit margins do not mean-revert, then something has gone badly wrong with capitalism. If high profits do not attract competition, there is something wrong with the system and it is not functioning properly.” – Jeremy Grantham, Barron’s “You know, someone once told me that New York has more lawyers than people. I think that's the same fellow who thinks profits will become larger than GDP. When you begin to expect the growth of a component factor to forever outpace that of the aggregate, you get into certain mathematical problems. In my opinion, you have to be wildly optimistic to believe that corporate profits as a percent of GDP can, for any sustained period, hold much above 6%. One thing keeping the percentage down will be competition, which is alive and well.” – Warren E. Buffett As U.S. corporate profit margins have made it to record highs, a debate has raged between those who place their hopes on a new paradigm of sustained high profits and those who believe in capitalism’s efficiency and the tendency of margins to revert to the mean. We show that an often-cited explanation for the new paradigm – that the U.S. economy is more service-focused – lacks empirical support. Notable amongst those pointing to high profit margins and their susceptibility to mean reversion include John Hussman, James Montier, Albert Edwards, Jeff Gundlach and Jeremy Grantham. Most of the analysis concerning U.S. corporate profit margins has focused on national account data compiled by Bureau of Economic Analysis. Figure 1 shows the ratio of corporate profits (CP) to gross national product (GNP). Clearly, corporate profits margins are way over norm. The series depicts a very strong mean reversion tendency, confirming the effectiveness of the capitalistic system. The term “corporate profits after tax” refers to profits of all corporations resident in the U.S. whether the profit is earned domestically or in a foreign country. GNP is the market value of goods and services produced by U.S. residents, regardless of where they are located. Advisor Perspectives Corporate profit margins as shown in Figure 1 have been approximately two standard deviations above the mean for most of the last 10 years. Pointing to this behavior of profit margins, those advocating for the new paradigm claim that something has changed this time around. They suggest that productivity gains achieved and technological progresses made over the last couple of decades mean that corporate profit margins have arrived at a permanently higher plateau. Another reason offered for higher profit margins is that service businesses like IBM, which have much higher profit margins, now account for a larger portion of the total corporate revenues and thus the high corporate profit margins. In an interview with Matt Koppenheffer of Motley Fools, Columbia Professor Bruce Greenwald said, “I think Jeremy has been wrong about the reversion to the mean for about eight years now - and I think that there are structural reasons to believe that profits at or near this level may be more sustainable than he's giving them credit for.” Greenwald then noted that increased contribution from businesses like IBM mean profit margins could be sustainable at the higher level. He said, “In contrast, if you look at IBM, IBM is also at historically high margins. If you look seven years ago, it's at 14% operating income to earnings. You look today, it's at 20.5%.” He concluded by saying, “To the extent that the market is moving away from the Apple direction, away from manufacture… into these very much more differentiated service markets, these much more fragmented service markets, it looks like the profits may be more sustainable than people are giving them credit for.” In our own examination of financial statements from several hundred companies annually, we have observed that profit margins for a large number of businesses have moved in the wonderland. Leaning towards the mean-reversion camp, we find this development troubling and are of the opinion that there is a non-trivial risk of decline in profit margins. Let’s analyze the profitability of the S&amp;P 500 Index on a bottoms-up basis. Much as the U.S. corporate profit margins in Figure 1, we will show that S&amp;P 500 profit margins have reached new highs. Further, digging through the components of these profits, we show that some of the contentions of those hoping for a renaissance of corporate profits margins are outright incorrect. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Ben SyversonA suburban neighborhood in the Midwest, home of some of the more affordable housing markets in the US.You don't need to move to the middle of nowhere to find a cheap home. Chances are, you'll probably recognize some of the cities and suburbs that made it onto Coldwell Banker's annual list of most affordable housing markets in the US, like Buffalo, New York, and Cleveland, Ohio.  Every year, the company puts together a Home Listing Report, which ranks the most expensive and most affordable places to live in the US. The company compared nearly 2,000 markets for the report, looking at the average listing prices of over 51,000 four-bedroom, two-bathroom homes. The national average listing price, they found, was $295,317. Here are the 25 most affordable markets in the US. FREE AppDownload
FinVizFormer global macro fund manager Raoul Pal, the author of the Global Macro Investor newsletter and founder of Real Vision Television, thinks it's possible that oil prices could fall to $30 per barrel if the dollar rallies.  "I look at probabilities," Pal told CNBC's Melissa Lee on "Fast Money" on Tuesday evening. "The probability of a dollar break out is very big. So, if that happens, then the chances of the dollar moving much more rapidly than we've seen for many, many years, and that would lead oil to go much further. So, if that happens, prices in oil could go down to $30, $40 easily if the dollar moves in the way that I'm thinking it possibly will." Watch below:   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA traffic light is pictured in front of a Citibank branch in Singapore(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc  said it will pay $1.02 billion to settle a probe by regulators for failing to stop traders from trying to manipulate the foreign exchange market. "Citi acted quickly upon becoming aware of issues in our foreign exchange business ... monitoring processes to better guard against improper behavior," the bank said in a statement on Wednesday. UBS , HSBC , Royal Bank of Scotland  and JP Morgan  are the other banks facing penalties from the probe.  (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore; Editing by Simon Jennings) FREE AppDownload
Wednesday marks the four-week anniversary of the most recent stock market bottom, made on October 15.  Since then, the S&amp;P 500 has gained 12% in just 19 trading session and moved back to all-time highs. Tuesday's close marked the 40th time this year that the S&amp;P 500 made an all-time closing high.  In an email Wednesday morning, Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, noted that the September-November 2012 stock pullback, which was similar in magnitude (about 9%) to the most recent decline, rebounded 12% over 49 trading days.  So, it's been a remarkable bounce for stocks in the last month.  Additionally, the S&amp;P 500 has closed above its 5-day moving average for 18 straight sessions as of Tuesday's close. This indicates that over the last few weeks, upward momentum in the stock market has been incredibly strong.  But Krinsky also highlighted some other facts about the speed and intensity with which the market has bounced back in the last month: Krinsky adds that given the intensity of the recent rally, "we are hard pressed to find this level an attractive entry point for new long positions." "Some sideways consolidation would be healthy here, with a modest retracement back to the 1978-1980 level a reasonable target. Should that occur in the next couple weeks, that would re-set a lot of charts and set-up for a potential year-end rally."  In early trade on Wednesday, stock were lower across the board. FREE AppDownload
Don't be the one who doesn't know which beer goes in which glass. Or the person who accidentally serves a whiskey in a Collins glass. Yikes. Insider Picks has put together a handy list of all the tools and glasses you'll need for a home bar.  Impress your colleagues, your friends, and your date. First up, glassware. AmazonLuigi Bormioli Strauss Whisky Rocks Glass There are two ways to serve whiskey: the 'rocks glass' and the snifter. The 'rocks glass' can double for whiskey cocktails, but keep the snifter only for neat drinks. Luigi Bormioli Strauss Whiskey Rocks Glass (Set of 6) $41.41 | Amazon Glencarin Whiskey Glass (Set of 6) $22.95 | Amazon   AmazonLibbey 10-Ounce Preston Martini Glass There are two main groups of cocktail drinks: short and long. Short are generally for the nighttime, and are primarily made of liquor (for example, a Martini.) Long drinks, on the other hand, are the sugar-filled, full of ice, possibly-okay-for-daytime drinks (such as a Tom Collins.) It's good to have both on hand. Libbey 10-ounce Preston Martini Glass (Set of 4) $18.17 | Amazon Stolzle New York Bar 11 Oz Collins Glass (Set of 6) $35.o5 | Amazon   Red and white wines need different glasses. Typically the reds have a larger, wider glass. It's good to have both on hand. Libbey Vina Round Red Wine Goblets (Set of 6) $22.00 | Amazon Libbey Vina Tall Wine Goblet (Set of 6) $24.99 | Amazon   AmazonLibbey 16-Ounce Midtown Pilsner Glass Solo cups were kind of acceptable back when you were guzzling beers at that college mixer, but now it's time to group up and learn the rules. Different beers, different glasses. Here are the ones you should have on hand: Pilsner glasses for light beers such as (surprise, surprise) pilsners and pale lagers. Libbey 16-ounce Midtown Pilsner Glass (Set of 4) $15.85 | Amazon A weissbier glass for wheat beers. Libbey Craft Brews 23-Ounce Clear Wheat Beer Glass (Set of 4) $14.99 | Amazon A glass for your Belgian ales. Libbey Craft Brews 16.6 Ounce Clear Belgian Ale Glass (Set of 4) $14.99 | Amazon And if all else fails, make sure you have the basic pint glass.  ARC International Luminarc Pub Beer Glass, 16 Ounce (Set of 10) $18.69 | Amazon   AmazonPremium Cocktail Shaker Next, you'll need your tools. In order to mix up your drinks, you'll need a cocktail shaker. Stick your ingredients in and shake. Here are two great options that you can get. Premium Cocktail Shaker Set $9.98 | Amazon  Barware Styles Classic and Elegant Stainless Steel 3-Piece Martini and Cocktail Shaker Bar Set $17.97 | Amazon   A cocktail strainer is used to separate ice from a mixed drink as it's poured into a glass (after you mix everything up in the cocktail shaker.) Here are two quality options. Winco Stainless Steel 4-Prong Bar Strainer $4.16 | Amazon Swissmar Stainless Steel Cocktail Strainer $12.00 | Amazon   AmazonOXO Steel Double Jigger In order to get the precise measurements for a drink, you'll need to have a jigger on hand.  OXO Steel Double Jigger $8.95 | Amazon Excellante 1 &amp; 2 Ounce Stainless Steel Jigger $3.91 | Amazon   Amazon11-Inch Stainless Steel Bar Spoon Regular spoons aren't going to reach to the bottom of a cocktail shaker — they're simply not long enough. And that's problematic because sometimes ingredients pool up at the bottom, and you'll need to shake them up. So pick up some bar spoons. Update International 11-Inch Stainless Steel Bar Spoons (Set of 2) $5.79 | Amazon You can also get yourself swizzle sticks to mix up drinks. Bonny Bar Stir Sticks (22 count) $5.68 | Amazon   No bar would be complete with an ice cube tray. Rubbermaid White Ice Cube Tray (Pack of 2) $6.99 | Amazon Tovolo Perfect Cube Ice Trays, Stratus Blue (Pack of 2) $14.12 | Amazon We recommend making spherical ice cubes. The drink will look more elegant — like you ordered it at New York speakeasy. ROX Ice Ball Maker (Makes 4) $9.97 | Amazon   AmazonBellemain Stainless Steel Squeezer And no one wants pulp floating around in their drinks. So if the cocktail you're making uses citrus flavors, we recommend squeezes the fruit with a citrus juicer in order to avoid pulp. Bellemain Stainless Steel Squeezer $18.95 | Amazon   A small knife comes in handy for garnishes and those not-so-easy-to-make cocktails. Cocktail Kingdom Channel Knife $5.95 | Amazon   AmazonSipping Stones, Grey Whisky Chilling Rocks And finally, some other accessories to complete your bar. Chilling stones are a great way to cool drinks without letting them get watered down. Just toss them in your freezer and use as needed. Sipping Stones, Grey Whisky Chilling Rocks (Set of 9) $11.95 | Amazon EZ Drinker Liquor Chilling Stones (Set of 9) | Amazon AmazonPrecision Kitchenware - Luxury Corkscrew and Wine Stopper Set Although champagne is fairly easy to open by hand, wine bottles are a different story. Make sure you always have corkscrew on hand. We recommend the Precision Kitchenware option, which comes with a wine stopper (so you can close the bottle, if you don't finish it.) Precision Kitchenware — Luxury Corkscrew and Wine Stopper Set  $11.95 | Amazon Or if you're particularly tech-y, you can get an electric bottle opener. Plus it's way easier to use. Oster Electric Wine Bottle Opener $19.99 | Amazon  You'll need a muddler to mash up citrus fruits, herbs, and even sugar cubes in a way that it releases extra flavors into a drink.  AmazonDecodybe Cocktail MuddlerDecodyne Cocktail Muddler $6.95 | Amazon Epica Stainless Steel &amp; Gridded Nylon Cocktail Muddler $6.95 | Amazon Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Geneva (AFP) - A Patek Philippe gold watch billed as the most expensive -- and most complicated -- in the world fetched a record $21.3 million (17.1 million euros) on Tuesday when it went under the hammer in Switzerland. The sale of the "Henry Graves Supercomplication", a handcrafted timepiece named after its original owner, a New York banker who ordered it in 1925, was the main event at a jewel and watch auction held in Geneva. The watch, which weighs more than half a kilo and comprises 900 separate parts, had been estimated to go for a lower amount, $15 million. But frenzied bidding pushed the price up higher, and the final amount paid was "a new world record," Sotheby's said. The winning bidder, who remained anonymous, will have to fork out a total of $24 million, including the commission.    It took Patek Philippe five years to put the watch together. Graves's name is right there on the dial. Tim Bourne, Sotheby's worldwide head of watches, said the sale confirmed the watch's "superstar status".  Bourne called it an "icon of the 20th century, a masterpiece that elevates the discipline of watchmaking to art".  A watch industry expert told AFP before the auction the timepiece was not just an immensely expensive accessory. "This is not a watch you can wear. It is a watch that symbolises strength, power and money," he said. The Patek Philippe piece displays not only the hour but also a plethora of other indicators: a perpetual calendar, the phases of the moon, sidereal time, indications for the time of sunset and sunrise, and the shifting night sky over Manhattan. Its Westminster chimes sing joyfully every 15 minutes The watch has been on the block once before, at a Sotheby's auction in New York in December 1999, when the Time Museum in Rockford, Illinois closed its doors and emptied its inventory. That time, the exquisite timepiece went for a mere $11 million. The watch was among 368 timepieces that were up for auction on Tuesday.  Sotheby's and rival house Christie's were also both hosting their traditional Magnificent Jewel sales this week, with Christie's headlining its sale Tuesday with a piece drawn from the French Crown jewels. The mythical diamond-decked "Feuilles de Groseillier" brooch was commissioned by Empress Eugenie in 1855 and was created by French jeweller Alfred Bapst. Sotheby's was also presenting a bit of royal history at its competing auction on Wednesday, offering up a stunning pearl necklace that once belonged to Josephine de Beauharnais (1807-1876), who became queen of Sweden and Norway. Sotheby's jewel chief David Bennet suggested the pearls, expected to fetch up to $1.5 million, may even have been handed down by the queen's grandmother and namesake, the first wife of Napoleon Bonaparte. "It may well be that these pearls were originally in her collection as well," Bennet told AFP. Sotheby's will also be offering several pieces from the Dimitri Mavrommatis collection of precious stones and avant-garde jewellery, led by the "Graff Ruby". The glimmering 8.62-carat blood-red rock, mounted on a ring, was acquired by Graff in 2006 for $3.6 million and later sold to Dimitri Mavrommatis for an undisclosed sum. It is expected to fetch $6.8-9.0 million at Wednesday's auction. Wealthy collectors from around the world have descended on the Swiss city for the action-packed days at the two competing auction houses. FREE AppDownload
 Wal-Mart wants managers to do a better job stocking grocery shelves.  Last month, the retailer sent out a memo instructing managers across the country to improve their dairy, meat, and produce departments, report Steven Greenhouse and Hiroko Tabuchi at The New York Times.  The memo was in response to customer complaints, the newspaper reports.  In the document, Wal-Mart "tells stores to be sure to 'rotate' dairy products and eggs, which means removing expired items and adding new stock at the bottom and back of display cases." The Times reporters paid a visit to a New York Wal-Mart, where they observed "dented and dirty" milk cartons and a poorly stocked produce section.  The Times said the memo was leaked by a Wal-Mart manager who was unhappy about understaffing.  Wal-Mart's operations are hurt by "the lack of labor in the stores to get the inventory out of the back rooms and onto the sales floor," Bloomberg's Renee Dudley reported, citing a Cleveland Research Co. note. The retailer is working on expanding its grocery offerings.  Through a partnership with the health food brand Wild Oats, Wal-Mart will sell organic groceries that are about 25% cheaper than similar products on the market.  "We've been focused on improving our fresh offering for some time now. In his first few months leading Walmart US, Greg Foran has set several urgent agenda items, including fresh," Wal-Mart spokeswoman Deisha Barnett told Business Insider. "Delivering quality fresh produce and meat at affordable prices is critical for our customers and our success as the nation's largest grocer.""We are proud of the efforts we launched in produce last year but know we can always do better. As a veteran retailer with strong experience in fresh, Greg's passion is helping us raise the bar," Barnett said. "At Walmart, high expectations are the key to everything."  Wal-Mart is planning to cut back on store investments and spend more on e-commerce in the face of stagnant same-store sales and falling store traffic in the US. The company cut guidance for 2015, saying that it expected growth of 2% to 3% compared with previous estimates of 3% to 5%.  "There is no excuse for us not to be doing better," Wal-Mart Stores CEO Doug McMillon said during the company's annual meeting with investors last month. "We recognize our situation has changed, and we're responding accordingly."   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSigns for the dollar, euro and other currencies are seen at a currency exchange shop in Hong KongBy Emily Stephenson WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. bank regulator on Wednesday fined three top banks a total of $950 million for failing to prevent employees' misconduct in foreign exchange trading. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said Bank of America Corp  agreed to pay $250 million, and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co  and Citigroup Inc  would each pay $350 million. Regulators said traders from the three banks used online chat rooms to discuss ways to manipulate rates to benefit themselves and share confidential information such as customer orders. Earlier on Wednesday, a separate group of U.S. and foreign regulators announced $3.4 billion in fines against five banks, including JPMorgan and Citi, over attempts to manipulate the same rate, which is used by asset managers and corporate treasurers to value their holdings. "Several large banks permitted an environment to develop in which unscrupulous traders discussed manipulating foreign exchange markets," Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry said in a statement. "Our action today... sends a very strong signal that such misconduct will not be tolerated," he said. Bank of America, JPMorgan and Citi neither admitted or denied wrongdoing, according to consent orders with the OCC. The Federal Reserve and the Department of Justice are still investigating banks' foreign exchange trading activity.  (Reporting by Emily Stephenson) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Daniel RolandThe US urges Europe to do more to stimulate economic growthWashington (AFP) - The United States urged European governments to do more to stoke growth Wednesday, warning that monetary easing by the European Central Bank is not enough to avoid a deeper slump. "The world cannot afford a European lost decade," US Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said.       FREE AppDownload
House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) isn't happy with US President Barack Obama's new agreement with China to lower greenhouse gas emissions. "It is the latest example of the president's crusade against affordable, reliable energy that is already hurting jobs and squeezing middle-class families," Boehner said Wednesday morning. Boehner's statement came just hours after the White House and the Chinese government officially struck a nonbinding deal for China to try to reach its peak in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and for the US to try to cut its emissions by more than 25% by 2025, according to Reuters. But for Boehner, newly emboldened after Republican victories in the November midterm elections, the agreement is nothing more than another sign that Obama is out of touch with the American people on energy policy. "This announcement is yet another sign that the president intends to double down on his job-crushing policies no matter how devastating the impact for America’s heartland and the country as a whole," Boehner said. Boehner further vowed to try to block more of Obama's energy agenda over the final two years of the president's term. "Republicans have consistently passed legislation to rein in the EPA and stop these harmful policies from taking effect," he said, "and we will continue to make this a priority in the new Congress." Other congressional Republican leaders have also blasted the deal. Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky), who is set to become majority leader next year, panned the agreement as "unrealistic," according to The Weekly Standard. "Our economy can’t take the president's ideological war on coal that will increase the squeeze on middle-class families and struggling miners. This unrealistic plan, that the president would dump on his successor, would ensure higher utility rates and far fewer jobs," McConnell said. Update (9:50 a.m.): With McConnell's statement. FREE AppDownload
 In the US, the Midwest has already seen some serious snow accumulation and January-like temperatures. And people are again invoking the term "Polar Vortex" to discuss the recent weather. But according to Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut, there is always a "Polar Vortex." You might say Saut is a Polar Vortex truther. He writes (via UBS' Art Cashin):  Once again the most misused term in weather was uttered, Polar Vortex. Ladies and gents, there is ALWAYS a Polar Vortex, but the shift in the Hadley Cell Winds has allowed the Polar Vortex to come down further into the US than it has in decades. I have written about this ad nauseam ever since Iceland’s Eyjafallajokul volcano erupted and brought European aviation to a near-standstill back in April 2010. What has happened is that since said eruption we have had more volcanic ash in the atmosphere than in recorded history. That has caused the "cell winds" to take a dramatic shift toward the North and South poles. Recall that north of the equator the cell winds rotate counter-clockwise and south of the equator clockwise. They carry the hot equatorial air into the troposphere where it moves toward the poles, typically 30 degrees north and 30 degrees south of the equator. Recently, however, given the volcanic ash, the cell winds have moved decidedly more toward the poles, which is why we are getting droughts and floods in areas where previously this has not happened. Regrettably, this weird weather is here to stay for a while and certain companies like FedEx are going to have to adjust their business models for it. Saut pays close attention to all sorts of natural phenomena. Earlier this year, he was a guest on Barry Ritholtz's Master in Business podcast and talked at length about the effect volcanic ash in the atmosphere has had on the Hadley Cell Winds. So there you have it.   FREE AppDownload
Kim Bhasin / Business InsiderMacy’s has cut its earnings and sales outlook after a disappointing third quarter. The retailer posted a third quarter profit of $217 million, or 61 cents a share, up from $177 million, or 47 cents a share, the previous year.  Revenue declined 1.3% to $6.2 billion and same-store sales fell 0.7% including departments licensed to third parties. Wall Street had expected earnings of 50 cents a share on revenue of $6.34 billion. Macy's now expects earnings of between $4.25 and $4.35 a share for the year, down from $4.40 to $4.50 a share.  The company also lowered its same-store sales growth forecast from 1.5% to 2% down to 0.7% to 1%. "We knew we were up against very strong third-quarter sales growth for our company last year, and thus we had anticipated that our year-over-year comparison would be lower," Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren said. "Even so, sales did not live up to our expectations in the quarter." Lundgren warned in September that consumer confidence has been lower than he expected this year. "The consumer has not bounced back with the confidence that we were all looking for," Lundgren said at Goldman Sachs' Annual Retail Conference. He said he doesn't expect things to improve during the holiday season. "The performance I think we had in the second quarter, and we expect to have in the second half, is going to be a continuation of what we’ve been able to do over the last several years — and that is to capture market share and get the most out of the consumers that are in our stores," he said. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan and Haver Analyitcs There are strong correlations between the inverse of the trade-weighted dollar and the following: industrial commodity prices, the Brent crude oil price, and the Emerging Markets MSCI stock price index. The strength of the dollar has been especially bearish for the price of oil, though causality also runs the other way.  While the CRB raw industrials spot price index dropped during September and October, it seems to be finding support at the bottom of its trading range, which starts in mid-2012. A sharp drop below the bottom of this range would be a worrisome indication of a rapid global economic slowdown. Also mildly encouraging is that the EM MSCI seems to have stopped falling in recent days despite the latest surge in the dollar, which was mostly attributable to the drop in the yen when the BOJ expanded and extended QQE at the end of last month.  Commodity Research Bureau and JP Morgan Today's Morning Briefing: Competitive Devaluation. (1) US MSCI continues to outperform. (2) Dollar soaring as ECB and BOJ boost their balance sheets after Fed terminated QE. (3) Devaluation is often a zero-sum game. (4) Desperate measure for desperate countries. (5) Currency wishes come true for Draghi and Kuroda, but not for economy and inflation. (6) Interesting correlations between US dollar, commodity prices, and EM MSCI. (7) China is first to report trade stats, and they were good last month. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Flickr Creative Commons/zombieiteWASHINGTON (Reuters) - AT&amp;T &lt;t.n&gt; will pause investments to bring fiber connections to 100 cities until U.S. regulators iron out rules to regulate how Internet service providers manage their Web traffic, the company's chief executive told investors at a conference on Wednesday. "We can't go out and invest that kind of money deploying fiber to 100 cities not knowing under what rules those investments will be governed," said Randall Stephenson. "We think it is prudent to just pause and make sure we have line of sight and understanding as to what those rules would look like," he added.     (Reporting by Marina Lopes, Editing by Franklin Paul) FREE AppDownload
It's normal to feel uneasy about riding in an elevator.  But considering how prevalent elevators are, it's an inconvenient phobia to have. Thankfully, deaths due to elevator accidents are extremely rare.  Just in case, researchers at the MIT Center for Biomedical Engineering have figured out the best way to survive if you ever find yourself stuck in a falling elevator. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Narrated by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Yesterday the Bank of Japan announced that it will be buying Japanese equity ETFs as well as property funds (REITs) to boost demand for risk assets. The BoJ has done this before but the timing of this announcement suggests a new push to accelerate monetary easing. This action is coming on the heels of the Government Pension Investment Fund's (GPIF) recent announcement that it will increase its allocation to Japanese and foreign shares to 25% from 12%. The yen continued to sell off as a result of this accelerated easing and is now hovering around a 7-year low. Sober Look With the support from weaker yen and the official sector's renewed demand for shares, the equity markets had one way to go. The Nikkei 225 broke through 17k - a levels we haven't seen since 2007. Sober Look But while investors cheer this flood of liquidity, Japan’s lower-wage workers are being left behind. Wage increases in Japan are simply not keeping up with rising import prices (due to weaker yen) as well as with higher consumption taxes. And as the yen takes another leg down, many of Japan's workers, especially those who are non-union and part-time, will see their real wages decline further. Meanwhile, financial assets will be hitting new highs. Natixis For those who believe that "unconventional" monetary easing widens the gap between the wealthy and the poor (and there has been plenty of debate around the topic), Japan could become a prime (and possibly extreme) example of QE-driven inequality. Sober LookAs a further confirmation of this trend, today's report on household sentiment was worse than expected. Negative real wage growth is just not being offset by rising share valuations - especially for households that simply have not participated in the rally. With no end in sight for BoJs unprecedented monetary expansion, the nation's households are likely to face more hardships ahead. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commonspressure cookerJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a round up of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are under pressure, led by a 60bp drop in the Russell – but we are outperforming markets in Europe, where the DAX and EuroStoxx are off 1.4% in fair volume.   Weakness being driven by several factors:  Banks weak as Regulators hit them with $3.2bn of fines related to forex trading / German Panel of Eco Advisors were bearish on recovery / NATO saying convoy of Russian Tanks entered Ukraine.   Transitioning into Asia - While the MICEX is unchanged, the Ruble is getting whacked again.  Shanghai added 1% led by brokers on anticipation of the HK Link starting next week, while Japan hits 7Y highs on hopes Abe will postpone a looming tax increase and shore up support for economic reforms with snap elections.  The worst market was down under - Aussie was hit for 1%, with heavy losses in the mining sector (Despite Ore unch), and 3 of the 4 big banks trading ex-divvy.  The US 10YY has retreated back below 2.35% as German Yields tested 80bp overnight as the Euros fret negative headlines.   The DXY has regained its footing, but mostly against Euro as $/Y off small, nearing a Y115 test.    This headwind for commodities is not helping Oil – With both Brent and WTI nearing off 90bp as Libya’s Sharara field has resumed production.   Metals are mixed, with Copper showing some life, up small – while Gold and Silver are both red – Gold nearing a $1160 test as BOE slashes inflation estimates.   We are seeing a continuance of covering in the Grains and Beans, with Wheat jumping 1.5% (Ukraine Headlines helping), and Corn climbing 90bp.   Scheduled Catalysts today include MBA Mortgage Apps, Draghi will be speaking at Rome University at 9am (not policy), Wholesale Inventories at 10 ($/Yields) - Fed's Kocherlakota Speaks at 12, and 1pm brings the $24B, 10Y auction.   API data for Crude hits after the bell, ahead of DOE tomorrow.   CSCO, JCP and NTAP report tonight  Some trades I am watching today – Big Bank deal on the tape, with BBT taking SUSQ for $2.5B – Regionals may outperform the money centers on headlines / ITB (Builders) had a nice move thru 6M resistance, if it continues, Momentum plyers will follow / REITS outperforming again – Japan’s Property Index climbed 3%, while UK REITS are around unch despite FTSE weakness / Gold Miners (GDX/GDXJ) as a massive short covered yesterday, dislocating higher / A reversal lower in the dollar should be very commodity supportive, as we saw late yesterday – especially in the crowded shorts (Corn).   Finally, Congress reconvenes, and Keystone is on the front of the agenda in an effort by Senate Dems to save Mary Landrieu’s seat – TRP, COS, CVE, CNQ benefit – While the US rails are the primary losers   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersObama walks next to Xi after inspecting the honour guards during a welcoming ceremony at the Great Hall of the People in BeijingBy Matthew Miller BEIJING (Reuters) - U.S. companies, which have led Western investment in China over the last 35 years, are scaling back their expectations and business plans in the face of slowing growth, heightened competition and increased regulatory scrutiny from Beijing. "Clearly, there's moderating optimism," said John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council (USCBC). "There’s also a lot of policy uncertainty in the business community." The USCBC estimates U.S. business in China is worth about $350 billion a year, a figure that includes exports, as well as domestic and offshore sales by U.S. affiliates located in China. That market may be growing at about 10 percent a year, but with China’s top-line gross domestic product growth expected to slow to 7.4 percent this year, the message from executives speaking on the sidelines of an APEC regional summit in Beijing was that many big investors are holding fire on fresh commitments. U.S. foreign direct investment for the first nine months of this year declined 24.7 percent, China's Commerce Ministry said, while the American Chamber of Commerce in China noted in its annual survey that U.S. firms are "increasingly cautious". "The world knew, and always should have known, that an economy of this size is not going to grow from 12 to 15 percent for eons," said Douglas Oberhelman, Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar Inc , which operates 26 factories and, with distributors, employs 25,000 people in China. China's massive real estate-driven investment boom, which at its height outpaced economic growth by more than three times, has created a glut for heavy equipment and mining machines, spurring cut-throat pricing among many local manufacturers. Caterpillar, despite recording flat sales, is "not in a de-investment mode", Oberhelman said. The Illinois-based company's China operations remain profitable, while local capacity remains "in line with where we want to be", he added. "It may be a while until we increase investments," Oberhelman said. Wal-Mart Inc , which has been fined by regulators and come under fire from Chinese media over a handful of food scandals, is continuing to build distribution centres and open stores to attract more of China's urban shoppers, said Scott Price, CEO for Walmart Asia. "We're patient and we’re willing to continue to invest," Price said.  REGULATORY PRESSURE China's aggressive use of its 2008 Anti-Monopoly Law is among the most contentious issues facing foreign business, after its three anti-trust regulators launched a flurry of investigations over the last two years targeting foreign automobile manufacturers, food producers and technology firms. Chipset maker Qualcomm Inc  and software giant Microsoft Corp  are among the U.S. companies under scrutiny. Critics have accused the Chinese government of using its regulatory authority to bolster domestic firms, an accusation the regulators have repeatedly denied. "There are areas where China is clearly set on developing national champions, and in those areas it has made it more difficult for U.S. companies and Western companies to navigate the regulatory regime," said Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "It's not as easy a place to do business as we would like it to be." Many U.S. executives hope that a Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) under negotiation may represent an important step forward. The BIT would help lower investment barriers for many products and services by adopting a so-called "negative list", a finite list of restrictions and prohibitions on foreign investment. In October, Caterpillar's Oberhelman, Wal-Mart's Doug McMillon, Coca Cola's Muhtar Kent and 47 other chief executives of U.S. multinationals signed a letter urging the Obama administration to prioritise BIT discussions. On Wednesday, U.S. President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping identified the treaty as a top priority, with proposed "negative lists" being exchanged early next year. "There's a new norm here," said Brilliant of the U.S. Chamber. "We're all getting used to lower profits and lower margins. As long as there's fair competition, transparency, and rule-of-law, we're good."  (Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
SeaWorld shares are crashing again. On Wednesday morning, SeaWorld reported third-quarter net income that fell 28% from the prior year, and following the news shares of the theme park operator were down more than 10%.  The decline in SeaWorld shares Wednesday follows a 30% one-day decline in the stock price back in August after the company's second-quarter earnings. SeaWorld has still been dealing with the fallout from CNN's controversial documentary "Blackfish," which raised concerns about SeaWorld's treatment of its Orca whales.  In the third quarter, SeaWorld reported net income of $87.2 million, down from $120.7 million in the prior year. Earnings per share totaled $1.00, down from $1.34 a year ago and missing expectations for $1.13.  Attendance at SeaWorld's parks also declined year-over-year, with attendance in the third quarter totaling 8.4 million visitors, down from 8.9 million a year ago.  Revenues also decline 8%, to $495.8 million from $538.4 million a year ago.  In a statement, SeaWorld CEO Jim Atchison said: "Consistent with the update we provided in August, the attendance trends the Company experienced in the latter part of the second quarter continued into the third quarter. Clearly 2014 has been a challenging year, but I am confident we are taking the necessary steps to address our near term challenges and position the Company to deliver value over the long term." For the full year, SeaWorld expects revenue to decline 6% to 7% against the prior year, and according to data from Yahoo Finance, Wall Street is expecting revenue to fall about 6.4% to $1.37 billion in 2014.   In its earnings release, the company said it believed the attendance decline resulted "from a combination of factors including negative media attention in California along with a challenging competitive environment, particularly in Florida." Here's the ugly intraday chart of SeaWorld's decline on Wednesday. Google Finance And here's the performance of Seaworld shares since Blackfish was released in the US on July 19, 2013. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERSBack in 1939, Winston Churchill famously remarked that Russia was "a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma." For most people, his words ring true to this day. Although Russia is the largest country in the world and has the eighth-largest GDP, little is widely known about the nation and its culture. Because Russia has increasingly made international headlines, it's a good idea to know a few things about the country. To help you out, we've compiled a list of some of the craziest facts about the Russian language, culture, politics, and statistics. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraA man stands by the sculpture "The Serpent of El Eco" by artist Mathias Goeritz during the media presentation of the exhibition "The return of the snake" at Madrid's Reina Sofia museum on Tuesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 5 Massive Banks Were Fined For Allegedly Manipulating Currency Markets. UBS, the Royal Bank of Scotland, JPMorgan Chase, HSBC, and Citibank were together fined more than $3.2 billion by authorities in Switzerland, the UK, and the US on Wednesday morning. The US And China Made A Landmark Joint Deal On Climate Change. China will aim for a peak in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, while the US will strive to cut total emissions by more than a quarter by 2025, as the two countries try to drive through a new global climate pact in Paris next year. Don't Expect A Bank Of England Rate Hike Anytime Soon. In its latest Inflation Report, the Bank of England cut its outlook for both inflation and growth. This suggests the central bank won't hurry tighter monetary policy via rate hikes. UK Unemployment Rate Holds At 6%. While the unemployment rate in September remained at 6%, it was down significantly from a year ago. Wages climbed 1.0% year-over-year. Eurozone Industrial Production Climbs. Production in the troubled region increased by 0.6% in September, missing slightly the expectation for 0.7% growth. "[T]ogether with the revision for August, the trend in production looks slightly less alarming than before, though the picture is still pretty grim," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen wrote. "We are cautiously optimistic, though, that output can recover modestly in the coming months." Japanese Shares Hit 7-Year Highs. The Nikkei climbed 0.43% — after trading higher during the day — hitting the highest levels in seven years. In other Japan news, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may call an emergency election to justify delaying or scrapping the second sales tax hike planned for the country. Markets Are Down. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 1.0%, and Germany's DAX is down 1.3%. US futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 58 points and S&amp;P futures down 7.4 points. BB&amp;T Will Buy Susquehanna. "BB&amp;T Corp said it would acquire Susquehanna Bancshares Inc. in a cash-and-stock deal valued at about $2.5 billion," Reuters' Amrutha Gayathri reported. "Susquehanna shareholders will receive 0.253 shares of BB&amp;T and $4.05 in cash for each share held, valuing the deal at $13.74 per share based on BB&amp;T's closing price on Tuesday." Yahoo Investors Want An AOL Rescue. "At least two top-10 Yahoo Inc. shareholders are so unhappy with chief executive Marissa Mayer's turnaround efforts that they are making a direct plea to AOL Inc. CEO Tim Armstrong to explore a merger and run the combined company," Reuters' Nadia Damouni and Jennifer Saba reported. "Their move follows an activist campaign by the hedge fund Starboard Value LP, which is pushing Yahoo to consider a deal with AOL and unlock Yahoo's valuable stakes in Asian web companies." Shell Says It's Focused On Deep Water Oil Projects In Mexico. Royal Dutch Shell, one of the world's largest oil companies, is most interested in new oil and gas projects in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico following a major sector opening finalized earlier this year, a top executive said Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA BB&T bank branch sign is seen in Arlington, Virginia(Reuters) - BB&amp;T Corp &lt;bbt.n&gt; said it would acquire Susquehanna Bancshares Inc &lt;susq.o&gt; in a cash-and-stock deal valued at about $2.5 billion. Susquehanna shareholders will receive 0.253 shares of BB&amp;T and $4.05 in cash for each share held, valuing the deal at $13.74 per share based on BB&amp;T's closing price on Tuesday. Susquehanna shares closed at $9.90 on Tuesday.   (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA completed house is seen behind the earthworks of a home currently under construction in BrandywineNEW YORK, Nov 12 (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week as interest rates rose, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, declined 0.9 percent in the week ended Nov. 7. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 1.9 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 1.1 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.19 percent in the week, up 2 basis points from 4.17 percent the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; editing by Leslie Adler; caroline.valetkevitch@thomsonreuters.com; +1 646 223 6393; Reuters Messaging: caroline.valetkevitch.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net) FREE AppDownload
via IBTimesThe search for Satoshi Nakamoto, the illusive creator of Bitcoin, may well be over.Few mysteries in recent years have been as frustrating or as compelling as the question surrounding the true identity of Bitcoin's creator Satoshi Nakamoto. Now, following five months of research into the true identity of Nakamoto, author and financial writer Dominic Frisby has narrowed down the possibilities to just one man: Nick Szabo. Here is a photo of Nick Szabo, the guy most recently accused of being Satoshi Nakamoto, at a talk circa 1997. pic.twitter.com/NnY8MM6RY1 There are a number of key factors that Frisby cites in drawing his conclusions. Like others before him, Frisby draws attention to the similarities in writing style between Nakamoto and Szabo and the fact that Szabo designed the precursor to Bitcoin.  Further than any research into Nakamoto's identity so far, however, Frisby points to new evidence that pins Szabo to the creator of Bitcoin. These include the time zone from which Nakamoto posted online tying closely to Szabo's own time zone and sleep patterns, subtle references to economists such as Carl Menger in discussions about money, the use of the coding language C++, as well as observations that Szabo and Satoshi used the same operating system.  "What for me is a humdinger: Szabo actually worked for Chaum's Digicash (an electronic money considered a precursor to Bitcoin) in the 1990s," Frisby writes. "I even found his old Digicash email address." Many names have been put forward, including most famously Leah Goodman's speculative piece for Newsweek (owned by IBTimes UK parent company IBT Media) earlier this year that California engineer Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto was the man behind Bitcoin. Szabo is himself very protective of his privacy. Only one photo is known to exist of him (above) and very little information beyond his own blog and various academic involvements is actually known. Speculation that he is Bitcoin's creator had surfaced before and he has denied it to both Frisby privately and on Twitter publicly. @socrates1024 Not Satoshi, but thank you. "I don't know and no it doesn't," Andresen said. "I never trusted Satoshi and I don't need to. I trust the code." While concrete evidence still cannot definitively tie Szabo to Nakamoto, there is no one else who fits the profile, with all of the main candidates proposed previously - and even some others - methodically dismissed by Frisby in his investigation. "There is no proof, just a great deal of circumstantial evidence," Frisby told IBTimes UK. "Szabo denies it. At one stage I thought it might be [renowned cryptographer] Charles Hoskinson, then I decided not. I try to keep an open mind and if somebody can present a better candidate then I'll take a look, but as yet there isn't one." FREE AppDownload
flickr/dougtoneThe former steel and coal town of Scranton, Pennsylvania, will triple a local tax next year as it and some other US cities struggle to recover from the financial crisis, the city's business administrator told Reuters on Tuesday. Scranton's local services tax, a flat tax on all who work in the city, will triple to about $3 a week from $1 a week, administrator David Bulzoni said. A judge must still approve the tax hike, which could go into effect the second quarter of 2015, but it is not clear how much money it would generate. Bulzoni did not disclose details of the budget, which he expected to release Wednesday. Known as the Electric City and the setting for the television series "The Office," Scranton is one of many US cities that failed to reinvent itself after steel and related industries starting crumbling about 50 years ago. The Pew Charitable Trusts reported on Tuesday that of 30 major US cities, 18 had revenue declines from 2011 to 2012, largely because of still-depressed property tax collections and cuts in state and federal aid. Financially distressed cities are facing tax hikes and layoffs to pay for pension obligations and other costs as revenues stagnate. Higher taxes could come even as voters in this month's midterm elections sent a message that they were fed up and looking for ways to stem the increases. "The citizens are really taxed to the gills in terms of paying their fair share," Jeffrey Snyder, a vice president with Cammack Retirement Group in New York. "It would be very difficult to make up the unfunded (pension) liabilities with taxation." Under former Mayor Christopher Doherty, Scranton grabbed international headlines in 2012 when it cut police and firefighter pay to minimum wage for two weeks because it could not make payroll. Last year, Doherty closed a $20 million budget gap with steep tax and service fee hikes after battling the city council. The city of 76,000 residents has a new mayor and some new council members but still has a pension system on the verge of collapse. Mayor William Courtright did not return calls for comment. The funded level of its pension for firefighters sank to 16.7 percent as of Jan. 1, 2013, according to an August report by the state's auditor general, despite the city being under state oversight for 22 years. The law that provides state oversight was revamped last month to include a deadline for the Pennsylvania local governments that have languished in the program for decades. Scranton now has until 2020 to improve its finances or else face severe punishment. Millage rates are also undergoing a complete re-evaluation, Bulzoni said, so property taxes could rise, too. (Reporting by Hilary Russ; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
According to Legatum Institute's annual Prosperity Index, Norway is still the most prosperous nation in the world. For the sixth year in a row, the Scandinavian country claims the top spot over 142 countries, which account for 96% of the world's population and 99% of global GDP. The Prosperity Index measures countries based on 89 different economic analysis variables that measure success in industry, education, health, freedom, opportunity, and social capital. Of the top 30 nations listed, almost two thirds are European. The US ranks 10th overall and is followed closely by the United Kingdom (13th) and Germany (14th). Here are the top 30 most prosperous nations (and the full report):  Legatum Institute
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a Honda Motor Co. dealership in Tokyo.Two former Honda Motor chiefs have called on CEO Takanobu Ito this year, urging him to focus more on quality issues, increasing the pressure he's already under from US regulators and politicians over mass air bag recalls. Nobuhiko Kawamoto and Hiroyuki Yoshino made separate visits to Ito at the Japanese carmaker's Tokyo headquarters, three people familiar with the visits said. They said the former CEOs had a firm message for Ito, 61, urging him to act quickly on quality issues that risk damaging the Honda brand. Honda has recalled some 9.5 million cars of various models since 2008 for potentially defective air bag inflators made by Takata Corp. It has also had five recalls of the electric-gasoline hybrid versions of its Fit subcompact car and Vezel crossover utility vehicle since their launch just last year, and five recalls on its Super Cub utility motorbike since 2011. "We don't know how, but Honda is fraying around the edges," said one of the knowledgeable individuals, who was on Honda's management board in the 1980s and was briefed on the visits by Yoshino and Kawamoto. The people didn't want to be named as the meetings they described were private. "All of us think there's something more fundamentally wrong with the company," he said, referring to a group of concerned Honda former senior executives. "But all the company's doing is to get through recalls one by one instead of comprehensively reviewing operations." REUTERS/Yuya ShinoHonda's president and chief executive Takanobu Ito at an event to unveil the renewal hybrid sedan car "Legend" in Tokyo on Monday. Kawamoto, 78, who was Honda CEO from 1990 to 1998, visited Ito last month and had "stern words," one of the knowledgeable individuals said, about the sharp rise in recent recalls. "We think there's little sense of crisis at Honda," the knowledgeable former executive said. "That frustration drove Kawamoto to go out of his way to meet Ito. I'm not sure Ito got the point." And earlier this year, Yoshino, a 75-year-old engineer who was Honda's CEO from 1998 to 2003, told Ito he must focus on day-to-day operations at Honda rather than accept an invitation to be head of Japan's automobile manufacturers association. The knowledgeable individuals said there was no pressure from the former executives on Ito to resign. "There's a rumor that Kawamoto asked Ito to step down, but if that's true, Ito would be gone by now," one of them said. Akemi Ando, a Honda spokeswoman in Tokyo, declined to comment specifically on the visits. "Generally speaking, visits from former executives are not that unusual. We receive advice from them on various issues," she said. The message to Ito may be getting through. Having agreed last month to take a pay cut of one-fifth for three months in the wake of the Fit recalls, he said this week he would put quality improvements ahead of Honda's sales targets, echoing Toyota chiefs' re-prioritisation five years ago when they were reeling from mass recalls over sudden-acceleration in some of their cars. Yuya Shino/ReutersTetsuo Iwamura, executive vice president of Honda Motor Co. The former executives believe Honda's recall problems may stem in part from a decision Ito made after he took over in 2009 to change how the company develops and procures components. Honda achieved industry-leading levels of quality over the past three decades through forming "keiretsu" — bringing parts makers closer to the core through cross-shareholdings to allow close cooperation in designing components. Toyota and Nissan had similar set-ups. But as cars have become less mechanical and more technical — and quality is seen as a given — the focus has shifted to who can offer buyers "more car" at an affordable price. That has prompted automakers like Honda to focus on core technology like hybrid propulsion and hydrogen fuel-cell cars, while commoditised parts like doors, seats, and even transmission are now procured more widely rather than from "keiretsu" suppliers, with the risk they may be cheaper rather than better. "We think this change might have been one cause for some of the recalls we've seen," one of the knowledgeable individuals said, adding he thought Honda engineers may now be having to do too much. Ando said Honda selected suppliers around the world "looking at competitiveness (and) weighing their ability to deliver quality and cost effective parts timely." (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer at a Salesforce event at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco.At least two top-10 Yahoo Inc. shareholders are so unhappy with chief executive Marissa Mayer's turnaround efforts that they are making a direct plea to AOL Inc. CEO Tim Armstrong to explore a merger and run the combined company. Their move follows an activist campaign by the hedge fund Starboard Value LP, which is pushing Yahoo to consider a deal with AOL and unlock Yahoo's valuable stakes in Asian web companies. Armstrong has been receptive to these Yahoo shareholders and acknowledged the potential benefits of a deal, the Yahoo investors said. But he has downplayed the possibility of a transaction, according to the investors and two sources close to AOL. There are no talks between the two companies, and Armstrong has indicated he would consider only a friendly deal, the investors said. AOL and Yahoo declined to comment. The total holdings of the Yahoo shareholders who had made overtures to Armstrong could not be determined. Two top-10 AOL investors said they also met with Armstrong in recent weeks to discuss the possibility of a deal with Yahoo. These shareholders were left with the impression that a combined company could yield as much as $1.5 billion in cost savings. Starboard, which did not speak to Reuters, wants Yahoo to spin off its web and email business, merging them into AOL, one Yahoo investor who has spoken with the activist said. That would leave Yahoo’s holdings in the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Yahoo Japan Corp. in a separate company, satisfying investors who want the company to monetize those assets. Starboard was once active in AOL and lost a 2012 battle to unseat three board directors. Yahoo’s market value is about $47 billion, while its Alibaba stake alone is worth $44 billion, meaning the current Yahoo share price reflects little value to the core business. Some of the investors see the email, website, and other operations worth as much as $7 billion. Armstrong, a former Google executive who has been at the helm at AOL since 2009, is credited with reviving a dying brand, helped by a set of purchases including Adap.TV, an automated video advertising platform. AOL’s market cap of $3.5 billion has roughly doubled in value during his tenure. Jessica Rinaldi/Getty Images Yahoo stock has tripled since Mayer joined Yahoo as CEO in July 2012, but analysts say those gains have been primarily driven by the rapid appreciation in the value of the company's Asian assets. Mayer has urged investors to be patient for what she has said will be a multiyear effort to revitalize the company. Some of the investors seeking a merger want Mayer to pull back from acquisitions, although on Tuesday the company announced a $640 million deal to buy the video advertising platform BrightRoll — a competitor to Adap.TV. The investors in favor of a deal said they believed a combined Yahoo and AOL would make a stronger competitor to Google and Facebook Inc. when it comes to video programming and automated ways of buying digital advertising. But analysts have pointed to risks and raised questions about whether the combination will yield strong growth. (Additional reporting by Alexei Oreskovic in San Francisco, Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Industrial production in the eurozone rose by 0.6% between August and September of this year, according to figures released by eurostat on Wednesday. This is slightly lower than the 0.7% month-over-month increase economics were expecting.  The 0.6% rise in September is due to capital good production rising by 2.9% and energy by 0.3%. Meanwhile, durable consumer goods fell by 2.6%., eurostat said.  Industrial production increased by 0.6% year-over-year in September.  Take a look at the chart: Eurostat FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann The Bank of England's latest Inflation Report is just out: it's the quarterly summary used to sum up the Bank's outlook, and offers some juicy hints about when the Bank of England will hike rates after nearly six years. The overall message is that it looks like rates will rise later and more slowly, and the Bank doesn't seem unhappy about that. Inflation's expected to stay below 2% for three years but the extra stimulus of low rates means growth should be pretty decent. Here are the big points from the report: Governor Mark Carney is speaking live at a press conference now. Inflation is "more likely than not" to float below 1%, just half of the Bank's target, early next year. Bank of England governor Mark Carney would then have to write a letter to chancellor George Osborne explaining why inflation came so far off target. The Bank's noting that though strong growth is expected, "pessimism about the global economy has increased" and the situation in the euro area is looking pretty bleak. The report goes on to say that the growth outlook for Europe has worsened, with "the factors depressing growth likely to outweigh the potential positive impact of ECB policy action." The Bank expected 1% growth this year and 1.75% growth next year for the currency union, but it now expects just 0.75% and 1.25%. The basic message here is that raising rates is going to have to wait, but that growth won't actually be much changed for the UK: those extra months and potentially years of low rates should keep the UK economy expanding at a pretty healthy pace. They're still expecting unemployment to drop, productivity to bounce back and business investment to be pretty strong in the years ahead. FREE AppDownload
The UK unemployment rate held steady at 6% in September, but remains sharply down over the year. ONS Pay was also up with pay including bonuses for employees in the UK 1.0% higher than a year earlier. Pay excluding bonuses for employees in the UK was 1.3% higher than a year earlier. With inflation at 1.2% in September this means UK workers finally saw some real wage growth with regular pay rising faster than prices for the first time in 5 years but overall pay growth remains low relative to the pre-crisis trend. ONSWages grew faster than inflation. Gains in employment are now being driven by increases in full-time work with the number of people working full-time increasing by 589,000 compared to a year earlier (a 2.7% rise), while the number of part-time workers rose by 105,000. This reverses the trend seen in the early stages of the recovery with the UK seeing sharp increases in part-time and self employment. There was also a reminder that while the US and the UK have seen sharp drops in unemployment since the worst of the crisis, Europe is still languishing a long way behind. ONS FREE AppDownload
Global regulators imposed penalties totaling $3.4 billion on five major banks, including UBS, HSBC, and Citigroup, on Wednesday in a landmark settlement over allegations of price fixing in the foreign exchange market. Royal Bank of Scotland and JPMorgan Chase were also fined for attempting to manipulate foreign exchange benchmarks in a year-long probe that has put the largely unregulated $5 trillion-a-day market on a tighter leash, with dozens of dealers suspended or fired. Switzerland's UBS swallowed the biggest penalty, paying $661 million to Britain's Financial Services Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and ordered by the Swiss regulator FINMA to hand over 134 million Swiss francs. FINMA also ordered Switzerland's largest bank to automate at least 95 percent of its global foreign exchange trading and limit bonuses for traders of foreign exchange and precious metals, where it said it had also found evidence of serious misconduct, to 200 percent of their base salary for two years. Other bank employees who earn more than 200 percent of their base salary in bonuses will have to undergo an approval process. FINMA has started enforcement proceedings against 11 former and current employees of UBS. Barclays, a major player in the foreign exchange market, had been expected to be part of the settlement, but the FCA said its investigation into the UK bank was continuing. The UK regulator's first group settlement, worth more than $1.7 billion, eclipses the 460 million pounds it has so far fined the industry for alleged interest rate manipulation, reflecting increasing political and public demands that banks — blamed for sparking the 2008 credit crisis — are held accountable and culpable for misconduct. The US CFTC fined the five banks more than $1.4 billion for attempted manipulation. (Additional reporting by Steve Slater, Huw Jones, Jamie McGeever, Clare Hutchison and Matt Scuffham in London and Katharina Bart in Zurich. Writing by Carmel Crimmins, Editing by Alexander Smith) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkLONDON (Reuters) - Wall Street bank JPMorgan, fined $662 million by UK and US regulators for failings in foreign exchange, said on Wednesday that it had made significant improvements to systems and controls. The bank called trader conduct described in its settlements with Britain's Financial Conduct Authority and the U.S. Commodity Futures Traders Commission "unacceptable" and said more would be done to reinforce high standards. "Further training and enhancements are ongoing and will remain a priority," it said in a statement. The FCA and CFTC fined five banks a total of $3.1 billion in after a year-long global probe into the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market.  (Reporting by Clare Hutchison. Editing by Kirstin Ridley) FREE AppDownload
