Alex Davies / Business InsiderThe Ferrari F12berlinetta has been around since 2012, but now that the LaFerrari — the brand's fastest and most expensive production car ever — has completely sold out, it's once again the best car with the prancing horse logo money can buy. Which is why we were pumped to spend the better part of a week with the beautiful F12, which starts for a whopping $315,888. What do you get for that not so small fortune? Two seats, a top speed over 210 mph, a 0 to 62 mph time of 3.1 seconds, and a huge amount of fun. And a few headaches as well.
REUTERS/Bobby YipHSBC China manufacturing PMI came in at 48 in March, from 48.5 the previous month. This is below expectations for manufacturing to hold steady at 48.1. This was also the lowest reading since July 2013. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. Those surveyed said "deteriorating market conditions weighed on client demand," according to the report. "The final reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI in March confirmed the weakness of domestic demand conditions," HSBC economist Hongbin Qu said in a press release.  "This implies that 1Q GDP growth is likely to have fallen below the annual growth target of 7.5%. We expect Beijing to fine-tune policy sooner rather than later to stabilise growth." The report showed that even as domestic demand remained soft, new export orders climbed for the first time in four months. Staffing levels also fell for the fifth consecutive month, though "job shedding eased to a marginal pace." Qu has previously said that he expects that policymakers would announce measures to stabilize growth. Here's a look at the trajectory of HSBC China PMI: HSBC/Markit Economics Earlier, we saw official PMI rise to 50.3, beating expectations. Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik tweeted this chart which shows that HSBC and official PMI readings have been diverging: Tom Orlik via Twitter FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ReutersChina's official manufacturing PMI climbed to 50.3 in March. This beat expectations for a modest decline to 50.1, and is up from a reading of 50.2 in February. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. We've already seen HSBC PMI fall into contractionary territory. Bank of America's Ting Lu is looking for PMI to hold steady in part because of seasonality. "The recent vow by the government to speed up infrastructure investment to maintain stable growth could slightly help boost sentiment," he wrote ahead of the data release. Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik tweeted this chart that shows official and HSBC PMI diverging: Tom Orlik via Twitter Meanwhile, the Aussie dollar jumped on the news: $AUD spike on China March official PMI coming in as f'cast: 50.3 pic.twitter.com/TbR3XEjRk0 FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attends a New Year party hosted by the Japan Business Federation, Japan Association of Corporate Executives and Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in Tokyo.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese business confidence improved in the three months to March for a fifth straight quarter, a central bank survey showed, but the pace of recovery slowed and sentiment is seen weakening in the following quarter due to worries that a sales tax hike will dent growth. The headline index for big manufacturers' sentiment was plus 17 in the March quarter, the Bank of Japan's closely watched tankan survey showed on Tuesday. That was less than the median estimate for plus 18. Companies expect the sentiment index to fall to plus 8 in the June quarter, the survey showed. The survey also showed that large companies plan to raise capital spending by 0.1 percent in the financial year to March 2015. The market's median forecast was for a 0.2 percent increase. The tankan's sentiment indexes are derived by subtracting the percentage of respondents who say conditions are poor from those who say they are good. A positive reading means optimists outnumber pessimists. (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto and Leika Kihara; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucas Jackson Is Preet Bharara of the office of U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York taunting Wall Street? On Monday, the office's official Twitter account posted the following message, claiming a "significant financial institution" is about to be in serious legal trouble: You can expect that before long a significant financial institution will be charged with a felony or be made to plead guilty to a felony "In my view, after Arthur Andersen, the pendulum has swung too far and needs to swing back a bit. And so you can expect that before too long a significant financial institution will be charged with a felony or be made to plead guilty to a felony, where the conduct warrants it," Bharara said. However, in the tweet from his office, the full context was not entirely clear and the tweet was not presented as a quote.  The office followed that tweet up with a pair of updates about a fraud case against a "broker &amp; distributor of dairy products." There was no further information about any impending felony charges. Bharara's office did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider Monday evening.   Updated 8:41 PM with details from Bharara's speech. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign outside the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - An investment advisor featured in "The Big Short," a best-selling book about the financial crisis, faced an administrative trial Monday on claims he misled investors in a complex investment product linked to mortgages. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission called its first witnesses in administrative proceedings in New York in a fraud case launched in October against Wing Chau and his New Jersey investment advisory firm Harding Advisory LLC. The hearing marked the start of one of a handful of trials in cases brought by the SEC over events leading up to the 2008 financial crisis. Chau lost a bid to block the case from going forward. The SEC accuses Chau and Harding Advisory of allowing hedge fund Magnetar Capital LLC undisclosed influence over the selection of collateral for a $1.5 billion transaction called Octans I CDO Ltd. The SEC alleges that Magnetar played a role in the deal despite its known strategy of taking short positions on mortgage-backed securities in CDOs, including ones it was investing in, as it was in Octans I. The CDO deal, which closed in September 2006, was structured and marketed by Merrill Lynch. The CDO failed in April 2008, leaving investors with $1.1 billion in losses, the SEC said. In a small courtroom in lower Manhattan, Chau, who denies the charges, sat beside his lawyers as the SEC questioned a former Merrill Lynch sales employee. Richard Lasch, the former employee, testified about a 2006 meeting in which Merrill and Magnetar agreed to together choose the firms that would serve in the deals as collateral manager. Those firms included Maxim Group LLC, a predecessor firm to Harding headed by Chau that became the manager of Octans, the first CDO involving Magnetar, he said. "There were a number of CDOs Magnetar was involved in that Merrill Lynch issued," said Lasch, who now works in a sales capacity at SunTrust Banks Inc in Boston. Bank of America Corp, which now owns Merrill Lynch, agreed in December to pay $131.8 million to resolve claims the company misled investors about Magentar's role in two CDOs, including Octans I. FEATURED IN 'THE BIG SHORT' The case before SEC Administrative Judge Cameron Elliott could last up to two weeks, according to the SEC website. Chau was featured in "The Big Short," a best seller about the financial crisis by Michael Lewis. In the book, Lewis describes a dinner conversation in January 2007 during a conference in Las Vegas between Chau and Steve Eisman, a hedge fund manager at FrontPoint Partners who based on the discussion increased his bets against CDOs. In 2011, Chau sued Lewis for defamation, saying the book portrayed him and other CDO managers in the book as "villains" while Eisman came off as a "heroic" figure who saw the collapse of the mortgage market coming. A judge tossed the lawsuit in March 2013. Chau also sued the SEC seeking to block the current case, claiming the regulator was violating his constitutional rights by "shoehorning" its case into an administrative proceeding after it "repeatedly stumbled" in similar cases. At a March 19 hearing, U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan denied Chau's motion for a temporary restraining order. (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressStock brokers working at the New York Stock Exchange in 1963Active investors have never had it better.  Turnkey desktop trading programs have lowered fees to as little as $7 a trade, and there's never been more cheap or free information available to anyone interested in markets.    It didn't used to be that way.  We spoke with K.C. Grainger, a veteran broker now based in Montreal. He said the average commission in the late 1980s was $45, but that it could often climb much into the hundreds or thousands depending on the size of the order. "The biggest firms got away with murder in these commissions," he said. "They could hire analysts to kowtow to brokers for commissions, and the commissions would go to pay the research department." Now, he said, those research departments have been wiped out. "With E-Trade or Scottrade, it's very difficult to hire anybody to do research coverage — there's no profits coming in," he said. His remarks are backed up by historical data compiled in 2002 by Columbia Business School's Charles Jones. Back then, the market was regraded as much more specialized, hence the higher costs. But those costs, as measured by the percentage of the value of the trade, have only been tumbling. SSRN Deutsche Bank's David Bianco recently published this chart showing average commissions per share. Deutsche Bank These two use different metrics, but the overall conclusion is clear: It's now super cheap to buy and sell stocks. This doesn't mean it's gotten easier to trade stocks. As BI's Henry Blodget explained today, there has probably never been a level playing field in the market. But it does show that certain barriers to entry have been lowered. FREE AppDownload
Chris Hondros / Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Value Stocks May Be Coming Into Favor (BlackRock) The high-growth momentum stocks have recently taken a beating. Biotech stocks are down 15% from their February peak and the recent King Digital Entertainment IPO was a flop, with the stock falling 15% on its first trading day. However, the overall stock markets continue to trade near all-time highs, which means investers are basically rotating from one side of the stock market to another. "This rotation is being driven in part by the fading of the momentum trading theme (which favored growth styles), but it is also a result of a growing discrepancy in relative valuations," writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. "As of the end of last month, growth stocks were trading at nearly a 40% premium to value stocks, significantly higher than the 10-year average of around 25%. "Should this rotation continue, one of the beneficiaries would likely be U.S. large- and mega-cap stocks, which are trading at a significant discount to small- and mid-cap areas of the market. The financial sector may also benefit from this trend. Despite a five-year rally, the sector still appears attractive and has been seeing strong inflows recently." A Flatter Yield Curve Suggests Bond Investers Skeptical On Growth (Morgan Stanley Wealth Management) When the difference between long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates narrow, the yield curve is flattening. "US Treasury yield curves have flattened since the mid-March Federal Open Market Committee meeting," wrote Morgan Stanley Wealth Management's Lisa Shalett. "Two-year and five-year Treasuries sold off, anticipating that the Fed would pull forward the timing of its first rate hike to mid 2015 from 2016. Also after the meeting, rates on the 10- and 30-year bonds drifted downward. In fact, the 30- year to five-year spread is at the lowest level since 2009. While the equity markets interpreted the Fed comments as constructive for the growth outlook; curve flattening of this magnitude suggests the bond market is skeptical. Should growth materialize and inflation expectations pick up, bonds could be vulnerable and volatile." A Stock Market Correction Is Long Overdue (Nuveen Investments) Nuveen's Bob Doll remains "constructive" on stocks. "We understand that a stock market correction is long overdue, and an external shock could provide one," wrote Doll. "But we are still in the early innings of a U.S. economic liftoff, accompanied by positive macro themes that seem to have sufficient time to run." Doll offers a good, brief discussion on how to think about stocks during various stages of a bull market: "Market risks present in any bull market may need to be evaluated, such as taking profits and waiting until conditions become less overbought and valuations improve, missing the rally. Periodic corrections occur because bad news causes most investors to freeze and miss the opportunity to buy on weakness. The later stages of bull markets tend to be grinding and lack a new catalyst. In contrast, during the early stages, monetary conditions ease and/or economic prospects suddenly brighten, providing a trigger to buy. Later stages also involve an extrapolation of the business and earnings cycle, rather than a power- ful spark that ignites sentiment. Patience is warranted in the middle of a trend, and we remain pro-growth in our investment stance. Investor confidence should improve when economic activity increases, which should occur in developed countries in the near term and could spread to parts of emerging markets later in the year." Differentiated Returns Should Be Expected (JP Morgan Asset Management) JP Morgan's David Kelly also offers some thoughts about the current stage of the market. "As investors look to close the books on the first quarter of 2014 this week, it seems like an appropriate time to take stock of returns to some key asset classes," wrote Kelly. "Differentiated returns, whether it is caused by a particularly exciting growth story, more efficient and profitable operations or a rush of M&amp;A activity, should be expected at this point in the cycle and will likely be a staple going forward, as more average overall valuations lead investors to hunt for stories under the surface." The Global Market Winners And Losers Of Q1 2014 (Business Insider) "The best-performing major asset class in the first quarter of 2014 was the agricultural commodity complex (proxied here by the Rogers International Commodity Agriculture Total Return Index), up 12.4%," noted BI's Matthew Boesler. "European stocks, U.S. stocks, the euro, and the British pound all eked out gains, while emerging-market stocks (proxied by MSCI's EM index), the dollar-yen exchange rate, Chinese stocks, and Japanese stocks all lost ground." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Arista Networks, a company in the networking industry that just filed paperwork for an IPO, is worth watching. Arista was founded in 2005 and has been gaining momentum since 2008, when it lured away one of Cisco's top engineers, Jayshree Ullal, to be its CEO. Prior to Arista, Ullal ran Cisco's bread-and-butter routing, switching business, leading it to $10 billion in annual revenue. We've likened her to the "Marissa Mayer" of the networking world: famous and well-respected in her field. Arista just filed paperwork with the SEC to become a public company. The company says it hopes to raise $200 million. But this IPO is worth watching for a number of reasons. For one, unlike many of the other enterprise IPOs in the works these days, Arista is already profitable. The company nearly doubled revenues from $193.4 million in 2012 to $361.2 million in 2013, and in that same time doubled profits, too, from $21.4 million to $42.5 million. For another, it has some huge customers, particularly in the hot cloud-computing world. Arista makes an important piece of hardware for big corporate networks called a switch. One of its claims to fame is that the switch can be controlled through software, a big trend that is sweeping through the network industry. Such software-programmable networks have become critical for cloud computing. Arista names Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo as customers as well as companies like Barclays, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley, Comcast, Equinix, ESPN and Rackspace. If this IPO goes well, Ullal, who isn't a co-founder, will profit nicely. She isn't putting her shares up for sale, according to these documents, but she owns quite a big chunk: 7.5 million shares. That's second only to co-founder David Cheriton, the largest shareholder with 13.9 million shares owned by a trust in his name. He officially left the company this month and is working with another startup, Optumsoft.  Arista disclosed in its S1 that Optumsoft has sent a letter from a lawyer asking that Arista stop using some of its core technology, and a lawsuit might ensue. But if that wrinkle with the former co-founder can be worked out, Arista has all the makings of a solid company poised to do well in the public markets. An Arista spokesperson has no comment on the company's relationship with its former co-founders. We've reached out to David Cheriton and will update when we hear back. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/ Louis Lanzano The FBI is investigating whether high-speed trading firms trade on non-public information, the Wall Street Journal reports. The agency is working with the SEC and CFTC. Bloomberg's Keri Geiger and Patricia Hurtado also have an update: "The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s inquiry stems from a multiyear crackdown on insider trading, which has led to at least 79 convictions of hedge-fund traders and others. Agents are examining whether traders abuse information to act ahead of orders by institutional investors, according to the person, who asked not to be named because the probe is confidential. Even trades based on computer algorithms could amount to wire fraud, securities fraud or insider trading." CNBC's Eamon Javers said an FBI spokesman is urging anyone with information about high-frequency trading abuses to call the bureau. An FBI spokesman tells me: "we want people to contact us." Says traders with tips about HFT should call 212-384-1000. The report comes after Michael Lewis appeared on "60 Minutes" to argue that high-frequency traders have "rigged" the stock market. FREE AppDownload
The recall of 2.6 million General Motors cars is unlike any recall we’ve seen before, but not for its scale or legal implications. The recall includes seven GM models made between 2003 and 2011, which may have faulty ignition switches that can flip out of the “run” position while the car is moving, turning off the engine, cutting some electric power, and disabling the airbags. Crashes caused by the defect have been connected to 13 deaths. There are both fewer cars and fewer deaths involved here than in the recalls by Toyota between 2009 and 2011 related to unintended acceleration. What makes the GM situation unprecedented is that the government agency responsible for keeping an eye on things is being criticized for sleeping on the job, and because it involves vehicles built by a company that doesn’t exist anymore. On Tuesday, GM CEO Mary Barra and the acting head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), David Friedman, will testify before the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee in a hearing titled "The GM Ignition Switch Recall: Why Did It Take So Long?" In a memo previewing the hearings, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce pointed to the agency’s failure to open an investigation when it had evidence of a problem, asking “What prevented NHTSA from identifying a safety defect in GM recalls relating to airbag non-deployment?” The last time the NHTSA was accused of inadequately responding to vehicle defects was during the recall of Ford vehicles with Firestone tires in 2000, said Karl Brauer, a senior analyst at Kelley Blue Book. After that, the NHTSA “was supposed to make some changes” to how they investigated possible defects, Brauer said, adding “it apparently didn’t work.” As more information about the recall is revealed, “there’s more and more proof that NHTSA did see this pattern” of crashed GM cars where the airbags didn’t deploy, Brauer said. John Alan James, executive director of the Center for Global Governance, Reporting and Regulation at Pace University’s Lubin School of Business, agreed. “They knew about this twice and they failed to open any probes,” he told Business Insider, referring to NHTSA's decisions in 2007 and 2010 not to investigate instances of airbag non-deployment in 2007 Chevrolet Cobalts. Attorney Bob Hilliard, of Hilliard Munoz Gonzales, which represents families of victims who have died in crashes related to the recalls, said in an interview that compared to giant automakers, the NHTSA is just “a Chihuahua guarding a dragon.” The agency promised it would do better after the Firestone-tire episode, he said, but hasn’t lived up to that.  It’s “incapable of protecting the public” from powerful automakers, Hilliard said. The term "new GM" is not a marketing gimmick — in filing bankruptcy, the General Motors Corporation ceased to exist and the General Motors Company took its place. That not only gives the automaker a potential layer of protection from liability; it also provides a convenient public-relations defense. There’s evidence to suggest that the company had “absolute knowledge” of the defects that will likely lead to some harsh questioning, Brauer said. But he added that “there’s a viable argument for Mary Barra and GM to make” that the concerned vehicles are old models built by departed leaders of a defunct company. In recent months, GM has been more prudent about issuing recalls, a sign that the company is more on top of potential issues than it has been in the past. Barra has shown herself to be “very forthright, very transparent,” and GM as a whole “seems to be more proactive” these days, Brauer said.  Barra’s prepared remarks for tomorrow’s hearings (provided by GM) support Brauer’s point. “As soon as l learned about the problem, we acted without hesitation. We told the world we had a problem that needed to be fixed,” Barra will say. “We did so because whatever mistakes were made in the past, we will not shirk from our responsibilities now and in the future. Today’s GM will do the right thing.” For Hilliard, the “old GM” defense doesn’t hold water, “not if their conduct is defined by how they address the ongoing safety issue.” The current leadership can’t be blamed for making cars that have killed people, but they are accountable for how they deal with getting the cars fixed, he added. GM has not instructed customers to stop driving their cars, saying the recalled vehicles are fine even before new parts are installed. “The GM engineers have done extensive analysis to make sure if you use only the ignition key with no additional items on the key ring, that the vehicle is safe to drive,” the company has told owners. Making things difficult is the downside of the “old GM” defense. It’s really hard to track down and fix cars that were built more than a decade ago. “Just locating them is going to be difficult,” Brauer said. Many of the vehicles will have changed hands, and GM won’t necessarily know who the new owners are or how to reach them. "It will take months," Kelley Blue Book executive editorial director and market analyst Jack Nerad said. "Some of these parts aren't even available." The new ignition switches will be available starting in April, GM says.   FREE AppDownload
New Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is already getting one thing right: At the market's close today, Microsoft’s stock was at $40.99, continuing near its 14-year high. Shares are up close to 11% since Nadella was named CEO in February. (Under former CEO Steve Ballmer, MSFT endured a 40% drop.) In less than two months, Nadella has overseen the release of an Office suite for Apple's iPad as well as new device-agnostic services. And more releases are sure to be coming with Microsoft's annual Build developers' conference, kicking off this Wednesday. Nadella seems to be taking Microsoft in a new direction with a bigger focus on enterprise solutions, and this seems to be paying off quite nicely:  FREE AppDownload
LOCEditor's note: Below is an interview with Kevin Book, research head at ClearView Energy Partners LLC. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Friday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BI: What is the most underreported energy story at the moment?  Our perennial answer remains “efficiency.” Energy prices shocked end-use sectors twice in the space of a decade. Even without government intervention, the behavioral imprint of scarcity pricing may take years – or decades – to fade from consumption patterns. Nor have government incentives for conservation diminished. Efficiency standards are ramping up here at home. Overseas, governments are paring back subsidies. In short, past trends may not predict future demand very well.  BI: What should be investors' biggest concerns coming out of Ukraine? Uniform Western sanctions against the Russian energy sector could create unpredictable results for U.S. companies invested in producing Russian resources. Asymmetrical, U.S.-only sanctions against the Russian energy sector could shift revenues from U.S. companies to their European counterparts.  BI: What is your biggest concern heading into spring season?  KB: We see downside risk to crude in the months ahead, notwithstanding looming conflict with Russia. Iran negotiations could prove bearish for crude if they succeed, but also if they fail, because it’s not at all clear that Asian buyers would agree to pare back purchases in the event Congress passes new sanctions. U.S. crude production slowed by winter could catch back up in the spring thaw. The scale of ongoing crude disruptions (~3 MMbbl/d) may put Brent in a precarious position, too, for example should Iraq maintain production momentum or should Libya come back onstream.  BI:  What will the lingering impact be of the unusually intense winter? KB: Natural gas inventories ended the winter at ten-year lows. Mild weather could give inventories room to recover, but a hot summer could draw gas down still further, setting up higher prices for next winter. Price premiums during the past winter are likely to encourage greater investment in storage infrastructure, pipelines and – in the case of propane – inventories, an eventual buffer against future volatility. BI: What kinds of investment allocations are now called for as China slows down? KB: China’s growth may be slowing, but the base is getting bigger, too, and supply stability remains imperative. We expect Chinese oil and gas companies to continue their efforts to diversify supply, not only through foreign direct investment in North America and other producing areas, but also through intensifying efforts at domestic shale production. This keeps focus at the upstream. Likewise, China may offer a countervailing force against weaker crude prices by seizing upon discounts to expand strategic crude reserves between now and 2015. FREE AppDownload
The final tallies are in. The best-performing major asset class in the first quarter of 2014 was the agricultural commodity complex (proxied here by the Rogers International Commodity Agriculture Total Return Index), up 12.4%. Treasuries (proxied by the TLT ETF) and gold each advanced more than 7%, while emerging-market sovereign debt (proxied by JPMorgan's Emerging Markets Bond Total Return Index) and West Texas Intermediate crude oil each returned a little more than 3%. European stocks, U.S. stocks, the euro, and the British pound all eked out gains, while emerging-market stocks (proxied by MSCI's EM index), the dollar-yen exchange rate, Chinese stocks, and Japanese stocks all lost ground. The chart below compares returns: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014. Markets closed out the first quarter on a high note. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Day one and already there's some drama. Today Michael Lewis released his new book, "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt." It's about a group of guys from the Royal Bank of Canada who figured out that high-frequency traders are manipulating the stock market, so they decided to start their own HFT-agnostic exchange called IEX. Apparently this has prompted someone to start telling tales about Lewis' relationship with IEX, according to Lewis' Facebook page: Facebook, Michael Lewis Matt Zeitlan over at BuzzFeed got a look at Nunziata's e-mail. It starts out pretty brutal. As many you saw last night on 60 minutes or are hearing about today, there is a “new” exchange IEX to combat High Frequency Trading. IEX is being sponsored and pushed by buy-side firms as they are the main investors and believe in the story. Michael Lewis also has a stake in IEX, which was not disclosed in the story. IEX is currently “transitioning” from a dark pool to a lit exchange. So where does BNP stand with connectivity to IEX? It was no secret that a lot of banks, stock exchanges and trading firms weren't going to like this book, but starting rumors is pretty low. We've reached out to Nunziata and to BNP Paribas for comment. BNP sent us this statement: “Earlier today an email was sent by John Nunziata, internally within BNP Paribas, which was factually erroneous and contained incorrect information regarding Michael Lewis. The statements did not and do not represent the views or understanding of BNP Paribas. BNPP and its staff have no reason to believe that Mr. Lewis has any financial or proprietary interest or other stake in IEX, and any statement to the contrary was a mistake and is retracted in its entirety.” IEX is marketing itself as the place where your pension funds and retirement funds are protected. Check out one of their marketing videos below. It's called 'Opportunity Now' and is full-on mom-and-pop, apple pie Americana.  SEE ALSO: Nassim Taleb Explains Why We All Benefit From Volatility FREE AppDownload
The website Total Frat Move cleverly gamed social media to make it one of the web's top destinations for humor.  The site offers an irreverent, and at times, openly-sophomoric brand of comedy that recalls the heyday of National Lampoon.Although its target demographic is the nation's fraternity and sorority members, the site's co-founder thinks this brand of humor has mass appeal.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Facebook
The lowest euro area CPI print in four years has not spurred investors to reconsider the outlook for this week's ECB meeting. Most recognize the ECB is likely to shrug off today's preliminary report. It is not clean in the sense of the base effect of lower oil prices and the distortions caused by Easter (last year Good Friday was on March 29, so holidays were booked in March, which exaggerates the drop, as such booking will be concentrated in April this year). Some economists are forecasting that this will be the trough in euro area CPI. The Wall Street Journal asks, "Is Abenomics pushing Europe toward deflation?" The reporter answers in the affirmative: "...Deflation pressures in the euro zone are also being driven by the monetary policy elsewhere, not least in Japan." This sounds reasonable. The yen has depreciated by about 29% against the euro since the start of November 2012, when it became clear that Abe would likely be given a second try as Japan's Prime Minister. But to attribute much of the disinflationary (if not deflationary) headwinds in Europe to Japan is an exaggeration. First, the bulk of the yen's weakness occurred before the end of H1 2013. Since then, the yen has depreciated about 9% against the euro. Headline euro area CPI was 1.6% in June and July 2013. It now stands at just less than a third of that. If with unpredictable lags and lead times, there does not look to be much of a smoking gun here. Second, and more importantly, the euro area does not trade that much with Japan, making the impact of the currency fluctuations less significant. According to the ECB, Japan's exports account for about 3.2% of the euro area imports. On a trade-weighted basis, looking at the euro area's largest trading partners, the yen's weight is about 7%. Third, when the ECB hiked rates with inflation above 4.0%, the euro was trading near JPY170. This month it has averaged about JPY141.50. This is to suggest that knowing where the euro-yen cross is trading does not allow one to forecast euro area CPI. Fourth, the Wall Street Journal argues that the rise in the euro drives down imported prices within the euro area and makes euro area producers less competitive. This is true in theory, but not in fact.  On a trade-weighted basis, the euro has risen less than 2% since the beginning of H2 2013. The 6-, 12- and 24-month average merchandise exports have converged between 155-158 billion euros a month. Lastly, we note that those countries that are experiencing outright deflation in the euro area, like Greece and Spain, do not trade more with Japan than say Germany and France. Attributing the euro area's low inflation to Abenomics distracts investors and policy makers from the real culprit, which is primarily home-grown. Indeed this report and others in the traditional and social media space play up renewed currency wars. The depreciation of the Chinese yuan, some suggest, is to boost exports and arrest the economic slowdown. Others see the recent agreements that allow the U.K. and Germany to clear and settle yuan transactions as another attempt to undermine the role of the dollar. The dollar has appreciated about 3.2% against the yuan since the multi-year low was set in mid-January just below CNY6.04. This was of course sanctioned by the PBoC. However, the goal was not to boost exports, but squeeze out the speculative excesses in the financial sector. Studies suggest that the value-added being done by Chinese workers, or yuan-denominated incurred in the production process ranges from about 12% to 20%. That means that the minor adjustment in the bilateral exchange rate is unlikely to have any impact on trade flows. China did reach preliminary understandings with Germany and the U.K. to clear and settle yuan transactions. The permission that China granted is itself predicated on the restrictions the PRC has imposed on the yuan. Given the increasing importance of the yuan, this is the only way countries can participate directly.   German and U.K. memorandums of understanding with China says nothing about the U.S. or the role of the dollar in the world economy. Separately, the BIS head of its banking department opined over the weekend that the dollar's share of reserves could fall 10%-15% in the coming years, without threatening its role as the world's primary reserve currency. Peter Zoellner also suggested that the role of the yuan would continue to grow (it is after all presently all but inconsequential as a reserve asset), but did not anticipate it replacing the dollar over the next couple of decades. The economic literature is littered with forecasts of the dollar's demise as a reserve currency. As recently as 2008, for example, prominent economists Harvard's Jeff Frankel and the University of Wisconsin's Menzi Chinn suggested the euro could overtake the dollar as the world's primary reserve currency by 2015. While the dollar's share of world reserves may indeed decline in the coming years, it is hardly a foregone conclusion. Indeed outside of the run-up to EMU, when the dollar's share of reserves rose to to around 70%, the dollar's share of global reserves appears fairly steady. That is probably the best guess of what is going to happen in the coming years. FREE AppDownload
In his new book, Michael Lewis argues high-frequency trading by professionals has made it impossible for mom-and-pop investors to get a fair shake in the stock market. On CNBC this morning, Business Insider Editor-in-Chief Henry Blodget disputed that assertion. Blodget said there'd never been a level playing field in investing, and that in fact it's much less rigged now. "I think the big issue is we always try to talk about this level playing field," he said "'It should be just as easy for everybody at home.' It never will be. And the reason it never will be is that it's incredibly difficult. And folks with 20 years of experience, MBAs, huge research departments spending $50 million a year talking to executives, everything else ... They can do it. So the idea that you can do it at home just because it's safe and fair, that's the delusion that people have to get past." Full transcript below.  Henry Blodget: "I think the concept of the stock market being rigged is crazy. It is much less rigged now. If this is rigging, than it always used to be — where your broker was getting a big commission on the share, it's now a much smaller commission. It's just not a commission. Somebody's getting in the way and taking it. The big problem, Carl, is that people who are trading casually, once in a while, often have no appreciation for how difficult it is to compete against professional investors who have extraordinary resources, experience, information at their fingertips. Folks have to lose in the stock market for others to win. And you're effectively walking on the field and trying to compete with the New York Yankees. That is the problem and that is never talked about in this discussion. Carl Quintanilla: Are you saying this is a problem but it effects a limited pool of players and mom and pops should not worry? HB: This affects everybody. In fact a big hedge fund trading billions of dollars a year going to lose a lot more money than somebody trading a hundred shares here and there. But I think the big issue is we always try to talk about this level playing field 'Should be just as easy for everybody at home.' It never will be. And the reason it never will be is that it's incredibly difficult. And folks with 20 years of experience, MBA, huge research departments spending $50 million year talking to executives, everything else, they can't do it. So the idea that you can do it at home just because it's safe and fair, that's the delusion that people have to get past. CQ: Doesn't sound like you think the exchanges will have a change of heart or banks or regulators for that matter — that this is going to be with us forever. HB: I think we should look at this and merit's a good regulatory investigation is it harmful, the argument is it creates more liquidity, which can be helpful. It's the same thing that floor traders used to do, the specialists creating liquidity. There was an argument that was a positive force. We should look at that and evaluate it. But I don't think in a pure financial sense individuals are losing that much. FREE AppDownload
When you buy a home, a lot of the money you spend isn’t going toward your home equity. The cost of homeownership includes the money you spend on fees, taxes, and interest. These costs do not increase the value of your home nor do they reduce the principal on your mortgage. We did some analysis on the cost of homeownership versus the cost of renting. Rental costs are offset by the interest you make on the cash you did not have to put toward a down payment. Homeownership costs are offset by the tax deduction you get on your mortgage interest payments. The cost of owning a home will typically exceed the cost of renting when the price-to-rent ratio (the cost of buying a home divided by the annual rent of similar property) is greater than 20. We used the data provided by Zillow for this analysis. There are a number of other factors that should be considered when deciding whether to rent or buy a home. But start by figuring out if the cost of owning is relatively cheap or expensive based on your specific needs. Go out and do your own research. Find homes for sale and for rent in your ideal neighborhood that are the size you want. Calculate the ratio of sale price to annual rent. If home prices are cheap (less than 20 times rent) it may be time to jump into homeownership. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Hussman FundsThe profit margin debate is raging. This weekend, Jesse Livermore of the Philosphical Economics blog published a lengthy discussion on margins, and he took particular issue with a measure popularized by John Hussman. Hussman points to corporate profits after tax (CPATAX) / GDP, which is at a nosebleed level. Livermore notes characterized the chart as "an illusory result of flawed macroeconomic accounting." "Notice that if a U.S. corporation earns a profit from affiliate operations abroad, the profit will be added to the numerator of CPATAX/GDP, but the costs will not be added to the denominator, as they should be in a “profit margin” analysis," he wrote. "So, in effect, CPATAX/GDP will increase as if the sale entailed a 100% profit margin–actually, an infinite profit margin." Business Insider reached out to Hussman about this post. "On the subject of profit margins, there’s no question that the difference between CPATAX/GDP and domestic profits/GDP (one can use GNP almost identically) is driven by foreign profits, which have increased as a share of U.S. profits in recent years (just as profits earned in the U.S. by foreign companies have increased)," wrote Hussman in an email. "But even if we exclude foreign profits and focus strictly on domestic profits, we find their GDP share at a record high, and can still explain that outcome as the result of mirror-image deficits in combined government and household savings." Livermore actually doesn't disagree with the conclusion. "To be clear, the current profit margin is still elevated, but it’s not as wildly elevated as the CPATAX/GDP and CPATAX/GNP charts suggest," wrote Livermore in his post. Perhaps Hussman and Livermore are in more agreement than they think. Here's Hussman's full response to Business Insider: I’m a huge fan of intelligent debate and have a lot of respect for this writer. On points of disagreement, I would forcefully reject that the relationship between levels and subsequent growth rates is spurious. The fact that the initial level is a component of both figures is exactly the point – high starting values in a mean-reverting process are associated with lower subsequent growth, while depressed starting values in a mean-reverting process are associated with higher subsequent growth. That’s not an artifact. It’s practically the definition of mean-reversion. On the subject of profit margins, there’s no question that the difference between CPATAX/GDP and domestic profits/GDP (one can use GNP almost identically) is driven by foreign profits, which have increased as a share of U.S. profits in recent years (just as profits earned in the U.S. by foreign companies have increased). But even if we exclude foreign profits and focus strictly on domestic profits, we find their GDP share at a record high, and can still explain that outcome as the result of mirror-image deficits in combined government and household savings. While I think the article is very well done, and certainly raises interesting points (as this author frequently does), the fact is that it doesn’t materially alter our conclusions. Again, in a mean-reverting process, high initial levels are followed by weak subsequent growth, and vice versa. Even if we examine strictly domestic profits as a share of GDP, we observe the identical outcome. Hussman Funds Finally, as a minor point, there are a number of wholly arbitrary visual “guideposts” in the charts. The first one (from Deutsche Bank) shows a dotted line (apparently in attempt to indicate a “norm”) that has no business being drawn to meet the current level, except that the analyst producing the chart wishes it to be so. In the last chart, the varying lines illustrating the mean profit share for different periods are similarly arbitrary. FREE AppDownload
NanexThis chart shows a mini flash crash in utilities that took place in 2013.Michael Lewis' new book on high frequency trading has thrown the issue into the spotlight, but there's a major argument against it that hardly anyone is adding to the conversation. Since the Flash Crash in 2010, software experts, regulators and investors have been talking about whether or not the harrowing, instantaneous 9% decline in the stock market was caused by high-frequency trading firms overloading exchange software systems. Think of it like driving so fast down the highway that your car spins out of control and takes a bunch of vehicles down with it. "This is true across industries based on technology," said Lev Lesokhin of CAST, a company that visualizes inherent risks in financial software systems. "They don't really ... have good oversight of the structure of their systems ... Look under the hood of these companies ... there's not enough attention being paid to the programs they're using, and these programs are a large part of what's causing the problem." In "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt," Lewis tells the story of how a group of traders banded together to create an exchange safe from high-frequency trading robots that manipulate price and nickel and dime investors. To do that, those HFT firms have to send tons of messages to exchanges with their algorithms. Some say that this communication overload is what caused the Flash Crash. Think of it like having tons and tons of browsers open on your computer streaming videos and music. Even if you're only looking at one, all that information could cause your computer to freeze up and crash. The faster the HFT firms get, the more complex the algorithms they send to exchanges become. Stock exchanges, in turn, have to evolve to deal with that speed, as well, and write their own programs. More algos, more code, more programs, more problems. According to Lesokhin, all of these systems are being built on top of each other. "The systems are getting too complex for any of the brilliant developers they have building them to manage them," he told told Business Insider. And those systems are moving at the speed of light. So when the SEC suggests things like automated 'kill switches' — programs that would stop trades dead in their tracks if certain triggers were hit — to stop software gone wrong, it's talking about an afterthought. Take what happened to Knight Capital back in 2012 as an example. The company lost $400 million in no time at all because new trading code that it introduced to its system woke up old code written into the system. It was Frankenstein stuff. Together, the old code and new code started selling low and buying high at breakneck speed. Yeah, you can kill switch that, but only after the damage has been done. Until then, it could hurt everyone in the market. This could be why Goldman Sachs has come out in favor of HFT-agnostic exchange IEX, the subject of Lewis' book. Lewis wrote that investment banks, exchanges and HFT firms are all colluding to scam investors, but this software issue is one that hurts actors on every side of a trade — even Goldman Sachs. And if Goldman is worried ... NOW WATCH: How To Invest Like Warren Buffett   FREE AppDownload
General MotorsNew CEO Mary Barra (right) with GM leadership in 2014.General Motors has now recalled over 2.6 million vehicles for ignition switch failures that have led to 13 deaths, and Congress is getting involved. Tuesday, GM CEO Mary Barra and David Friedman, acting administration of the National Highway Transportation Safety Committee (NHTSA) will testify before the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, to answer the question, "Why Did It Take So Long?" In a background memo, the Committee on Energy and Commerce laid out a full timeline of facts and events leading up to where the recall stands now. The information is based on thousands of pages of documents submitted by GM and NHTSA. The memo notes that "until additional documents have been received, the information in the timeline is preliminary and incomplete." But it's helpful to have the relevant information in one place, and the timeline makes it clear that this problem, while in the news over the past few months, has been in the making for more than a decade. Here's the timeline; you can read the full memo here. House Committee On Energy And Commerce FREE AppDownload
Julien M. Hekimian/Getty ImagesIt's like all of a sudden we woke up one morning and the guys who thought they were killing the style game in a pair of wide-leg jeans and a pinstriped, button-down shirt the night before, started buying pocket squares and making appointments to get custom blazers fitted. That's how quickly it happened. That's how quickly men found style. And what seemed like the day after the pocket-square rush, HSBC wrote a report about this new kind of man called the Yummy — a young urban male with disposable income that he disposes of on clothes and accessories. These guys buy the good stuff, too. Last year Bain reported that men account for 40% of the total luxury market and the demand for menswear products keeps on growing. The question is, why now? The answer is that the Internet has changed an experience men hate — shopping. "We've been slammed with men," said Michelle Goad, founder of shopping app PS Dept. It's an app that looks like Instagram, but every picture is an item that you can buy in a few clicks. Plus, there's a personal shopper that you can message for help with anything you're looking for. "It's like they're ordering pizza on this thing, but instead it's Prada suits," Goad continued. If you work at a bank here in New York City, PS Dept. will make sure that whatever you buy gets to you the same day. If you don't like it, returns are free. PS Dept. is just one example of how the Internet has completely changed shopping — or for our purposes, the barrier between men and style. Now instead of entering a store, finding your size, getting thirsty, not finding your size, having to pee, trying things on, losing your girlfriend/sister/mother in another store full of teenagers and just being bored in general, men need only scroll and click to get what they want. So now they want things. It's a revolution that some in the fashion industry saw coming a mile away. Take Nick Graham for instance, the man who founded the now-ubiquitous Joe Boxer. When he started Joe Boxer, 80% of men’s underwear was bought by women. Now that’s down to 20%. After that experience, Graham knows how to notice when the tide is turning, and he sees it turning now. It's prompted him to go back into fashion and start a new Nick Graham line sold only online. "Men’s wear sales at some of the contemporary Web sites that carry both men’s and women’s are 50 percent higher in comparison to the off-line sales of women’s apparel," he wrote in Women's Wear Daily last summer. "If total women’s clothing sales in the U.S. are about $120 billion, and men’s are about $60 billion, does that mean that men’s has a $30 billion upside if there were more fashion for them to buy?" Maybe. And more importantly, the companies that figure out how to create the best experience for men will stand to gain a lot. Why? Because they're loyal shoppers. "We're a service, not a retailer, so if we recommend bad items we don't have clients," said Goad. "Once you pull a good suit for a man, though, you can pull for them forever." If guys like an item's fit or style, they'll go back again and again. To get to that point, though it's all about simplifying the experience. How simple is this: Yuvi Alpert has a men's accessories line called Men In Cities. Everything on the site is $40. Nine new items are introduced to the site on the first of every month (you can get an e-mail about it if you want). Alpert says that one of his goals with the way Men In Cities is set up is to "simplify discovery." "I wanted to create a place where you don't spend more than a few minutes on the site," he said. In his mind, men should always be finding new favorites and buying them over and over again. That's what they like to do, after all, and so retailers should conform to that and make it simple. The Internet makes that possible. And with that, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Internet, personally.   FREE AppDownload
Investor Marc Andreessen tweeted an eight-step plan on how to destroy the public stock market. According to Andreessen, increased regulation discourages companies from going public. He points out that the number of publicly traded companies already naturally decreases because of takeovers, mergers, and bankruptcies. We've included the Tweets below:   1/How to kill the public stock market, Step 1: # of public companies naturally shrinks each year due to mergers, takeovers, bankruptcies. 2/Step 2: Use regulatory "reforms" to radically reduce rate of new IPOs, shrinking # of public companies from 8,800 to 3,600 since 1997. 3/Step 3: Steadily increase # of regulators, lawyers, activists, pressure groups, "governance experts" against shrinking # of public co's. 4/Step 4: "Pounds per square inch" of pressure on each public co increases, further disincenting new IPOs and incenting private takeovers. 5/Step 5: Private growth companies go public much later or not at all, shifting growth and capital gains from public to private market. 6/Step 6: Without growth, gets harder &amp; harder to realize gains in public market required by investors, particularly for retirement plans. 7/Step 7: Layer on top a healthy dose of market manipulation, mutual fund front-running, and HFT profit extraction. http://t.co/IghRocPadg 8/Step 8: Repeat as necessary until blood completely squeezed from stone, then wonder what happened to the good old days. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
The first quarter ends today, and in just a few weeks companies will begin announcing their financial results. Expectations have been tempered by the negative guidance telegraphed by these companies. "For Q1 2014, 93 companies in the S&amp;P 500 have issued negative EPS guidance and 18 companies have issued positive EPS guidance," noted FactSet's John Butters. "If these are the final numbers, it will mark the second highest number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance and the third lowest number of companies issuing positive EPS guidance for a quarter since FactSet began tracking the data in 2006." It's important, however, to consider the magnitude of the negatively revised expectations. "Although the number of companies that have issued negative EPS guidance is high, the amount by which these have companies have lowered expectations has been below average," added Butters. "For the 111 companies in the S&amp;P 500 that have issued EPS guidance for the third quarter, the EPS guidance has been 6.7% below the mean EPS estimate on average. This percentage decline is smaller than the trailing 5-year average of -10.8%." It's hard to draw any conclusions from this except that managements have had an increasing tendency to be more pessimistic than optimistic. And for some reason, the stock market has been climbing with this trend. FactSet FREE AppDownload
littleny / Shutterstock.comVintage cars on display in Sands Point, Long Island, one of America's wealthiest neighborhoods.New York City has long been considered the playground of America's millionaires and billionaires. But as many of the city's high earners start families and seek more space, they move out to the suburbs surrounding the city. Stephen Higley, a professor emeritus of urban social geography at the University of Montevallo, recently ranked the richest neighborhoods in the U.S. based on American Community Survey 2006 - 2010 data.  He aggregated contiguous block groups (subdivisions of Census tracts) with a mean income over $200,000. You can read his complete methodology here. These are the wealthiest neighborhoods in the suburbs outside of New York City — Westchester County, Long Island, Connecticut, and New Jersey.  FREE AppDownload
Corn prices are surging after U.S. farmers said they expect to plant the lowest corn acreage since 2010. That's because inventories in the world’s biggest grower and exporter jumped 30 percent from a year earlier. Acreage is estimated to hit 91.691 million, down from 95.365 million a year earlier, according to a survey of more than 84,000 growers released today in Washington, Bloomberg said.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated 93.014 million, on average. Here's how corn reacted to the news: Investing.com FREE AppDownload
The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. The latest data puts margin debt at another record high, not only in nominal terms but also in real (inflation-adjusted) dollars.     The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.     After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing until the beginning of tapering purchases supposedly now underway. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. Real margin debt at the end of February, the latest available data, had accelerated over the previous sic months. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.     Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.     As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. FREE AppDownload
Michael SetoLast week Wedbush Securities' Craig Irwin wrote Panasonic President Kazuhiro Tsuga had given a "business update" saying the firm had not yet committed to partnering with Tesla to supply the firm's Gigafactory with battery technology, "as it could increase Panasonic’s investment risks." In an email to BI, Panasonic spokesman Jim Reilly confirmed Tsuga's remarks. Panasonic values the strong relationship it has with Tesla Motors and is looking at a number of ways to further strengthen that relationship, At this point, however, the company has not made a decision on any particular option.  Tesla had no comment.  We've written about the huge calls sell-side firms have been making about the impact the Gigafactory could have on the renewables storage market, let alone electric vehicles. "With plans to bring battery pack costs down to $125/KWh once the Gigafactory is fully ramped, the math works to get to positive [net present value] projects on the commercial side, and widespread grid parity on residential solar may not be that far off, even without ITC and state tax credits," Goldman's clean tech team said a couple weeks ago.  UBS said pretty much the same thing recently, though they cautioned there remain lots of competitors in the market. That caution now looks to have been warranted. Wedbush's Irwin says a Panasonic pullout would up-end the project:  While Tesla contends the batteries Panasonic makes are their own technology and formulation, we note Panasonic is widely recognized as the world’s highest quality lithium ion battery manufacturer. Having Panasonic as a joint venture partner would facilitate strategic access to Pansonic’s supply chain, and reduce risks in our opinion. Tesla shares were down 2.73% Monday, while SolarCity shares are up 0.85%. FREE AppDownload
While everyone knows Detroit's been through some tough times, there's optimism in the air for a Motor City comeback.  On the front lines of this comeback is Shinola — an American company that makes hand-crafted bicycles, watches and leather goods in a former auto factory. "Detroit has amazing people. The raw talent here is incredible. The skilled talent here is amazing," Shinola president Jacques Panis tells us. Take a video tour of the Shinola factory and see for yourself. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
Last week, the U.S. Census released its annual estimates of population change in each of the nation's counties for the year between July 1, 2012 and July 1 2013. The results are fascinating. This map shows the total net population change, adjusted by 2012 population for each U.S. county: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Population change within counties comes from three sources: natural change — total births minus total deaths, domestic migration — people moving from one county to another, and international migration — people moving to and from other countries. University of New Hampshire sociologist and demographer Kenneth Johnson wrote in an email to Business Insider that in many counties, natural change is at a historic low: Here's a map showing natural population change from births and deaths. A large part of Appalachia saw a natural decline — more deaths than births — while most counties in the West and Alaska saw well more births than deaths.    Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Professor Johnson also noted that domestic migration is on the rise, and that much of this migration is from urban counties to more far-flung suburbs: "The higher levels of domestic migration are consistent with trends during the 2000s, when suburban areas gained domestic migrants from the older urban cores. They may suggest that the recession’s effect on migration is finally beginning to wane." Here is a map of domestic migration — population change from people moving between counties. It's important to note that this map just shows the total change between July 2012 and July 2013, and doesn't tell us anything about who is moving or which counties are sending people where. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census The last component of population change is net international migration — immigrants from other countries moving to a county, minus Americans emigrating to other countries. International migration is most concentrated on the coasts and Florida, and very few counties saw any appreciable net emigration. We also looked at net international migration in cities here.  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census   FREE AppDownload
The Turkish lira and the Russian ruble are surging today, gaining 2.2% and 1.7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, gives a brief summary of the factors driving today's moves in a note to the firm's clients this morning: Investor concerns over the threat posed by escalating geopolitical tensions related to developments in Ukraine have also continued to ease in the near term after U.S. Secretary of State Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov met yesterday in Paris, with further talks also expected to seek an acceptable outcome to Ukraine. According to Interfax news service, Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov stated that he was in agreement with Kerry on "the need to seek common ground on the diplomatic path for an exit from this situation that will meet the interests of the Ukrainian people." Russia wants Ukraine to grant greater powers to its regions, have a non-aligned status outside NATO, and make Russian an official second language. U.S. Secretary of State Kerry stated that "any real progress in the Ukraine must include a pullback of very large Russian force that is currently massing along the Ukraine's borders." Elsewhere, the Turkish lira has strengthened sharply overnight after the local election results over the weekend, which provided a vote of confidence in PM Erdogan and the ruling AKP party, supporting political stability in Turkey. The AKP party has reportedly won 46% of the votes and is set to retain control of Istanbul. More broadly, global emerging markets are rallying after a rough start to 2014. The MSCI Emerging Markets equity index closed Friday at its highest level since January 2. Meanwhile, JPMorgan's Emerging Markets Currency Index has regained all of the ground it lost since January 15, and the JPMorgan EMBI Total Return Index, comprised of EM sovereign debt, has rallied to its highest level since June 2013. "Our conversations with investors show a willingness to engage in EM markets that is much stronger now than at any time since the sell-off last summer," says Manoj Pradhan, an economist at Morgan Stanley, in a note to clients. "Interestingly, it is global investors (who had withdrawn from investing in EM as much as they could) who have been most enthusiastic, while EM-dedicated investors (who have had to stay engaged) remain cautious. It seems most likely to us that many investors feel that they cannot remain on the sidelines — what our strategists would call being 'squeezed in'." Pradhan attributes the recent outperformance in emerging markets to various developments, including heightened hopes for additional economic stimulus from Chinese authorities, a de-escalation of tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and optimism in Brazil following a recent sovereign downgrade by credit rating agency S&amp;P. "Our worry is that many investors feel that EM has adjusted adequately and may mistake the near-term stabilising factors we list above for a more fundamental, longer-term turning point in EM fortunes," he says. "Should the rally continue, it will likely weaken two key channels of change in EM: i) The incentive of policy-makers, who usually act when pushed to the brink, to introduce reforms; and ii) The ability of asset prices to create an economic rebalancing and generate sustainable sources of growth." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid ZervosFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen just gave a speech that's being interpreted as dovish. Cardiff Garcia at FT Alphaville isolates the key points she made, but basically she says there's a ton of slack still in the labor market, and she lists several points of evidence in favor of that idea. David Zervos of Jefferies — in his typically restrained manner — says this speech ends any debate about where Yellen stands: Ok, I just read Janet's speech in Chicago today. Holy dovish deepdish pizza batman!! I have no recollection of a Fed Chair's speech where the lives of three down-on-their-luck job seeking individuals were discussed in detail. This is one loving and caring Fed Chair - I must send her a "no haters" hat immediately! If anyone doubts Janet's commitment to fighting for more job creation - read the tape. If anyone doubts Janet's belief that there is excessive slack in labor markets - read the tape. And if anyone doubt's Janet conviction that there are no material inflation risks on the horizon - read the tape. This could be one of the most dovish speeches I have ever read from a Federal Reserve official. And since you're here, here's the whole speech from Yellen: I am here today to talk about what the Federal Reserve is doing to help our nation recover from the financial crisis and the Great Recession, the effects of which were particularly severe for the people and the communities you serve. Part of that effort has involved strengthening the financial system. New rules are in place to better protect consumers and ensure that credit is available to help communities grow. The Federal Reserve also plays a role in communities by fostering dialogue that promotes community development. I will highlight some initiatives around the Federal Reserve System that I believe are making a real difference. Later today, I will visit the Manufacturing Technology Program at Daley College, on Chicago's south side, where adult students are acquiring the skills they need to connect to good-paying jobs in that sector. The Fed supports the work you do in communities because you make a difference. You help ensure that credit is available for families to buy homes and for small businesses to expand. Your organizations sponsor programs that help make communities safer and families healthier and more financially secure. One of the most important things you do is to help people meet the demands of finding a job in what remains a challenging economy. And that help is crucial, but I also believe it can't succeed without two other things. The first of these is the courage and determination of the people you serve. The past six years have been difficult for many Americans, but the hardships faced by some have shattered lives and families. Too many people know firsthand how devastating it is to lose a job at which you had succeeded and be unable to find another; to run through your savings and even lose your home, as months and sometimes years pass trying to find work; to feel your marriage and other relationships strained and broken by financial difficulties. And yet many of those who have suffered the most find the will to keep trying. I will introduce you to three of these brave men and women, your neighbors here in the great city of Chicago. These individuals have benefited from just the kind of help from community groups that I highlighted a moment ago, and they recently shared their personal stories with me. It might seem obvious, but the second thing that is needed to help people find jobs...is jobs. No amount of training will be enough if there are not enough jobs to fill. I have mentioned some of the things the Fed does to help communities, but the most important thing we do is to use monetary policy to promote a stronger economy. The Federal Reserve has taken extraordinary steps since the onset of the financial crisis to spur economic activity and create jobs, and I will explain why I believe those efforts are still needed. The Fed provides this help by influencing interest rates. Although we work through financial markets, our goal is to help Main Street, not Wall Street. By keeping interest rates low, we are trying to make homes more affordable and revive the housing market. We are trying to make it cheaper for businesses to build, expand, and hire. We are trying to lower the costs of buying a car that can carry a worker to a new job and kids to school, and our policies are also spurring the revival of the auto industry. We are trying to help families afford things they need so that greater spending can drive job creation and even more spending, thereby strengthening the recovery. When the Federal Reserve's policies are effective, they improve the welfare of everyone who benefits from a stronger economy, most of all those who have been hit hardest by the recession and the slow recovery. Now let me offer my view of the state of the recovery, with particular attention to the labor market and conditions faced by workers. Nationwide, and in Chicago, the economy and the labor market have strengthened considerably from the depths of the Great Recession. Since the unemployment rate peaked at 10 percent in October 2009, the economy has added more than 7-1/2 million jobs and the unemployment rate has fallen more than 3 percentage points to 6.7 percent. That progress has been gradual but remarkably steady--February was the 41st consecutive month of payroll growth, one of the longest stretches ever. Chicago, as you all know, was hit harder than many areas during the recession and remains a tougher market for workers. But there has been considerable improvement here also. Unemployment in the city of Chicago is down from a peak of nearly 13 percent to about 9-1/2 percent at last count. That is about the same improvement as in the larger Chicago metro area, where unemployment has fallen to 8-1/2 percent. Metro Chicago has added 183,000 jobs since 2009, just below the rate for job gains nationwide.1  But while there has been steady progress, there is also no doubt that the economy and the job market are not back to normal health. That will not be news to many of you, or to the 348,000 people in and around Chicago who were counted as looking for work in January.2 It will not be news to consumers or to owners of small and medium-sized businesses, who surveys say remain cautious about the strength and durability of the recovery. The recovery still feels like a recession to many Americans, and it also looks that way in some economic statistics. At 6.7 percent, the national unemployment rate is still higher than it ever got during the 2001 recession. That is also the case in Chicago and in many other cities. It certainly feels like a recession to many younger workers, to older workers who lost long-term jobs, and to African Americans, who are facing a job market today that is nearly as tough as it was during the two downturns that preceded the Great Recession. In some ways, the job market is tougher now than in any recession. The numbers of people who have been trying to find work for more than six months or more than a year are much higher today than they ever were since records began decades ago. We know that the long-term unemployed face big challenges. Research shows employers are less willing to hire the long-term unemployed and often prefer other job candidates with less or even no relevant experience.3  That is what Dorine Poole learned, after she lost her job processing medical insurance claims, just as the recession was getting started. Like many others, she could not find any job, despite clerical skills and experience acquired over 15 years of steady employment. When employers started hiring again, two years of unemployment became a disqualification. Even those needing her skills and experience preferred less qualified workers without a long spell of unemployment. That career, that part of Dorine's life, had ended. For Dorine and others, we know that workers displaced by layoffs and plant closures who manage to find work suffer long-lasting and often permanent wage reductions.4Jermaine Brownlee was an apprentice plumber and skilled construction worker when the recession hit, and he saw his wages drop sharply as he scrambled for odd jobs and temporary work. He is doing better now, but still working for a lower wage than he earned before the recession. Vicki Lira lost her full-time job of 20 years when the printing plant she worked in shut down in 2006. Then she lost a job processing mortgage applications when the housing market crashed. Vicki faced some very difficult years. At times she was homeless. Today she enjoys her part-time job serving food samples to customers at a grocery store but wishes she could get more hours. Vicki Lira is one of many Americans who lost a full-time job in the recession and seem stuck working part time. The unemployment rate is down, but not included in that rate are more than seven million people who are working part time but want a full-time job. As a share of the workforce, that number is very high historically. I have described the experiences of Dorine, Jermaine, and Vicki because they tell us important things that the unemployment rate alone cannot. First, they are a reminder that there are real people behind the statistics, struggling to get by and eager for the opportunity to build better lives. Second, their experiences show some of the uniquely challenging and lasting effects of the Great Recession. Recognizing and trying to understand these effects helps provide a clearer picture of the progress we have made in the recovery, as well as a view of just how far we still have to go. And based on the evidence available, it is clear to me that the U.S. economy is still considerably short of the two goals assigned to the Federal Reserve by the Congress. The first of those goals is maximum sustainable employment, the highest level of employment that can be sustained while maintaining a stable inflation rate. Most of my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee and I estimate that the unemployment rate consistent with maximum sustainable employment is now between 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent, well below the 6.7 percent rate in February. The other goal assigned by the Congress is stable prices, which means keeping inflation under control. In the past, there have been times when these two goals conflicted--fighting inflation often requires actions that slow the economy and raise the unemployment rate. But that is not a dilemma now, because inflation is well below 2 percent, the Fed's longer-term goal. The Federal Reserve takes its inflation goal very seriously. One reason why I believe it is appropriate for the Federal Reserve to continue to provide substantial help to the labor market, without adding to the risks of inflation, is because of the evidence I see that there remains considerable slack in the economy and the labor market. Let me explain what I mean by that word "slack" and why it is so important. Slack means that there are significantly more people willing and capable of filling a job than there are jobs for them to fill. During a period of little or no slack, there still may be vacant jobs and people who want to work, but a large share of those willing to work lack the skills or are otherwise not well suited for the jobs that are available. With 6.7 percent unemployment, it might seem that there must be a lot of slack in the U.S. economy, but there are reasons why that may not be true. One important reason relates to the skills and education of people in the workforce. It is no secret that America faces some daunting challenges in educating people and preparing them to work in a 21st century, globalized economy. Many of you in this audience are helping workers address this challenge, but you also know that the economy continues to change very rapidly. To the extent that people who desire to work lack the skills that employers are demanding, there is less slack in the labor market. This is an example of what economists call "structural" unemployment, and it can be difficult to solve. Even understanding what workers need to appeal to employers is difficult in a fast-changing economy. For government, effective solutions for structural unemployment, beginning with improved education, tend to be expensive and take a long time to work. The problem goes deeper than simply a lack of jobs. But a lack of jobs is the heart of the problem when unemployment is caused by slack, which we also call "cyclical unemployment." The government has the tools to address cyclical unemployment. Monetary policy is one such tool, and the Federal Reserve has been actively using it to strengthen the recovery and create jobs, which brings me to why the amount of slack is so important. If unemployment were mostly structural, if workers were unable to perform the jobs available, then the Federal Reserve's efforts to create jobs would not be very effective. Worse than that, without slack in the labor market, the economic stimulus from the Fed could put attaining our inflation goal at risk. In fact, judging how much slack there is in the labor market is one of the most important questions that my Federal Reserve colleagues and I consider when making monetary policy decisions, because our inflation goal is no less important than the goal of maximum employment. This is not just an academic debate. For Dorine Poole, Jermaine Brownlee, and Vicki Lira, and for millions of others dislocated by the Great Recession who continue to struggle, the cause of the slow recovery is enormously important. As I said earlier, the powerful force that sustains them and others who keep trying to succeed in this recovery is the faith that their job prospects will improve and that their efforts will be rewarded. Now let me explain why I believe there is still considerable slack in the labor market, why I think there is room for continued help from the Fed for workers, and why I believe Dorine Poole, Jermaine Brownlee, and Vicki Lira are right to hope for better days ahead. One form of evidence for slack is found in other labor market data, beyond the unemployment rate or payrolls, some of which I have touched on already. For example, the seven million people who are working part time but would like a full-time job. This number is much larger than we would expect at 6.7 percent unemployment, based on past experience, and the existence of such a large pool of "partly unemployed" workers is a sign that labor conditions are worse than indicated by the unemployment rate. Statistics on job turnover also point to considerable slack in the labor market. Although firms are now laying off fewer workers, they have been reluctant to increase the pace of hiring. Likewise, the number of people who voluntarily quit their jobs is noticeably below levels before the recession; that is an indicator that people are reluctant to risk leaving their jobs because they worry that it will be hard to find another. It is also a sign that firms may not be recruiting very aggressively to hire workers away from their competitors. A second form of evidence for slack is that the decline in unemployment has not helped raise wages for workers as in past recoveries. Workers in a slack market have little leverage to demand raises. Labor compensation has increased an average of only a little more than 2 percent per year since the recession, which is very low by historical standards.5 Wage growth for most workers was modest for a couple of decades before the recession due to globalization and other factors beyond the level of economic activity, and those forces are undoubtedly still relevant. But labor market slack has also surely been a factor in holding down compensation. The low rate of wage growth is, to me, another sign that the Fed's job is not yet done. A third form of evidence related to slack concerns the characteristics of the extraordinarily large share of the unemployed who have been out of work for six months or more. These workers find it exceptionally hard to find steady, regular work, and they appear to be at a severe competitive disadvantage when trying to find a job. The concern is that the long-term unemployed may remain on the sidelines, ultimately dropping out of the workforce. But the data suggest that the long-term unemployed look basically the same as other unemployed people in terms of their occupations, educational attainment, and other characteristics. And, although they find jobs with lower frequency than the short-term jobless do, the rate at which job seekers are finding jobs has only marginally improved for both groups. That is, we have not yet seen clear indications that the short-term unemployed are finding it increasingly easier to find work relative to the long-term unemployed. This fact gives me hope that a significant share of the long-term unemployed will ultimately benefit from a stronger labor market. A final piece of evidence of slack in the labor market has been the behavior of the participation rate--the proportion of working-age adults that hold or are seeking jobs. Participation falls in a slack job market when people who want a job give up trying to find one. When the recession began, 66 percent of the working-age population was part of the labor force. Participation dropped, as it normally does in a recession, but then kept dropping in the recovery. It now stands at 63 percent, the same level as in 1978, when a much smaller share of women were in the workforce. Lower participation could mean that the 6.7 percent unemployment rate is overstating the progress in the labor market. One factor lowering participation is the aging of the population, which means that an increasing share of the population is retired. If demographics were the only or overwhelming reason for falling participation, then declining participation would not be a sign of labor market slack. But some "retirements" are not voluntary, and some of these workers may rejoin the labor force in a stronger economy. Participation rates have been falling broadly for workers of different ages, including many in the prime of their working lives. Based on the evidence, my own view is that a significant amount of the decline in participation during the recovery is due to slack, another sign that help from the Fed can still be effective. Since late 2008, the Fed has taken extraordinary steps to revive the economy. At the height of the crisis, we provided liquidity to help avert a collapse of the financial system, which enabled banks and other institutions to continue to provide credit to people and businesses depending on it. We cut short-term interest rates as low as they can go and indicated that we would keep them low for as long as necessary to support a stronger economic recovery. And we have been purchasing large quantities of longer-term securities in order to put additional downward pressure on longer-term interest rates--the rates that matter to people shopping for a new car, looking to buy or renovate a home, or expand a business. There is little doubt that without these actions, the recession and slow recovery would have been far worse. These different measures have the same goal--to encourage consumers to spend and businesses to invest, to promote a recovery in the housing market, and to put more people to work. Together they represent an unprecedentedly large and sustained commitment by the Fed to do what is necessary to help our nation recover from the Great Recession. For the many reasons I have noted today, I think this extraordinary commitment is still needed and will be for some time, and I believe that view is widely shared by my fellow policymakers at the Fed. In this context, recent steps by the Fed to reduce the rate of new securities purchases are not a lessening of this commitment, only a judgment that recent progress in the labor market means our aid for the recovery need not grow as quickly. Earlier this month, the Fed reiterated its overall commitment to maintain extraordinary support for the recovery for some time to come. This commitment is strong, and I believe the Fed's policies will continue to help sustain progress in the job market. But the scars from the Great Recession remain, and reaching our goals will take time. In the meanwhile, the Federal Reserve will continue to expand its efforts to promote community development. The Board and each of the 12 Reserve Banks have community development staff members who focus on improving the availability of financial services in low- and moderate-income communities. They help bankers comply with the Community Reinvestment Act, but they are also a source of research and a facilitator of communication among financial institutions and practitioners to identify and share best practices. This conference is one example of how the Fed pursues those goals, and I would like to mention a few of the Fed's other community development initiatives that I find particularly promising. In 2012, The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco partnered with the Low Income Investment Fund (LIIF), a community development financial institution that bridges the gap between low-income neighborhoods and private capital sources, to publish the book Investing in What Works for America's Communities. This book cited innovative and effective community development initiatives across the country and advocated for a "Community Quarterback" model to coordinate initiatives and better leverage funding among groups with similar goals. In a similar way, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston has been the catalyst for the Working Cities Challenge, inspired by its own research on cities that managed to diversify away from a declining, manufacturing-based economy. The research found that one key to success is "collaborative leadership," when governments, businesses, and nonprofits unite behind one focused approach. The Working Cities Challenge promotes that principle by inviting smaller Massachusetts cities to consider how they would use collaborative leadership to unite their communities to address a major challenge for lower-income residents. Twenty cities competed for $1.8 million in funding from the state and other sources. Six cities were awarded funds this past January, but many more will benefit from the spread of a new approach to capacity building that Fed research shows helps communities thrive. Leadership recruitment is also at the heart of a grassroots-oriented program called Economic Avenue that was developed by the Kansas City Fed. In Northeast Kansas City, Kansas, residents and neighborhood leaders are forming a leadership council that will have responsibility for managing the program, which aims to create and grow local businesses, create jobs, and promote homeownership. The bank's community development staff is providing education and training to get the council off the ground, will measure and evaluate its progress, and assist in connecting leaders to resources and other programs. These examples are just a few among many throughout the Federal Reserve System. By testing ideas, developing better measurement tools, convening interested parties, and sharing the Federal Reserve's skills and knowledge with our partners at the national and local levels, we aim to serve as a catalyst to improve lives. Through these initiatives, together with the use of monetary policy and steps to safeguard the financial system, the Federal Reserve is committed to strengthening communities and restoring a healthy economy that benefits all Americans. It is my hope that the courageous and determined working people I have told you about today, and millions more, will get the chance they deserve to build better lives.   FREE AppDownload
The Daily NewsRobert H. RichardsA 47-year-old heir of the Du Pont chemical fortune who lives off his trust fund got probation for the rape of his daughter after a judge found he wouldn't "fare well" behind bars, The News Journal has reported. The 2009 criminal rape sentence for Robert H. Richards IV was publicized this month as part of a civil lawsuit brought by his ex-wife, Tracy, who sought damages for the abuse of their daughter. It's not clear why news of the indictment against Richards came out only after his wife filed a civil lawsuit against him. The News Journal has reported that his indictment did not receive media attention, and that the case was never "disclosed publicly" by Delaware authorities. Business Insider reached out to Delaware's attorney general for more information on why his office did not publicize the case.  Thomas Crumplar, a lawyer for Richards' ex-wife, says as far as he knows the criminal case wasn't sealed. "I have no comment as to the lack of publicity about the criminal case," Crumplar told Business Insider. "My sole concern is getting adequate compensation for the children, and there has been no provision for their lifetime of injuries." Richards, whose great-grandfather was Irenee du Pont, pleaded guilty to fourth-degree rape, a felony that can carry a 15-year prison sentence, according to The News Journal. While Judge Jan Jurden gave Richards eight years in prison, she suspended the entire sentence. That means he won't go to prison unless he violates his probation. "Defendant will not fare well in Level 5 [prison] setting," Jurden said in her sentencing order. The news that Jurden was concerned with how Richards would "fare" in prison surprised area lawyers, who viewed Jurden as a tough judge, according to The New Journal. "It's an extremely rare circumstance that prison serves the inmate well," Delaware Public Defender Brendan J. O'Neill told The News Journal. "Prison is to punish, to segregate the offender from society, and the notion that prison serves people well hasn't proven to be true in most circumstances." The implication of Jurden's suspended sentence obviously raises the question that Richards may have received special treatment because of his wealth and status. The New Journal has previously reported that Richards has ties to two storied families — the Du Ponts and the Richards — who founded the law firm Richards, Layton &amp; Finger. The lawsuit filed by his ex claims that he penetrated his 3-year-old daughter with his fingers while he was masturbating. That lawsuit also claims he sexually abused his 19-month-old son, though he hasn't admitted to that alleged abuse. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
When you're looking for a job sometimes the resume is the most important piece of it all. But many people just have no idea how to pull it off. Here's what you definitely want to avoid on that all-important resume.   Thumbnail image from Thomas Hawk on Flickr. FREE AppDownload
Dallas FedThe headline index from the Dallas Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturing activity rose to 4.9 from February's 0.3 reading. Economists expected the index to rise to 3.0. The table at right breaks down changes in various components of the report (click to enlarge). Below is the full text of the release. -------- Texas factory activity increased for the eleventh month in a row in March, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from 10.8 to 17.1, indicating output grew at a stronger pace than in February. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also reflected more robust growth. The new orders index rose to a nine-month high of 14.7, with nearly a third of manufacturers noting an increase in demand and less than a fifth noting a decrease. The shipments index rose from 13.3 to 19.5, posting its strongest reading in nearly four years. The capacity utilization index rose as well, climbing four points to 13.1. Perceptions of broader business conditions were more optimistic in March. The general business activity index moved up to a six-month high of 4.9 after slipping to zero last month. The company outlook index also rebounded, rising six points to 9.1 after falling sharply in February. Labor market indicators reflected stronger employment growth and longer workweeks. The March employment index rose markedly to a 21-month high of 15. Nearly a quarter of firms reported net hiring compared with 9 percent reporting net layoffs. The hours worked index fell from 12 to 5.3 but remained positive for the third month in a row. Upward pressure on prices and wages continued in March. The raw materials price index edged up to 23.1, staying well above the level seen for most of 2013. The finished goods price index edged back to single digits, coming in at 7.3. Looking ahead, 38 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 33 percent expect higher finished goods prices. The wages and benefits index remained elevated but fell from 25.8 to 20.8, suggesting compensation costs increased but at a slightly weaker pace than in February. Expectations regarding future business conditions remained optimistic in March. The index of future general business activity edged up to 17.6, and the index of future company outlook rose 7 points to 27.4. Indexes for future manufacturing activity showed mixed movements but remained in solidly positive territory. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected March 18–26, and 100 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary. Next release: April 28, 2014 FREE AppDownload
Fattening profit margins have enabled U.S. corporations to generate record profits despite modest revenue growth in the wake of the financial crisis. Now, everyone wants to know if and when these margins will contract. The bulls generally argue that margins have been in a secular uptrend thanks to technology, increasing overseas exposure, and lowering interest and tax expenses among other things. Any contraction would be cyclical and short-term. The bears take a step back and come from more of a big picture standpoint. They argue that margins will revert to a mean largely for mean reversion's sake. The most vocal and prominent profit margin bear is probably John Hussman, whose work has been supported by James Montier, Albert Edwards, Jeff Gundlach, and even Business Insider's Henry Blodget. There are many ways to characterize and measure profit margins The profit margin chart most frequently cited by the bears is corporate profits after tax as a percentage of GDP (CPATAX/GDP). Here's Hussman's version: Hussman Funds As you can see from the blue line, Hussman's ratio has blown out, and it looks like gravity is soon to catch up. Unfortunately, this chart "is an illusory result of flawed macroeconomic accounting," argues Jesse Livermore of Philosophical Economics in a must-read blog post. Basically, he explains, this ratio assumes that overseas profits have a profit margin of infinity. He explains (emphasis added): The expression CPATAX/GDP contains an obvious distortion.  CPATAX is a “national” term–it refers to the after-tax profit of all U.S. resident corporations, whether that profit is earned domestically, or from operations in a foreign country.  GDP, in contrast, is a “domestic” term–it refers to the total gross output (and therefore the total gross income) produced (and earned) inside the United States, whether that income is earned by U.S. residents or by foreign entities. Notice that if a U.S. corporation earns a profit from affiliate operations abroad, the profit will be added to the numerator of CPATAX/GDP, but the costs will not be added to the denominator, as they should be in a “profit margin” analysis.  Those costs, the compensation that the U.S. corporation pays to the entire foreign value-added chain–the workers, supervisors, suppliers, contractors, advertisers, and so on–are not part of U.S. GDP.  They are a part of the GDP of other countries.  Additionally, the profit that accrues to the U.S. corporation will not be added to the denominator, as it should be–again, it was not earned from operations inside the United States.  In effect, nothing will be added to the denominator, even though profit was added to the numerator. Because nothing is added to the denominator, these foreign earnings effectively come with an infinite profit margin. Of course, the opposite happens for foreign companies operating in the U.S.: Similarly, if a foreign corporation earns a profit from operations inside the United States, both the costs and the profit will be added to the denominator of CPATAX/GDP, but the profit will not be added to the numerator.  That profit–which accrues to the foreign corporation operating domestically, and is part of U.S. GDP–is not part of CPATAX. ...So, in effect, CPATAX/GDP will fall as if the sale had occurred at a 0% profit margin.  No profit on positive revenue. So, one type of profit wrongly increases the ratio and the other wrongly decreases it.  One inevitably asks: By how much do these two types of profits offset? It turns out that the distortion is quite significant: Over the last 50 years, U.S. company profit earned abroad has increased by a much larger total amount than foreign company profit earned in the U.S.  The difference has become especially significant in the last 10 years, as foreign sales have boomed.  At present, U.S. company profit earned abroad is around $665B, whereas foreign company profit earned in the U.S. is only around $250B–a difference of around $400B. So it's clear that CPATAX/GDP is being wrongly inflated. This differential has been trending higher for decades. Here's Livermore's chart: Philosophical Economics All of this red you see above represents the massive distortion to the CPATAX/GDP ratio everyone loves to pass around. This is not to say that the bears' argument is totally dead. Livermore — using National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) data — advances his preferred profit margin chart in his lengthy post and acknowledges that margins are indeed stretched. Just not by that much. To be clear, the current profit margin is still elevated, but it’s not as wildly elevated as the CPATAX/GDP and CPATAX/GNP charts suggest.  It currently sits 48.7% above its average from 1947 to 2013, and 54.7% above its average from 1947 to 2002. Importantly, it’s roughly in line with the highs of the 1940s and 1960s, rather than 25% above them, as in the earlier charts. Here's what Livermore calls "the only accurate NIPA chart of net profit margins for the macroeconomy, and the only NIPA chart that anyone should be citing in this debate." Philosophical Economics The bottom line here is that the bears have been over-relying on a fundamentally flawed measure that has been exaggerating how far profit margins have come.   FREE AppDownload
The Institute for Supply Management's Chicago division said its purchasing manager's survey hit 55.9. That missed expectations for 59.5 and a near 4-point decline from last month's 59.8. It's the lowest reading since last August. "On a month-to-month basis, movements in the Chicago index correctly signal shifts in the ISM about 70% of the time, so this report makes us nervous about the consensus (and our) forecast of a small increase in the ISM tomorrow to about 54 from 53.2; it would probably be more realistic now to expect a dip," Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson said in a note. The employment sub-index fell sharply to a "neutral" reading of 50. The volatility seen in employment for the past four months likely reflects increased reliance on temporary workers, the report said. Here's the comment from MNI Indicators Chief Economist Philip Uglow: March saw a significant weakening in activity following a five month spell of firm growth. It’s too early to tell, though, if this is the start of a sustained slowdown or just a blip.Panellists, though, were optimistic about the future. Asked about the outlook for demand over the next three months, the majority of businesses said they expected to see a pick-up. The grey bars show the recent tale of the tape: Econoday FREE AppDownload
With his new book, Michael Lewis is trying to completely change the conversation about high frequency trading on Wall Street. Up until now it's been about whether or not high speed firms even have an advantage that distorts the market and hurts other investors. After enough people have read 'Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt', however, it may evolve into an argument about what we should do about it. There are already some suggestions out there. One comes from a group of professors who've come up with a radical new way to trade stocks called "frequent batch auctions."  Here's how it would work. Instead of trading consistently, the stock market would trade batches of orders in intervals of a second, or a tenth of a second — whatever is decided. Professors Eric Budish, Peter Cramton, and John Shim laid it out in a paper titled "The High-Frequency Trading Arms Race: Frequent Batch Auctions as a Market Design Response" [PDF] which they presented in December. Traders would not be able to see the prices at each auction; rather, the exchanges would collect the orders at the time of auction and execute them where bids match offers, thus consistently finding the right price without manipulation, according to the professors. Sunday on 60 Minutes, Lewis and the subjects of his book — two founders of a private exchange called IEX — discussed two issues with HFT that frequent batch auctions could solve, front running and collocation. Front running is exactly what it sounds like, and you can think of it like this: You're waiting in line to buy a carton of milk that's $2. By the time you get to the front of the line though, a high frequency shopper has bought a bunch of milk and driven up the price. Now the milk is $2.25. Oh, and the guy who got in front of you, took the milk you had in your hand, bought it, and then sold it back to you. So he's making that $0.25. Frequent batch auctions, in theory, would force exchanges to look at everyone's trades at the same time. That means no one could bump ahead of you in line. Exchanges won't like this because they get paid on the volume of orders sent through their systems, regardless of whether or not the orders are filled. When someone jumps in front of you and grabs your milk, it's really a pointless order for the market, but it works out for the exchanges' bottom line. Collocation — when high frequency trading firms have an advantage because they're simply closer to exchanges — would cease to be advantageous as well. Earlier this month, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said he was going after HFT market manipulation, and came out in favor of frequent batch auctions. However, that doesn't mean that all anti-HFT people are on board. Themis Trading's Sal Arnuk, an advocate of slowing down the speed of trading on stock exchanges, told Business Insider that it may not be necessary to go that far. "I think that many tools are in place that, if regulated properly, allow all players to coexist peacefully. HFT plumbing arbitrage would arbitrage itself into extinction without payment for order flow like maker taker and retail order buying," he said. Then there's the question of whether or not a change like this would make already complicated exchange software even more complex. Lev Lesokhin, of software risk analysis firm CAST, told Business Insider that putting the brakes on the "unconstrained" race for speed is long overdue but that rewriting exchange systems to deal with auctions could do just that. Above all this, there's also the possibility that high frequency trading firms will just find a way around auctions. "I think there's going to be ways to get around that speed limit," Lesokhin said. "And it's going to make systems more complex. This is problem with regulation. Once you think about how it's really going to get deployed, it's not as clear as regulators would like." You know what the road to hell is paved with.     FREE AppDownload
Business Insider's transportation reporter Alex Davies drove the 2014 Ferrari F12berlinetta. With a maximum speed of 210 mph and a base price of $315,000, it goes without saying that the car is a blast to drive. Before you hit the road, you might want to learn how to start it and get it into first gear. Davies shows you how to use the paddle shifts.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
Alexander Zemlianichenko/APThere’s been no shortage of reports and commentaries on the crisis in Ukraine and Crimea, and Russia’s role in it. Yet one of the more notable recent developments in the crisis has received surprisingly little attention. Namely, the BRICS grouping (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) has unanimously and, in many ways, forcefully backed Russia’s position on Crimea.  The Diplomat has reported on China’s cautious and India’s more enthusiastic backing of Russia before. However, the BRICS grouping as a whole has also stood by the Kremlin. Indeed, they made this quite clear during a BRICS foreign minister meeting that took place on the sidelines of the Nuclear Security Summit in The Hague last week. Just prior to the meeting, Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop suggested that Australia might ban Russia’s participation in the G20 summit it will be hosting later this year as a means of pressuring Vladimir Putin on Ukraine. The BRICS foreign ministers warned Australia against this course of action in the statement they released following their meeting last week. “The Ministers noted with concern the recent media statement on the forthcoming G20 Summit to be held in Brisbane in November 2014,” the statement said. “The custodianship of the G20 belongs to all Member States equally and no one Member State can unilaterally determine its nature and character.” The statement went on to say, “The escalation of hostile language, sanctions and counter-sanctions, and force does not contribute to a sustainable and peaceful solution, according to international law, including the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter.”  As Oliver Stuenkel at Post Western World noted, the statement as a whole, and in particular the G20 aspect of it, was a “clear sign that [the] West will not succeed in bringing the entire international community into line in its attempt to isolate Russia.” This was further reinforced later in the week when China, Brazil, India and South Africa (along with 54 other nations) all abstained from the UN General Assembly resolution criticizing the Crimea referendum. Another ten states joined Russia in voting against the non-binding resolution. In some ways, the other BRICS countries’ support for Russia is entirely predictable. The group has always been somewhat constrained by the animosities that exist between certain members, as well as the general lack of shared purpose among such different and geographically dispersed nations. BRICS has often tried to overcome these internal challenges by unifying behind an anti-Western or at least post-Western position. In that sense, it’s no surprise that the group opposed Western attempts to isolate one of its own members. At the same time, this anti-Western stance has usually taken the form of BRICS opposition to Western attempts to place new limits on sovereignty. Since many of its members are former Western colonies or quasi-colonies, the BRICS are highly suspicious of Western claims that sovereignty can be trumped by so-called universal principles of the humanitarian and anti-proliferation variety. Thus, they have been highly critical of NATO’s decision to serve as the air wing of the anti-Qaddafi opposition that overthrew the Libyan government in 2011, as well as what they perceive as attempts by the West to now overthrow Bashar al-Assad in Syria. However, in the case of Ukraine, it was Russia that was violating the sanctity of another state’s sovereignty. Still, the BRICS grouping has backed Russia. It’s worth noting that the BRICS countries are supporting Russia at potentially great cost to themselves, given that they all face at least one potential secessionist movement within their own territories. Sergei Chuzavkov/APUkraine rally after Russia successfully annexes Crimea. India, for example, has a long history of fluid borders and today struggles with potential secessionist movements from Muslim populations as well as a potent security threat from the Maoist insurgency. China suffers most notably from Tibetans and Uyghurs aspiring to break away from the Han-dominated Chinese state. Even among Han China, however, regional divisions have long challenged central control in the vast country.  Calls for secession from the Cape region in South Africa have grown in recent years, and Brazil has long faced a secessionist movement in its southern sub-region, which is dominated demographically by European immigrants. Russia, of course, faces a host of internal secessionist groups that may someday lead Moscow to regret its annexation of Crimea. The fact that BRICS supported Russia despite these concerns suggests that its anti-Western leanings may be more strongly held than most previously believed. Indeed, besides backing Russia in the foreign ministers’ statement, the rising powers also took time to harshly criticize the U.S. (not by name) for the cyber surveillance programs that were revealed by Edward Snowden. The BRICS and other non-Western powers’ support for Russia also suggests that forging anything like an international order will be extremely difficult, given the lack of shared principles to act as a foundation. Although the West generally celebrated the fact that the UN General Assembly approved the resolution condemning the Crimea referendum, the fact that 69 countries either abstained or voted against it should be a wake-up call. It increasingly appears that the Western dominated post-Cold War era is over. But as of yet, no new order exists to replace it.   FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen is speaking at a conference in Chicago this morning, and her remarks have given stocks and bonds a boost and sent the dollar lower. Yellen highlighted "considerable slack" in the economy and the labor market, saying the Fed still had a long way to go to restore the economy to full health despite its decision to begin winding down its asset purchase program. "I think this extraordinary commitment is still needed and will be for some time, and I believe that view is widely shared by my fellow policymakers at the Fed," she said in the speech. The charts below show price action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 5-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. "Obviously a bit dovish of a read, but really nothing too dramatic," says Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital. "On the margin, it could be an attempt to offset the 'six months' comment from her press conference, but we're reluctant to make too much out of the speech at this point." Thinkorswim Below is the full text of Yellen's remarks. --------------------------------------------- What the Federal Reserve is Doing to Promote a Stronger Job Market I am here today to talk about what the Federal Reserve is doing to help our nation recover from the financial crisis and the Great Recession, the effects of which were particularly severe for the people and the communities you serve. Part of that effort has involved strengthening the financial system. New rules are in place to better protect consumers and ensure that credit is available to help communities grow. The Federal Reserve also plays a role in communities by fostering dialogue that promotes community development. I will highlight some initiatives around the Federal Reserve System that I believe are making a real difference. Later today, I will visit the Manufacturing Technology Program at Daley College, on Chicago's south side, where adult students are acquiring the skills they need to connect to good-paying jobs in that sector. The Fed supports the work you do in communities because you make a difference. You help ensure that credit is available for families to buy homes and for small businesses to expand. Your organizations sponsor programs that help make communities safer and families healthier and more financially secure. One of the most important things you do is to help people meet the demands of finding a job in what remains a challenging economy. And that help is crucial, but I also believe it can't succeed without two other things. The first of these is the courage and determination of the people you serve. The past six years have been difficult for many Americans, but the hardships faced by some have shattered lives and families. Too many people know firsthand how devastating it is to lose a job at which you had succeeded and be unable to find another; to run through your savings and even lose your home, as months and sometimes years pass trying to find work; to feel your marriage and other relationships strained and broken by financial difficulties. And yet many of those who have suffered the most find the will to keep trying. I will introduce you to three of these brave men and women, your neighbors here in the great city of Chicago. These individuals have benefitted from just the kind of help from community groups that I highlighted a moment ago, and they recently shared their personal stories with me. It might seem obvious, but the second thing that is needed to help people find jobs...is jobs. No amount of training will be enough if there are not enough jobs to fill. I have mentioned some of the things the Fed does to help communities, but the most important thing we do is to use monetary policy to promote a stronger economy. The Federal Reserve has taken extraordinary steps since the onset of the financial crisis to spur economic activity and create jobs, and I will explain why I believe those efforts are still needed. The Fed provides this help by influencing interest rates. Although we work through financial markets, our goal is to help Main Street, not Wall Street. By keeping interest rates low, we are trying to make homes more affordable and revive the housing market. We are trying to make it cheaper for businesses to build, expand, and hire. We are trying to lower the costs of buying a car that can carry a worker to a new job and kids to school, and our policies are also spurring the revival of the auto industry. We are trying to help families afford things they need so that greater spending can drive job creation and even more spending, thereby strengthening the recovery. When the Federal Reserve's policies are effective, they improve the welfare of everyone who benefits from a stronger economy, most of all those who have been hit hardest by the recession and the slow recovery. Now let me offer my view of the state of the recovery, with particular attention to the labor market and conditions faced by workers. Nationwide, and in Chicago, the economy and the labor market have strengthened considerably from the depths of the Great Recession. Since the unemployment rate peaked at 10 percent in October 2009, the economy has added more than 7-1/2 million jobs and the unemployment rate has fallen more than 3 percentage points to 6.7 percent. That progress has been gradual but remarkably steady--February was the 41st consecutive month of payroll growth, one of the longest stretches ever. Chicago, as you all know, was hit harder than many areas during the recession and remains a tougher market for workers. But there has been considerable improvement here also. Unemployment in the city of Chicago is down from a peak of nearly 13 percent to about 9-1/2 percent at last count. That is about the same improvement as in the larger Chicago metro area, where unemployment has fallen to 8-1/2 percent. Metro Chicago has added 183,000 jobs since 2009, just below the rate for job gains nationwide.1  But while there has been steady progress, there is also no doubt that the economy and the job market are not back to normal health. That will not be news to many of you, or to the 348,000 people in and around Chicago who were counted as looking for work in January.2It will not be news to consumers or to owners of small and medium-sized businesses, who surveys say remain cautious about the strength and durability of the recovery. The recovery still feels like a recession to many Americans, and it also looks that way in some economic statistics. At 6.7 percent, the national unemployment rate is still higher than it ever got during the 2001 recession. That is also the case in Chicago and in many other cities. It certainly feels like a recession to many younger workers, to older workers who lost long-term jobs, and to African Americans, who are facing a job market today that is nearly as tough as it was during the two downturns that preceded the Great Recession. In some ways, the job market is tougher now than in any recession. The numbers of people who have been trying to find work for more than six months or more than a year are much higher today than they ever were since records began decades ago. We know that the long-term unemployed face big challenges. Research shows employers are less willing to hire the long-term unemployed and often prefer other job candidates with less or even no relevant experience.3  That is what Dorine Poole learned, after she lost her job processing medical insurance claims, just as the recession was getting started. Like many others, she could not find any job, despite clerical skills and experience acquired over 15 years of steady employment. When employers started hiring again, two years of unemployment became a disqualification. Even those needing her skills and experience preferred less qualified workers without a long spell of unemployment. That career, that part of Dorine's life, had ended. For Dorine and others, we know that workers displaced by layoffs and plant closures who manage to find work suffer long-lasting and often permanent wage reductions.4 Jermaine Brownlee was an apprentice plumber and skilled construction worker when the recession hit, and he saw his wages drop sharply as he scrambled for odd jobs and temporary work. He is doing better now, but still working for a lower wage than he earned before the recession. Vicki Lira lost her full-time job of 20 years when the printing plant she worked in shut down in 2006. Then she lost a job processing mortgage applications when the housing market crashed. Vicki faced some very difficult years. At times she was homeless. Today she enjoys her part-time job serving food samples to customers at a grocery store but wishes she could get more hours. Vicki Lira is one of many Americans who lost a full-time job in the recession and seem stuck working part time. The unemployment rate is down, but not included in that rate are more than seven million people who are working part time but want a full-time job. As a share of the workforce, that number is very high historically. I have described the experiences of Dorine, Jermaine, and Vicki because they tell us important things that the unemployment rate alone cannot. First, they are a reminder that there are real people behind the statistics, struggling to get by and eager for the opportunity to build better lives. Second, their experiences show some of the uniquely challenging and lasting effects of the Great Recession. Recognizing and trying to understand these effects helps provide a clearer picture of the progress we have made in the recovery, as well as a view of just how far we still have to go. And based on the evidence available, it is clear to me that the U.S. economy is still considerably short of the two goals assigned to the Federal Reserve by the Congress. The first of those goals is maximum sustainable employment, the highest level of employment that can be sustained while maintaining a stable inflation rate. Most of my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee and I estimate that the unemployment rate consistent with maximum sustainable employment is now between 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent, well below the 6.7 percent rate in February. The other goal assigned by the Congress is stable prices, which means keeping inflation under control. In the past, there have been times when these two goals conflicted--fighting inflation often requires actions that slow the economy and raise the unemployment rate. But that is not a dilemma now, because inflation is well below 2 percent, the Fed's longer-term goal. The Federal Reserve takes its inflation goal very seriously. One reason why I believe it is appropriate for the Federal Reserve to continue to provide substantial help to the labor market, without adding to the risks of inflation, is because of the evidence I see that there remains considerable slack in the economy and the labor market. Let me explain what I mean by that word "slack" and why it is so important. Slack means that there are significantly more people willing and capable of filling a job than there are jobs for them to fill. During a period of little or no slack, there still may be vacant jobs and people who want to work, but a large share of those willing to work lack the skills or are otherwise not well suited for the jobs that are available. With 6.7 percent unemployment, it might seem that there must be a lot of slack in the U.S. economy, but there are reasons why that may not be true. One important reason relates to the skills and education of people in the workforce. It is no secret that America faces some daunting challenges in educating people and preparing them to work in a 21st century, globalized economy. Many of you in this audience are helping workers address this challenge, but you also know that the economy continues to change very rapidly. To the extent that people who desire to work lack the skills that employers are demanding, there is less slack in the labor market. This is an example of what economists call "structural" unemployment, and it can be difficult to solve. Even understanding what workers need to appeal to employers is difficult in a fast-changing economy. For government, effective solutions for structural unemployment, beginning with improved education, tend to be expensive and take a long time to work. The problem goes deeper than simply a lack of jobs. But a lack of jobs is the heart of the problem when unemployment is caused by slack, which we also call "cyclical unemployment." The government has the tools to address cyclical unemployment. Monetary policy is one such tool, and the Federal Reserve has been actively using it to strengthen the recovery and create jobs, which brings me to why the amount of slack is so important. If unemployment were mostly structural, if workers were unable to perform the jobs available, then the Federal Reserve's efforts to create jobs would not be very effective. Worse than that, without slack in the labor market, the economic stimulus from the Fed could put attaining our inflation goal at risk. In fact, judging how much slack there is in the labor market is one of the most important questions that my Federal Reserve colleagues and I consider when making monetary policy decisions, because our inflation goal is no less important than the goal of maximum employment. This is not just an academic debate. For Dorine Poole, Jermaine Brownlee, and Vicki Lira, and for millions of others dislocated by the Great Recession who continue to struggle, the cause of the slow recovery is enormously important. As I said earlier, the powerful force that sustains them and others who keep trying to succeed in this recovery is the faith that their job prospects will improve and that their efforts will be rewarded. Now let me explain why I believe there is still considerable slack in the labor market, why I think there is room for continued help from the Fed for workers, and why I believe Dorine Poole, Jermaine Brownlee, and Vicki Lira are right to hope for better days ahead. One form of evidence for slack is found in other labor market data, beyond the unemployment rate or payrolls, some of which I have touched on already. For example, the seven million people who are working part time but would like a full-time job. This number is much larger than we would expect at 6.7 percent unemployment, based on past experience, and the existence of such a large pool of "partly unemployed" workers is a sign that labor conditions are worse than indicated by the unemployment rate. Statistics on job turnover also point to considerable slack in the labor market. Although firms are now laying off fewer workers, they have been reluctant to increase the pace of hiring. Likewise, the number of people who voluntarily quit their jobs is noticeably below levels before the recession; that is an indicator that people are reluctant to risk leaving their jobs because they worry that it will be hard to find another. It is also a sign that firms may not be recruiting very aggressively to hire workers away from their competitors. A second form of evidence for slack is that the decline in unemployment has not helped raise wages for workers as in past recoveries. Workers in a slack market have little leverage to demand raises. Labor compensation has increased an average of only a little more than 2 percent per year since the recession, which is very low by historical standards.5 Wage growth for most workers was modest for a couple of decades before the recession due to globalization and other factors beyond the level of economic activity, and those forces are undoubtedly still relevant. But labor market slack has also surely been a factor in holding down compensation. The low rate of wage growth is, to me, another sign that the Fed's job is not yet done. A third form of evidence related to slack concerns the characteristics of the extraordinarily large share of the unemployed who have been out of work for six months or more. These workers find it exceptionally hard to find steady, regular work, and they appear to be at a severe competitive disadvantage when trying to find a job. The concern is that the long-term unemployed may remain on the sidelines, ultimately dropping out of the workforce. But the data suggest that the long-term unemployed look basically the same as other unemployed people in terms of their occupations, educational attainment, and other characteristics. And, although they find jobs with lower frequency than the short-term jobless do, the rate at which job seekers are finding jobs has only marginally improved for both groups. That is, we have not yet seen clear indications that the short-term unemployed are finding it increasingly easier to find work relative to the long-term unemployed. This fact gives me hope that a significant share of the long-term unemployed will ultimately benefit from a stronger labor market. A final piece of evidence of slack in the labor market has been the behavior of the participation rate--the proportion of working-age adults that hold or are seeking jobs. Participation falls in a slack job market when people who want a job give up trying to find one. When the recession began, 66 percent of the working-age population was part of the labor force. Participation dropped, as it normally does in a recession, but then kept dropping in the recovery. It now stands at 63 percent, the same level as in 1978, when a much smaller share of women were in the workforce. Lower participation could mean that the 6.7 percent unemployment rate is overstating the progress in the labor market. One factor lowering participation is the aging of the population, which means that an increasing share of the population is retired. If demographics were the only or overwhelming reason for falling participation, then declining participation would not be a sign of labor market slack. But some "retirements" are not voluntary, and some of these workers may rejoin the labor force in a stronger economy. Participation rates have been falling broadly for workers of different ages, including many in the prime of their working lives. Based on the evidence, my own view is that a significant amount of the decline in participation during the recovery is due to slack, another sign that help from the Fed can still be effective. Since late 2008, the Fed has taken extraordinary steps to revive the economy. At the height of the crisis, we provided liquidity to help avert a collapse of the financial system, which enabled banks and other institutions to continue to provide credit to people and businesses depending on it. We cut short-term interest rates as low as they can go and indicated that we would keep them low for as long as necessary to support a stronger economic recovery. And we have been purchasing large quantities of longer-term securities in order to put additional downward pressure on longer-term interest rates--the rates that matter to people shopping for a new car, looking to buy or renovate a home, or expand a business. There is little doubt that without these actions, the recession and slow recovery would have been far worse. These different measures have the same goal--to encourage consumers to spend and businesses to invest, to promote a recovery in the housing market, and to put more people to work. Together they represent an unprecedentedly large and sustained commitment by the Fed to do what is necessary to help our nation recover from the Great Recession. For the many reasons I have noted today, I think this extraordinary commitment is still needed and will be for some time, and I believe that view is widely shared by my fellow policymakers at the Fed. In this context, recent steps by the Fed to reduce the rate of new securities purchases are not a lessening of this commitment, only a judgment that recent progress in the labor market means our aid for the recovery need not grow as quickly. Earlier this month, the Fed reiterated its overall commitment to maintain extraordinary support for the recovery for some time to come. This commitment is strong, and I believe the Fed's policies will continue to help sustain progress in the job market. But the scars from the Great Recession remain, and reaching our goals will take time. In the meanwhile, the Federal Reserve will continue to expand its efforts to promote community development. The Board and each of the 12 Reserve Banks have community development staff members who focus on improving the availability of financial services in low- and moderate-income communities. They help bankers comply with the Community Reinvestment Act, but they are also a source of research and a facilitator of communication among financial institutions and practitioners to identify and share best practices. This conference is one example of how the Fed pursues those goals, and I would like to mention a few of the Fed's other community development initiatives that I find particularly promising. In 2012, The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco partnered with the Low Income Investment Fund (LIIF), a community development financial institution that bridges the gap between low-income neighborhoods and private capital sources, to publish the book Investing in What Works for America's Communities. This book cited innovative and effective community development initiatives across the country and advocated for a "Community Quarterback" model to coordinate initiatives and better leverage funding among groups with similar goals. In a similar way, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston has been the catalyst for the Working Cities Challenge, inspired by its own research on cities that managed to diversify away from a declining, manufacturing-based economy. The research found that one key to success is "collaborative leadership," when governments, businesses, and nonprofits unite behind one focused approach. The Working Cities Challenge promotes that principle by inviting smaller Massachusetts cities to consider how they would use collaborative leadership to unite their communities to address a major challenge for lower-income residents. Twenty cities competed for $1.8 million in funding from the state and other sources. Six cities were awarded funds this past January, but many more will benefit from the spread of a new approach to capacity building that Fed research shows helps communities thrive. Leadership recruitment is also at the heart of a grassroots-oriented program called Economic Avenue that was developed by the Kansas City Fed. In Northeast Kansas City, Kansas, residents and neighborhood leaders are forming a leadership council that will have responsibility for managing the program, which aims to create and grow local businesses, create jobs, and promote homeownership. The bank's community development staff is providing education and training to get the council off the ground, will measure and evaluate its progress, and assist in connecting leaders to resources and other programs. These examples are just a few among many throughout the Federal Reserve System. By testing ideas, developing better measurement tools, convening interested parties, and sharing the Federal Reserve's skills and knowledge with our partners at the national and local levels, we aim to serve as a catalyst to improve lives. Through these initiatives, together with the use of monetary policy and steps to safeguard the financial system, the Federal Reserve is committed to strengthening communities and restoring a healthy economy that benefits all Americans. It is my hope that the courageous and determined working people I have told you about today, and millions more, will get the chance they deserve to build better lives.   FREE AppDownload
daveynin/flickrLining up at Pittsburgh's Apple Store Last week, a couple of Illinois state legislators spoke out about their idea to seek "Big Ten" status for a second public university in Illinois.  Their rationale?  Selective admissions and high tuition at the University of Illinois, the state's public Big Ten school, are causing students to select other schools out of state.  They want to push an existing public university, like Illinois State in Bloomington, to upgrade its academic profile to keep talented kids from leaving the state.  From the Chicago Sun-Times: That was State Sen. Michael Connelly, R-Lisle.  He's wrong.If State Sen. Connelly is concerned about the economic impact of so-called "brain drain", his concern is misplaced. In my estimation, where you go to school matters little; where you end up after school matters more. And contrary to what most people think, most Rust Belt metros, the economic engines of the Midwest, are doing OK growing their young adult populations.  They could do better, through greater attraction, but actual brain drain is rare.I looked at American Community Survey data between 2005 and 2012 for the ten largest metros in the Midwest (at least as I've defined the region).  I wanted to find out how these metros performed in gaining young adults over that span -- the key 25-34 demographic of young adults who, presumably after acquiring a college degree, are looking to settle down and contribute as working adults.  I looked at the net growth of young adults over that timeframe, and compared it to population change for the entire metro area.  Here's what I found: The Corner Side Yard  Here it shows that seven of the top ten Midwest metros are growing that critical demographic at rates higher than the national average, and well above that for the Midwest region. In fact, Pittsburgh and St. Louis are showing accelerated growth among young adults despite having an overall slow-growth environment, and Minneapolis/St. Paul shows even stronger young adult growth in a relatively strong growth environment.  Cleveland is growing its young adult population despite decreasing overall.  Only Indianapolis, Columbus and Detroit fail to meet the national average, with only Detroit losing young adults faster than it's losing population overall.  How does this look in a chart? Numerous caveats apply here.  This looks at net growth, first of all, and does not delve into the subtleties of migration.  This doesn't take into account differences in birthrates between metros.  Not all metros are growing college-educated young adults equally, even if they grow more young adults absolutely.  Also, if I had more time I'd establish a ratio for metro areas separate from the national rate, and the results might look a little different.Using this metric, two Rust Belt metros appear to be doing exceptionally well, five appear to be doing OK, and three are lagging.  Detroit's troubles are well known, and it was not a surprise to find it as the metro losing young adults.  However, I'd be especially concerned if I were in Indy or Columbus, who don't seem to be keeping pace with young adults compared to the others.  This seems particularly odd for Columbus, which is the home of one of the nation's largest public universities, Ohio State University.  But that may simply be a case of the university being a pump that attracts teens from around Ohio and spits out young adults to the rest of the country at an exceedingly high rate. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Here's a great quick pair of charts from Jefferies. The top chart shows the rent trend for offices. The bottom trend shows the rent trend for physical retail stores. Jefferies It's a great demonstration of a cyclical decline vs. a secular decline. Offices aren't going anywhere, and so with the economic recovery, the cost of rents have bounced back nicely. Retail is getting gobbled up by various trends, including e-commerce (the hollowing out of malls and department stores is well established. So there's no rental recovery at all. The distinction couldn't be more clear. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsYes, I’m excited about Michael Lewis’ new book, "Flash Boys," coming out this week but, no, I don’t get worked up about high-frequency trading anymore. I’m going to tell you a quick story and then you won’t either. Once upon a time in the late 1700s there were two types of sons of bitches trading the earliest version of securities in Lower Manhattan: There were the auctioneer sons of bitches and there were the merchant sons of bitches. The auctioneers were all-powerful and totally destructive at times. They presided over trade, which took place outside under a buttonwood tree on Wall Street. What the auctioneers did that was most maddening to the rest of the participants in these protozoic markets was charge exorbitant commissions and allow for securities to trade in a lawless fashion, without regard for fairness of any kind. Meanwhile, the cutthroat speculators were growing to be quite fed up with this arrangement so they did what all would-be conspirators do – they met in secret to plot an overthrow. In March 1792, 24 of these merchant sons of bitches snuck into the Corre’s Hotel, which occupied what is now 68 Wall Street (which has since been absorbed into 40 Wall Street, aka the Trump Building), for their clandestine sit-down. Two months later, they hatched their scheme, signing a document called the Buttonwood Agreement, named for the tree they’d been wheeling and dealing under each day. The accord meant that all 24 signers were bound to trade securities only among one another, to deny entry into their clique to outsiders who’d not been accepted by the membership and to fix commissions on trades at a set amount (.25% of face value for all shares of stock or similar instrument). This banding together made these 24 large-scale merchant sons of bitches into the de facto monopoly that controlled all trade and it sent the other sons of bitches, the auctioneers, out of business. And then a constitution for the exchange was written. And then 73 years later, in 1865, the buttonwood tree came crashing down during a thunderstorm — the first Flash Crash, incidentally. Anyway … The two-dozen sons of bitches and signers of the Buttonwood Agreement had the whole game on smash; they formed the nucleus around which the New York Stock Exchange would eventually coalesce. And once they’d seized control of all securities trading on The Street, chasing out anyone who didn’t want to play by their rules, they ran that s--t like a powdered-wig mafia. If you were on the other side of their trades, even unknowingly, you were done. The bottom line is this: There have always been insiders, unscrupulous dealers, and some participants with unfair advantages over others. HFT is just the latest in a long line of shenanigans and the moment you outlaw it or modify it or babysit it out of existence, there’ll be a new broad-daylight robbery format waiting right behind it. As we see from the events of 222 years ago, the stock market hasn’t become rigged — IT STARTED OUT RIGGED. Get over it. *** Sorry, Michael, didn’t mean to steal your thunder. The book is here: "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt"   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Roger LuijtenThe S&amp;P 500 isn't driven uniformly by 500 companies. Because the index is weighted by market capitalization, the bigger companies have a bigger impact on the way it moves. In a new note to clients, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker discusses the $100 billion club: the companies worth more than $100 billion: There are 35 stocks listed in the US that each have a market capitalization greater than $100 billion. Combined, these stocks are $6.9 trillion of market capitalization today, representing 40% of the S&amp;P 500’s market capitalization and 44% of earnings... The fact is, these 35 names matter deeply for the performance of most benchmarks, and the competitive impact of these companies affects nearly all US companies at some level. For a long time, hedge funds had an anti-mega-cap bias, underweighting these names in favor of stocks less than $100 billion in market capitalization. Is that smart? This $100 billion club is one where historically a sizeable amount of alpha can be generated... So, 7% of the companies account for 40% of the S&amp;P 500’s market cap and are responsible for 44% of earnings Below is a list of the biggest S&amp;P 500 companies based on Friday's close via FinViz. Finviz FinViz FREE AppDownload
In his 3/29 Barron’s column, Randy Forsyth reviews the contrary views on this subject held by Robert Buckland, Citigroup's head of global equity strategy. Randy summarizes Buckland’s main point as follows: “Of course, companies must invest to generate future returns, but overinvestment drags down profitability, growth, and employment.” I’ve been arguing that margins are likely to remain high because I expect companies to continue to be cautious about expanding their capacity and payrolls. However, I am becoming concerned that deflationary forces (more competition and more technology) could depress margins from the top down. Needless to say, the record high in the profit margin is bound to continue to inflame the income inequality crowd. During Q4-2013, wages and salaries in compensation accounted for just 48.9% of national income, the lowest share on record. Total compensation (including supplements) fell to 60.7% of national income, the lowest since Q4-1951. Of course, the data are pre-tax and before social benefits, which significantly reduce income inequality. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Boston Views. (1) Cold, but calm, in Boston. (2) Mostly bullish, but seeking value. (3) The expansion is mature. (4) The capital-spending debate. (5) Why hasn’t ultra-easy monetary policy been inflationary? (6) Could it be deflationary? (7) Italian and Spanish bond yields anticipating ECB response to deflation risk. (8) Japanese bond yields show skepticism about Abenomics. (9) The profit margin debate. (10) What will it take to revive EMs? (11) Rational and Irrational Exuberance. (12) Putin’s melt-up or meltdown? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Chipotle — a $19 billion empire — is redefining the way fast food is made and delivered to its customers. Watch to learn some surprising facts about the chain, including how to get more food for your money. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP/D.J. Peters Scott Laidler is a personal trainer and personal development coach based in London.  Free weights are the dumbbells and barbells that you see either stacked up by walls or littered over the floor in gyms (and private garages). Lifting free weights represents a true reflection of your strength. This is because they offer you no help; you simply have to pick them up and complete an exercise. Resistance machines, on the other hand, are normally designed to facilitate your ability to lift a weight at the point where your joint needs the most assistance. These machines are the big, complex-looking metal structures you see in the gym. They compensate for the fact that your lifting ability will be limited by the amount of strength at a certain angle. The machines work to help you through the 'dead' spots of a lift, unlike free weights. Another key difference is that resistance machines will generally isolate only the targeted muscle groups, whereas free-weights will call upon an array of stabilizers and assisting muscles to aid the lift. Generally speaking, if you are new to training you should be using resistance machines until your body is conditioned, at which point you can safely move onto free weights. Just as with any realm of expertise, working with a professional trainer gives you access to their knowledge base. A good trainer will be able to tell you exactly which exercises you need to do, how much you need to rest, and what you need to eat. Whilst you could discover this information yourself through comprehensive research, getting into something as vast as exercise comes with too many inherent unknowns to make self study a time effective pursuit. Many people also find the accountability a personal trainer provides to be a huge factor. Just knowing that there is someone you’ll have to answer to if you don't show up is a great motivating factor. This is always a difficult question to field, as there's a lot of debate around the subject. It bears working through. Lets assume that there are two main ways to do cardio work for fat-loss. The first is very light exercise, where the heart rate beats at around 105-120 beats per minute and there is little or no barrier to recovery. The second is highly intensive training, where your heart rate is pushed up close to its max, which functions to stimulate your metabolism and burn excess fuel. Light exercise benefits from operating within the ‘fat burning zone’, meaning that proportionately you burn more calories from fat (though less calories overall) in comparison to other forms of exercise. A second benefit is that you can basically do as much of it as you like, as you don't need time to recover from your exertions. Highly intensive training however, stimulates your metabolism to burn fat far quicker, but must be respected and given adequate recovery time. With that all established, the crucial thing I find when working with clients is that a typical run manages to be neither one nor the other. The heart rate on a jog will not be optimal for fat loss, and the duration of the workout is often too long to benefit from the ‘in and out’ nature of intensive training. In fact, running can even bring about a negative change in your body composition. If you are not careful with your nutrition when running frequently, you run the risk of depleting your body's glycogen stores, forcing your body to convert existing muscle into fuel for your workout. Consequently you lose muscle weight, leaving you with a higher proportion of fat in your body. My answer to the question is that walking and sprinting are both excellent ways to burn fat. Leave the jogging for running events, not fat loss. Rest required between workouts depends on both your conditioning and the nature of your workouts. If you are well conditioned to exercise you may be able to train each day or even twice per day – although almost certainly not the same form of exercise or targeted muscles groups. If you are new to exercise, particularly resistance work, you should be doing total body workouts to get your body to adapt to the new stress you are putting on it. In this case, I would suggest rest periods of at least 48-72 hours. Generally speaking ... none. Diets are inherently temporary, and many popular diet plans are so restrictive that thinking you are going to be able to sustain them probably isn’t realistic. The real solution to healthy dietary intake is to find a balanced, non-restrictive eating plan that you find easy to sustain. This way you will be able to maintain your ideal weight. Once you are able to balance your eating and know what your body requires, you can consider temporary restrictive eating programs to achieve specific goals. But not before. This is a very common and understandable misconception. I think it has arisen through anecdotal evidence of big guys who have stopped training and quickly slipped from being muscular to fat. Boxers are a great example. The weight gain is typically because the men have become so used to eating large amounts of food when training that they continue the habit even when idle. Combine this with the reduction of calorie expenditure and you're left with a huge calorie surplus every day. If you avoid eating too much when you stop training, what actually happens is that your muscles lose bulk (they're no longer needed to perform at high levels) but your body fat stays the same. Contact Scott at www.scottlaidler.com for personal training and online fitness coaching  FREE AppDownload
Charles Lomodong/AFP/FileA young girl walks through a heavily flooded part of the Tomping camp for internal refugees after heavy rains started to fall in Juba on March 13, 2014 Soaring carbon emissions will amplify the risk of conflict, hunger, floods and mass migration this century, the UN's expert panel said Monday in a landmark report on the impact of climate change. Left unchecked, greenhouse gas emissions may cost trillions of dollars in damage to property and ecosystems, and in bills for shoring up climate defences, it said, adding the impact would increase with every additional degree that temperatures rise. "Increasing magnitudes of warming increase the likelihood of severe, pervasive, and irreversible impacts," a summary said, in a stark message to policymakers. The report is the second chapter of the fifth assessment by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), set up in 1988 to provide neutral, science-based guidance to governments. Orlando Sierra/AFP/FileThe Los Laureles dam, which supplies with potable water one million inhabitants of the Honduran capital Tegucigalpa, at a critically low level due to the drought, on March 27, 2014The last overview, published in 2007, unleashed a wave of political action that at one point appeared set to forge a worldwide treaty on climate change in Copenhagen in 2009. But a global consensus failed to emerge as the developing world and developed world squabbled, with big polluters like China insisting it was up to rich countries to take the lead, arguing they could not be expected to sacrifice growth. And in the United States, President Barack Obama's attempts at passing climate change legislation have been stymied in Congress, where many Republicans remain unconvinced of the scientific case for warming and argue that mitigation efforts are an unnecessary block on economic growth. The new document, unveiled in Yokohama after a five-day meeting, gives the starkest warning yet by the IPCC of extreme consequences from climate change, and delves into greater detail than ever before into the impact at regional level. It builds on previous IPCC forecasts that global temperatures will rise 0.3-4.8 degrees Celsius (0.5-8.6 degrees Fahrenheit) this century, on top of roughly 0.7 Celsius since the Industrial Revolution. Seas are forecast to rise by 26-82 centimeters (10-32 inches) by 2100. Warming of around two degrees Celsius over pre-industrial times may cost 0.2-2.0 percent of global annual income, said the new report. UN members have pledged to hammer out a global pact by the end of 2015 to limit warming to 2 C above pre-industrial levels. The impact amplifies with every degree and beyond 4 C could be disastrous, said the report. Climate change could drive turbulence and conflict, prompted by migration from newly uninhabitable areas and jockeying for water and food, it said. "Climate change has a tendency to act as a threat multiplier whatever the current range of stressors is," said Chris Field, co-chair of the conference. "There are many things that make people vulnerable, and when you combine a climate shock with these factors, you can have bad outcomes. Martin Bureau/AFP/FileLarge floating contraptions, used by scientists to predict the acidity in the oceans sit offshore the scientific outpost of Ny-Alesund on June 3, 2010 "With high levels of warming that result from continued growth in greenhouse gas emissions, risks will be challenging to manage, and even serious, sustained investments in adaptation will face limits." Rainfall patterns will be disrupted, resulting in a significantly higher flood risk, especially for Europe and Asia -- and magnified drought risks will add to water stress in arid, heavily populated areas, the report said. This, in turn, will have consequences for agriculture. Yields of staples such as wheat, rice and corn will be squeezed, just as demand will soar because of population growth, it predicts. The report says climate change will also have a ricochet effect on health, through the spread of mosquito- or water-borne diseases and heatwaves. Vulnerable plant and animal species, especially in fragile coral reefs and Arctic habitats, could be wiped out. Adding a further grim layer to the warning, the report said the most vulnerable ecosystems faced a potential "tipping point" that could pitch them into unstoppable decline. US Secretary of State John Kerry said the document sounded an alarm that could not be ignored. "Unless we act dramatically and quickly, science tells us our climate and our way of life are literally in jeopardy," he said. "Denial of the science is malpractice. "There are those who say we can't afford to act. But waiting is truly unaffordable. The costs of inaction are catastrophic," he added. The report said the danger could be substantially reduced, especially for those alive at the end of the century, if greenhouse gas emissions are cut swiftly. Even so, countries will have to shore up their defences -- for instance, by making water supplies, coastal areas, homes and transport more climate-resilient. Many of the measures for adapting to climate change are easy and cheap, said the report. They include reducing water wastage, planting parks to ease heat build-up in cities, and preventing people from settling in places that are exposed to extreme weather events. The report was hailed by campaign groups as a call to arms for political leaders around the world. "It's not just polar bears, coral reefs and the rain forest under threat. It is us," said Kaisa Kosonen, senior political adviser for Greenpeace International. "Climate change's impact can now be detected everywhere. It's already hurting us. How bad it will get depends on the choices we will make in the future. "Governments own this report. Now we expect them to take it home and act on it, speeding up a transition to clean, safe and renewable energy for all." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachTwo traders talk with each other on the floor of the German bourse in Frankfurt on July 21, 1997.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus discusses the top topics about which traders are talking about this morning: Good Morning, and welcome to Quarter End!   US Futures are starting on a upbeat tone, adding 40bp as the S&amp;P has been stuck in a 40point range for last 5 weeks.   EU Futures are mixed in light volume however, with Germany trading flat on volume 40% light to the 20day average.   We have all kinds of stability in Emerging Markets, with Moscow up 1% as US and Russian counterparts meet - Turkey’s Lira in rally mode after their election results, and FTSE’s Emerging Market Index continuing it’s 8 session winning streak - nearing unchanged on the year.   Over in Asia, The Nikkei gained 1% as economic data posts light, buoying hopes of a accommodative BOJ as Japan’s national sales tax goes up from 5% to 8% on Tuesday, expected to cause a big headwind for the economy.   China was mixed, but Aussie gained 50bp on the back of the Miners jumping.   Globally, Banks and Material stocks seem to have a nice tailwind, while there is some profit-taking in the Industrials.   Into the last day of the month and Q – watch for rebalancing to continue as the Barclays Global Aggregate Bond Index outperformed the S&amp;P by 2% YTD The 10YY is 2bp higher, and testing the 2.75% level after getting back upside 50dma on Friday.   There is heavy attention on the short-end of the curve, where selling in US 2Y paper has driven yields the widest from German 2Y paper in well over 1 year – this has the € higher despite weaker inflation data posted in EU ahead of ECB on Thursday.   The DXY is weaker as the Yen and € are breaking higher, a nice Commodity tailwind.   We have a nice bid in Silver, and Gold is posting a small gain, but failing to retake $1300/oz early.   Copper is weaker on profit-taking, as last week say the biggest weekly gain in 6 months.   The Endrgy Complex is weaker, with Natty dropping 1% on warmer weather patterns globally, and WTI is off small as Barron’s cover opines on $75 Oil.   Ahead of us today, we have ISM Milwaukee at 9, at 9:45 we get Chicago Purchasing Manager (9:40 for paying subscribers) – Annual Wholesale Inventory and Sales Revisions at 10, and the Dallas Fed data at 10:30.     FREE AppDownload
APEurozone inflation. The reading for March came in at 0.5%, below the 0.6% expected and down from 0.7% in February. Market tests ECB. Despite the new reading, the Euro was up Monday and European stocks have retreated from early highs. Street consensus seems to be price gains have still not slowed enough to cause the ECB to panic. "Despite the low March inflation reading, the risk of outright deflation in the eurozone still seems small," the FT quoted ING as saying. "Our base case is still for the ECB to keep interest rates unchanged on Thursday. "However, to avoid a renewed rise in the euro, [ECB president] Draghi may be forced to either beep up it forward guidance -for example by signaling more clearly that economic slack may keep policy loose for longer- or announce new liquidity measures." Ukraine. The U.S. and Russia agreed Sunday to resolve the situation in Ukraine without escalating tensions, but there remains lots of uncertainty. "Mr. Kerry said he had outlined some ideas for Russian President Vladimir V. Putin to consider that might lead to a reduction of the Russian forces near Ukraine. But it was far from clear how Mr. Putin might respond, or what he might demand in return," the New York Times said. Erdogan boosted. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's AKP party won big in local elections. "The result was likely to embolden Mr. Erdogan to seek to extend his time in power, either by running for the presidency this year or by altering the rules of his party to stand for a fourth term as prime minister," the New York Times said. Regulator failure in GM probe. Federal regulators twice declined to open formal probes into complaints about faulty GM cars, Dow Jones reported. GM also rejected a proposed fix for the problem in 2005 because it would have taken too long and cost too much. "The findings by staff for the House Energy and Commerce Committee offer new details about events leading up to GM's recall of 2.6 million vehicles for ignition-switch defects now linked to 13 deaths." Markets. Stocks are up around the world. Emerging stocks are rallying to their seventh-straight day of gains, led by Taiwan, Indonesia, and Russia, the latter two up about 1%. S&amp;P futures were higher.  Data. Not too crazy. At 9 a.m. we get ISM Milwaukee, 9:45 a.m. Chicago PMI, at 10 a.m. inventory and sales revision, and at 10:30 a.m Dallas Fed, which is expected to surge to 2.5 from 0.3. Bitcoin prices stand at $449. El-Erian on jobs day. The former PIMCO boss laid out three key points about this week's report on BI Saturday, and they boil down to: It probably won't mean much to policymakers, whatever its outcome. "For a while, the information content of the jobs report had evolved from providing lagging insights to also serving as an important leading indicator," he writes. "Today’s employment conditions, however, no longer act as a powerful driver of overall economic and political developments. That role has been transferred – to business investment when it comes to the considerable economic upside, and to geo-political risk on the downside.  Goldman in Argentina. The megabank is negotiating a $1 billion loan with the troubled sovereign. "It would be the first time in more than a decade the country has received a substantial loan from international creditors and comes as the government seeks cash to avoid a further devaluation of the peso," Reuters says. The most dangerous fault in L.A. There was another earthquake in L.A. Friday, this time measuring 5.1. The real news is that the fault that moved, the Puente Hills, is considered to be much more dangerous than the San Andreas. "...a 7.5 quake on the Puente Hills fault could cause the fault to slip for 20 seconds — and the shaking could last far longer. Scientists say that quake would be more destructive than the so-called Big One on the San Andreas fault."   FREE AppDownload
Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys," comes out today. It's all about the confusing world of high-frequency algorithmic trading. He was on "60 Minutes" last night talking about the subject and promoting the book. In the short segment below, he argues that the stock market is rigged. The first 45 seconds are the key part wherein he explains the mechanism by which high-frequency traders get ahead of retail orders to inflate the price you have to pay for a stock. The basic mechanism that he describes is this: You place an order for a stock, say, Microsoft. That order goes to something called the BATS exchange, at which point high-frequency traders pick up on your order and then race to the exchange with an order for Microsoft faster than you can get there. They buy Microsoft and bring it back to you at an inflated price.  So how big of a deal is this? According to Lewis, this is all adding up to billions of lost dollars — easy. Here's more from the "60 Minutes" segment wherein he talks about the effects on traditional investors: Michael Lewis: Brad realizes, "Oh my God, that's how I'm being front-runned. I'm being front-runned because my signal gets to the BATS Exchange first and they can beat me to all the, all the other exchanges." It only took a tiny fraction of a second for Brad's trade to reach the next exchanges on the network, but the high-speed traders were able to jump in front of him, buy the same stock and drive the price up before his order arrived, producing a small profit of just one or two pennies. But it was happening to everyone's trades millions of times a day. Ronan Ryan: That adds up. Steve Kroft: You make it sound like a skim. Ronan Ryan: What else would you call it? Michael Lewis: One hedge fund manager said, "I was running a hedge fund that was $9 billion and that we figured that the, just our inability to, to make the trades the market said we should be able to make was costing us $300 million a year." That was $300 million a year in someone else's pocket. There's also a big excerpt from Lewis' new book in The New York Times Magazine, which includes this fascinating passage describing a Manhattan-based trader at the bank RBC: As it happened, at almost exactly the moment Carlin Financial entered Brad Katsuyama’s life, the U.S. stock market began to behave oddly. Before RBC acquired this supposed state-of-the-art electronic-trading firm, Katsuyama’s computers worked as he expected them to. Suddenly they didn’t. It used to be that when his trading screens showed 10,000 shares of Intel offered at $22 a share, it meant that he could buy 10,000 shares of Intel for $22 a share. He had only to push a button. By the spring of 2007, however, when he pushed the button to complete a trade, the offers would vanish. In his seven years as a trader, he had always been able to look at the screens on his desk and see the stock market. Now the market as it appeared on his screens was an illusion. NOW WATCH: The Impossible Choice That Had Elon Musk On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWild daffodilApril is around the corner, which means the hotly anticipated March economic stats will soon be released. "Just as we saw numerous economic data falter due to weather over the past three months, we are now entering the period when pent-up demand should begin to emerge, and a reacceleration in economic activity will become more apparent," said Deutsche Bank's Brett Ryan. This week kicks off with a heavy load of manufacturing surveys. That will lead up to Friday's all-important March jobs report. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Fed Chair Janet Yellen suggested that it could be six months between the end of quantitative easing and the first interest rate hike. This has investors increasingly concerned about how they should be positioned in advance of rising policy rates. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite looks to recent history for guidance. "Historically, markets have not sold off until six months before the first tightening and even during the first rate hike (after a long series of cuts), the de-rating in the 12 months following the first rise has been relatively modest at 2% (8%, if we exclude 1997)," wrote Garthwaite. "Perhaps the period that most resembles the current episode is around 28 January 2004, when Greenspan changed from discussing a ‘considerable period’ to ‘the Committee believes that it can be patient’. The market correctly understood this to mean that a rate hike was coming (rates were raised in June) – and equity prices fell by 4% over the following 6 months. However, the crucial difference is that Greenspan's remark preceded the first rate hike by five months, while Yellen's remark would suggest that the first rate hike will only happen in a year's time, at the earliest." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin is now below $450. Just a few days ago it was near $600. The latest blow was last week's IRS ruling, which some people believe will make record-keeping requirements too burdensome for mainstream use. Here's the chart via Bitcoinwisdom: Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin BRUSSELS (Reuters) - As Moscow and the West dig in for a prolonged stand-off over Russia's annexation of Crimea, risking spillover to other former Soviet republics and beyond, here are 10 ways in which the Ukraine crisis could change attitudes and policy around the world. 1) Russia diminished: Russia's role in international affairs is diminished, at least temporarily. Moscow has been de facto excluded from the Group of Eight industrialized powers. Its bids to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Energy Agency are frozen. Western summits with Moscoware canceled until further notice. President Vladimir Putin's attempt to use the BRICS group of emerging powers to mitigate isolation by the West faltered over Chinese and Indian unease at the Crimean precedent for disputes about Tibet and Kashmir. A joint BRICS statement condemned sanctions but made no mention of Crimea or Ukraine. 2) NATO revived: Just when it looked to be losing relevance as its mission in Afghanistan limps to a close, the U.S.-led military alliance is back in business. An increase in allied air patrols and war games showing the flag inPoland and the Baltic states is on the agenda, and Warsaw wants faster deployment of U.S. missile defense systems in central Europe. Under U.S. pressure, some European countries may rethink cuts in defense spending. Neutral Sweden andFinland, perceiving Russia anew as a potential threat, may increase security efforts and cooperate more closely with NATO. 3) Energy diversification: The energy map of Europe is being redrawn with accelerated action to reduce dependence on Russian oil and gas. EU states are set to build more liquefied natural gas terminals, upgrade pipeline networks and grids and expand a southern gas supplies through Georgia and Turkey to southern andcentral Europe. The EU gets a third of its oil and gas from Russia, and 40 percent of that gas is pumped across Ukraine. Europemay now look to tap its own shale gas reserves and expand nuclear power, despite environmental concerns. "I see the danger of more nuclear - which is C02-free, which is also part of the discussion, but it is the wrong path," said Gerhard Roiss, chief executive of Austria's OMV, a big importer of Russian gas into central Europe. 4) China factor: The diplomatic alliance between Russia and China, which often vote together in the U.N. Security Council, could change in one of two directions - either rapprochement through a stronger energy partnership, with new pipelines being built to pump Russian oil and gas spurned by Europe to Beijing; or a cooling if Chinadistances itself more from Putin's behavior and sees less benefit in closer ties with an economically weakened and relatively isolated Moscow. For now, President Xi Jinping is refusing to take sides in public. 5) U.S. leadership: Washington's global leadership role, weakened by the rise of emerging powers and by retrenchment under President Barack Obama, has been partially restored. Despite his disengagement from wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and strategic "pivot" towards Asia, events have pushed Obama back into the old-fashioned role of "Leader of the Free World" in an East-West crisis in Europe. The crisis has swept aside European anger over U.S. spying on global communications and put a new premium on cooperation. In Brussels last week Europeans appealed to Obama to sell them shale gas, and both sides agreed to speed talks on a transatlantic free trade and investment pact. Yet U.S. strategists say American economic interests and the security challenges of managing a rising Chinamean Asia will remain the priority and Europe will have to do more for itself. 6) German leadership: The Ukraine affair has cemented Berlin's leadership role in Europe. Germany is already the dominant economic power, calling the shots in the euro zone crisis, and Chancellor Angela Merkel has become Europe's main interlocutor with Putin. Her disenchantment with him has shaped an increasingly firm crisis response after initial hesitancy. German willingness to reduce energy dependency on Russia will be the yardstick of how far the rest of the EU goes. Merkel is also the relationship manager with the volatile Yulia Tymoshenko, whose presidential bid may heighten tension in Ukraine. 7) EU united: The European Union has been reunited, at least for now, by the return of a common external threat. This may have helped EU leaders overcome some long-running disputes. Greens European Parliament member Rebecca Harms joked that it was too early to nominate Putin for the annual Charlemagne prize for services to European unity, "but in the face of a new threat of war in Europe, EU states have indeed agreed on a joint strategy towards Russia." Some EU diplomats say Poland may speed up slow-motion moves to join the euro, seeking sanctuary in Europe's inner core as the Baltic states have done. Polish entry would hasten the spread of the single currency to almost all EU countries, including Denmark, though probably not Sweden or Britain. 8) Contest for Central Asia: both Putin and the West are wooing central Asian autocrats in energy-rich Azerbaijan,Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, drawing a discreet veil over their human rights records. If Russiaweakens economically, they will want at least a foot in the Western camp. 9) U.S.-Russian cooperation: some cooperation on global security issues will continue because Moscow has an interest in keeping it on track to avoid greater isolation. But tensions are possible over Syria, Iran, Afghanistan orNorth Korea, and Moscow has levers it could activate such as contracts to supply S300 air defense missiles toDamascus or Tehran. 10) Putin's future: Russia's leader is near the peak of his popularity, riding a wave of nationalist pride over Crimea. However, instability may grow if he comes under pressure from magnates angry at losing value on their businesses, forfeiting foreign investment in Russia and facing travel restrictions and asset freezes in the West. Most are 150 percent loyal for now, but things may look different in six months' time. (Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
Rennett Stowe/FlickrNEW YORK (Reuters) - Training for U.S. Navy SEALs, the special operations force, follows a warrior tradition that harkens back to Samurais, but fitness experts say the tough regime is gaining popularity with entrepreneurs, corporate executives, lawyers and elite athletes. The workout, geared toward mental as well as physical transformation, is so demanding that the casual gym-goer looking to shed 10 pounds before swimsuit season need not apply. "We look at training as being as important to our life as eating and sleeping," said retired Navy SEAL commander and fitness instructor Mark Divine, the author of "8 Weeks to SEALFIT: a Navy Seal's Guide to Unconventional Training for Physical and Mental Toughness." SEALFIT draws on the varied, high-intensity interval training of CrossFit, Olympic weightlifting, plyometrics, powerlifting, gymnastics, calisthenics, strongman exercises, yoga, and martial arts. "CrossFit is baked into the SEALFIT model," said Divine, "but our workouts are much longer: two hours if you go through the whole thing." Divine believes if you lean into hard work it becomes enjoyable, even transformational, although he admits the rigorous type of training has become rare in modern society. Along with first responders, extreme athletes and special ops candidates, Divine's training site outside San Diego, California, attracts entrepreneurs and executives. About 20 to 30 percent of his clients are women. Breathing exercises, concentration drills and visualization exercises are as crucial as physical prowess to Divine, who is trained in Ashtanga, a rigorous form of yoga, and in martial arts. Working in as well as working out, he said, cultivates the warrior spirit, or kokoro, a Japanese word he defines as the merging of heart and mind in action. Danielle Gordon, a 35-year-old sales representative and an endurance cyclist for many years, admits to finding the SEALFIT training initially intimidating, even as she was drawn to the community of local surfers, triathletes, military people and professionals. "I'm a strong woman, but this was a step out of my comfort zone," said Gordon, "It wasn't just stepping in and out of the gym." She said the training, often for hours a day, was transformative for body and mind. "My strength has changed; my speed has changed. I can pedal harder, cycle harder," she said. "I might not be fastest (or) strongest but I know I can do anything." Neal Pire, a sports conditioning expert with the American College of Sports Medicine, said high-intensity, performance-oriented training can be powerfully motivating, but people need to be mentally ready to be able to do it, and to do it faithfully. He cautioned that the "go faster, go harder, go home mentality" can put the un-coached and unprepared at risk for injury. "The data out about CrossFit does show that an inordinate number of people have injured themselves. I equate it to people that have no business performing like an athlete, actually performing like an athlete," he said. Divine writes in his book that the SEALs have a saying: "We do today what others won't, so tomorrow we'll do what others can't." Pire says it's all about goals. "Most people are not going to be thrown into battle," he said. "If your goal is to lower your blood pressure, fit into that little black dress or look good for a girl ... Do you need this?" (Editing by Patricia Reaney and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
We just got one of the most important numbers of the week: Eurozone inflation. And it came in weak. For March, the rate of inflation was 0.5%, down from 0.7% in February, and lower than the 0.6% that was expected. Here's the quick chart, made by Eurostat. You can see how in almost all of the major categories, pricing pressure was down from February.  Eurostat The Euro originally tumbled on the news, however it quickly rebounded. As WSJ's Kate Martin notes, this is the weakest inflation number since 2009.  Pressure has been building on the ECB to take some kind of easing action to fight the disinflationary trend, but every time anyone predicted action they've been disappointed. Now the expectations are ratcheting up again for this Thursday. Will the ECB throw something at the wall to see if prices can be boosted, or will they risk the ECB becoming Japan, mired in low growth and deflation/disinflation of years.. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man works inside a factory in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese manufacturing activity expanded at a slower pace in March, a survey showed on Monday, pulling back further from an eight-year high set in January as heavy snow in some areas curbed production. The Markit/JMMA Japan Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) fell to a seasonally adjusted 53.9 in March from 55.5 in February. The index remained above the 50 threshold that separates expansion from contraction for a 13th consecutive month but showed that growth slowed for a second straight month. "Firms attributed this increase in output to last minute demand before the increase in the sales tax from 5 percent to 8 percent, which is due to be implemented in April this year," said Amy Brownbill economist at Markit. "It will be interesting to see whether output in the manufacturing industry will continue to grow as fast after the increase in the sales tax is implemented." The output component of the PMI index fell to 54.2 from 58.4 in February, indicating the slowest growth in six months due to disruptions caused by unusually cold weather. The index for new export orders rose to 52.3 in March from 51.5 in the previous month as orders from China and the Philippines strengthened, the survey showed. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government will raise the sales tax from April 1 to pay for rising welfare costs. Since the middle of last year, sales of apartments, houses, cars and durable goods have been rising as consumers look to buy big-ticket items before the tax increase. There are also signs that consumers stocked up on daily goods in the days leading up to the tax hike. Many economists expect the sales tax increase to slow growth temporarily, but there are lingering concerns the economy will not rebound quickly, which would increase the need for stimulus measures. (Reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi waits for the start of the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels, December 16, 2013. In his latest "What Next in The Global Economy" note, Morgan Stanley economist Joachim Fels passes along the following little story about Mario Draghi: Who said central bankers have no sense of humour? During a recent dinner at Frankfurt’s Senckenberg Museum (the home of Germany’s most extensive collection of dinosaurs) Mario Draghi told the crowd his favourite joke: A man needs a heart transplant. Says the doctor: “I can give you the heart of a five-year old boy.” “Too young.” “How about that of a forty-year old investment banker?” “They don’t have a heart.” “A seventy-five year old central banker?” “I’ll take it.” “But why?” “It’s never been used!” I like the joke, and not only because I consider myself an economist working for an investment bank rather than an investment banker. Mario Draghi’s joke conveys a simple but important message: central banking is about making rational, cool-headed and unemotional decisions in often difficult circumstances. In the 15 years of its existence as the keeper of the euro, the ECB led by Mario Draghi and his predecessors Jean-Claude Trichet and Wim Duisenberg has had to make a lot of difficult decisions in difficult circumstances. A few of these decisions were questionable (though typically only with the benefit of hindsight), such as the rate cut in April 1999 or the rate hikes in July 2008 and in April and July 2011. Most of the other ECB decisions were just right or even hugely successful – just think of Mario Draghi’s announcement in July 2012 to “do whatever it takes” to safeguard the euro. Now of course, the ECB is at another big decision moment. Pricing data has been coming in very weak, and there's pressure on Draghi to cut rates or do something further to try boosting inflation. Will they do it? The meeting's Thursday. And we'll be discussing it until then. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Francisco DiezGood morning! Markets are rising to start the new week. In Japan, stocks rose 0.9%, despite a weaker-than-expected industrial production report, and an imminent consumption tax hike. European stocks are higher as well. German stocks are up 0.2%. Meanwhile, US futures are poised for a modestly higher open. This is likely to be a very busy week — one that's very heavy on economic data, culminating with the Jobs Report on Friday. Analysts are forecasting about 200,000 new jobs to be reported for that. Things were mostly quiet over the weekend. There are some tiny signs of a though on the Ukraine crisis, as talks restarted between John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussian Navy vessels are anchored at a navy base in the Ukrainian Black Sea port of SevastopolBRUSSELS (Reuters) - As Moscow and the West dig in for a prolonged stand-off over Russia's annexation of Crimea, risking spillover to other former Soviet republics and beyond, here are 10 ways in which the Ukraine crisis could change attitudes and policy around the world. 1) Russia diminished: Russia's role in international affairs is diminished, at least temporarily. Moscow has been de facto excluded from the Group of Eight industrialized powers. Its bids to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Energy Agency are frozen. Western summits with Moscow are canceled until further notice. President Vladimir Putin's attempt to use the BRICS group of emerging powers to mitigate isolation by the West faltered over Chinese and Indian unease at the Crimean precedent for disputes about Tibet and Kashmir. A joint BRICS statement condemned sanctions but made no mention of Crimea or Ukraine. 2) NATO revived: Just when it looked to be losing relevance as its mission in Afghanistan limps to a close, the U.S.-led military alliance is back in business. An increase in allied air patrols and war games showing the flag in Poland and the Baltic states is on the agenda, and Warsaw wants faster deployment of U.S. missile defense systems in central Europe. Under U.S. pressure, some European countries may rethink cuts in defense spending. Neutral Sweden and Finland, perceiving Russia anew as a potential threat, may increase security efforts and cooperate more closely with NATO. 3) Energy diversification: The energy map of Europe is being redrawn with accelerated action to reduce dependence on Russian oil and gas. EU states are set to build more liquefied natural gas terminals, upgrade pipeline networks and grids and expand a southern gas supplies through Georgia and Turkey to southern and central Europe. The EU gets a third of its oil and gas from Russia, and 40 percent of that gas is pumped across Ukraine. Europe may now look to tap its own shale gas reserves and expand nuclear power, despite environmental concerns. "I see the danger of more nuclear - which is C02-free, which is also part of the discussion, but it is the wrong path," said Gerhard Roiss, chief executive of Austria's OMV, a big importer of Russian gas into central Europe. 4) China factor: The diplomatic alliance between Russia and China, which often vote together in the U.N. Security Council, could change in one of two directions - either rapprochement through a stronger energy partnership, with new pipelines being built to pump Russian oil and gas spurned by Europe to Beijing; or a cooling if China distances itself more from Putin's behavior and sees less benefit in closer ties with an economically weakened and relatively isolated Moscow. For now, President Xi Jinping is refusing to take sides in public. 5) U.S. leadership: Washington's global leadership role, weakened by the rise of emerging powers and by retrenchment under President Barack Obama, has been partially restored. Despite his disengagement from wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and strategic "pivot" towards Asia, events have pushed Obama back into the old-fashioned role of "Leader of the Free World" in an East-West crisis in Europe. The crisis has swept aside European anger over U.S. spying on global communications and put a new premium on cooperation. In Brussels last week Europeans appealed to Obama to sell them shale gas, and both sides agreed to speed talks on a transatlantic free trade and investment pact. Yet U.S. strategists say American economic interests and the security challenges of managing a rising China mean Asia will remain the priority and Europe will have to do more for itself. 6) German leadership: The Ukraine affair has cemented Berlin's leadership role in Europe. Germany is already the dominant economic power, calling the shots in the euro zone crisis, and Chancellor Angela Merkel has become Europe's main interlocutor with Putin. Her disenchantment with him has shaped an increasingly firm crisis response after initial hesitancy. German willingness to reduce energy dependency on Russia will be the yardstick of how far the rest of the EU goes. Merkel is also the relationship manager with the volatile Yulia Tymoshenko, whose presidential bid may heighten tension in Ukraine. 7) EU united: The European Union has been reunited, at least for now, by the return of a common external threat. This may have helped EU leaders overcome some long-running disputes. Greens European Parliament member Rebecca Harms joked that it was too early to nominate Putin for the annual Charlemagne prize for services to European unity, "but in the face of a new threat of war in Europe, EU states have indeed agreed on a joint strategy towards Russia." Some EU diplomats say Poland may speed up slow-motion moves to join the euro, seeking sanctuary in Europe's inner core as the Baltic states have done. Polish entry would hasten the spread of the single currency to almost all EU countries, including Denmark, though probably not Sweden or Britain. 8) Contest for Central Asia: both Putin and the West are wooing central Asian autocrats in energy-rich Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, drawing a discreet veil over their human rights records. If Russia weakens economically, they will want at least a foot in the Western camp. 9) U.S.-Russian cooperation: some cooperation on global security issues will continue because Moscow has an interest in keeping it on track to avoid greater isolation. But tensions are possible over Syria, Iran, Afghanistan or North Korea, and Moscow has levers it could activate such as contracts to supply S300 air defense missiles to Damascus or Tehran. 10) Putin's future: Russia's leader is near the peak of his popularity, riding a wave of nationalist pride over Crimea. However, instability may grow if he comes under pressure from magnates angry at losing value on their businesses, forfeiting foreign investment in Russia and facing travel restrictions and asset freezes in the West. Most are 150 percent loyal for now, but things may look different in six months' time. (Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks at a Huawei mobile phone as he shops at an electronic market in ShanghaiSHENZHEN (Reuters) - China's Huawei Technologies Ltd, the world's No.2 telecommunications equipment maker, matched company guidance by reporting its fastest profit growth in four years, powered by strength at home and in its enterprise and consumer businesses. Net profit for 2013 rose 34.4 percent to 21 billion yuan ($3.38 billion), the company said in a statement on Monday. Operating profit was 29.1 billion yuan, compared with the company's forecast range of 28.6 billion yuan to 29.4 billion yuan. Revenue reached a record 239 billion yuan versus company guidance of 238 billion yuan to 240 billion yuan, as profit margins improved for the second year in a row. ($1 = 6.2122 Chinese Yuan) (Reporting by Yimou Lee in SHENZHEN; Writing by Paul Carsten in BEIJING; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
