REUTERS/Yuya ShinoAn employee of a foreign exchange trading company works in front of monitors displaying the Japanese yen's exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (R), and the Japanese yen's exchange rate against Euro in Tokyo December 19, 2013.The weekend is over and stocks are falling. U.S. futures are down 0.3% Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is off 0.4%. Japan's Nikkei opened 0.3% lower.  Sunday evening saw bad news crop up across the world: The U.S. has ordered embassy workers out of Iraq, Russia and Ukraine failed to reach a gas deal,  and Israel and Gaza militants are back at it. As previously reported, oil and natural gas futures both popped in Sunday trading.  In breaking news, American medical devices firm Medtronic said it is buying Covidien in a $43 billion blockbuster deal, and will move the firm's headquarters to Ireland.  The Fed will meet this week to give us new dot-plots about showing where its members think the economy is going — click here to read Sam Ro's preview »   FREE AppDownload
ANNMark Karpeles, the French programmer who was at the helm of Bitcoin megaexchange MtGox at the time of its collapse, has begun Tweeting again.  His @magicaltux account had been silent since January. A month later, he announced the exchange had lost nearly half a billion dollars' worth of Bitcoins under mysterious circumstances. Early last month, Karpeles began responding in French to Tweets directed at him concerning an email server, though it was not clear whether Karpeles was referring to a Gox server. Several weeks later, Karpeles said he would be back to Tweeting more regularly as "things had calmed down," and that he was now at work on reestablishing their hosting service.   Here are his recent two most recent non-directed Tweets. BusyBox is a programming tool: What would we do without busybox Very nice sunset on Tokyo today pic.twitter.com/3ygEIVkJwM Had a magnitude 4 earthquake this morning. Earthquake early warning system worked for once. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovAn armed pro-Russian separatist stands guard at the site of the crash of the Il-76 Ukrainian army transport plane in Luhansk June 14, 2014.  Let’s start the week: 1. On the markets, US stocks rallied towards the end of the week with the Dow posting a gain of 0.25% to 16,776 on Friday. The Nasdaq and S&amp;P 500 were both up up 0.3%. Asian markets had a stronger day, with the Nikkei 0.83% higher, the Hang Seng up 0.62% and Shanghai up 0.94% to 2,071. A continuing fall in the price of iron ore, however, is likely to continue to weigh on the Australian markets. ASX futures are flat for the start of trade. 2. The week ahead. It’s the usual quieter third week of the month, but there are some important pointers: Eurozone CPI tonight, the RBA minutes tomorrow in Australia, and the FOMC meeting on Wednesday night, where there might be some indication on the Fed’s response to the big dip in US GDP in Q1 from the harsh winter, and the ensuing recovery. There’s new car sales tomorrow in Australia and property prices from China on Wednesday. 3. Iraq is in a full-blown war against offshoot Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham (ISIS), which has now captured Iraq’s second largest city and have advanced within 60 miles of the capital. ISIS has posted photos online of mass executions (which you can see here, but a warning that they’re extremely graphic). This plays right into the hands of Iran, which has sent thousands of elite Revolutionary Guards forces and militiamen to Baghdad’s aid. Oil prices have been surging on the developments. 4. Australian demographics. The latest version of Australia’s HILDA survey, the Household Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia, which has tracked 12,000 Australians since 2001, shows there are less Australians on welfare than there were in the past. Associate Professor Roger Wilkins of the Melbourne Institute told the SMH that Australian’s were relying on welfare in the lowest total numbers since possibly the 1980's. “I’m absolutely bewildered by Hockey’s obsession on welfare reliance in Australia,” he said. Yes, but Hockey has also been arguing thatcurrent levels of spending are not sustainable into the future given the passing of the mining boom and the changing structure of the population. We’ll have more on the HILDA report today on BI. 5. The consumer outlook. Growth in Australian retail spending shouldn’t be derailed too much by the damage done to consumer confidence by the federal budget, according to Deloitte. “How permanent that confidence slump is will be interesting to watch in the coming weeks,” they say in a note out today. “On the view that consumers will respond to actual influences on their ability to spend rather than perceived ones, the budget shouldn’t stop 2014-15 from being a strong year for retail.” This is critical politically: if whatGoldman Sachs described as an “audible snap” in sentiment turns into a material drag on consumer spending the government will be in a world of pain. 6. On the other hand, the building of new homes in Australia is expected to reach its second-highest level on record this year. With home construction being the great multiplier – through job creation and retail spending as new home-owners hit the shops to fill their houses with stuff – the projections from the Housing Industry Association are an important part of the overall Australian economic picture right now, and could be the counterweight to any dip in consumer spending. 7. World cup week. If you feel like getting up at 2am for a couple of games this week, there’s Germany v Portugal tomorrow morning, and then Australia v The Netherlands on Thursday. Despite the Socceroos acquitting themselves well in the first game against Chile, fans will be awaiting Thursday’s game with a sense of dread after the 5-1 Dutch massacre of Spain. Park the bus. Meanwhile, here are16 beautiful photographs from the tournament so far. 8. Tantrum topping. History hates a poor winner, and if anyone should know about that, it’s Heath Shaw, who once played for Collingwood. Now at fledgling AFL side Greater Western Sydney, he celebrated with teammates after their first away from home win on Saturday night –by ringing and threatening their hotel night manager nine times between 3am and 3.30am for not delivering five pizzas quick enough. You can take the boy out of Collingwood… 9. “The Radium Water Worked Fine Until His Jaw Came Off”. The 1932 Wall Street Journal headline is an all-time classic, and refers to Eben Byers, a well-known industrialist, who claimed to drink three bottles a day. Read about that and 10 other things we thought were great for our health, including heroin cough syrup and tapeworms. Tapeworms! 10. Australia has won the World Cup. Congratulations to our Kookaburras, who defended their title with a 6-1 demolition of The Netherlands. The game echoed The Netherlands’ defeat of Spain in the football version of the World Cup, where the loser went 1-0 up early before being buried. It was an especially good day for Australia’s five-time player-of-the-year Jamie Dwyer, who scored the last goal and equaled Jay Stacey’s record of 321 Kookaburra appearances. Bonus item: a fake video of a guy diving off a cliff at Sydney’s Manly beach only to encounter a shark when he hits the waters has sparked copycat tributes. Here’s another that appeared a couple of days ago. Australia, the future video-editing hub of the world.   Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo Follow Business Insider Australia onFacebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Fabrizio Bensch/ReutersAn X-ray picture on a monitor showing the world's first cardiac re-synchronisation therapy defibrillator device 'Consulta CRT-D', made by U.S. company Medtronic Inc.Medical device-maker Medtronic has agreed to acquire peer Covidien for $42.9 billion in cash and stock. The purchase values Covidien at $93.22 per Covidien share. Covidien closed at $72.02 on Friday. "We are excited to reach this agreement with Covidien, which further advances our mission to alleviate pain, restore health and extend life for patients around the world," said Medtronic CEO Omar Ishrak. "This acquisition will allow Medtronic to reach more patients, in more ways and in more places." Medtronic is a $60 billion medical devices company that makes heart pacemakers. "After the completion of the transaction, the businesses of Medtronic and Covidien will be combined under a new entity to be called Medtronic plc," said Medtronic management in its statement. "It will have its principal executive offices in Ireland, where Covidien's current headquarters resides and where both companies have a longstanding presence." Employing a controversial maneuver called "tax inversion," U.S.-based companies have moved their legal bases to the U.K. where they can enjoy lower tax rates. Drugmaker Pfizer recently proposed a deal with British-based AstraZeneca to take advantage of this. However, those talks didn't get very far. U.S. Congress has been aggressively pushing legislation to close this corporate tax loophole. “These transactions are about tax avoidance, plain and simple,” said Michigan Senator Carl Levin last month when he introduced the Stop Corporate Inversions Acto fo 2014. “Our legislation would clamp down on this loophole to prevent corporations from shifting their tax burden onto their competitors and average Americans while Congress is considering comprehensive tax reform.” Here's the press release from Medtronic: Creates a Medical Technology and Services Company with a Comprehensive Product Portfolio and Broad Global Reach that is Better Able to Improve Healthcare Outcomes  Meaningfully Accelerates Medtronic's Core Strategies of Therapy Innovation, Globalization and Economic Value  Combined Revenue of $27 Billion, including $3.7 Billion from Emerging Markets Transaction Expected to be Accretive to Medtronic Cash Earnings in FY2016 and Significantly Accretive thereafter Medtronic Commits to $10 Billion in Additional U.S. Technology Investments Over 10 Years  MINNEAPOLIS AND DUBLIN - June 15, 2014 - Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), a global leader in medical technology, services and solutions, and Covidien plc (NYSE: COV), a global healthcare technology and medical supplies provider, today announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement under which Medtronic has agreed to acquire Covidien in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at $93.22 per Covidien share, or a total of approximately $42.9 billion, based on Medtronic's closing stock price of $60.70 per share on June 13, 2014.  Once the transaction is completed, Medtronic will have significantly advanced its position as the world's premier medical technology and services company.  The combined company will have a comprehensive product portfolio, a diversified growth profile and broad geographic reach, with 87,000 employees in more than 150 countries. The Boards of Directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction. "We are excited to reach this agreement with Covidien, which further advances our mission to alleviate pain, restore health and extend life for patients around the world," said Omar Ishrak, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic. "This acquisition will allow Medtronic to reach more patients, in more ways and in more places. Our expertise and portfolio of services will allow us to serve our customers more efficiently and better address the demands of the current healthcare marketplace. We also look forward to welcoming the Covidien team to Medtronic and working together to improve healthcare outcomes globally." "Covidien and Medtronic, when combined, will provide patients, physicians and hospitals with a compelling portfolio of offerings that will help improve care and surgical performance," said José E. Almeida, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Covidien. "This transaction provides our shareholders with immediate value and the opportunity to participate in the significant upside potential of the combined organization. I'd like to thank our 38,000 employees whose hard work and dedication has enabled Covidien to deliver innovative health solutions that improve patient outcomes." Strategic Rationale  The combination with Covidien supports and accelerates Medtronic's three fundamental strategies: U.S. Investment Commitment as a Result of Combination The U.S. is home to the global medtech industry, one of the most innovative global industries centered in the U.S., and medical devices are among the most valuable U.S. exports. The combined company is strongly committed to the U.S. as a healthcare innovator, strategic business partner and employer of choice. As a direct benefit of the company's new financial structure, Medtronic will commit to $10 billion in technology investments over the next 10 years in areas such as early stage venture capital investments, acquisitions and R&amp;D in the U.S., above and beyond Medtronic's and Covidien's existing plans. "The medical technology industry is critical to the U.S. economy, and we will continue to invest and innovate and create well-paying jobs," said Mr. Ishrak. "Medtronic has consistently been the leading innovator and investor in U.S. medtech, and this combination will allow us to accelerate those investments.  These investments ultimately produce new therapy and treatment options that improve or save lives for millions of people around the world." Structure and Governance After the completion of the transaction, the businesses of Medtronic and Covidien will be combined under a new entity to be called Medtronic plc. It will have its principal executive offices in Ireland, where Covidien's current headquarters resides and where both companies have a longstanding presence.  Medtronic plc will be led by Mr. Ishrak, and will continue to have its operational headquarters in Minneapolis, where Medtronic currently employs more than 8,000 people.  Financial Highlights Upon completion of the transaction, each outstanding ordinary share of Covidien will be converted into the right to receive $35.19 in cash and 0.956 of an ordinary share of Medtronic plc.  The per-share consideration represents a premium of 29% to Covidien's closing stock price on June 13, 2014, the last trading day prior to the announcement. Medtronic shareholders will exchange each share of stock they own in Medtronic for one ordinary share of stock in Medtronic plc.  The transaction is expected to be taxable, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, to shareholders of both Medtronic and Covidien.  The proposed transaction represents compelling value to Covidien shareholders through the cash component and continued participation in the future growth prospects expected to result from the combination through their ownership of approximately 30% of the combined company. The transaction is expected to be accretive to Medtronic's cash earnings in FY 2016, the first full fiscal year, and significantly accretive thereafter. The transaction is also expected to be accretive to GAAP earnings by FY 2018.[1]  The combination is expected to result in at least $850 million of annual pre-tax cost synergies by the end of fiscal year 2018. These synergies include the benefits of optimizing global back-office, manufacturing and supply-chain infrastructure, as well as the elimination of redundant public company costs. The estimate excludes any benefit from potential revenue synergies resulting from the combination of the two organizations. Through this combination, Medtronic is expected to generate significant free cash flow, which it will be able to deploy with greater strategic flexibility, particularly in the U.S. The consummation of the transaction is subject to certain conditions, including approvals by Medtronic and Covidien shareholders. In addition, the proposed transaction requires regulatory clearances in the U.S., the E.U., China and certain other countries. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth calendar quarter of 2014 or early 2015. Medtronic's financial advisor is Perella Weinberg Partners LP and its legal advisors are Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton LLP and A &amp; L Goodbody. Covidien's financial advisor is Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and its legal advisors are Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz and Arthur Cox. Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided committed financing for the transaction. For more information about the transaction, please go to www.globalmedtechleader.com. The announcement required under the Irish Takeover Rules (a Rule 2.5 announcement) has been made and is available at the above-listed website and at www.medtronic.com NOTE TO INVESTORS Webcast information:  Medtronic and Covidien will conduct a webcast to discuss this news release tomorrow, June 16th, 2014, at 8:00 a.m., Eastern Time, which can be accessed by clicking on the Investors link on the Medtronic home page at http://www.Medtronic.com. Prior to the webcast, an Investor Slide presentation will be available under the Events and Presentations page in the Investors section of the Medtronic website.  Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript will be available under the Events and Presentations page in the Investors section of the Medtronic website. FREE AppDownload
The countries in the Middle East are sitting on oceans of oil and gas. So, whenever there's any news about escalating tension or turmoil in the Middle East, we can't help but wonder what this could mean for energy prices. One of the first things to consider is how much energy is exposed to disruption. In JP Morgan Funds' Q2 Guide To The Markets, David Kelly and his team offer this map showing what percentage of the world's liquid energy is produced by each country or flows through a waterway in the region. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
Brent crude futures were back above $113 Sunday evening as trading opened to more bad news out of Iraq. The London-traded contracts were up as much as $0.94 as the U.S. ordered Iraq embassy workers out of the country as Sunni insurgents continued their march toward Baghdad. There were also unconfirmed reports the ISIL militia had taken control of a refinery 145 miles northwest of Baghdad.  In a note this weekend, Citi's Ed Morse said the deteriorating situation has profound implications for oil markets, which had been counting on Iraq's surge in production over the last few years to continue: The longer the insurgency lasts and the more divisive it becomes, the more difficult it will be for Iraq to even approach its potential to sustain production at 6-m b/d or more, with radical implications for oil markets at a time of growing lost production worldwide due to intensifying disorder in a growing number of petroleum-producing countries. Here's the chart. It looks like we're settling in around $113.10: Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Investors can be as greedy for yield as they can be for capital appreciation, and so far this cycle has fit that historical norm. Despite the perceived safety of income-producing securities, investors have begun to stretch for higher yields and, in doing so, seem to be taking substantial and unanticipated risks. At RBA, we search for gaps between perception and reality, and this seems to be the case for emerging market debt. Investors have been lured to these securities by their higher yields, yet the underlying economic and currency fundamentals are deteriorating without commensurate widening of spreads. Investors seem to be ignoring growing warning signs for emerging market debt. The signs include: We remain ardent fans of US assets, and still believe that fixed-income investors searching for higher yields should look within the United States. The ongoing deflation of the global credit bubble will likely prove to be a significant and secular hindrance to emerging market growth, and investors still appear to be underpricing the risks associated with emerging market assets. EM Inflation and money growth quite high. The emerging markets have had for the last several years the highest rates of money growth and the highest rates of inflation in the world. Chart 1 shows the latest money supply growth rates and inflation rates for forty-one countries, and emerging markets comprise all the countries with substantial money growth and inflation. In fact, many of the major emerging markets now have inflation rates between 5% and 10%. One should not be fooled by small numbers. Five percent inflation is two-and-a-half times the current US inflation rate, and ten percent is five times the US inflation rate. The global economy is in the midst of a credit deflation, and today’s five to ten percent inflation could have the same detrimental effects on an emerging economy as did prior cycles’ higher absolute rates of inflation. Investors’ certainty regarding an inevitable increase in US inflation is somewhat puzzling because the US data has been remarkably benign. The current US M2 growth rate of 6.2% is below the long-term average of 6.9%. It is hard for us to envision abnormal rates of US inflation with the supply of money growing below average. RBA EM currencies under pressure Currency is critically important when investing in non-dollar bonds regardless of whether the bonds are issues in dollars or in local currency. The question is whether the issuer or the investor takes currency risk. Regardless, weakening emerging market currencies are not favorable for emerging market debt investing. The emerging market issuer accepts the currency risk when issuing a US-dollar denominated bond. The risk of default tends to increase as the dollar appreciates because it takes a larger amount of local currency to pay the dollar-denominated coupon. The investor accepts the currency risk when buying a local-currency emerging market bond. Nothing changes for the issuer if the local currency depreciates, and the issuer continues to pay the local currency coupon (assuming the issuer’s cash flow or tax revenues still support the local currency coupon). However, the local-currency coupon becomes smaller when translated into dollars, and the US-dollar coupon effectively decreases. Bond yields typically increase when an issuer becomes riskier. That would not be the case for a local-currency bond held by a US-dollar investor when the local currency is depreciating. The dollar value of the coupon would be decreasing despite the bond’s increasing risk. If the risk of the bond were indeed increasing, then the bond’s price would have to depreciate at an accelerating rate to more than offset the smaller coupon. This price reaction to a decreasing coupon is called “negative convexity”. Negative convexity isn’t an issue so long as the US dollar depreciates. Chart 2 shows the relationship between the tradable dollar index (DXY) and the JP Morgan Emerging Market Currency Index (FXJPEMCI). The US dollar has generally been stable for six years, whereas the emerging market currency index has been falling. That implies the hedging costs associated with emerging market local currency debt has been increasing. RBA Political instability rising – “Coup Count” up to three The “coup count” is up to three. Certainly, the coups in Egypt, Ukraine, and Thailand are extreme, but we think the growing civil unrest in many emerging markets is a symptom of deteriorating economic conditions. Coups, riots, protests, etc. tend to occur when citizens are unhappy. Civil unrest occurs when citizens’ standard of living is deteriorating and they feel they have no recourse. The high rates of inflation in some emerging markets have existed for so long that the standard of living is decreasing. The spreading civil unrest is a symptom of those falling standards of living. Yet, investors remain enamored with the emerging market consumer investment theme, and continue to ignore the deteriorating standard of living in a growing number of emerging market economies. High yield munis seem attractive to us It seems ironic that investors are stretching for yield in risky emerging market debt despite the growing warning signs, but they won’t invest in higher yielding securities within the US even though fundamentals are improving. We continue to prefer high yield municipal bonds, and have sizeable positions in our portfolios. In our view, these bonds provide excellent yield, good total return prospects, and very attractive spreads versus riskier emerging market debt. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
We are currently witnessing the 'Great Transfer' of wealth from the Greatest Generation to the baby boomers, according to Bank of America's Sarbjit Nahal and Beijia Ma. The Greatest Generation refers to the generation in the U.S. that experienced the Great Depression and then fought in World War II, and was coined by Tom Brokaw. But Nahal and Ma point out that "a second and even larger wealth transfer from the Boomers to their heirs is starting now and will continue over the next 30 to 40 years." The great transfer will see a handover of about $12 trillion from those born in 1920s and 30s to the boomers. But the boomers are expected to transfer some $30 trillion in assets to their heirs over the next 30-40 years in just the U.S., they write. There were 12 million global high-net-worth individual (HNWI) — those with investable assets of over $1 million — in 2012, with aggregate investable wealth of $46.2 trillion.  North America has 3.73 million HNWIs with investable wealth of $12.7 trillion. Asia-Pacific comes in close second with 3.68 million HNWIs, with investable assets of $12.0 trillion. Only 4 in 10 retirees in the U.S. uses a financial advisor, which means there is a huge opportunity for advisors. Bank of America FREE AppDownload
The search for yield has taken investors into the nether regions of the solar system. Last month, according to Artemis, a group that tracks catastrophe bonds, insurer USAA took out a policy against the risk it would have to pay out for tropical cyclones, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms, winter storms, wildfire, volcanic eruption and meteorite impact.  The reinsurer, Residential Re then turned around and issued a catastrophe bond worth $130 million to split up their USAA payout risk among investors.    Last year, a meteor impact caused millions of dollars' worth of damage to a city in Russia. Here's the listing: Artemis In a catastrophe bond, investors sponsor a body's insurance policy, betting the disaster won't occur. First, they pay an up-front amount to subscribe to the bond issuance. That amount is called collateral, and it gets parked in a fund managed by the bond issuer to be invested in low-risk securities. The pool is supposed to make interest payments to the investors as the bond reaches maturity. If the catastrophe is avoided, the investors see a nice return.  But if the catastrophe occurs and the policy is triggered, the fund is abruptly converted into a rainy (or earthquake-y, or tornado-y) day fund, and the investors can lose everything.  The Wall Street Journal's Ben Edwards said last month USAA's meteor bond was likely to yield 15%.  Cat bonds have exploded in popularity thanks to their hefty yields. David Cole, the CFO at Swiss Re, one of the world's largest reinsurers, recently told Bloomberg they're actually probably too popular.  The fact that no major natural catastrophes have occurred over the last two or three years doesn’t guarantee losses won’t occur in the future. Some people are chasing yield and may accept risks that they are not prepared for. Some of the new capital that comes into the market may be not as experienced or able to create a diversified portfolio. Here's a chart showing the frequency of new catastrophe bond issues. Besides yields, of course, there has also been a huge recent uptick in natural disasters.  Business Insider, data from ArtemisThe largest catastrophe bond ever was issued last month — a $1.5 billion note for protection against Florida hurricanes. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Bill Ackman was guest host of CNBC's Squawk Box this morning, and following a question about what happens next with Herbalife, Ackman said: "I believe the government will start arresting people." Ackman is famously short Herbalife, announcing his position in an enormous 342-slide presentation in December 2012.  Ackman also said that his bet against Herbalife is now mostly in the form of put options, or contracts to sell shares of the company at a future date, rather than simply holding shares of the company short. Ackman said his bet against Herbalife is notionally larger than it was when he first initiated his short on the company, and if the company went out of business today, Ackman would make about $2 billion.  In March, the FTC launched a formal investigation into the company, which Ackman called a "pyramid scheme" in his presentation.  Following disclosure of the investigation, shares of Herbalife fell below $50, but have subsequently risen to more than $60, a move Ackman attributed mostly to the company buying back stock.  FREE AppDownload
Paul EvansYou may not know this boys — and if you don't consider this your lucky day — but everyone is looking at your shoes. Your boss is looking at your shoes, your clients are looking at your shoes, and that girl is without question looking at your shoes. Unfortunately a lot of men's shoes at a decent price point are uninspiring, heartlessly put together pieces of leather meant singularly for foot protection. You should want more than that. There are alternatives to this situation. Here is one. Among certain circles of fashion conscious gentlemen, a company called Paul Evans is absolutely exploding. Founders Ben Earley and Evan Fript planned it that way. "The ideal shoe is stylish, comfortable and represents incredible value," Fript told Business Insider. "Our direct to consumer model adds the convenience factor. We do free shipping and free returns. Our competitors are missing all four of those ingredients: style, comfort, value and convenience. There are some great brands out there that make beautiful shoes, but not one brand is doing what we are doing at our price point. Period the end." Think: Warby Parker of shoes. The brand, which launched last August, is dedicated to ensuring high quality, Italian made product for the discerning eye at a lower price point than your average Ferragamo (Think: $300-$400 versus $550 to $700). Paul EvansThe Martin, $399 from Paul Evans Spring/Summer '14 "If [guys] aren't wearing stylish footwear the entire outfit looks ridiculous..." said Fript. "There really isn't an excuse anymore. " Fript and Earley, both in their late 20s, met while studying at Tulane. After that, they both went into finance. That's when they started noticing, by and large, how tired the average guy's shoe game was (and is). They knew that if they were going improve the situation for all of us (the guys, their girlfriends, society), they were going to have the make the experience convenient and efficient. Now Paul Evans is pulling in six figures of revenue, adding new shoe styles, and talking about an expansion into women's shoes. Fript is dedicated to the business full time, while Earley juggles it along with his work on Wall Street — no easy task. And if all goes well, it's one that Earley can forgo. "[In five years] We'll be dominating the menswear industry of course," said Fript, adding, "The question is, what does your outfit say about you? What kind of message are you sending? For us, and our customers, that message is power, intelligence and decisiveness." Get your message straight. Paul EvansThe Chaplin, $399 from Paul Evans Spring/Summer '14   FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoWall Street lost a close friend this week. As BI's Linette Lopez explained on Wednesday, the defeat of Eric Cantor, to primary opponent Dave Brat, meant that one of Wall Street's most reliable allies within the GOP was gone. And not just gone, but replaced by a candidate who specifically made being anti-Wall Street part of his campaign. The New Yorker's Ryan Lizza went as far as to describe Dave Brat the Elizabeth Warren of the right. On the trail, Brat lamented the fact that no Wall Street bankers went to jail for the crisis of 2008. But the story is bigger than just Cantor having close ties to the finance industry. As Jeremy W. Peters and Shaila Dewan explain in today's NYT, there are fewer and fewer members of the GOP who can be seen as reliable allies for big business. As such, priorities such as the refunding of the national highway trust fund and reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank (which provides loan guarantees to foreign buyers of domestic products, benefiting large firms like Boeing) are in a lot of trouble. When the crisis hit in 2008, populism surged, as you would expect in a period of Wall Street bailouts and sky-high unemployment. Since then, the fever has come down. But it hasn't gone away, and it increasingly looks like anger toward Wall Street was not just crisis-era phenomenon but a potent element of the new political landscape (on both the right and the left). Politically, Wall Street weathered the storm alright. But the long-term trend looks grim. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Robert GalbraithOracle CEO Larry Ellison celebrates a yacht racing win.Average CEO pay in the United States' biggest companies has been increasing at a moderate rate over the past few years, rising to $11.4 million in 2013, according to a new Wall Street Journal report. Their pay rose 5.5% over 2012, while wages and salaries for private sector workers rose 1.8% over the same period. According to the Associated Press and Equilar, the median pay package of CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies was 257 times more than the salary of their average employee, up from 181 times more in 2009. To many Americans, this appears to be a travesty and a symptom of dangerous inequality. But even though a top CEO's annual pay package may still be an unfathomable amount of money for most people, defenders of this recent increase in pay think anger toward it is misguided. They say that it is largely the result of a healthy stock market and also point to the fact that a large majority of shareholders, those who want to avoid losing money on poorly performing executives, approve of how much their companies' CEOs are making. "As the public cried for executives' pay to be tied to performance, that trend has very much happened," says Kevin Scott, co-founder/CEO of branding consulting firm the ADDO Institute. "And now, as their stocks are performing at very high levels, those CEOs are reaping the benefits." During the recession, critics were upset that executives could enjoy big salaries and bonuses as their companies performed terribly in the stock market. When the Dodd-Frank Act passed in 2010, its Wall Street reforms included a "say on pay" provision that gave shareholders the right to vote on an executive's pay package every three years. Companies' boards have responded to this regulation, and there has been a trend toward basing CEO compensation on how well a company is doing in the market relative to its competition. "They've learned to avoid investor pay irritants and red flags, such as compensation that is not linked to performance and pay perks to cover taxes executives owed," the Wall Street Journal reported in April. U.S. stocks are at all-time highs, and so it follows that many CEOs of the nation's biggest corporations are making more money than they were a few years ago. Furthermore, inequality is down from the boom years of the late 90s, where the average pay of an S&amp;P 500 CEO hit a high of 350 times that of the median household income, according to the University of Chicago's Booth School of Business. Chicago Booth professor Steven Neil Kaplan has written extensively on executive pay, and agrees that inequality is a real concern. He believes, however, that although there are of course exceptions, CEOs' pay packages are not the result of greed and excess, and argues that CEO pay should be compared with the salaries of other high-earning professionals: "If you look at CEO pay compared to the average pay of people in the top 0.1%, it's about where it was 20 years ago — in line with [that of] lawyers and private-company executives, and less than hedge-fund managers," he said last year. Kaplan also believes that there's a bigger gap in pay between big corporations' CEOs and their employees than in the 60s, 70s, or 80s partially because technology has allowed executives to control more profitable, global companies. He thinks that even though inequality was higher in 1999, people weren't rallying against the 1% because the economy was growing. Essentially, Kaplan thinks CEO pay of the nation's biggest corporations is generally fair and justified, and paying them less would not somehow raise the standard of the lower and middle classes. ADDO's CEO Scott believes that if shareholders are happy with a board's executive compensation and the company is making money, then executives are incentivized to work harder and the company should have higher returns. "A lot of people think about compensation in terms of extracting value, taking the most you can. But when CEOs focus on creating value ... and compensation follows, then everyone wins," Scott says. There has been rising shareholder approval of their companies' executive pay packages, according to the Journal. For example, in early April, 93% of companies in the Russell 3000 index approved of their CEO's pay. Those who are still outraged over CEOs' compensation want government intervention and a shift in focus from a company's shareholders and board to its employees. In late May, Democratic Sens. Mark DeSaulnier and Loni Hancock proposed a bill that would link California's corporate tax rate to executive compensation. It was defeated 19-17, but provides insight into what some critics are looking for. Currently, California corporations pay 8.84% of their income to the state, and banks pay 2% more. The senators' bill would have reduced the tax rate for companies in which the CEO's pay is less than 100 times that of a median employee, and increased on a sliding scale up to 13% for those that passed the barrier. The idea was that the threat of paying significantly more in taxes would compel companies to balance annual pay. "This is not to vilify those individuals. They work hard. They are creative. But from a historical standpoint, this is not a sustainable model for us to maintain," DeSaulnier said. ADDO's CEO Scott thinks that non-shareholders shouldn't be telling boards how much a CEO is worth. "Individuals who have no affiliation with a business or a brand — their opinion should not factor into a CEO's compensation package. Because the great thing is that we can choose as individuals to do business with whatever businesses we want to," Scott says. FREE AppDownload
Monday through Thursday at the Monarch Room in New York City, executive chef Michael Citarella prepares his off-the-menu burger, the Monarch Burger. It's 8 ounces of all-natural, ultra-premium beef ground from a single steer with a 20% fat ratio. It's served on a toasted caraway-seeded bun with aged cheddar, bibb lettuce, beefsteak tomatoes, and Monarch's special sauce. We visited Michael's kitchen, where he showed us how to make the juiciest burger right in your own home.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Cliff/flickrIt's pretty placid out there...too placid?People on Wall Street are talking volatility and how little of it there seems to be right now. Simply put, volatility is how much and how fast the price of an asset, for example a stock or a bond, changes. To track this volatility, Wall Street watches the CBOE Volatility Index, or the VIX. The VIX is one of the most closely watched indicators in the market, its just not exactly what some people think it is. According to the CBOE's website, the VIX is a, "measure of market expectations of near-term volatility conveyed by S&amp;P 500 stock index option prices."  But when the lack of market volatility becomes the overriding market meme, as it has over the last couple months, the way we talk about the VIX runs into a chicken-or-the-egg problem.  It may seem like markets are complacent or sleepy or calm right now. But as Jonathan Golub at RBC Capital Markets notes, the current "slower for longer recovery" and easy monetary policy from central banks (like the ECB cutting rates last week) is driving this market environment, not the VIX reading. The VIX reflects investor behavior but does not necessarily determine it. What the VIX really shows is how much traders anticipate the market can move in a given trading session, not really "how complacent" investors are. In a research note today, Golub gives a great crash course in what the VIX really is.  Golub writes (emphasis ours): "Many market pundits suggest that a weak reading on the VIX indicates complacency. Our work shows that the VIX (3-month implied U.S. equity volatility) is not a fear gauge, nor is it signaling complacent behavior. Rather, the data suggest a decline in realized volatility. This is consistent with more modest daily stock market gyrations. Furthermore, a 10.7 VIX is not unprecedented, having fallen into the 9s in both 1993 and 2007." When Golub talks about "realized volatility," he's talking about the day-to-day moves in the market and not necessarily bigger market events.  The VIX is called the "fear gauge," perhaps for lack of a better reading for fear than anything else. More aptly, the VIX might be called the "arbitrage gauge," a less sexy term that indicates how many opportunities a trader might have to make money in a given day. In his note, Golub notes that in low volatility environments, investment managers need to work harder for their "alpha," or performance relative to the benchmark they track. In some ways, volatility makes investors work harder for return, not allowing them take the summer off and play golf as a "complacent" market environment might imply. Golub notes that while the VIX is at historically low levels, it can still go lower from current levels. This chart from Golub shows how the VIX stacks up historically: RBC Capital Markets This chart from Golub shows how volatility moves with the economy into and out of recessions, and drifts lower in the middle of economic recoveries.  RBC Capital Markets Golub believes that lower volatility will lead to multiple expansion — which means the end of the current post-crisis bull market is still out of sight.  FREE AppDownload
In 2009, Donald Trump completed his first major tower in Chicago. The Chicago Tribune's Pulitzer Prize-winning architect Blair Kamin called it "dazzlingly luminous," and praised its public plaza as "vibrant."  Two years later, Kamin said the tower was the greatest example of how skyscraper architecture had triumphed over terror, since at 1,362 it is the tallest building built after the 9/11 attacks (as well as the tallest in the U.S. since the Willis/Sears Tower).  But Donald Trump has never been one to leave well enough alone. This month, he decided to literally stamp his name on the building, installing a giant "Trump" sign on its riverfront facade. Here's what it looks like while riding up the Chicago River: What do you think of the new Trump sign in Chicago? Weigh in here: http://t.co/Awa8p5A0dF pic.twitter.com/oXFZppmJtf You may have seen the view looking up the Chicago River looks like elsewhere. It's pretty great. Here's a "before" photo, showing pre-be-signed Trump Tower on the right: REUTERS/Darren Hauck So we're talking about a major alteration to a city that is highly protective of its architectural legacy.  Thus, Chicago is rebelling. Kamin blasted the new addition earlier last week, and again on Saturday: As brash as a cowboy's belt buckle, the freshly installed sign flaunts stainless steel letters that reach more than 20 feet high and stretch 141 feet across, or nearly half a football field. It's a self-disfiguring act that blights Trump's refined, 96-story hotel-condominium skyscraper — and threatens the riverfront's dignity and beauty.  The building's architect himself, Adrian Smith, said the sign lacks taste, according to the Wall Street Journal. Mayor Rahm Emanuel also called it "tasteless", adding that it “scars the architecture, beauty and taste” of Smith's tower. Of course, Trump is not sitting idly by. He immediately went ad hominem at Kamin, Tweeting that he was "the worst architectural critic in the business" (again, Kamin won a Pulitzer prize and recently finished a residency at Harvard). He also noted that for decades the Chicago Sun-Times' logo besmirched the riverfront just where Trump Tower stands today. Kamin doesn't dispute this, and agreed that it was ugly. But two wrongs don't make a right, he said — "...as if the absence of the old bad sign rationalized the presence of the new bad sign." Emanuel has not discussed what if anything can be done to get the sign removed, only that his administration is looking into rezoning the riverfront so prevent similar signs from springing up.  FREE AppDownload
Jess Cooper/flickr Elon Musk announced Thursday that Tesla would open up its patents for fair use.  Among other things, he said a company's relying on patents for revenue is a sign of weakness, and he slammed the state of patent controls in America. Hidden among the patents announcement was Musk's comments on automakers' use of fuel cells, which use the reaction from combining hydrogen with oxygen to generate electricity. "I don't think fuel cells are a viable path," he said. "Even the best theoretical fuel cell doesn't compete with batteries. It doesn't seem like the right move." This is a weighty statement to make. Confronted with rising costs and flagging sales, major automakers have been ramping up fuel cell production while winding down their battery-powered vehicles. Chrysler-Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne recently implored an audience not to buy any more of the firm's battery-powered 500e car because the company loses too much money on them. Hyundai is expanding its fuel-cell fleet. And Toyota just rolled up its contract for Tesla components.  "Personally, I don't care what Elon, [Renault-Nissan CEO] Carlos [Ghosn], or [Volkswagen CEO] Jonathan [Browning] say about fuel cells," Toyota SVP Bob Carter reportedly said at the Automotive News World Congress in January. "If they want to 'plug in and tune out' other technologies, that's fine."  On paper at least, Tesla is not the only EV holdout. Volkswagen plans to roll out an eGolf in the U.S. this fall. And Nissan is now testing its first commercial electric vehicle in Portland. Meanwhile, Musk said Tesla had met with BMW about collaborating on EVs. BMW confirmed the meeting but declined to talk about what was discussed. BMW's i3 is, in principle, a rival to Tesla's Model S. But the above examples are considered luxury vehicles. And Musk's goal is to make all EVs, not simply Tesla's, cost competitive with regular gas guzzlers. With the patents announcement, he has now acted on his frustration that the market for them has not grown fast enough. "He’d love to be the Microsoft Windows of a fast charging network," MLV &amp; Co.'s Carter Driscoll told BI.  As Reuters' Ed Taylor points out, many major automakers long ago agreed on making a standardized EV connector on their cars. But the rollout of charging station networks has stalled. Tesla's connector does not conform to the Big 3's standard (although it's possible to buy an adapter), but its station network is now more robust. Taylor speculates that Tesla likely talked with BMW about nudging, for starters, Germany's EV market closer to Tesla technology.     Tesla's first goal is to sell more vehicles. But in his patents announcement Musk also stressed the environmental urgency of choosing what he sees as the right technology before its too late. And he clearly does not see fuel cells as up to the task.  He's not alone. "Fuel-cells have a long road ahead to convince car buyers that the extended range is worth the distended price tag," the Chicago Tribune's Robert Duffer wrote recently. Duffer notes fuel-cell vehicles currently cost up to $100,000, and that Honda and GM have agreed to collaborate over the next seven years to try to bring down fuel cell costs.  Tesla, meanwhile, has been able to sit back and watch as the cost of lithium ion batteries has been continuously falling.  ILSR They could fall even faster if and when Tesla's gigafactory, which aims to double the total amount of lithium ion batteries in the world, finally launches. Right now markets for both are so small that it's difficult to find a reasonable gauge of sentiment. A report from Navigant research says that at current rates the two technologies combined will comprise less 2.5% of the market by 2035.  But for Musk, the contest has a foregone conclusion. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveJanet Yellen and Stanley FischerIt appears the FOMC will announce a reduction in monthly asset purchases by another $10 billion per month on Wednesday, from $45 billion to $35 billion following the FOMC meeting. There will probably be some changes to the FOMC projections, and some minor revisions to the FOMC statement. Following the release of the FOMC statement, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will hold her second post-FOMC press conference. She will probably be asked about her "six months" comment during the March Q&amp;A. As a reminder, in response to a question about the FOMC statement, she said: "[T]he language that we used in the statement is considerable period. So I, you know, this is the kind of term it’s hard to define. But, you know, probably means something on the order of around six months, that type of thing.” She was referring to this sentence in the FOMC statement: The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. Based on the current pace of tapering, this suggested to many that the first rate hike will be in Q2 or around mid-year 2015. On the statement, the FOMC will probably change the first paragraph a little. From the statement of April 30th: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in March indicates that growth in economic activity has picked up recently, after having slowed sharply during the winter in part because of adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remains elevated. Household spending appears to be rising more quickly. Business fixed investment edged down, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. This might be changed to 1) drop weather language, 2) upgrade labor market sentence, and 3) upgrade housing slightly.  The first two sentences might be changed to: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April indicates that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown further improvement; the unemployment rate has declined but remains elevated. A key sentence will be on business investment and housing (probably slight upgrade due to higher housing starts). It will also be interesting to see if there are any changes to the FOMC projections. I expect GDP to be downgraded following the very weak reading in Q1 (due to severe weather).   The unemployment rate will probably be lowered and inflation increased slightly. For review, here are the previous projections.   GDP for 2014 will be revised down: 1 Projections of change in real GDP and inflation are from the fourth quarter of the previous year to the fourth quarter of the year indicated. The unemployment rate was at 6.3% in May, so the unemployment rate for Q4 2014 will be probably be lowered again.   2 Projections for the unemployment rate are for the average civilian unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of the year indicated. As of April, PCE inflation was up 1.6% from April 2013, and core inflation was up 1.4%.   Both PCE and core PCE inflation measure will probably be revised up a little, but still be below the FOMC's 2% target.   Here are the FOMC's recent core inflation projections: Overall tapering will probably continue at the same pace, and the FOMC will be a little more positive.  But I expect there will be no change on the timing for the end of QE3 or on the first rate hike. FREE AppDownload

Bank-held consumer credit in the US continues to rise. It's impossible to tell from this weekly data what portion is credit cards debt vs. auto and other. This of course does not include any new student loans, which are all held by the federal government. With wage growth remaining tepid, the consumer is starting to put on some leverage. Sober Look FREE AppDownload
    Fitness and wellness expert Tracey Mallett visited the Business Insider offices to demonstrate yoga that you can easily incorporate into your morning routine. Mallett insists it's the perfect workout to get you ready for the workday in just a few minutes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedEarlier this month, The Chronicle of Higher Education released an article claiming that student enrollment is partly to blame for rising college costs. I was a little skeptical at first, largely because I’d seen some damning evidence showing that recent state funding cuts were the real culprit. I figured since I have the IPEDS Delta Cost Project Database on hand, I might as well take a look for myself and see what the numbers say. The results were pretty eye-opening. As many of us know, student enrollment has been steadily rising at universities across the U.S. If you take a look at the graph below, the average 4-year public university has seen a ~25% increase in full-time student enrollment between 2000 and 2010. My alma mater, the University of Central Florida, saw its undergraduate student enrollment spike from 19,781 to 37,609 students in that time period — a 90% increase in only 10 years! Randy Olson U.S. student enrollment has been skyrocketing in the past decade. What news outlets typically claim lately is that state funding to these public universities has been steadily declining in the past decade, and that these cuts have been the reason we’ve seen tuition costs rising so rapidly. Their argument isn’t entirely incorrect: The average 4-year public university has had its state funding cut significantly in the past decade, especially since the recession in 2008. Michigan State University saw its state budget cut from about $520 million in 2000 to about $380 million in 2010 — a tremendous cut by anyone’s standards. (Note: dollar amounts were adjusted for inflation to 2014 dollars.) But if you’ll notice in the chart below, the average 4-year public university is still receiving more state funding in 2010 than it did in the 1990's when adjusted for inflation. So why can’t these universities get by if they’re actually receiving more state funding than 20 years ago? Randy Olson U.S. state funding for 4-year public universities has been steadily declining since 2008. The answer, of course, is where we started: Student enrollment. If we divide the average 4-year public university’s state funding by its enrollment, we get the chart below. Skyrocketing student enrollment has made it so universities have to teach an ever-increasing number of students with an ever-shrinking budget. What’s worse is that we’re currently at a stage where public universities are receiving the least amount of state funding per student in the past 2+ decades.  Faced with the decision to cut spending and deliver lower quality education to more students, or increase tuition and maintain the quality of higher education, it’s no wonder that university administrators chose the latter.  Randy Olson U.S. state funding per student for 4-year public universities has been steadily declining since 2008. Now, I’d like to reiterate one of my points from my previous posts: College isn’t for everyone. We’ve been selling too many high school students on this New American Dream: If you work long and hard enough, and if you sacrifice enough, you will eventually graduate college without debt and land your dream job. Instead, students are graduating with an ever-increasing amount of debt and finding it hard to find a job related to their degree. Even worse, by encouraging more and more students to go to college, we’re exacerbating the college debt crisis and making college more expensive for everyone. Let’s face the facts: You don’t need a college degree to have a successful career nowadays. There are plenty of lucrative careers that don’t even require a Bachelors degree. We need to stop lying to the Millenials by telling them that they need a college degree to get ahead. FREE AppDownload
NASA/Getty ImagesOne of the many luxuries that my readers have afforded me over the years is their willingness to allow me to explore a wide variety of topics. Not all writers are so blessed, and their output and responses to it tend to stay focused on specific, often quite narrow topics. While this approach allows them to dig very deep into particular subject matter, it can reduce the total scope of their research, vision, and advice. But don’t get me wrong; these types of letters are very important. I benefit greatly from being a subscriber to a number of letters that give me detailed analysis for which I simply don’t have the time to do the research. There’s just too much going on in the world today for any of us to be an expert in more than a few areas. I seem to find the most enjoyment and elicit the best response when I try to give my readers the benefit of my broad scope of reading and research as I try to figure out how all the various and sundry pieces of the puzzle fit together. For me, the world is just that: a vast and very complex puzzle. Trying to discern the grand themes and detailed patterns as the very pieces of the puzzle go on changing shape before my eyes is quite a challenge. To try to figure out which puzzle pieces are going to have the most influence and impact in our immediate future, as opposed to languishing in the background, can be a frustrating experience. I often find myself writing about topics (such as a coming subprime crisis or recession) long before they manifest themselves. But I think it is important to see opportunities and problems brewing as far in advance as we can so that we can thoughtfully position ourselves and our portfolios to take advantage. Today I offer some musings on what I’ve come to think of as the Age of Transformation (which I have been thinking about a lot while in Tuscany). I believe there are multiple and rapidly accelerating changes happening simultaneously (if you can think of 10 years as simultaneously) that are going to transform our social structures, our investment portfolios, and our personal futures. We have had such transformations in the past. The rise of the nation state, the steam engine, electricity, the advent of the social safety net, the personal computer, the internet, and the collapse of communism are just a few of the dozens of profound changes that have transformed the world in which we live. Therefore, in one sense, these periods of transformation are nothing new. I think the difference today, however, is going to be the simultaneous nature of multiple transformational trends playing out within a very short period of time (relatively speaking) and at an accelerating rate. It is self-evident that failure to adapt to transformational trends will consign a business or a society to the ash can of history. Our history and business books are littered with thousands of such failures. I think we are entering one of those periods when failing to pay close attention to the changes going on around you could prove decidedly problematical for your portfolio and fatal to your business. This week we’re going to develop a very high-level perspective on the Age of Transformation. In the coming years we will do a deep dive into various aspects of it, as this letter always has. But I think it will be very helpful for you to understand the larger picture of what is happening so that you can put specific developments into context – and, hopefully, let them work for you rather than against you. We’re going to explore two broad themes, neither of which will be strange to readers of this letter. The first transformational theme that I see is the emerging failure of multiple major governments around the world to fulfill the promises they have made to their citizens. We have seen these failures at various times in recent years in “developed countries”; and while they may not have impacted the whole world, they were quite traumatic for the citizens involved. I’m thinking, for instance, of Canada and Sweden in the early ’90s. Both ran up enormous debts and had to restructure their social commitments. Talk to people who were involved in making those changes happen, and you can still see some 20 years later how painful that process was. When there are no good choices, someone has to make the hard ones. I think similar challenges are already developing throughout Europe and in Japan and China, and will probably hit the United States by the end of this decade. While each country will deal with its own crisis differently, these crises are going to severely impact social structures and economies not just nationally but globally. Taken together, I think these emerging developments will be bigger in scope and impact than the credit crisis of 2008. While each country’s crisis may seemingly have a different cause, the problems stem largely from the inability of governments to pay for promised retirement and health benefits while meeting all the other obligations of government. Whether that inability is due to demographic problems, fiscal irresponsibility, unduly high tax burdens, sclerotic labor laws, or a lack of growth due to bureaucratic restraints, the results will be the same. Debts are going to have to be “rationalized” (an economic euphemism for default), and promises are going to have to be painfully adjusted. The adjustments will not seem fair and will give rise to a great deal of societal Sturm und Drang, but at the end of the process I believe the world will be much better off. Going through the coming period is, however, going to be challenging. “How did you go bankrupt?” asked Hemingway’s protagonist. “Gradually,” was the answer, “and then all at once.” European governments are going bankrupt gradually, and then we will have that infamous Bang! moment when it seems to happen all at once. Bond markets will rebel, interest rates will skyrocket, and governments will be unable to meet their obligations. Japan is trying to forestall their moment with the most breathtaking quantitative easing scheme in the history of the world, electing to devalue their currency as the primary way to cope. The US has a window of time in which it will still be possible to deal with its problems (and I am hopeful that we can), but without structural reform of our entitlement programs we will go the way of Europe and numerous other countries before us. The actual path that any of the countries will take (with the exception of Japan, whose path is now clear) is open for boisterous debate, but the longer there is inaction, the more disastrous the remaining available choices will be. If you think the Greek problem is solved (or the Spanish or the Italian or the Portuguese one), you are not paying attention. Greece will clearly default again. The “solutions” have so far produced outright depressions in these countries. What happens when France and Germany are forced to reconcile their own internal and joint imbalances? The adjustment will change consumption patterns and seriously impact the flow of capital and the global flow of goods. This breaking wave of economic changes will not be the end of the world, of course – one way or another we’ll survive. But how you, your family, and your businesses are positioned to deal with the crisis will have a great deal to do with the manner in which you survive. We are not just cogs in a vast machine turning to powers we cannot control. If we properly prepare, we can do more than merely “survive.” But achieving that means you’re going to have to rely more on your own resources and ingenuity and less on governments. If you find yourself in a position where you are dependent upon the government for your personal situation, you might not be happy. This is not something that is going to happen all of a sudden next week, but it is going to unfold through various stages in various countries; and given the global nature of commerce and finance, as the song says, “There is no place to run and no place to hide.” You will be forced to adjust, either in a thoughtful and premeditated way or in a panicked and frustrated one. You choose. I should add a note to those of my readers who think, “I don’t have to worry about all this because I am not dependent on Social Security.” Wrong. A significant majority of the retiring generation does depend on Social Security and also on government-controlled healthcare, and their reactions and votes and consumption patterns will have an impact on society. Ditto for France, Germany, Italy, and the rest of Europe. The Japanese have evidently made their choice as to how to deal with their crisis. If you are a Japanese citizen and are not making preparations for a significant change in your national balance sheet and the value of your currency, you have your head in the sand. There’s no question that the reactions of the various governments as they try to forestall the inevitable and manage the crisis will create turmoil and a great deal of volatility in the markets. We have not seen the last of QE in the US, but Japan is going gangbusters with it, and it is getting fired up in Europe and China. Most people in most places will attempt to ignore the transformational wave barreling at them. After all, aren’t bond rates in Europe lower than ever? Indeed, French and Spanish bond yields are at their lowest levels since the 1700s, believe it or not. Isn’t the market telling us there isn’t a problem? If Japan is such a problem, shouldn’t the yen be going into the toilet by now? The US deficit is shrinking, and government spending is actually falling. Seems like the problems have all gone away. But the problems I’m thinking about are not ones that will manifest themselves this week. The markets did not foresee the 2008 credit crisis or the last two recessions or the European crisis, even just a few months before they hit. When the world doesn’t come to an end as predicted (and there were plenty of prognostications of utter doom last decade), we seem to get complacent and ignore the basic arithmetic that you have to have more income than you have expenditures, and to conveniently forget that debt, even at low interest rates, is compounding. And yes, it is possible to grow your way out of the problem – but only if you have real growth. Now, much of the world is structurally challenged in such a way that structural imbalances inhibit growth at the rate necessary to significantly put a dent in swelling debt levels. The Second Wave of Transformation Contrasting with this rather negative set of circumstances is the second great transformational theme that I want to explore with you, and that is the far more positive accelerating trend in a vast array of technologies. It’s not too much of a stretch to say that we’re in a race between how much wealth and value and improvement in lifestyles human ingenuity can create versus how much destruction of wealth and lifestyles governments can destroy. It is a tendency of ours to take our recent past and project it in a linear fashion into the future. That’s the way we are hardwired. And while we all acknowledge that change is happening faster today than it did 20 or 30 years ago, we really don’t expect the pace of change to quicken in the future. The next 20 years, we figure, will more or less unfold as the last 20 years has. Not a chance. That assumption is missing the second derivative of change – the acceleration of the pace of change. As a thought experiment, let us assume that we were going 40 miles an hour in 1984, and by 2004 we were going 50 miles an hour. But today we’re going 60 miles per hour. It took 20 years to get that additional 10 miles per hour (from 40 to 50) but only 10 years to go from 50 to 60 miles per hour. If we continue to accelerate, we’ll be going 100 miles an hour in another 20 years! The mobile and wireless internet, artificial intelligence and automation, the internet of things, advanced robotics, autonomous vehicles, advanced energy exploration technology, renewable energy (especially solar energy), advanced materials, the rapidly accelerating biotechnology revolution, nanotechnology, and even electronic currencies (Bitcoin et al.) are all rapidly approaching the “elbows” of their own accelerating curves. Each of these areas is going to go exponential in the next 10 to 20 years. The change I am contemplating is not simply better phones and electric cars and a few new medical therapies. I think we are in for a radical adjustment to the very mechanisms of production and the very structure of our economic and social life. Joseph Schumpeter described capitalism as the “perennial gale of creative destruction.” In an excellent essay on creative destruction, W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm lay out the paradox between the demise of old industries and the rise of new ones (emphasis mine): Schumpeter and the economists who adopt his succinct summary of the free market’s ceaseless churning echo capitalism’s critics in acknowledging that lost jobs, ruined companies, and vanishing industries are inherent parts of the growth system. The saving grace comes from recognizing the good that comes from the turmoil. Over time, societies that allow creative destruction to operate grow more productive and richer; their citizens see the benefits of new and better products, shorter work weeks, better jobs, and higher living standards. Herein lies the paradox of progress. A society cannot reap the rewards of creative destruction without accepting that some individuals might be worse off, not just in the short term, but perhaps forever. At the same time, attempts to soften the harsher aspects of creative destruction by trying to preserve jobs or protect industries will lead to stagnation and decline, short-circuiting the march of progress. Schumpeter’s enduring term reminds us that capitalism’s pain and gain are inextricably linked. The process of creating new industries does not go forward without sweeping away the preexisting order. Transportation provides a dramatic, ongoing example of creative destruction at work. With the arrival of steam power in the nineteenth century, railroads swept across the United States, enlarging markets, reducing shipping costs, building new industries, and providing millions of new productive jobs. The internal combustion engine paved the way for the automobile early in the next century. The rush to put America on wheels spawned new enterprises; at one point in the 1920s, the industry had swelled to more than 260 car makers. The automobile’s ripples spilled into oil, tourism, entertainment, retailing, and other industries. On the heels of the automobile, the airplane flew into our world, setting off its own burst of new businesses and jobs. Americans benefited as horses and mules gave way to cars and airplanes, but all this creation did not come without destruction. Each new mode of transportation took a toll on existing jobs and industries. In 1900, the peak year for the occupation, the country employed 109,000 carriage and harness makers. In 1910, 238,000 Americans worked as blacksmiths. Today, those jobs are largely obsolete. After eclipsing canals and other forms of transport, railroads lost out in competition with cars, long-haul trucks, and airplanes. In 1920, 2.1 million Americans earned their paychecks working for railroads, compared with fewer than 200,000 today. What occurred in the transportation sector has been repeated in one industry after another – in many cases, several times in the same industry. Creative destruction recognizes change as the one constant in capitalism. Sawyers, masons, and miners were among the top thirty American occupations in 1900. A century later, they no longer rank among the top thirty; they have been replaced by medical technicians, engineers, computer scientists, and others. Technology roils job markets, as Schumpeter conveyed in coining the phrase “technological unemployment”. E-mail, word processors, answering machines, and other modern office technology have cut the number of secretaries but raised the ranks of programmers. The birth of the Internet spawned a need for hundreds of thousands of webmasters, an occupation that did not exist as recently as 1990. LASIK surgery often lets consumers throw away their glasses, reducing visits to optometrists and opticians but increasing the need for ophthalmologists. Digital cameras translate to fewer photo clerks. And while your job may be one of those that will ride easily into our brave new future, the same may not be true of your stock investments. Companies show the same pattern of destruction and rebirth. Only five of today’s hundred largest public companies were among the top hundred in 1917. Half of the top hundred of 1970 had been replaced in the rankings by 2000. The chart below was recently produced by Richard Foster at S&amp;P. What it shows is that the average lifespan of companies in the S&amp;P 500 Index was about 60 years in 1960. Today they last about 15-20 years. That means we are currently replacing a stock in the index about every two weeks.  Since the index is representative of the largest US companies, that means that each year 25 big companies either can’t grow enough to keep up or are outgrown by other companies, otherwise fail or get merged; but in general terms it means that if you are invested in the S&amp;P 500 Index, it is almost guaranteed that at least 10% of the companies in your portfolio are old dogs. Blockbuster failed to recognize that the world was changing, and it was Netflixed, to coin a verb. (Actually I think it’s quite a workable word to describe what happens when a company fails to adapt. It gets Netflixed.) There is going to be a bright dividing line in the future between companies that “get” change and companies that don’t. Measuring companies by past performance and recent profit trends will no longer be enough in the Age of Transformation. No industry is going to be safe. Within the next 10 years, solar technology will develop to the point where it will be cost-competitive with fossil fuels. Currently, the solar industry is growing at 30% a year; and while solar is only 1% of US energy consumption today, if we are able to keep up that compounding effort, it it could be almost 100% in 20 years. Solar roads? Possible. And yes, we need new batteries and storage systems, but those are on the way. What will your mother’s safe utility companies do? In China they are literally 3D printing 3000-square-feet houses in a day! One company is planning to 3D print a car with 20 moving parts this fall, using advanced materials much stronger than steel and aluminum. Think AT&amp;T is safe? The competition for new wireless systems is brutal. Both Facebook and Google are developing technologies to place “high-balloons” and permanent solar drones at 65,000 feet in order to blanket the globe with Wi-Fi. I’ve read estimates that a “mere” 40,000 such devices could do the job. Netflix itself is in danger of being Netflixed by Hulu and other competitors. You can’t believe what they’re doing with robots and artificial intelligence. AI, long the poster child for disappointing technologies, is getting ready to go mainstream by the end of the decade. Just for fun, look at this RadioShack ad from 1991. Essentially everything on that page is in a smart phone. And far more powerfully. And throw in a free camera. For a tiny fraction of the prices advertised then.  Now fast-forward 20 years. I’m not sure what our can’t-live-without-it computing and communication devices will look like, but they will probably be quite small, wearable, and a million times more powerful! We will likely be (or at least some of us will be) connected to our devices in rather unique ways. (Google Glass will seem so odd and quaint, which is kind of how it is perceived now.) Think of being able to access scores (hundreds?) of expert systems waiting in the cloud with answers on any topic, so that the solutions to the problems of improving our personal lives and our businesses will be limited only by our imagination in asking the questions (and doing the work to make those answers real). And we’ll be able to direct those AI experts to work together to come up with powerful, novel solutions. The cross-fertilization of technologies will soar! Now imagine putting these tools into the hands of practically every person on earth who wants them. Along with all the other tools that are coming from all the other exponentially accelerating technologies. Especially life-altering will be the biotech breakthroughs. We won’t be physically immortal, but the things that kill most of us today will not be a problem. We will just get … older. And we will be able to repair a great deal of the damage from aging. Plan on living a lot longer and needing more money than you think. I can see many of my readers rolling their eyes and saying it won’t happen in 20 years. Or 30 or 40. Things just don’t happen that fast, you say. But that is just your old Homo sapiens brain extending the past in a linear fashion into the future. Moore’s law tells us that the number of transistors on a chip roughly doubles every two years (and the chip drops in price). But other industries, like solar tech and genome sequencing, are on exponential paths that make Moore’s law look positively snail-like. If the power of exponential change keeps working – and it will – we will see more change in the next 20 years than we saw in the last 100! I get lots of newsfeeds from services that list 3-5 new advances in some field every day. It can be overwhelming. (We have our own such free service here at Mauldin Economics, called Patrick Cox’s Tech Digest.) The time from proof of principle in the lab until rollout in the factory is dropping as well. We are now using over 200 different materials in our 3D printers, combined in ways that were never before possible. (We’re even starting to print human organs, a feat that I predict will seem like so “last-century” in 20 years). I am lucky in that I get to tag along every now and then with Pat Cox as he interviews the leading scientists and entrepreneurs in a wide range of industries. He does the groundwork in sorting through that gale of creative destruction, and I get to see the pick of his litter. One of the risks in investing in technology, by the way, is not so much that your company might not discover some new, cool tech that blows away the competition, but that someone else might come along and do it even better and cheaper before you’re even out of the starting gate. You can be right about the tech and STILL lose money. Homo rationalis The thing that is going to be overwhelming to nearly all of us is the degree of acceleration of change as the years fly by. We are not psychologically prepared for it. The only way we will be able to adapt is to ignore that primal part of our brain that says change is bad and use our frontal lobes to rationally observe and choose a path forward. Just as Neanderthals gave way to Homo sapiens, we need to evolve, at least in our thinking, to become Homo rationalis. All of our investments and our businesses – and our very lives – will be fundamentally changed, transformed by these two Super Trends we have looked at. Needless to say, we cannot turn our backs on the nitty-gritty details of the faltering global economy. We still have to read financial statements and government reports and stay on top of which central bank is doing what to whom, and to translate our research and analysis into smart, nimble investments. Simply knowing that things are going to change in technologically wonderful ways will not be enough. Acting too soon will be as frustrating and ineffective as not acting soon enough. We will continue to explore together in this letter to figure out how all the pieces of the puzzle fit. I would like to remind readers that I will be part of an exclusive webinar with investment industry heavyweights Richard Perry and Jack Rivkin on Tuesday, June 24, at 1:00 p.m. EDT / 10:00 a.m. PDT, hosted by my partners at Altegris. Richard founded Perry Capital in 1988 and is one of the originators of event-driven investing – a very interesting strategy to look at right now, given increased corporate activity this year. My friend Jack brings more than 45 years of direct investing, research, general management, and investment management experience at leading financial institutions to his role as Altegris CIO. Unfortunately, this event is limited to qualified US investors. You can go to http://www.altegris.com/mauldinreg to sign up, and someone from Altegris will call and make sure you get an invitation. I hate to limit it, but that is the rule.  (In this regard, I am president and a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, member FINRA.) Rome, Nantucket, New York, and Maine I finish this letter on the train from Chiusi (in Tuscany) to Rome, where I will spend the next four nights. Tomorrow I am tourist, probably seeing the Vatican courtesy of a connection from Martin Truax. We met up in Cortona the other night, which turned into an adventure itself, and had dinner at a delightful outdoor restaurant overlooking the old town square, with 1,000-year-old walls as our backdrop. And a nearly full moon. Then I am in business mode, meeting with a series of corporate and government leaders and attending as much as I can of a very interesting conference organized by Banca IMI (the Investment Bank of Intesa Sanpaolo Group) and intriguingly titled “Back to the Future: Are Markets and Policy Makers Ready for Normality?” They have asked Christian Menegatti of Roubini Global Research and me to speak jointly to the main topic. Looking over the attendee list of government officials, bankers, and major market players is quite daunting, but we will try to provide a few useful thoughts. My first thought on hearing the question was, “What can be considered normal in Europe?” And upon reflection I am still trying to come up with an answer. Just saying. Travel slows down this summer, with just a trip to Nantucket for a speech and to NYC for a few meetings in mid-July – and of course the annual Maine fishing trip. Even though Texas will be hot, I will enjoy being home for what will seem like an extended time. As I am thinking a lot about change, I keep wondering how it will affect my family and friends. I know the unemployment number keeps falling, but good jobs seem problematical, and so many are going to disappear even as others appear, and that will mean learning new skills. Yet so much will not change. Humans will basically remain the same even as our tools improve. Family and good times with friends will still be important. We will still want to find meaning outside of ourselves. Most of us will still enjoy watching sports or listening to our favorite music. And serving others to take care of their basic needs will never go out of style. I hope to still be writing to you in 20 years, but I am not sure what form you will consume it in. I will adapt. And you will, too – you’ll need to. They are calling Rome, so I guess that means it is time to hit the send button. It has been a relaxing two weeks, and I took much more time off than I had planned and read a few sci-fi books. I am enjoying Neptune’s Brood, by Charlie Stross, which offers a new version of money and economics in the far, far future (and is based on Bitcoin tech, for those interested). If you want to read a book about the near future and what will be possible with drones and AI, let me suggest Kill Decision, by Daniel Suarez. Frankly, it is the scariest book I have ever read. It is tech run amok, and the possibilities it raises are sadly more than real. While I do my best to be a cautious optimist, I admit to worrying about how some of our new tools will be used. God give us the wisdom… Your relaxed and ready to get back to work (tomorrow!) analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
NASAMajor negative effects of climate change are here now and they're only getting worse, as shown by recent reports from the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel On Climate Change (IPCC) and the White House among others. The greenhouse gas emissions that drive warming "now substantially exceed the highest concentrations recorded in ice cores during the past 800,000 years," the IPCC said. Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, which primarily come from the burning of fossil fuels, have risen 40% since pre-industrial times.  We've gathered some notable effects of climate change below. Unless otherwise noted, each effect assumes a temperature rise of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 F) by 2100, a number the IPCC has suggested we are "more likely than not" to exceed, and a sea level rise of 0.5 meters (1.5 feet) by 2100, about the average of all the IPCC's most recent climate scenarios. This is a conservative estimate as other studies have suggested that sea level rise will be much greater if climate change continues unmitigated. Asset destruction, forced relocations, droughts, extinctions, and all of the other bad things we're going to discuss will add up in costs to the global economy. Already the Natural Resources Defense Council estimates that the U.S. Climate Disruption Budget — i.e., stuff related to drought, storm, and growing climate disruptions — was nearly $100 billion. And that's just the start. By 2030, climate change costs are projected to cost the global economy $700 billion annually, according to the Climate Vulnerability Monitor. As climate change continues, costs will go up. Indeed, the release of a 50-billion-ton reservoir of methane from melting Arctic ice, which may advance global warming by 15-to-35 years, could by itself cost $60 trillion to the global economy, researchers told Nature last summer. Stopping the damage won't be cheap either. For instance, putting the world on a path for sustainable energy production will cost $53 trillion, according to the International Enegy Agency's World Energy Investment Outlook. International Displacement Monitering Centre"98% of all displacement in 2012 was related to climate- and weather-related events," according to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center. Climate change may become the biggest driver of displaced people, according to António Guterres, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In 2008, 36 million people were displaced by natural disasters. At least 20 million of those people were driven from their homes by disasters related to climate change like drought and rising sea level, Guterres said. He anticipates that countries in the Southern Hemisphere will be most affected by displacement in the future. If this happens, "not only states, but cultures and identities will be drowned," Guterres said at a 2009 conference. The Internal Organization for Migration estimates that 200 million people by 2050  could be forced to leave due to environmental changes. Even more alarming, a 2014 study published in Environmental Research Letters predicted that sea level rise created by a temperature increase of 3 degrees C would force more than than 600 million people to find new homes. CDCThe deadliest vector-borne disease is malaria, claiming 627,000 lives in 2012 (A vector-borne disease is one carried from one person to another through a third organism, like a blood-sucking bug). "However, the world's fastest growing vector-borne disease is dengue, with a 30-fold increase in disease incidence over the last 50 years," the World Health Organization wrote. As summers become longer, temperatures go up, and rainfall patterns change along with species patterns. Mosquitoes carrying diseases will likely have a longer season in a wider area, according to the Natural Resource Defense Council. "The same is true on a global scale: increases in heat, precipitation, and humidity can allow tropical and subtropical insects to move from regions where infectious diseases thrive into new places," they wrote. Increases in international travel, "means that the U.S. is increasingly at risk for becoming home to these new diseases." Wikimedia Commons/David S. RobertsFires burn east of San Diego in 2007.  For each one degree Celsius of warming, the area burned by western wildfires will increase by a factor of two to four, according to a report by the National Academy of Sciences. Temperatures in the southwest have increased over one degree Celsius since the 1970s, according to the National Climate Assessment. The major fire increases will occur in the northern Great Plains, the Rocky Mountains, and the Southwest, according to a 2012 report for firescience.gov. The fire season could also become several months longer.  California Department of Water ResourcesThe California water crisis, in one photo. In 2013, about 1.3 billion people lived in water scarce regions, according to one study. The researchers calculated that an additional 8% of the population would enter a state of "new or aggravated water scarcity," solely due to climate change with a temperature increase of 2 degrees C by 2100. The National Climate Assessment detailed some of our Nation's record breaking droughts. In 2011, Texas and Oklahoma saw more than 100 days over almost 28 degrees C, and also set records for hottest summer since 1895, when people began keeping reliable climate records. "Rates of water loss, due in part to evaporation, were double the long-term average. The heat and drought depleted water resources and contributed to more than $10 billion in direct losses to agriculture alone," said the Assessment. When parched areas do get rain, it does not necessarily make it into groundwater supplies since dry ground is not good at absorbing water, according to the convention report. While some places are becoming drier, others are in danger of serious floods (see 8 and 13). NOAA NCDCThe primary billion dollar disaster for coastal states is hurricanes.  Northern and interior states are hit mostly by winter storms and tornadoes, said NOAA.The recent National Climate Assessment found that Category 4 and 5 hurricanes (the strongest) have increased in frequency, intensity, and duration since the 1980s. It's not yet clear how much can be attributed human or natural causes but scientists said the "the trend is projected to continue," and that climate change is not going to help the situation moving forward. One of the factors responsible for this increase in hurricane intensity is warmer waters, which make great fuel for storms. "Hurricanes tend to be self-limiting, in that they churn up deeper (usually cooler) water that can stop them from gaining strength and also weaken them. So since global warming also warms the deeper ocean, it further helps hurricanes stay stronger longer,"according to climate writer Joseph Romm. One model predicts up to an 11% increase in hurricane intensity, as well as about a 20% rain increase within about a sixty mile radius of the storm's center (these numbers are based on a climate scenario with an average of 2.8 degree Celsius warming). Climate.gov One day, New York City, may have flood days the way it has snow days, Malcolm Bowman, oceanography professor at Stony Brook University in Long Island, warned on WNYC. The graphic above shows what the Federal Emergency Management Agency flood zone might look like should extreme sea level rise occur (2.5 feet or about 0.8 meters by 2050). "Areas in the 100-year flood zone have a 1 percent chance of being flooded annually and are particularly vulnerable to rising sea levels," NOAA said. This zone includes several areas devastated by Hurricane Sandy, including the Brooklyn-Queens Waterfront, the East and South Shores of Staten Island, South Queens, Southern Brooklyn, and Southern Manhattan. NOAAHigher sea levels mean higher tides and surges.   Since the mid-1800s, the chances of storm tide over topping the Manhattan sea wall have increased 20%, according to one recent study, as storm water levels have risen. The researchers expect the seawall to be submerged about once every four to five years. In the 19th century that only happened once every 100 to 400 years. "What we are finding is that the 10-year storm tide of your great-, great-grandparents is not the same as the 10-year storm tide of today," the lead author of the study said in the press release. Assuming a sea-level rise of .5 meters by 2070, with an extra .5 to 1.5 meters to account for storms, a 2008 study ranked the most exposed cities in the world. The analysis found staggering potential losses in cities around the world. Calcutta, India, may be the most exposed, with 14 million people and $2 trillion in assets at risk. Miami is also in big trouble with 4.8 million people and $3.5 trillion at risk. If global temperatures rise one degree C, more than 40 of the more than 700 UN world heritage sites will be seriously threatened by water within the next 2000 years, according to a study published in Environmental Research Letters. If temperatures rise 3 degrees C, that number rises to 136 sites. Historical city centers like Venice, Istanbul, and St. Petersburg, would be among those impacted. "Loss of cultural world heritage and currently inhabited places to sea-level rise," by Ben Marzeion and Anders LevermannThe rainbow scale labeled <U+0394>T, refers to a rise in degree Celsius.  The open black circles are the sites which have already been impacted today <U+0394>T = .8. While warming temperatures might initially help certain crops, the overall picture is negative. Global crop yields are slowing down as a result of events related to climate change, like reduced rainfall and higher temperatures. Wheat and maize have already been negatively affected in certain regions, as shown in the chart below. The IPCC points out several scenarios in which food and cereal prices have rapidly increased following extreme weather events since their last report in 2007. The new report predicts continued drops in global wheat and maize production, which could lead to food scarcity and political unrest. IPCC Low-lying islands in the tropics are particularly vulnerable to sea level rise. "It has been suggested that the very existence of some atoll nations is threatened by rising sea levels associated with global warming," the IPCC said. Out of the 10 nations rated with the highest protection cost compared to their GDP, eight were island nations, according to the IPCC. Some of the threats to these islands are less obvious such as "airborne dust from the Sahara and Asia, distant source ocean swells from mid high latitudes, invasive plant and animal species and the spread of aquatic pathogens," the report said. Sea-level rise leads to flooding, stronger storm surge, and erosion, which can cause even more damage to small islands and coastal regions. Climate change will also hurt, fisheries agriculture, and tourism in these regions. NOAA Coral Reef Ecosystem Division When reefs die...Climate change creates unfavorable conditions for the survival of coral reefs. If global and local reef threats continue, including those related to climate change, all reefs could be at risk of disappearing by 2050, according to the key findings of the World Resources Institute. Rising ocean acidity created by higher carbon dioxide levels means fewer carbonate ions, a key ingredient for coral skeleton building. Since pre-industrial times, ocean carbonate levels have dropped by 25% according to the report. "Corals cannot survive more than a 2 degree global average temperature increase over pre-industrial levels before coral is no longer able to replace itself faster than coral bleaching will destroy it," the report said. Temperatures are expected to rise at least that much by 2100. IPCC The Physical BasicsWelcome to our warming world. Losing the reefs will also take a major toll on tourism and industry, according to the World Wildlife Fund and Earth Hour report. Coral reefs provide tourism-related income to at least 94 countries, according to the World Resources Institute. Australia faces loses of up to $6 billion dollars and over 63,000 jobs, from Great Barrier Reef damage. Seventy percent of the 27 countries and territories most vulnerable to reef damage are small-island states. The nine countries most vulnerable to reef degradation, including Haiti and Fiji, are very dependent on the reefs and "have limited capacity to adapt to reef loss," wrote the World Resources Institute. Besides being biodiversity hotspots and holding potentials for medicine, coral reefs act as a buffer to storms and erosion. One-hundred countries could lose coastal protection along almost 100,000 miles of shoreline, according to the World Resources Institute. NOAA State Of The Coast"Along the Northern Gulf Coast, an estimated 2,400 miles of major roadway and 246 miles of freight rail lines are at risk of permanent flooding within 50 to 100 years as relative sea level is expected to rise in the range of 4 feet," according to NOAA. Since 1993, mean world sea level rise has gone up between 0.11 to 0.14 inches a year, according to NOAA. As this trend continues, coastal areas of the world will be inundated with water. This is especially disconcerting considering nearly 40% of people in the U.S. live in these coastal areas. Eight out of the 10 largest cities in the world are near the coast. (The percentages above are based on a New York Times interactive, which used a five-foot sea level rise, a number that is expected to occur within 300 years.) Using daily precipitation data from 28 models, a 2014 study published in the journal Nature projected the frequency of dry days around the world. It found that the Mediterranean Sea region, parts of Central and South America, and western Indonesia would suffer greatly, with up to 30 extra dry days a year compared to the 1960 to 1989 averageby the end of the century. "Short-term (seasonal or shorter) droughts are expected to intensify in most U.S. regions. Longer-term droughts are expected to intensify in large areas of the Southwest, southern Great Plains, and Southeast," according to the National Climate Assessment. Droughts could pose a variety of threats, the IPCC said. In areas of higher drought, water stores will not be replenished and water pollutant concentrations could rise. "Climate change is projected to reduce raw water quality and pose risks to drinking water quality even with conventional treatment."U.S. Drought MonitorThis month, nearly 15% of the country was in extreme drought, according to NOAA. As temperature rises many of our current wine producing regions will become unsuitable for vineyards. The number above uses a 1.8 degree C warming and is from a 2012 study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Problems could be compounded as owners relocate their vineyards to higher elevations — an ecosystem destroying process. Establishing a vineyard requires "removal of native vegetation, typically followed by deep plowing, fumigation with methyl bromide or other soil-sterilizing chemicals, and the application of fertilizers and fungicides," said the study. Since "[v]iticulture is famously sensitive to climate," the study said, it "may be illustrative of conservation implications of shifts in other agricultural crops." While not all agree with the percentages above, scientists have shown repeatedly that climate change will cause a variety of habitats to become unsuitable for their current inhabitants. This will send many plants and animals in search of new homes, invading those of others. Wikimedia/The Canadian Organization for Tropical Education and Rainforest Conservation (COTERC)He may soon have way more sisters than he bargained for.Because many reptiles rely on ambient temperatures to regulate physiological processes, they will be directly affected by global temperature change. For turtles, nest temperature determines the sex of the offspring. A cooler nest hatches only males while a warmer nest is all females. Changes in sex ratio could effect the potential to produce offspring as well as the evolutionary fitness the species, according to the Forest Service, both factors which do not bode well for the survival of the reptiles. One study in the Cape Verde Islands found that as rising temperatures heated sands in which sea turtles laid their eggs, the nest produced more females. While this may lead to an initial increase in population, 100 years in the future it could spell disaster, study author Graeme Hays told The Guardian. "You have so few males left that it's likely to be a problem. There will be heaps of female but not enough males to fertilize all those eggs," he said. Animals with similar problems could include other turtles, alligators, crocodiles, and some lizards. NASA Earth ObservatoryThis map compares the summer thunderstorm potential change from 1962-1989 with 2073-2099.One study found that when greenhouse gases increased, conditions prime for intense thunderstorms in the eastern and southern U.S. also increased. Other climate studies have suggested there will be "robust increases in the occurrence of severe thunderstorm environments" in the eastern U.S., often occurring before the 2 degrees C global warming baseline. One key factor that fuels thunderstorm formation is how much "raw energy" — called convective available potential energy or CAPE — is available. CAPE is affected by how much heat and moisture is in the air, as well as that air's tendency to rise, explains NASA's Earth Observatory. "CAPE can provide storms with the raw fuel to produce rain and hail, and vertical wind shear can pull and twist weak storms into strong, windy ones," meteorologist Harold Brooks of NOAA's National Severe Storms Laboratory told the Earth Observatory. Signs indicate that CAPE will be increasing as the climate warms. USGSWhat it looks like when a glacier dies. Over one billion people worldwide rely on glaciers and snow for freshwater as they melt, according to the IPCC. When glaciers are in equilibrium with the climate, they act as valuable and stable sources of freshwater for many regions including the Andes, Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and parts of India and China. They store water during cold or wet years and release it during warm years as they melt. "As glaciers shrink, however, their diminishing influence may make the water supply less dependable," the report said. Because glaciers are currently out of equilibrium, "total meltwater yields from stored glacier ice will increase in many regions during the next decades but decrease thereafter," the IPCC said. This can lead to floods in the immediate future, but result in a lack of meltwater in the long-term. Adverse conditions associated with a changing climate could worsen Southern California's air quality, the state's clean air progress report suggested. "The higher number of extreme heat days and heat waves predicted to occur as a result of climate change will increase smog formation, increase the number and severity of wildfires, worsen heat island effects in urban areas, and increase adverse health effects due to the public's increased exposure to harmful air pollutants," the report said. Air pollution has been linked to a to a long list of health ailments, including asthma, heart and lung damage, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, and heatstroke, the report noted. Fine particulate matter is the "greatest risk to public health." This pollutant has been linked to heart disease, premature mortality and perhaps even diabetes, autism, and cognitive impairment. When the IPCC modeled about 1,000 marine species, it found almost a 50% decrease in catch in certain areas by 2060, using a scenario with a estimated 2.8 degree C temperature change. These analysis were without even considering ocean acidification or overfishing. IPCC Danielle Byerly, University of FloridaAn artist's rendering of the early horse Hyracotherium (right) alongside a modern-day horse. Researchers found that Hyracotherium body size decreased 19 percent during a global warming event about 53 million years ago.Fossil evidence tells us that when the planet was last at its warmest — about 55 million years ago during the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum — many animals got smaller. For example: One horse, Hyracotherium, usually the size of a small dog, shrunk in size by 30%. The horse returned to its normal size when the temperature went back down. But two million years later, during another smaller global warming event, Hyracotherium shrunk by 19%. "The fact that it happened twice significantly increases our confidence that we're seeing cause and effect," said University of Michigan Paleontologist Philip Gingerich, who presented his preliminary findings at the end of 2013. Past global warming, he said, appears to have caused many mammals to shrink. Scientists are now starting to see history repeat itself. Studies have shown that many animals, including polar bears and some reptiles, have started shrinking as carbon dioxide levels increase. A report from the World Food Program expects extreme weather events like floods, droughts, forest fires, and tropical cyclones to damage farmlands, threatening food security for millions of people. Climate impacts on crop yields will increase the number of malnourished children by around 11 million in Asia, 10 million in Africa, and 1.4 million in Latin America, the report said. By 2050, crop yields in Asia are expected to fall by 50% for wheat 17% for rice compared to 2000 levels, according to the report. This will threaten billions of people who rely on agriculture for their livelihoods. FREE AppDownload
There’s probably little disagreement about how they actually work. Take the Direxion Daily S&amp;P500 Bear 3X Shares (SPXS) for example. $1 invested gives you three times the inverse exposure to daily swings in the equity market. So if stocks are -0.25%, you should be up a little less than 0.75% (there are fees, after all). The leverage can sound attractive, but comes with an insidious long term result. Because the ETF targets constant leverage of 3X, it is always having to rebalance. And this rebalancing is always in the direction of the market’s most recent move; if the equity markets falls (causing the ETF to rise in value) its leverage will drop below the target of 3X. At day’s end it will need to increase its short equity position by selling stocks (or index futures) at lower prices. Conversely, if the market rises causing the ETF to lose money it will become over leveraged and will need to reduce its short position by buying stocks, just after they’ve gone up. The perhaps surprising result of this is that given enough time and enough up and down moves, the value of the ETF will inexorably trend towards 0. There are certain special cases in which this may be delayed or (theoretically anyway) not happen, such as an underlying market that moves steadily in one direction with no fluctuations (i.e. the rebalancing causes less harm), but in the real world such things don’t exist. And it can lose money over time even if the underlying equity market moves as the holder expected (i.e. falls) because of the rebalancing. It is, curiously, an investment product that will cost you money with greater certainty the longer you hold it. This is fully understood by the providers and Direxion’s prospectus (for those who read such things) provides ample warning that this is a short term, “tactical” fund. Although they do use the word “investment” as it relates to “daily investment returns”, they don’t describe it as an investment product. So why do such things exist? The answer, of course, is that investors are consenting adults and if full disclosure is given then who’s to say that an “investor” (since real investors couldn’t possibly use these) shouldn’t be allowed to buy one? In aggregate, the holders of inverse ETFs will lose money with virtual certainty, but of course they won’t all lose money. In this regard, they are very much like blackjack or sports betting. A minority of users with skill (or luck) can profit but we all know that the casino always wins. But at least visitors to the blackjack table or the track presumably don’t for one minute confuse what they are doing with investing. Do inverse ETFs users possess the same sense of reality? Such products no doubt sell themselves, such is the interest in short term market direction and tools with which to bet on it. In fact, one would hope that being sold by themselves is the only way they are ever used. For while Direxion and other such providers can point to the ample disclosures in their documents which almost (but not quite) advise you to not use them at all, what of the brokers or advisers who recommend them to their clients? It’s hard to fathom why anyone would recommend that a client risk money in something that really is structured like a gambling bet. And in fact the Investment News article referenced above notes that many brokerage firms place strict limits on sales of leveraged ETFs. For those that still recommend their clients use them, one must presume that their business and demand for commissions need only satisfy the minimal standards of (1) is it legal, and (2) did the client agree. The CFA Institute’s Future of Finance initiative which, among other things seeks a finance industry that puts investors first, clearly has plenty of opportunity.     The post Are Leveraged ETFs a Legitimate Investment? appeared first on SL-Advisors. Read more posts on In Pursuit of Value » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral view of U.S. Federal Reserve building in WashingtonInvestors will look to the Federal Reserve for reassurance in the coming week, with little economic data to assuage their concerns over the strength of the global recovery, amid signs Iraq may be sliding into civil war. The Fed, which wraps up a policy meeting on Wednesday, is expected to keep steadily reducing its massive bond-buying stimulus by $10 billion per month. Financial markets will be listening out for any hints on when the U.S. central bank might begin raising interest rates. "The Federal Reserve is preparing to move to the second step of the monetary policy exit. With the tapering of asset purchases virtually on auto pilot – QE3 is projected to end in late summer or early autumn – the focus is gradually shifting towards actual rate hikes," Unicredit said in an investor note. It said the notion that U.S. monetary policy has reached a turning point could be strengthened if the Fed policymakers' median rate forecast for the end of 2016 stays at 2.25 percent, where it stood in March, up from 1.75 percent in December. The matrix of dots for when each rate-setter expects policy to begin tightening - and how quickly - will be keenly scrutinized, as will any comments about rate hikes or slack in the economy from Fed Chair Janet Yellen, who speaks after the results of the meeting are released. While the world's largest economy got off to a weaker than expected start this year, many analysts believe the underlying trend for growth remains solid. Global stocks are likely to stay on the back foot due to concerns over a growing radical Islamist insurgency in Iraq. U.S. President Barrack Obama said he didn't rule out air strikes to help Iraq counter the insurgency, but later said he needed several days to determine how the United States would react. The escalating violence in Iraq drove oil prices to a nine-month high on Friday. BOE MINUTES The monetary policy outlook will also be in focus in Britain after Bank of England Governor Mark Carney stunned the markets by saying rates could rise sooner than financial markets expect. His comments, which put the British central bank out ahead of the world's other major policy guardians on the monetary tightening front, pushed sterling to near five-year highs against the dollar on Friday. The Bank publishes the minutes of its June policy meeting on Wednesday, which will be closely watched for signs of any further division among its members on rates, and several of its policymakers will be speaking during the week. The Bank's new Financial Policy Committee, which has the power to rein in an overheating housing market, meets on Tuesday, although the meeting minutes will not be published for a couple of weeks. Meanwhile, the ECB's fight against deflation via interest rate cuts and measures aimed at stimulating lending to crisis-hit companies, means few expect further action from it for now. "The ECB has bought itself some quiet time, maybe for the remainder of this year. It doesn't want to be pushed in to any additional movements before then," economist at Deutsche Bank Gilles Moec said. There will be few key economic indicators from the euro zone, with the German Zew index for June in focus after better-than-expected industrial output data and rising confidence in the bloc suggesting growth is accelerating in the second quarter. Bond markets will look to absorb debt supply from Spain, Germany and France after a heavy issuance last week including 9 billion euros of a new 10-year bond from Spain and paper from France, Italy, Germany and Portugal. Yield-hungry investors will be watching for news of a possible debt sale by Cyprus just a year after it bailed in bank depositors and imposed capital controls. That would make it the last euro zone member that took financial aid to make a market comeback. The Bank of Japan publishes the minutes of its monthly policy meeting on Friday but is not expected to have moved from an optimistic viewpoint that the country is in the midst of a virtuous cycle of employment and output growth, analysts say. "There is some support to this theory. The unemployment rate remains very low and job offers to applicants ratios are moving steadily higher. Add to this the slight improvement in cash wages, and the firmer backdrop to the Japanese economy than that prevailing back in 1997," said ING in an investors note. China will issue foreign direct investment data on Tuesday and house price figures on Wednesday. A slowdown in property inflation is likely to stoke fears about a deepening downturn in the sector. FREE AppDownload
