GoProNick Woodman, CEO and founder of GoProHardware startups don't nearly get enough attention. Companies that build apps and Web services get all the attention but more and more companies are starting to build physical products you can buy and use.  In light of Facebook buying virtual reality company Oculus VR for $2 billion, we decided to shed some light on other hardware companies in Silicon Valley doing incredible things.  FREE AppDownload
AppleCompetition in the streaming music space is quickly reaching a fever pitch. Only a few years ago, this high-growth space was only the dominion of streaming radio upstart Pandora Media  (NYSE: P). However, fast-forward to today, and the space is occupied by a whole host new entrants, both large and small, that threaten to sink Pandora's growth story once and for all. As has always been the case in digital music, Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) is the 800-pound gorilla in the room giving it the clout to challenge, and possibly beat, even those with a massive head start like Pandora. However, Pandora's shares have largely continued to thrive even after Apple released what many believed would be a Pandora-killer in its iTunes Radio last year. Apple's potential to dominate streaming music like it already controls digital downloads became all the more apparent when a recent report surfaced, which, not-so-coincidentally, sent Pandora shares substantially southbound as well. Apple to double down on radio?According to a recent report from Billboard, Apple is in talks with senior radio executives to expand the scope of its iTunes Radio service into on-demand radio in addition to the current radio-based model found in iTunes Radio. This would help extend Apple's streaming presence to an increasingly popular part of the streaming market that's currently dominated by the likes of Spotify but has recently seen new entrants like Beats Audio also move into the space. In addition, the Billboard report also claims that Apple also considering making a version of its iTunes software available via Google's Android app store.  In sizing up both of these possible moves, it appears Apple is at least in part motivated to counteract the possible erosive effect other streaming players like Pandora and Spotify have had on music downloads, much to Apple's chagrin. For example, one data provider recently estimated that digital music downloads have declined 13% year over year. Apple appears to be looking for new channels like on-demand streaming and Android app store distribution to stymie these trends. Creators of their own demise? Make no mistake, Apple's clout, especially the intersection of media and technology where Pandora and Spotify each sit, is hard to overstate. One major advantage Apple holds is its clout among the various record labels to whom Apple's iTunes has provided billions of dollars in download fees since it launched in 2001. Apple also holds a key advantage as it controls a sizable chunk of the software platforms on which Pandora and Spotify operate. According to reports, Apple has been considering separating out iTunes Radio into an independent app that it could prominently position in the coming update to its iOS mobile software. This again highlights how Apple holds more cards in its ability to influence its own streaming destiny, especially when compared to names like Pandora and Spotify. The deck is stacked in Apple's favor, to an extent. Both Pandora and Spotify are strong brands that have both established early leads and loyal user bases in their respective specialties within the streaming music space. As such, it stands they could each weather Apple's entry in this space to some degree. But as the company that looms largest in digital music, Apple taking any of these aforementioned steps could create meaningful headwinds for growth companies like Pandora or Spotify, and that's certainly worth watching closely as it plays out in the months ahead.  The biggest thing to come out of Silicon Valley in yearsIf you thought the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad were amazing, just wait until you see this. One hundred of Apple's top engineers are busy building one in a secret lab. And an ABI Research report predicts 485 million of them could be sold over the next decade. But you can invest in it right now... for just a fraction of the price of AAPL stock. Click here to get the full story in this eye-opening new report. Andrew Tonner owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Apple, Google, and Pandora Media. The Motley Fool owns shares of Apple, Google, and Pandora Media. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA general view of Shanghai's financial district of Pudong is seen from the top of the Shanghai Tower, which is undergoing construction, in this August 2, 2013 file photo. By Clare Jim and Umesh Desai HONG KONG (Reuters) - China's property developers are turning to commercial mortgage-backed securities and looking at other alternative financing as creditors grow more discriminating in the face of rising concerns about the country's real estate and debt markets. Bond buyers are shying away from second-tier developers because property sales have cooled as the economy slows. The expected bankruptcy of a local developer and the country's first domestic bond default this month have heightened scrutiny of borrowers. The property companies have a renewed sense of urgency to raise capital after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Janet Yellen indicated the central bank, which sets the tone globally for borrowing costs, may raise interest rates as early as the spring of 2015, sooner than many investors had anticipated. Higher rates mean higher borrowing costs, both for the companies and for their home-buying customers. Highlighting the search for alternative funding avenues, property fund MWREF Ltd earlier this month issued the first cross-border offering of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) since 2006. The offer was priced at a yield lower than two dollar bonds issued last week, IFR, a Thomson Reuters publication, said. "The market will see more of these products," said Kim Eng Securities analyst Philip Tse in Hong Kong. "It's getting harder to borrow with liquidity so tight in the bond market. It's getting harder for smaller companies to issue high-yield bonds." The notes, issued through a MWREF subsidiary, Dynasty Property Investment, were ultimately backed by rental income from nine MWREF shopping malls in China and were structured to give offshore investors higher creditor status than is normally the case with foreign investors. MWREF is managed by Australian investment bank Macquarie Group Ltd &lt;MQG.AX&gt;, which declined to comment. The head of investor relations for Beijing Capital Land &lt;2868.HK&gt;, which is mainly focused on middle- to high-end residential development and high-end commercial property, said the company would look at new ways to fund its business. Beijing Capital was the first Hong Kong-listed developer to issue dollar senior perpetual capital securities last year, an equity-like security that does not dilute existing shareholders. "As market liquidity is changing constantly, we have to keep adapting and exploring different funding channels," said Bryan Feng, the head of investor relations. Chinese regulators last week allowed developers Tianjin Tianbao Infrastructure Co. &lt;000965.SZ&gt; and Join.In Holding Co. &lt;600745.SS&gt; to offer a private placement of shares, opening up a fund raising avenue that had been closed for nearly four years. New rules were also unveiled last week allowing certain companies to issue preferred shares, including companies that use proceeds to acquire rivals. "As liquidity tightens and developers see more pressure...they may consider M&amp;A via preferred shares," said Macquarie analyst David Ng. FINANCING RISKS Heightened fears over the outlook for China's property developers were triggered by news this month that home price inflation is cooling and that Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Co, based in eastern Zhejiang province, was on the brink of bankruptcy. China also recorded its first domestic bond default when loss-making Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Co Ltd &lt;002506.SZ&gt; failed to make an interest payment, raising doubts about the assumption high-yield debt carried a government guarantee. The market jitters have slowed the pace of new debt issuance and prompted investors to demand bigger premiums to risk their capital. As of March 15, Chinese developers had issued 15 U.S. dollar bonds raising $7.1 billion so far this year, compared with 23 issues that raised $8.1 billion in the year-earlier period. "That said, quite a number of developers have demonstrated the ability to access alternative markets, such as the offshore syndicated loan markets as another means of raising capital," said Swee Ching Lim, Singapore-based credit analyst with Western Asset Management. Offshore syndicated loans for Chinese developers have reached $1.17 billion so far in 2014, compared with $9.8 billion for all of last year, Thomson Reuters LPC data shows. Demonstrating the change in investor sentiment, bonds issued by Kaisa Group in January with a yield of 8.58 percent are now yielding 9.5 percent. The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Times Property issued a 5-year bond this month, not callable for 3 years, to yield 12.825 percent. A similar instrument from China Aoyuan Property &lt;3883.HK&gt; in January was priced at 11.45 percent. Both Kaisa and Times are in the B-rating "junk" category, which is four notches above a default rating. Property prices on the whole are still rising, but there are signs of stress in second and third tier cities. Early indications of property sales in March, traditionally a high season, were not promising, although final figures for the month would not be available until April, said Agnes Wong, property analyst with Nomura in Hong Kong. That may mean developers have to cut prices and investor sentiment may worsen. "This is hurting the cash flows of the smaller players," she said. The market stresses ultimately could lead to the reshaping of the property development sector, said Kenneth Hoi, chief executive of Powerlong Real Estate Holdings Ltd &lt;1238.HK&gt;, a mid-sized commercial developer. "In the future, only the top 50 will be able to survive," he said during a briefing on the company's earnings on March 13. "Many small ones will exit from the market." (Additional reporting by Nethelie Wong at IFR; Editing by Emily Kaiser and Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner included the founding dates for some of the world's stock markets in a recent note to clients. In case you didn't, the stock market wasn't born on Wall Street. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 seems to have absorbed the prospect for rate hikes by the Federal Reserve (Fed) beginning as soon as the middle of next year reasonably well. While stocks slid on Friday, March 21, early in the day they hit a new all-time intraday high a day after Fed Chair Yellen indicated a potential time frame for the Fed to begin rate hikes after ending their bond- buying program. Since stocks seemed to have a relatively mild reaction to the Fed news last week, it begs the question: what is priced into the markets about future economic growth and inflation? The labor market is a lagging indicator of economic health. It tends to peak and trough after a turn in the broad economy. Therefore, stocks tend to react ahead of changes in the job market. In fact, stocks tend to lead future job growth by about six months, as you can see in Figure 1. The S&amp;P 500 Index is up over 20% from a year ago. Given the historical relationship between stocks and jobs, this suggests about a 2% year-over-year growth rate for net new jobs or a pace of about 230,000 per month. This would mark a pickup from the 186,000 average of the past three years and a big jump from the 129,000 three-month average. LPL Financial Historically, in the bond market a rise in long-term yields relative to short-term yields is an indication that investors are expecting stronger economic growth. The bigger the difference in these yields, in technical terms known as the slope of the yield curve, the stronger the expected pace of growth for the economy. This relationship can be seen in Figure 2, where the difference in yields led growth in the economy, as measured by gross domestic product (GDP), over the next two years (with the exception of the late 1990s). While short-term yields have not changed much in recent years and remain pinned down by the Federal Reserve (Fed) at under 0.1%, the yield on the longer-term 10-year Treasury note rose by about one percentage point from around 1.6% in the fourth quarter of last year to 2.7%. The increase in the slope of the yield curve may suggest bonds are pricing in a better growth outlook. When viewed in the historical context seen in Figure 2, the yield curve suggests bonds are pricing in a rebound to 3–4% GDP in the years ahead, well ahead of the growth seen, on average, over the past couple of years. LPL Financial Commodity prices tend to lead trends in inflation since they respond quickly to increases in demand and to weather-related impacts on supply, which are subsequently passed through to overall prices. The 13 commodities measured by the Commodity Research Bureau Raw Industrials Index include raw materials or early manufacturing stage products such as copper scrap, rubber, and cotton. These commodity prices have historically tended to lead inflation, measured by the Consumer Price Index, by about six months, as you can see in Figure 3. This would mark a reversal in the downtrend in inflation, known as disinflation, seen for the past couple of years and may support the move by the Fed to end stimulus and eventually raise interest rates. LPL Financial The stock, bond, and commodities markets appear to have priced in a return to a positive environment for investors consisting of stronger economic and job growth accompanied by a return of some mild inflation. In order to preserve the gains in the stock market, steepness of the yield curve, and commodity prices, market participants need to see the economy progress towards these outcomes. The first quarter took a stumble towards those ends with economic data showing signs of weakness. The markets have generally paused over the past few months, waiting to see if the extreme weather or other temporary factors were the cause or if the economy has veered from the course market participants had been expecting. The gains we expect for 2014 are dependent upon future economic data supporting the views already largely embedded in the markets. We look forward to economic data points rebounding and are encouraged by the recent trend in weekly data (such as initial claims for unemployment benefits, commercial and industrial loans, and shipping traffic) as the weather has become less severe. However, any faltering in the economy, even if accompanied by a shift by the Fed to continue or accelerate their bond-buying program, would likely lead to markets disappointing as they move to price in a different, and weaker, economic outlook. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
You get a call from someone claiming to be with the IRS. The person probably uses a very common surname, making it harder to identify who he or she actually is. The caller knows the last four digits of your Social Security Number, and your caller ID will probably read as an IRS toll-free number. You even hear a call center in the background. The caller will threaten you with jail time and the loss of your driver's license before hanging up on you. You'll then get a call from the local police department, or the DMV, again citing numbers squaring with that claim. Unsurprisingly, the caller will demand that you pay immediately with a pre-loaded debit card that is, more or less, untraceable. It's a scam, and it mostly targets recent immigrants and people with a prior history of owing the IRS. So be careful when you answer the phone: the IRS reports that this is the biggest year for phone scams yet. All told, the scam described above has snared 20,000 taxpayers already to the tune of $1 million... and it's not even April. J. Russell George, the Treasury Inspector General for the Tax Administration is calling it "the largest scam of its kind that we've ever seen." If you get a call from the IRS and you know or suspect that you owe taxes, call the agency at 800-829-1040. The IRS has among some of the best trained customer service people out there. If you have no reason to suspect that you owe, call the Federal Trade Commission immediately at 800-366-4484. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar The office of Democratic New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo did not respond to multiple requests from Business Insider on Tuesday and Wednesday asking about his position on a pair of bills that would ban auto manufacturers from selling cars directly to consumers in the state. A similar ban in New Jersey made headlines earlier this month after Tesla Motors, which employs a direct sales model, launched a P.R. offensive against Gov. Chris Christie accusing his administration of making a "backroom" deal with the auto dealers' lobby to have the Motor Vehicles Commission approve a measure banning direct sales in the Garden State. In New York, bills that would ban direct auto sales have been introduced in both the State Senate and Assembly.  If the bills were approved in both houses, they would move to Cuomo's desk and he would have the opportunity to veto before they become state law. Legislators could also put a direct sales ban in the state budget, which is due by April 1. However, a direct-sales ban cannot be placed in the budget without Cuomo signing off on it.  The Assembly bill has been voted out of committee, which means it could come to the floor for a vote. In the Senate, the direct sales ban has yet to be voted out of committee. The sponsors of both bills did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Tuesday.      FREE AppDownload
Housing is local again! Our consultants and clients see vastly different housing markets all across the country. I categorize them into three groups (booming, busting, and muddling) in this article and provide anecdotes from our team members—but it is really more complicated than that. Booming Markets I find three primary reasons that certain housing markets are booming: Busting Markets The press loves negative news, so expect more national attention devoted to the following three categories of markets: Muddling Along Markets While national headlines have been somewhat negative since sales are not as strong as last year's Fed-and investor-induced spring, January and February sales have improved at slightly better than normal rates. Here are a few other trends we are seeing: In summary, the national housing market continues to improve, but local market conditions vary dramatically. Whatever your interests, be sure to do your homework. FREE AppDownload
King's stock closed down 15.56% from its IPO price of $22.50 a share.  It was one of the biggest day-one drops for a newly listed U.S. company in the past six months, Bloomberg reports. It was also the worst trading debut this year, according to data from Renaissance Capital. "It almost stood no chance,” analyst Scott Sweet told MarketWatch. “It wasn’t surprising. It’s getting pounded.” He said there appeared to be “a hope for a pop that never materialized” as “traders immediately pulled the trigger.” Other big day-one drops in the last six months include tech companies Chegg, and Violin Memory. FREE AppDownload
GallaghersNew York restaurateur Dean Poll likes classics. He eats at the Four Seasons and the 21 Club. He owns the Boathouse in Central Park. To him, it's not worth it unless it's a legend. So when Poll had the opportunity to purchase Gallagher's, an 85-year-old steakhouse founded by a former Ziegfeld girl and a gambler on West 52nd Street, he took it. "There are very few restaurants that have been around for 80 years like Gallagher's has," Poll told Business Insider. "I wanted something you couldn't replace." But the place, famous for putting its meat locker on display for all diners to see, needed a lot of work. "Tastes change. There's old and well-preserved and there's old and not well-preserved," said Poll. Before its revamp, Gallagher's was the latter. Poll went to work. Most of the staff he kept. The pictures of sports figures, politicians, and other famous people who have patronized the restaurant over decades he reframed. The bar is just where it's always been. There are new twists, though. The lighting gives the restaurant a brighter, cleaner feel than before. Poll added a raw bar to the menu, and the kitchen is open. That raw bar really kicks up the menu. The hamachi crudo was an especially delightful surprise on a menu mostly made up of steakhouse classics — mashed potatoes, creamed spinach, porterhouse for two. Nothing new there, but everything executed with a steady dismount. That's as it should be. Most of the staff seemed as if they could serve at Gallagher's with their eyes closed. This is not a place to ask for complicated exceptions or additions; this is a place where you do the dance. If you do it, you'll like it. So now Poll is working on the private space upstairs and on launching Gallagher's lunch menu on April 2. "Everyone says it feels like Gallagher's," he said. "I used to get calls all the time saying, 'I hope you don't mess it up.'" He didn't. Check out a few shots of the Gallagher's new dining room and famous meat locker below: Gallaghers  Gallaghers Gallaghers FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookThe Federal Housing Finance Agency has reached a $9.3 billion settlement related to mortgage-backed securities with Bank of America, Countrywide Financial, and Merrill Lynch, the housing regulatory agency said in a release.  Here's the release:  Washington, D.C. – The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, today announced it has reached a settlement in cases involving Bank of America, Countrywide Financial, Merrill Lynch, and certain named individuals totaling approximately $5.83 billion. Bank of America Corporation owns Countrywide and Merrill Lynch. The cases alleged violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with private-label, residential mortgage-backed securities (PLS) purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac between 2005 and 2007. Allegations of common law fraud were made in the Countrywide and Merrill Lynch cases. The Agreement provides for an aggregate payment of approximately $9.33 billion by Bank of America that includes the litigation resolution as well as a purchase of securities by Bank of  America from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “FHFA has acted under its statutory mandate to recover losses incurred by the companies and  American taxpayers and has concluded that this resolution represents a reasonable and  prudent settlement of these cases. This settlement also represents an important step in helping  restore stability to our broader mortgage market and moving to bring back the role of private firms in providing mortgage credit. Many potential homeowners will benefit from increasing certainty in the marketplace and that is very much the direction we should be taking,” said FHFA Director Melvin L. Watt. Of the 18 PLS suits filed in 2011, FHFA now has claims remaining in seven suits against various  institutions and remains committed to satisfactory resolution of these pending actions. The settlement agreement regarding private label securities claims between FHFA and Bank of America involves the following cases: Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Bank of  America Corp., et al., No. 11 Civ. 6195 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y.); Federal Housing Finance Agency v.  Countrywide Financial Corp., et al., No. 12 Civ. 1059 (MRP) (C.D. Cal.); Federal Housing  Finance Agency v. Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., Inc., et al., No. 11 Civ. 6202 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y.); as well  as one Merrill Lynch security in Federal Housing Finance Agency v. First Horizon National  Corp., No. 11 Civ. 6193 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y.).FHFA efforts are in line with other government initiatives to resolve PLS matters with Bank of America.    FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Kenneth Lewis, who turned Bank of America Corp into the nation's largest bank but also saddled it with enormous losses tied to mortgages, has settled a lawsuit accusing him of deceiving investors about one of his biggest acquisitions: Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Lewis, the bank's chief executive from 2001 to 2009, will pay $10 million to resolve claims by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman that he misled shareholders and the government in order to complete the merger, which closed on January 1, 2009, according to a copy of the agreement obtained by Reuters. New York accused Lewis of concealing Merrill's mounting losses from Bank of America shareholders prior to a December 5, 2008 vote on the merger, and manipulating the U.S. government into providing an extra $20 billion bailout by falsely claiming that he would back out of the merger without the money. As part of the agreement, Lewis, 66, will also be barred for three years from serving as an officer or director of a public company. It is unclear whether insurance will cover his payment. Bank of America will pay $15 million to resolve its portion of the lawsuit by Schneiderman, who inherited the case from his predecessor, Andrew Cuomo, now New York's governor. The bank also will adopt reforms, such as creating a special committee to review large acquisitions, according to a separate settlement agreement obtained by Reuters. Both payments would cover the costs of Schneiderman's investigation, and neither Lewis nor Bank of America are admitting wrongdoing or paying damages. Nonetheless, the settlement with Lewis, who has kept a low public profile since leaving Bank of America, would mark one of the rare times that an executive at a major U.S. bank has been held legally responsible in a case alleging wrongful conduct linked to the 2008 global financial crisis. "Individuals - not just corporations - should be held accountable for their actions," Schneiderman said in a statement confirming the settlements. A third defendant, former Bank of America chief financial officer Joe Price, has yet to settle, Schneiderman's office said. RED INK Bank of America agreed to buy Merrill Lynch for an estimated $50 billion on September 15, 2008, the day before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc went bankrupt, in a hurried merger that won Lewis praise at the time and likely prevented Merrill's demise. Losses at Merrill, however, mounted ahead of a December 5, 2008 vote by Bank of America shareholders on the merger, ultimately reaching $15.84 billion in the fourth quarter of that year. Despite the red ink, Merrill paid out $3.62 billion of bonuses, and New York claimed that Bank of America misled shareholders about the timing and criteria for the payouts. The merger closed six months after Lewis had bought the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp. The two purchases put great stress on Bank of America's balance sheet, and led to an extra $20 billion federal bailout in mid-January, by which time Merrill's losses also became known. The bank had already taken $25 billion from the government. The $45 billion has since been repaid. MARTIN ACT Cuomo had sued Lewis, Price and Bank of America under the Martin Act, the state's powerful securities fraud statute. The lawsuit came after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had also sued Bank of America over its disclosures about Merrill's losses and bonuses. That case eventually settled for $150 million, an accord that U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan approved reluctantly because it did not require Bank of America to address whether it did anything wrong. A separate $2.43 billion shareholder class action settlement won final approval last year, and was a factor in Schneiderman's decision in January to drop his damages claim. New York's highest court ruled in 2008 that the attorney general cannot pursue damages for shareholders who have settled a class action, even if they are not made whole. Bank of America is now the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, having been surpassed by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. The case is New York v. Bank of America Corp et al, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, No. 450115/2010. (Reporting by Karen Freifeld; additional reporting by Jonathan Stempel; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve has just released its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, an annual stress test of major banks operating in the United States. Citi is the only megabank headquartered in the U.S. to fail the stress test, and shares are dropping fast — they are now down more than 4% in after-hours trading. Below is the Fed's explanation for its rejection of Citi's capital plan: The Federal Reserve’s objection to Citigroup's CCAR 2014 capital plan in part reflects significantly heightened supervisory expectations for the largest and most complex BHCs in all aspects of capital planning. While Citigroup has made considerable progress in improving its general risk-management and control practices over the past several years, its 2014 capital plan reflected a number of deficiencies in its capital planning practices, including in some areas that had been previously identified by supervisors as requiring attention, but for which there was not sufficient improvement. Practices with specific deficiencies included Citigroup’s ability to project revenue and losses under a stressful scenario for material parts of the firm’s global operations, and its ability to develop scenarios for its internal stress testing that adequately reflect and stress its full range of business activities and exposures. Taken in isolation, each of the deficiencies would not have been deemed critical enough to warrant an objection, but, when viewed together, they raise sufficient concerns regarding the overall reliability of Citigroup's capital planning process to warrant an objection to the capital plan and require a resubmission. And here is the statement Citi just released in response to the news: NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The Federal Reserve Board (Fed) today announced that it objected to the capital plan submitted by Citi as part of the 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The capital actions requested by Citi included a $6.4 billion common stock repurchase program through the first quarter of 2015 and an increase of Citi’s quarterly common stock dividend to $0.05. Citi will be permitted to continue with its current capital actions through the first quarter of 2015. These include a $1.2 billion common stock repurchase program and a common stock dividend of $0.01 per share per quarter. These actions are subject to approval by Citi’s Board of Directors in the normal course. Michael Corbat, Citi’s Chief Executive Officer, said: “Needless to say, we are deeply disappointed by the Fed’s decision regarding the additional capital actions we requested. The additional capital actions represented a modest level of capital return and still allowed Citi to exceed the required threshold on a quantitative basis. “We will continue to work closely with the Fed to better understand their concerns so that we can bring our capital planning process in line with their expectations and meet their standards on a qualitative basis as well. We have not yet made a decision as to when we will resubmit our plan. “We clearly are being challenged to meet the highest standards in the CCAR process. Despite whatever shortcomings the Fed saw in our capital planning process, we have made tremendous progress over the past several years in enhancing our capital position and Citi remains one of the best-capitalized financial institutions in the world. We will continue to work incredibly hard to serve our clients and generate the returns our shareholders expect and deserve,” Mr. Corbat concluded. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish IsmailStunt performer rides a motorbike on the walls of the "Well of Death"FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Boost Your Bond Portfolio Without Taking On Too Much Interest Rate Risk (The AllianceBernstein Blog) Investors expecting interest rates to rise are worried about their bond investments. Guy Davidson writes that there are two things municipal bond investors can do to boost income. "Long-maturity, high-yield bonds as a good opportunity for investors who want to be defensive but are looking to boost their income today," he writes. These offer more income at the moment and their credit quality is expected to improve. Moreover, he says their 2013 underperformance had little to do with fundamentals.  "For more conservative investors, we think that it makes sense to reduce interest-rate risk by selling long bonds and using the advantages of intermediate-term municipals to enhance returns," he writes. "A key piece of the puzzle is roll, the natural price gain a bond experiences as it moves closer to maturity. Today’s very low short-term rates mean that the intermediate part of the yield curve is steep, particularly for bonds with five- to eight-year maturities." Every Investor Needs To Remember This Retirement Equation (JP Morgan Asset Management)  There are six key things to consider when it comes to your retirement and you will have better control of some (like your saving and spending habits or portfolio risk) than others (market returns). Here's a look at the retirement equation from JPMorgan Asset Management's 2014 'Guide to Retirement'. JP Morgan Asset Management Affluent Investors Are Delaying Retirement (Investment News)  A study by Market Strategies International has found that only 28% of affluent investors "are highly confident that they can generate enough income in retirement to cover all of their expenses," reports Carl O'Donnell at Investment News. The average respondent said he or she was delaying retirement until 68. The "demise of pensions," medical costs, and longer lifespans are all weighing on retirement security.  "Prior generations had steady jobs with pensions so there's a certainty of collecting a paycheck each week," Michael Solari, principal at Solari Financial Planning, told O'Donnell. "Baby boomers have had to figure out how much to save, how to invest and how to budget expenses. Even if they do it right, there's no guarantee that they'll collect the same paycheck each week." If You're Worried About A Stock Market Crash Here's How To Start Investing Now (Business Insider) After a stellar stock market run, many are worried that they're buying at the top and that a correction is coming. But Business Insider's Andy Kiersz writes that investors should consider dollar-cost averaging — in which you invest a fixed amount of money in an asset at fixed times. "Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing amounts of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally." "If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until that later, don't panic." S&amp;P 500 Companies Shoveled $214 Billion In Cash Back To Shareholders Last Quarter (Business Insider)  American companies continue to sit on piles of cash. As economic growth continues to totter along, companies are putting the money toward dividends and share buybacks. "Companies continue to increase their shareholders’ returns through buybacks and cash dividends," says S&amp;P senior index analyst Howard Silverblatt.  "These two expenditures, combined, reached $214.4 billion in the fourth quarter – the second highest level (Q3 2007 holds the record at $233.2 billion) and three times the Q2 2009 Bear market level ($71.8 billion). Helping companies do this are record earnings, record cash-flow and record cash reserves; pushing companies are activist investors and the growing concern within board room over outside holders ‘coming in’." Some economists do, however, think a business spending boom is coming soon. S&P FREE AppDownload
King Digital Entertainment, maker of the game Candy Crush Saga, had a rough first day as a public company, closing down 15.56%. In fact, King had one of the biggest day-one drops in the past six months, which included Chegg, Violin Memory, and now King, Bloomberg reports. King made its public debut on the New York Stock Exchange this morning, opening at $20.50 a share. The stock quickly declined 6% following its market debut. It closed the day down 15.56% at $19.00. Yesterday, King priced its initial public offering at $22.50 a share, in the middle of the expected range, CNBC reported. King and early investors, like private equity firm Apax Partners LLP, intended to sell 22.2 million shares, according to Bloomberg, which would raise a little less than $500 million.  The company is now trading on the NYSE under the symbol KING. King has a library of 180 games, but it relies the most on Candy Crush Saga, which brings in about 80% of King's revenue.  That's where the big red flag comes from. King's revenues and fortunes rely on a single game, and that game is in decline. This also explains why the stock did not perform well on day one.  Gross bookings in the quarter ending Dec. 31, 2013, were on the decline compared to the quarter ending Sept. 30, 2013. That decline was driven by a decrease in Candy Crush Saga gross bookings.  "It's a one-hit-wonder," Francis Gaskins, director of research for Equities.com and president of IPOdesktop.com, told the AP. "The history of game companies is that none of them can prove that they can consistently introduce new products to grow revenue. They say they can, but they can't." Some investors were betting that they could profit from a quick pop once the stock started trading, but that wasn't the case.  "It almost stood no chance,” analyst Scott Sweet told MarketWatch. “It wasn’t surprising. It’s getting pounded.” Sweet said there appeared to be “a hope for a pop that never materialized” as “traders immediately pulled the trigger.” Check out the scene at the NYSE earlier today. APCandy Crush Saga characters walked around the floor of the NYSE  APKing CEO Riccardo Zacconi on left Screenshot/Twitter Screenshot/Twitter Screenshot/Twitter FREE AppDownload
Toys 'R' Us sales are falling.  The toy company has struggled for years, leading to store closures and employee layoffs. It's widely reported that the chain is succumbing to competition from online-savvy retailers like Amazon.  But in its recent annual report, Toys 'R' Us reveals a problem that has nothing to do with e-commerce.  The birth rate has been declining since 2007, impacting the company's toy and juvenile businesses.  Here's the chart Toys 'R' Us shares in the report.  Toys 'R' Us    Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA mascot dressed as a character from the mobile game "Candy Crush Saga" walks the floor of the New York Stock Exchange during the IPO of Mobile game-maker King Digital Entertainment Plc March 26, 2014. It was another ugly day for high-beta tech stocks. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jason ReedWarren BuffettSilicon Valley venture capitalist Marc Andreessen set Twitter tongues wagging yesterday when he dismissed Warren Buffett's skepticism about Bitcoin by suggesting that Buffett was just an old white guy crapping on a technology he didn't understand. Andreessen, an investor in Business Insider, has a quick wit, so it's likely he was trying to amuse some conferencegoers rather than insult Buffett. But the remark triggered another firestorm of discussion about Andreessen, Bitcoin, and Buffett's own suggestion — made back in the dot-com bubble — that the reason he didn't invest in technology was that he didn't understand it. Some in the tech elite have taken Buffett's suggestion to mean that, by his own admission, Buffett lacks the expertise or brainpower necessary to understand technology.  I, on the other hand, have always assumed that Buffett made the "I don't understand" remark with typical self-deprecating-but-knowing Buffett charm — as in, "All you people piling into dot-com stocks must be much smarter than I am, because I just don't get it!" In other words, I believe that, in typical Buffett fashion, Buffett understood everything he needed to understand about technology in the late 1990s, which is that technology investors had gone stark raving mad.  Similarly, I suspect that Buffett has a perfectly sophisticated understanding of Bitcoin. I think that when Buffett deemed Bitcoin a "mirage" earlier this month, it wasn't because he is too dopey to understand Bitcoin. It was because he understands that the inherent value that Bitcoin fanatics think Bitcoin has is entirely in the eye of the beholders. This doesn't mean that Buffett thinks Bitcoin's price will crash or that anyone speculating in Bitcoin is an idiot. It just means that Buffett doesn't think Bitcoin has any intrinsic value. And he's right about that, by the way. Bitcoin doesn't have any intrinsic value. It could trade at $0.01 or $1 million. Both "values" are perfectly defensible. As for why Warren Buffett doesn't (usually) invest in technology, the Oracle himself explained this in detail back in 1999, when just about every other investor on the planet thought it was he who was stark raving mad. In one of the best articles ever written about markets, published in Fortune in November 1999, Buffett had this to say about why he didn't invest in "innovation." The answer boils down to: 1. the relatively limited longevity and defensibility of competitive advantage in tech (the "moat" created by Microsoft's global monopoly in the late 1990s hasn't helped it much in the 2000s), and  2. the difficulty of identifying the few winners in advance and being able to buy them at reasonable prices Yes, you can characterize this explanation as Buffett's "not understanding technology." But it would likely be more accurate to say that what Buffett doesn't understand is not, in fact, technology, but the prices other investors are willing to pay for technology. Here's the Oracle from November 1999, five months before the dot-com crash: I thought it would be instructive to go back and look at a couple of industries that transformed this country much earlier in this century: automobiles and aviation. Take automobiles first: I have here one page, out of 70 in total, of car and truck manufacturers that have operated in this country. At one time, there was a Berkshire car and an Omaha car. Naturally I noticed those. But there was also a telephone book of others. All told, there appear to have been at least 2,000 car makes, in an industry that had an incredible impact on people's lives. If you had foreseen in the early days of cars how this industry would develop, you would have said, "Here is the road to riches." So what did we progress to by the 1990s? After corporate carnage that never let up, we came down to three U.S. car companies--themselves no lollapaloozas for investors. So here is an industry that had an enormous impact on America--and also an enormous impact, though not the anticipated one, on investors. Sometimes, incidentally, it's much easier in these transforming events to figure out the losers. You could have grasped the importance of the auto when it came along but still found it hard to pick companies that would make you money. But there was one obvious decision you could have made back then--it's better sometimes to turn these things upside down--and that was to short horses. Frankly, I'm disappointed that the Buffett family was not short horses through this entire period. And we really had no excuse: Living in Nebraska, we would have found it super-easy to borrow horses and avoid a "short squeeze." U.S. Horse Population 1900: 21 million 1998: 5 million The other truly transforming business invention of the first quarter of the century, besides the car, was the airplane--another industry whose plainly brilliant future would have caused investors to salivate. So I went back to check out aircraft manufacturers and found that in the 1919-39 period, there were about 300 companies, only a handful still breathing today. Among the planes made then--we must have been the Silicon Valley of that age--were both the Nebraska and the Omaha, two aircraft that even the most loyal Nebraskan no longer relies upon. Move on to failures of airlines. Here's a list of 129 airlines that in the past 20 years filed for bankruptcy. Continental was smart enough to make that list twice. As of 1992, in fact--though the picture would have improved since then--the money that had been made since the dawn of aviation by all of this country's airline companies was zero. Absolutely zero. Sizing all this up, I like to think that if I'd been at Kitty Hawk in 1903 when Orville Wright took off, I would have been farsighted enough, and public-spirited enough--I owed this to future capitalists--to shoot him down. I mean, Karl Marx couldn't have done as much damage to capitalists as Orville did. I won't dwell on other glamorous businesses that dramatically changed our lives but concurrently failed to deliver rewards to U.S. investors: the manufacture of radios and televisions, for example. But I will draw a lesson from these businesses: The key to investing is not assessing how much an industry is going to affect society, or how much it will grow, but rather determining the competitive advantage of any given company and, above all, the durability of that advantage. The products or services that have wide, sustainable moats around them are the ones that deliver rewards to investors.  SEE ALSO: Bitcoin Could Go To $1 Million FREE AppDownload
Instagram/videofymeYour design work will make our readers jump for joy.   This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;       We’re looking for a highly motivated full-time interactive designer to join the BI Studios group, which which works with marketers on custom components of their advertising campaigns. The designer will concept, build, and execute advertising creative, landing pages, website graphics, galleries, and infographics as part of branded content and native advertising programs. The designer will also work with the sales development team to assist with the development of sales collateral. He or she will be the primary creative contact for all branded content campaigns and will work closely with the Studios team, ad operations, sales development, content producers, and product development. We are looking for an individual who’s passionate about the creative process and is capable of handling the entire creative process, including ideation, development, and revisions. And you'll ensure that you maintain client and BI branding as appropriate. You'll have at least 2-3 years of graphic and web design and be proficient in Adobe Creative Suite, flash, and HTML5. Experience working across multiple devices (web, mobile, and tablet) is key. Now for all the mad skills we know you have: This position is based in our New York City office. If you would like to be considered for this position, please apply here. Thanks in advance for your interest. FREE AppDownload
Biotech stocks have some of the most mind-bogglingly high valuations on the planet. But this is largely due to the fact that most of these companies' revenues and profits don't yet include the drugs and medical devices that are still in the development and regulatory pipeline. In other words, these stocks are all about speculation. The biopharma industry as a whole, which includes both pharmaceutical companies and biotech firms, bank on these pipelines for growth. Different analysts have different estimates for what each of these companies will be able to earn based on different risk-adjusted forecasts. "Regardless of pipeline risk adjustments, biopharma base revenues (drugs launched before 2014) will continue to decline by our estimates," said Goldman Sachs' Jami Rubin. "We see base revenues falling from $222 bn in 2013 to $205 bn in 2020E based on a mix of product growth offset by declines from patent expirations. However, pipelines (drugs launched in 2014 and beyond) more than compensate for the erosion of base revenues with $72 bn in risk-adjusted pipeline revenues in 2020E while removing the risk adjustment from pipeline revenues provides additional upside of $41 bn for a total of $113 bn in pipeline revenues by 2020E." For the biotech firms (ALXN, AMGN, BIIB, CELG, GILD, REGN, and VRTX), Goldman estimates that by 2020 these companies will be generating $32 billion from the pipeline on top of a base revenue of $61 billion. Without the risk adjustment, you can add another $9 billion on top of that (see chart). When you consider this upside, you can begin to understand why people pay so much for a piece of the action. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg has a very simple conflict in China. Report stories that are critical of the government and get kicked out the country, or keep reports nice and mellow and sell terminals in a growing market. For New York Times CEO Mark Thompson, though, that's not a free pass and he implicitly slammed Bloomberg for it at the Financial Times Digital Media Conference in London yesterday, according to The Drum. “The continued moral commitment and economic viability of journalists who do still hold to the original vision and are prepared to stand up to opponents of press freedom at home and abroad matters more than ever. The New York Times remains such an institution,” he said. Burn. The Chinese government has come down on Bloomberg for stories on Communist Party elites before. Both it and the New York Times have faced an all-out ban in the country. That's what prompted Bloomberg Chairman Peter Grauer to say the following last week: “We have to be there. We have about 50 journalists in the market, primarily writing stories about the local business and economic environment. “You’re all aware that every once in a while we wander a little bit away from that and write stories that we probably may have kind of rethought – should have rethought.” And it seemed like Bloomberg was rethinking those stories last year when Hong Kong-based reporter Michael Forsythe left the firm in a fight over negative stories he'd published about China's elite. The New York Times hired him shortly after. It was also NYT that sounded the alarm when China wanted to "effectively shut down the organizations’ China news bureaus." And back in December Vice President Biden warned China not to throw out American journalists, or it would face consequences. What those consequences would be, though, is unclear.  Here are more of Thompson's comments, as reported by The Drum: “Soon after the New York Times was bought in 1896, a set of principles were published. Famously, the vision was to give the news impartially without fear or favour, regardless of party, sect or interest involved.“In 2014, 118 years later, those principles, and even the right of a free, fearless press to exist are under attack from powerful foreign governments and those companies who put commercial interests ahead of journalism, and from our own government. “The UK authorities’ intimidation of the Guardian over the Edward Snowden story and in the US the ongoing judicial hounding of the New York Times journalist James Risen stands as witness to that.” FREE AppDownload
Keeping up with the Joneses on Park Avenue must be exhausting. More details have emerged about a new residential building at 520 Park Avenue on the Upper East Side, whose plans include "triplex" penthouse that will cost "considerably more than $100 million," a source told The Wall Street Journal. The 51-story condominium will include 30 additional units with asking prices starting at $27 million. The building will also house a two-story health club featuring an exercise room, pool and locker rooms, a 1,800-square-foot ground floor garden, a wine cellar, and a library. “520 Park Avenue will set a new standard for elegant design on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, and we are certain this luxury residential building will become a landmark in a treasured city neighborhood,” said developer William L. Zeckendorf.  The building is just the latest in a string of trophy properties for Zeckendorf Development Group, who have been spinning New York real estate into gold for years. The Zeckendorf duo is behind 15 Central Park West, dubbed "the world's most powerful address," and a new ultra-luxury building on Gramercy Park.  For their latest Park Ave. endeavor, they spent $30.4 million for air rights from the neighboring Christ Church in order to achieve their desired 51-story height. Robert A.M. Stern, the architect behind 15CPW, will also design 520 Park. Construction is expected to be completed in early 2017.  The building will join a corridor that's come to be known as "billionaire's row" and stretches from Broadway to Park Avenue, on and around 57th Street. FREE AppDownload
Yale/CourseraYale economist and Nobel laureate Robert Shiller says America should start preparing for a day when inequality is much worse than it is now. In a new interview with David Wessel, who remains a contributor at The Wall Street Journal despite having left for a position at the Brookings Institution, Shiller says the wealthiest of the wealthy must begin redistributing their income much more aggressively. We should start preparing for a day, maybe 10 or 20 years in the future, when inequality may be much worse. We don't yet know whether it's going to be worse. We should have a contingency plan now. The simple idea I have is raising the taxes on the rich, which sounds like the most politically inexpedient move right now, but the nice thing is that when you talk to people about risks of the distant future, they are more idealistic and more sharing in their attitudes. If higher tax rates do prove unfeasible, Shiller advocates expanding the scope of charitable deductions, as well as capping how many more billions existing billionaires can make. "You'll still be a billionaire, so what?" he says, calling out "selfish people at the top who don't want to give it away."  You could turn into a Bill Gates or an Andrew Carnegie. I think that's OK. Instead of just taxing people—saying, "We're just taking the money, and you'll go to jail if you don't turn it over"—we can find a better way. In the rest of the interview, Shiller explains why certain people, including himself, are capable of picking stocks, why bubbles may prove useful in the long-run, and whether you should be investing in housing. Click here to read the full interview at WSJ.com »  FREE AppDownload
    When a man flashes his cuff and his watch is revealed, what does it say about him? Classic men's jewelry that is sophisticated without going over the top falls into two categories: a wedding ring and a great watch. We visited Bergdorf Goodman's Men's Store to chat with Town &amp; Country Magazine's style director Stellene Volandes about the watch styles and shapes that make great long-term investments. FREE AppDownload
After spending much of the morning in positive territory, U.S. stocks have fallen into the red. The S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1861, 0.2% below Tuesday's closing levels. The move has been accompanied by a swift drop in the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, which is currently trading down 0.2%. Meanwhile, U.S. Treasury yields are lower following a strong auction of 5-year notes at 1 p.m. ET. The 10-year Treasury yield is trading at 2.70%, down 5 basis points. The charts below show price action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 5-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesEditor's note: Below is an interview with Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Tuesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? GENNADIY GOLDBERG: The most interesting theme right now is the U.S. recovery story — increasingly firmer U.S. data following a period of weather-influenced weakness should give way to stronger Q2 growth, prompting markets to further reassess their stance on the U.S. economy and the Fed. Underperformance in the Treasury curve belly is the most interesting play to take advantage of shifting expectations, with markets repricing for an earlier liftoff. This makes selling 5s on the 2s5s30s curve a particularly opportune trade, taking advantage of belly repricing while maintaining positive carry dynamics. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? GG: Both the situation in Crimea and the Chinese growth story remain most concerning at the moment. Both should have relatively benign consequences on longer-term market trends, however, contributing to only short-term spurts of volatility. There has been great reluctance by the global community to implement meaningful sanctions on Russia in the wake of the Crimean annexation, and the Chinese growth story has increasingly contributed to less market volatility as the focus remains on the U.S. recovery. BI: Eurodollar shorts got a nice payoff on their record-large positions from last week's FOMC meeting. How do you think positioning will evolve between now and the next meeting? GG: I think eurodollar shorts will remain in vogue after the market’s significant repricing late last week. I would expect some profit taking following the move, but short positions are likely to continue building as the U.S. recovery story gains further traction and data momentum begins to swing in a firmer direction. BI: With the March FOMC meeting out of the way, what pieces of new information (e.g. economic data releases, price action in a given market over the next few days/weeks, etc.) do you think have the biggest potential to alter your outlook? GG: With the Fed largely discounting recent economic slowing on the basis of weather, the data recovery story will come into full focus. We expect market direction to be driven largely by the evolution of 2014 growth projections, with a recovering outlook likely driving both stocks and Treasury yields higher. BI: What do you perceive to be the most misunderstood trend or event in or characteristic of today's markets? GG: In my opinion, the most underemphasized trend in global recovery story of late has been the importance of the U.S. recovery. While concerns about EM and Chinese growth have dominated investor focus earlier this year, markets should remain more cognizant of the U.S. growth story. Most global outlooks hinge on U.S. growth leading the way higher this year, giving the U.S. recovery added importance in the global growth puzzle. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Justine LeeWhile getting into Cornell alone is an impressive accomplishment, there are a number of students who stand out at this Ivy League institution. These 19 students are building schools, companies, and new technologies that are shaping the future. Whether it's in fashion, philanthropy, tech, or sports, students at "Big Red" are doing some really big things. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesKleiner Perkins partner John Maeda just tweeted this excerpt of an interview with Steve Jobs. The topic at hand, Maeda observes, is the common hallucination that "great ideas" are the only thing you need to produce great products and services. In fact, Steve Jobs explains, great execution is what you need. Specifically, the process in which you start trying to build your great product or service and, through persistent iteration after iteration, learn how to actually make it great. That's how you create great products, Jobs says. Not by having "great ideas." By having a basic idea and then working your butt off through trial and error until the product finally evolves from okay to great. Here's the excerpt of the interview. Jobs' interviewer appears to have been Robert Cringely, of I Cringely: John Maeda, Cringely SEE ALSO: For Anyone Who Gets Discouraged When They Hear The Word "No"... Here's A Rejection Letter U2 Got From A Record Label FREE AppDownload
It is almost impossible to emphasize enough how important it is to start saving for retirement early. One problem is that, even though many people want to begin saving right away, they are afraid of what will happen if there is another financial crisis that causes a massive drop in the value of their investments. Investing in the stock market can be extremely frustrating for those who look back on the big rally they missed — and nerve-racking for those who believe the may be putting money into the market at the top. The S&amp;P 500 has roared 177% from its March 9, 2009, low of 666 to its January 2014 high of 1,850. Thanks to scary USA Today cover stories and increasing crash chatter, everyone is worrying that we are at or near a market peak. And this has investors extremely hesitant to buy stocks for fear of a big decline or perhaps even a crash. Obsessing over the risk of a crash could lead to analysis paralysis. However, there is a basic investing strategy that can save investors from losing too much hair as they make the decision to buy stocks. It's called dollar-cost averaging. The stock market is great for investors who have the benefit of long-term investing horizons. It's also better suited for investors who aren't concerned about perfectly timing market tops and bottoms.  Having said that, taking a longer-term view is good for investors worried that they may be buying at the top of the market. A strategy called dollar-cost averaging can help reduce risks surrounding an asset falling in price. The concept is straightforward: You invest a fixed amount of money in an asset once every fixed period of time. If the asset's price drops, you will be getting more shares of the asset for the same amount of money, and so if and when the price recovers, you will have spent less per share, on average, than if you had bought the shares at their peak pre-fall price. Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing numbers of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally. To see this in action, we came up with a simplified thought experiment. We considered what would have happened to an investor jumping into the stock market at the last peak: October 2007. This was arguably the worst time to buy. Our hypothetical investor puts $50 into an S&amp;P 500 index fund every month, starting in October 2007, before the beginning of the great recession. Here is what happened to the S&amp;P 500 starting at that peak: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The index dropped more or less steadily until the worst moments of the financial crisis in fall 2008, causing the full-on crash, and only began to turn around in March 2009. The key to our investor's experiment is that things stay consistent. No matter how stock prices move, the investor will always put $50 every month into the index fund. Based on changes in the value of the S&amp;P 500 index, we calculated our investor's price return, less the $50 monthly cost: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The value of our investor's portfolio as of January 2014 is $5,631.87. If he or she instead had taken $50 each month and held it as cash, the investor would have just $3,800. So the price return on this investment, even though the investor started at the last peak just before the market started to go downhill, is $1,831.87. This is a respectable 48% return. That averages out to about a 7.6% annual rate of return. To get another perspective on this, here is the percent gain or loss, compared to taking $50 each month and holding it as cash: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Things start out looking pretty dire, as the economy fell into its deep recession through mid-2009, with the S&amp;P 500 reaching a minimum in March of that year. At the low point, in March 2009, our investor would have been down about 34% compared to just holding cash. Because humans are often overly risk-averse, our hypothetical investor might have been tempted to abandon his or her investment plans during the bad months. That is, he or she might look at this chart and panic about the drop: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz But if our investor sticks with the plan and keeps putting $50 in every month — even through dark times — once the market bounces back he or she ends up doing quite well: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Unfortunately, dollar-cost averaging isn't sexy. It's much sexier to sell at the top and buy at the bottom. Obviously, your returns would be much higher if you win the stock market lottery by perfectly timing the tops and bottoms of the market. However, almost everyone who tries to do this will find themselves losing money, and lots of it. If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until later, don't panic. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoAn anti-government demonstrator, with a bleeding bullet hole drawn on her forehead, takes part in a protest in front of an office of the Organization of American States, OAS, in Caracas, Venezuela, Friday, March 21, 2014. Opposition lawmaker Maria Corina Machado is scheduled to speak before the OAS council in a closed-door session Friday in Washington, D.C., presenting the situation in her country where at least 28 people have been killed in daily anti-government protests that began in early February. When Maria Corina Machado, a leader of the opposition movement protesting in Venezuela, went to Washington, D.C., last week to speak to a group of Latin American countries about violence in the streets, she was completely shut out. The Organization of American States not only voted to keep her speech off the record, but also voted overwhelmingly not to discuss the situation at all. There are two reasons for that. One is obvious: Venezuela has ideological allies in countries that consider themselves even slightly socialist. That's Cuba, Argentina, Ecuador, Bolivia, and Brazil, to name a few. The other reason is less obvious, but quite simple: oil. Since 2005, 17 regional countries including Jamaica, Nicaragua, Honduras, most small Caribbean islands, Haiti, and more, have been part of a program called Petrocaribe. It's basically an agreement in which Venezuela sells or trades oil to member nations at rock-bottom prices. Guatemala joined but withdrew at the end of last year, saying that Venezuela didn't deliver as good a deal as the country expected. So last week when Machado appealed to the OAS, she was appealing to a bunch of Petrocaribe members. As a result, all but one of the Caribbean nations voted against her (with Barbados abstaining), as did Nicaragua and El Salvador. These countries may not have any socialist leanings, but they have love for Hugo Chavez and his legacy. The Dominican Republic, for example, isn't Venezuela's ideological ally, but it's hard to censure a country that sells you 40,000 barrels of oil every day for 5% of the price. The rest of the amount is paid over 25 years at an interest rate of 1%. This is huge for countries where per capita income can be as low as $1,300 (Haiti). “Venezuela is teaching an impressive lesson to the world that solidarity and generosity can prevail over speculation, greed and unquenchable thirst for wealth," said former Dominican President Leonel Fernandez at the group's inception. Nicaragua trades jeans, sugar, and coffee with Venezuela for oil. Petrocaribe did Haiti the favor of erasing all of its oil debt after a devastating earthquake hit in 2005, and sends Jamaica enough oil to power 95% of the country. According to a report by think tank The Brookings Institute, this leaves Venezuela's opposition with limited options in terms of who it can successfully appeal to for help. Within Venezuela, people have suggested that the Catholic Church and maybe Pope Francis mediate. From within the region, former Brazilian president Lula da Silva and Uruguayan president Mujica have indicated willingness to act as brokers. Neither regional leader can be considered neutral, but either individually or as a group, they can be considered relatively honest brokers. So long as they are perceived as seeking the interests of a stable and democratic Venezuela that will work toward reconciliation, they can become acceptable. In this instance, it's possible that Venezuela's deteriorating economy could work in the opposition's favor. Venezuela may have more oil than Saudi Arabia, but it may not be able to afford basically giving it away if the country is really broke. It could try to raise oil and gas prices at home, but when the government tried to do that in 1989, violent riots broke out in Caracas. Another important thing to note here is that Venezuela still exports 40% of its oil to the United States, despite their horrid diplomatic relationship. If Washington wants to, perhaps it could put some pressure on that. FREE AppDownload
Baselworld, the world's biggest watch and jewelry show, kicks off in Switzerland tomorrow. Hundreds of major watch and jewelry brands will be on hand to show off their latest designs and innovations. Globally, interest in luxury watches is up, with sales hitting record levels at recent trade shows. And despite a slowdown in luxury-watch sales in Asia, global consumer demand for luxury watches grew by 5.7% this year, according to the latest WorldWatchReport from Digital Luxury Group.Courtesy Digital Luxury GroupChina bucked the trend of decreased interest in Asia, with Internet searches for luxury watches up nearly 60% from last year, according to the report, which analyzed the performance of 60 high-end watch brands across major markets by looking at more than a billion watch-related Internet search queries. Omega, Cartier, and Rolex are particularly popular brands in China. And while sales within China have declined this year, interest has not waned, data from Chinese search engine Baidu showed. "Watches are part of the fastest-growing luxury segments in China right now,” Baidu Vice President Liang Zeng told Digital Luxury Group. Russia and India also showed increased interest in luxury watches this year, with 20% and 12% bumps year-over-year, respectively, the report said. Brazil, on the other hand, showed diminished interest in luxury watches. Related Internet searches were down 2.9% in 2013, a disappointing number given that Brazil is hosting two high-profile sporting events in the near future. "Despite growing international attention and key events driving important brand-related investments, the market predicted to become the next big thing fails to deliver on its promises," Digital Luxury Group wrote of Brazil. Globally, Rolex is the most-searched-for luxury-watch brand, followed by Omega and Tag Heuer.Courtesy Digital Luxury GroupLuxury brands Ulysse Nardin, Glashütte Original, and Vacheron Constantin saw the most year-over-year growth in terms of popularity.Courtesy Digital Luxury GroupTo see the full report from Digital Luxury Group, click here. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Andreas Dombret, a member of the executive board of the Bundesbank, presented to a small group at the New York Stock Exchange earlier today. As a consummate central banker, Dombret stuck to his knitting and could not be tempted to stray from his message: the situation in the euro area was improving, though complacency is a luxury that can still be afforded. Among the risks he cited were "reform fatigue" and the consequences of low interest rates, which could distort investment incentives. Dombret spent some time explaining why the Bundesbank (and the ECB) do not see a significant threat of deflation. He cited three general reasons. First, 2/3 of the drop in inflation, he says, is due to falling prices for energy and food. Dombret argues these are exogenous factors and that their effects will likely be temporary. This is a standard Bundesbank/ECB line and begs the question. The ECB's mandate is not core inflation and, in fact, headline inflation had previously been used to justify ECB rates hikes under Trichet. Second, Dombret argued that the low inflation rates in the euro area as a whole partly reflect the adjustment process in the periphery. We have anticipated such an argument. Low inflation or even outright deflation in some crisis-hit economies are wholly a favorable development. It is what some have dubbed "an internal devaluation" rather than an external one. In order to boost competitiveness, domestic prices in many peripheral countries have to fall. This too begs the question. The adjustment process in the periphery would not have to be as painful or deflationary, which exacerbates the pressure on debtors, if Germany would offset the austerity in the periphery with more accommodation. Third, Dombret argues that deflation is not a significant risk because there is not a downward, self-reinforcing spiral in prices and wages. Dombret, like other Bundesbank and ECB officials, argue that long-term inflation expectations are anchored at a level close to the ECB's definition of price stability (close to, but below 2%). He dismissed the notion that the euro area was headed for Japanese-style lost decades. I was able to ask Dr. Dombret about what Draghi had said recently about the euro's strength (increasing the downside risk of inflation and growth) coupled with Bundesbank President Weidmann's comments yesterday about not ruling out QE. I asked, along the lines I have written about recently, if the ECB could take a page from the Swiss National Bank's playbook and buy foreign bonds in QE. Buying European bonds has been controversial (both Weber and Stark resigned over the previous bond purchases scheme, SMP) and potentially in violation of the ECB's charter. Dombret refused to be tempted down the path I tried to lead him. However, his argument was still quite revealing, even if unintended. First, he said that it would be improper for any central banker to categorically rule out actions. Second, he said that even if the euro is at $1.40, there is not need for foreign exchange intervention. Dombret essentially argued that, at some level, it could be necessary, but he of course would not speculate on where that level would be. Third, he suggested as there is not need for QE, it would not be appropriate to discuss which assets could be bought if or when it would be necessary. The take-away message is that officials may be more relaxed than Draghi's recent comments or the spin put on Weidmann's comments would seem to have suggested. While we have been inclined to look for some action from the ECB next week, Dombret's comments suggest it is by no means a done deal. That said, if the ECB stands pat, the market will have every incentive to push the euro higher, through the $1.40 level, fishing, as it were, for the ECB's pain threshold. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoSteven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi, warns that the next few weeks offer several sources of risk that markets aren't respecting. In a note to clients, he bullets five of them: Englander says most of these risks "appear to be asset market negative, involving higher U.S. rates, more geopolitical disruption and downside economic shocks." The exception is the Japan story — if the Bank of Japan dials up its efforts to ease monetary conditions, the Japanese yen could weaken, which would be potentially supportive for risk appetite. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusAmerica's corporations continue to sit on trillions of dollars worth of cash. And in this current period of sluggish growth, many companies have opted to unleash extra in the forms of dividend and share buybacks "It concerns us that, in the wake of the financial crisis, many companies have shied away from investing in the future growth of their companies," said BlackRock's Larry Fink. "Too many companies have cut capital expenditure and even increased debt to boost dividends and increase share buybacks." Indeed, fresh data from S&amp;P confirms that this trend is continuing. "Companies continue to increase their shareholders’ returns through buybacks and cash dividends," said S&amp;P senior index analyst Howard Silverblatt. "These two expenditures, combined, reached $214.4 billion in the fourth quarter – the second highest level (Q3 2007 holds the record at $233.2 billion) and three times the Q2 2009 Bear market level ($71.8 billion). Helping companies do this are record earnings, record cash-flow and record cash reserves; pushing companies are activist investors and the growing concern within board room over outside holders ‘coming in’." "I expect this trend of greater shareholder return to continue throughout 2014 (ain’t no bodies opinion but my own)," said Silverblatt. According to Societe Generale's Albert Edwards, the deceleration in profit growth is a precursor to even lower business spending levels. It's worth noting, however, most economists continue to be optimistic that a business spending boom is just around the corner. For now, check out Silverblatt's data showing the rise of dividends and buybacks. S&P FREE AppDownload
Vimeo/miss tradeOhio-based hedge fund manager and prolific Tweeter Anthony Davian pleaded guilty yesterday to 14 criminal counts for operating a fraudulent investment scheme, the Department of Justice said in a release.  Davian, 34, pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud, two counts of mail fraud, four counts of wire fraud, and seven counts of money laundering. Davian is well-known in the Twittersphere as @hedgieguy. He's known for being pretty combative, too.  According to the DOJ, Davian used his fund "to promote and sell securities to at least 20 investors across several states, resulting in $1.8 million in overall investor loss." Back in August, the Securities and Exchange Commission said that he touted the hedge fund as "a highly successful investment firm managing a portfolio of profitable hedge funds."  However, the SEC said that Davian Capital was "nothing more than Davian’s personal piggy bank." The regulator said that he only invested some of the capital and used the rest to pay off early redeemers and "to finance construction of a luxury home for himself, and to buy himself a luxury car, among other things."  Roddy Boyd at the Southern Investigative Reporting Foundation was the first to report Davian was under investigation last summer and that he had attempted suicide in his car. Davian had called it "accidental carbon monoxide poisoning," Boyd reported.   FREE AppDownload

Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderEstimize CEO Leigh DrogenNYC startup Estimize.com is already popular for crowd sourcing data from Wall Streeters about individual stocks will do. Now the company is applying the same, successful logic predict mergers and acquisitions. For stocks, the aggregation of knowledge from loads of professionals at hedge funds, private equity shops has been hitting the mark more often than not. So why not try it on deals? On a separate site, the Estimize team will crowd source knowledge from its intelligent user base to track what companies are going to do a deal and when. The new platform is called Mergerize.com. On Mergerize.com you'll find more than 4,800 public companies, startups and private companies. There are a bunch of reasons why this is huge for Wall Street — for traders especially — and Estimize CEO Leigh Drogen explained some of them in a statement. ...for the quants, I expect that they will use Mergerize data to exclude certain stocks from their trading at certain times given that there is outsized risk associate with M&amp;A transactions in their models. If Mergerize data can mitigate this risk by putting a “no trade” tag on certain stocks, it should be very valuable. For discretionary traders, specifically of the event driven persuasion, having a set of M&amp;A expectations should allow them to take advantage of their own beliefs if they see that they are significantly different from the crowd. If the market feels a deal will take place, and you believe there’s a premium built into a stock because of that expectation, but you don’t think that deal is going to happen, then you probably believe at some point that premium is going to come out, and you should be short. My bet is also that there will be a high correlation between the velocity of people predicting a certain deal and the implied volatility of the target in the deal. I’m sure traders will figure out how to utilize that correlation. This all comes on the heels of Estimize completing a $1.2 million round of funding from investors. You can check out what Mergerize looks like below. It's pretty straight forward. Each bubble represents a company. The bigger the bubble, the more users have added their two cents about a potential deal. Mergerize.com Disclosure: Estimize is a contributor to Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog The S&amp;P 500 Biotechnology stock price index (ALXN AMGN BIIB CELG GILD REGN VRTX) peaked at a record high on February 24. It is down 10.5% since then through yesterday’s close. It is still up 208% from its 2011 trough, when the forward P/E fell to 10. This valuation multiple is now 22.0. Driving valuations higher in the industry since mid-2011 has been an amazing increase in industry analysts' expectations for short-term and long-term earnings growth. The former has tripled to over 30%, while the latter has doubled to almost 25%. The recent correction in Biotechs was triggered by concerns that the government will pressure the industry to reduce the prices of some of its higher-priced products. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Internal Correction. (1) S&amp;P 500 remains at record high despite everything. (2) FSMI rebounding. (3) Priciest industries a bit less so. (4) A good excuse for taking some profits out of Biotech. (5) Internet Retailing is full of hot air. (6) Internet Software is cheaper, but not cheap. (7) Is there a shortage of growth stocks? (8) Growth stocks tend to attract attention and well-financed competitive startups. (9) Internal corrections broaden the bull market. (10) Financials may be too cheap now that they are so regulated. (11) The parable of Alibaba and Tencent. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Now, two stocks that have the word Oculus in them are surging. Oculus VisionTech Inc. (OVTZ) was up as much as 31%, to $0.21. This company is involved in digital watermarking. And Oculus Innovative Sciences (OCLS) is up 8.8%, to $4.94. This is a global health-care company involved in manufacturing prescription and nonprescription products. FREE AppDownload
Dribbble/Marcos Paulo PaganoDigital currency firm Circle  is rolling out a product in limited release it hopes will someday prove the "Skype" of Bitcoin. The group, headed by Jeremy Allaire, co-developer of the Flash media player, announced Wednesday it had closed a $17 million Series B financing round.  Those funds will mostly be put toward developing a suite of services that will allow customers to store digital assets in a cloud, and subsequently transferred, spent, or received with the ease of an SMS or instant message, Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire said.       "The metaphor for the user interface is not so much like a wallet or bank account, but much more similar to sending and receving emails texts, like Skype — but in the context of digital assets," Allaire told BI Tuesday. "The metaphor is less 'I'm buying and selling,' or storing some money and more 'It’s really powerful to use, I can use it with my friends, especially as more business establishments start accepting it. We expect Bitcoin will go viral." Allaire said he hopes to steer Bitcoin away from what he called its heavily "alphamale geek" userbase, while positioning Circle as a trustworthy name in the Bitcoin ecosystem as it recovers from the collapse of MtGox, once the largest digital currency exchange in the world.  "We have a lot of focus on the security we're putting around it, which is really the key — we're effectively a custodian of digital assets, so there's a significant trust burden." He added he expects news laws and regulations to further help ease consumer concerns about handling digital currency.  So far, the product is by invitation only, and Allaire said its roll-out will be relatively slow. Investors in the latest funding round include SecondMarket's Barry Silbert, Pantera — a Bitcoin hedge fund that itself just got a huge cash infusion — and a former official at banking security service SWIFT. FREE AppDownload
Markit EconomicsThe preliminary results of Markit's monthly services-sector Purchasing Managers Index survey are out. The report's headline index advanced to 55.5 in March from February's 53.3 reading (topping consensus estimates for a rise to 54.0) indicative of an acceleration in the pace of expansion in America's services sector. The employment sub-index was unchanged at 51.9. The services sector employs roughly 80% of the U.S. workforce, so this number is always watched closely. Table 1 shows a complete breakdown of the report's sub-indices. “Service sector activity rebounded in March after a weather-torn February, but the survey is clearly flashing some warning lights as to whether the economy has lost some underlying momentum and that growth could slow in the second quarter," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, in the release. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedBlackRock CEO Larry Fink.(Reuters) - BlackRock Inc &lt;BLK.N&gt; Chief Executive Laurence Fink has warned top U.S. companies not to emphasize dividends or share buybacks if they come at the expense of future growth. Many top corporations have faced pressure from Wall Street analysts, activist investors and others to increase their dividends, buy back shares or take other steps to return capital to investors sooner rather than later. Fink, in a March 21 letter to the leaders of companies in the S&amp;P 500, acknowledged the pressure for near-term performance but reminded companies that they must focus on the longer term. With $4.3 trillion under management at December 31, BlackRock of New York wields much influence over the boards of top corporations. "It concerns us that, in the wake of the financial crisis, many companies have shied away from investing in the future growth of their companies," he wrote in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters. "Too many companies have cut capital expenditure and even increased debt to boost dividends and increase share buybacks," he added. "We certainly believe that returning cash to shareholders should be part of a balanced capital strategy; however, when done for the wrong reasons and at the expense of capital investment, it can jeopardize a company's ability to generate sustainable long-term returns," Fink wrote. Fink's letter was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. (Reporting by Ross Kerber; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman speaks during a plenary session at WTO conference in BaliGENEVA/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - China has lost a dispute at the World Trade Organization over restrictions on its exports of rare earth metals, tungsten and molybdenum, the U.S. Trade Representative's office said on Wednesday. The complaint about the restrictions on the highly prized commodities was made by the United States, European Union and Japan two years ago. "This victory shows that we stand prepared to take action whenever necessary to protect the high-quality middle class American jobs that trade supports," U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman said in an emailed statement. The WTO is expected to publish its ruling in the case later on Wednesday. Any of the parties in the case can appeal within 60 days. China produces more than 90 percent of the world's rare earth elements, which are used in a wide range of applications in sectors like renewable energy, telecommunications and defense. The United States, Europe and Japan complained export restrictions, including duties and quotas, gave Chinese companies in key high-tech sectors an unfair competitive edge. "China's decision to promote its own industry and discriminate against U.S. companies has caused U.S. manufacturers to pay as much as three times more than what their Chinese competitors pay for the exact same rare earths," Froman said. "WTO rules prohibit this kind of discriminatory export restraint." For its part, China has said rampant overmining has caused ecological damage and that it no longer wants to pay the environmental costs of supplying the vast bulk of the world's rare earths. In 2013, it capped rare earth production at 93,800 tones. Chinese officials were not immediately available for comment. (Reporting by Tom Miles and Krista Hughes; Editing by Andrew Heavens and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
James Montier of GMO, whose work I deeply respect and enjoy reading, recently put out a white paper defending the Shiller CAPE from some of the attacks that have been waged against it.  He offered a number of strong arguments.  In this post, I want to focus on one argument in specific: the argument that because many valuation metrics, in addition to the Shiller CAPE, are sending signals of extreme overvaluation, that the signals are more likely to be accurate. John Hussman makes a similar argument.  In a recent weekly comment, he put all of the metrics together onto a single chart: Hussman Funds The suggestion is that these “independent” metrics, by speaking together in unison, bolster the reliability of the extreme overvaluation call.  But if you examine the metrics closely, you will notice that each of them conducts some kind of profit margin “normalization”, whether directly or indirectly.  The metrics either directly adjust earnings to reflect average historical profit margins, or they peg the market’s valuation to variables that track with the size of the economy, so that if the profit share of the economy changes, the effect on valuation is removed.  Each metric therefore hinges on the assumption of profit margin mean-reversion: the assumption that profit margins naturally gravitate towards a constant mean–a mean that does not change as structural conditions in the economy change. But what happens if this assumption turns out to be wrong?  Looking back, profit margins have resisted mean-reversion for quite awhile now.  If you use the profit margins that actually matter, S&amp;P 500 profit margins, and you ignore brief recessionary periods, they’ve resisted it for almost 20 years.  The following charts show the trajectory of S&amp;P 500 profit margins over time (the first chart shows pro-forma net margins, the second chart shows GAAP net margins, and includes the notorious writedown charges of the last two recessions): Philosophical Economics Philosophical Economics As the charts illustrate, outside of recessions, profit margins have remained significantly above the long-term average for almost two decades.  Why ignore recessionary periods? Because no one disagrees that profit margins fall in recessions, that they are cyclical in nature.  The question is whether they are mean-reverting–specifically, whether they revert to a mean that stays constant over time.  If they spend all of their time elevated well above the mean, and only fall to touch it briefly during recessions, after which they rise right back up, then either they aren’t mean-reverting, or you’re not using the right mean. Suppose that the White Queen comes down and tells us that over the next 10 years, profit margins are going to stay roughly near their current levels.  With the exception of a brief recession in which they fall and bounce back, they aren’t going to mean-revert, at least not to the average of any prior historical era.  Would these metrics, with their “independent” signals, be of any use in predicting subsequent 10 year returns? Hardly.  They would all fail together, because they would all be wrong on that one crucial issue–the issue of profit margins.    The market sets prices based on how forward earnings actually look in the present moment, given the present trend, not based on how they would look under a set of countertrend, counterfactual assumptions.  If profit margins 10 years from now end up roughly where they are today, then assuming no changes in the P/E multiple (it’s fine), the total return will simply be the nominal sales growth plus the shareholder yield (dividends plus buybacks net of dilution).  For our low growth environment, we might conservatively estimate 4% to 5% for the nominal sales growth (this estimate would include inflation and the impact of a year or two of mild recession some time in the next 10 years), and 2% to 3% for the shareholder yield, to produce an annual total return of 6% to 8%.  This return, if produced, would be perfectly healthy, normal, respectable, indicative of a market that’s appropriately priced, not a market at a valuation extreme.   Now, what I’m saying here isn’t just conjecture: all of the metrics did fail together, when applied in a similar manner in the last cycle.  As we can see in John Hussman’s chart, ten years ago, in early 2004, the metrics all showed an extremely overvalued market–ranging anywhere from 50% to 100% overvalued.  But the actual long-term return that was produced from early 2004 to now was quite healthy–more than 7% per year.  And that was with the ugliest recession since the Great Depression sandwiched in the middle. Why the miss?  Valuation bears will blame it on the fact that the current market is heavily overvalued, and that the overvaluation has caused the returns from 2004 to now to be artificially high.  But this point begs the question.  The market is only heavily overvalued if the metrics are calling things correctly.  Are they? The market is priced at roughly 17 times trailing earnings–hardly an extreme.  The reason that the metrics missed has nothing to do with any abnormality in that multiple, and everything to do with the fact that profit margins didn’t mean-revert as assumed. Using S&amp;P’s operating earnings compilation, at the end of the 1st quarter of 2004, the S&amp;P 500 profit margin was just under 8.0%.  Instead of falling back to 5.5%, or to wherever the historical average is, it actually rose.  With the fourth quarter of 2013 now complete, the profit margin is 9.6%–a new record high.  The profit margin increase (from 8.0% to 9.6%) roughly offset the contraction in the P/E multiple (from 19.4 to 17.2) to produce a net total return of around 7%. Philosophical Economics It’s a mistake, then, to think that these normalized metrics somehow provide “independent” confirmation of each other’s accuracy.  In essence, they are all the same metric, expressed in different formulations.  What we have in the valuation debate are two metrics–one metric, with many different permutations, that will only work if profit margins fall significantly over the next several years, and another metric, with one permutation, that will only work if they don’t.   Now, to be fair, valuation bears may end up being right in their extreme overvaluation call. Profit margins may fall significantly from here forward, leaving behind an extremely expensive market. If that happens, they will get the last laugh–and they will deserve it. But they are mistaken if they think that this call is backed by multiple “independent” sources.  It is not.  It hinges on one single macroeconomic thesis–a thesis that, so far, has not worked out, that could easily continue to not work out, and that if it doesn’t work out, will drag the entire edifice down with it. In valuation-themed posts that follow, I intend to drop the corollary discussions about the Shiller CAPE and focus directly on this one issue, profit margins, the epicenter of the valuation debate.  I encourage valuation bears to do the same.  Let’s get to the point.  If profit margins are going to fall significantly over the next several years, I want valuation bears to convince me of it now, so that I can prepare for the inevitable downside.  And I hope the same is true in the other direction: that if profit margins are not going to fall, or if they are only going to fall moderately (my base case expectation), or–heaven forbid–if they are actually going to keep rising from here (a possibility that some analysts are arguing for), that valuation bears would want me and others to convince them of it now, so that they can restore their equity exposures to normal, or at least get more comfortable with the idea of buying the dips and corrections that this bull market offers going forward. This article originally appeared at Philosophical Economics.  Copyright 2014. Follow Philosophical Economics on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri MaltsevU.S. strongman Andy Vincent strains as he lifts a weight during the Pacific Strong competition in Russia's far eastern port of Vladivostok August 14, 2011. Vincent and teammate Travis Ortmayer took on and beat a Russian team in various tests of strength. The IRS has ruled Bitcoin should be treated as property instead of currency for tax purposes. What does this mean for Bitcoin users? We turned to Tyson Cross, a San Diego-based the lead attorney at BitcoinTaxSolutions. We previously spoke with Cross about how to file Bitcoin income presuming the IRS would not come in with guidance prior to April 15. Now we know how the IRS feels: Through this ruling, every Bitcoin transaction — including anytime you sell Bitcoin — can now be taxed, just like a capital asset, Cross says. That means you must track virtually every transaction you make. As he explained to us in an email: Users will have to track their transactions and determine the amount of their taxable gain each time.  It's quite a burden.  The rules on taxing foreign currency provide an exception for "personal transactions" for that very reason. It would be great to have that exception (or something similar) apply to bitcoins as well.  The only mitigating factor here, he says, is that this guidance is not likely to be final: the IRS called for additional public comment on the issue, a sign the government is amenable to reconsidering its position, Cross said. Next step is for the Treasury Department to start develop regulations in the taxation of virtual currencies. That typically begins with a request for public comments, which was included in the notice. Tax professionals can then identify issues and advocate possible solutions.  So between now and the issuance of actual regulations (which takes years), there's ample opportunity to shape the tax treatment. The other main takeaway for the somewhat average Bitcoin user is fairly straightforward: If you mine Bitcoin, they count as income right away, separate from the time you may end up selling them, a transaction that is also taxable. There is a whole separate set of conclusions for those paying and receiving wages in Bitcoin, namely that it's subject to federal income tax withholding, FICA tax and FUTA taxes, and must be reported on a W-2. You can view the full guidance here » FREE AppDownload
Turmoil on the Russia-Ukraine border has investors and traders running various scenarios, including worst-case scenarios. Not that anyone is saying this is likely today, but a shutdown of the Russian stock market isn't unprecedented. "Russia’s first recorded stock market came into existence in 1810 but shut down in July 1914 at the start of World War I," noted Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner. "The stock market reopened for two months in 1917 before shut down again after the 1917 revolution. It did not re-open until January 1992." Here's a list of some notable stock market shutdowns from Garner. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Chung Sung-Jun / GettyVladimir Putin stands in front of a statue of Russia's greatest poet, Alexander Pushkin.MOSCOW/BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The economic impact of annexing Crimea from Ukraine could drive Russia into a sharp recession this year even if the West stops short of trade sanctions, the World Bank warned on Wednesday. The gloomy assessment, far more negative than Russian government forecasts, came on a day when U.S. President Barack Obama was meeting European Union and NATO leaders to discuss how to reduce Europe's dependence on Russian energy and bolster NATO defenses of east European allies bordering Russia and Ukraine. Obama and leaders of the Group of Seven major industrialized nations agreed this week to hold off on tougher economic sanctions unless President Vladimir Putin takes further action to destabilize Ukraine or other former Soviet republics. Western concern has focused on Russian troops massed on Ukraine's eastern border amid Kremlin allegations of attacks on Russian speakers in that industrial region of the country. But Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said on Wednesday it seemed likely that the firm Western response so far would stop Russia undertaking what he called "other acts of aggression and interference on the territory of Ukraine". A World Bank report on the Russian economy, compiled before the most recent evidence of the scale of capital flight, made clear Moscow was already set to pay a significant price in lost growth due to the most serious East-West confrontation since the end of the Cold War. Gross domestic product (GDP) could contract by as much as 1.8 percent in 2014 if the crisis persists, it said. That high-risk forecast assumes that the international community would still refrain from trade sanctions. "An intensification of political tension could lead to heightened uncertainties around economic sanctions and would further depress confidence and investment activities," the World Bank said. "We assume that political risks will be prominent in the short-term." Under a low-risk scenario, assuming only a short-lived impact from the crisis, GDP could grow by 1.1 percent, just half the bank's 2.2-percent growth forecast published in December. RUSSIAN STOCKS REBOUND Russia is refusing to recognize the Kiev government chosen by parliament after the overthrow of Moscow-backed President Viktor Yanukovich on February 22 following months of street protests against his refusal to sign a pact on closer ties with the EU. So far, the United States and the EU have imposed personal sanctions against Russian and Crimean officials involved in the seizure of the peninsula and Washington has slapped visa bans and asset freezes on senior business figures close to Putin. Russian markets and the rouble have been shaken, resulting in massive capital outflows, now estimated by the Economy Ministry at up to $70 billion in the first quarter alone compared with $63 billion in the whole of last year. However, Russian stocks clawed back more ground on Wednesday and the rouble strengthened as a relief rally continued due to signs of an easing of tensions over the Crimea crisis. At 1050 GMT the rouble-denominated MICEX index was up 2 percent and the dollar-denominated RTS was up 2.6 percent. Russian assets have rallied this week as investors calculate that the annexation of Crimea will not trigger more serious Western sanctions. The Economy Ministry has yet to revise its early 2014 growth forecast of 2.5 percent for the year but a deputy minister said on Monday that it was anticipating GDP growth of "around zero" for the first quarter. The European Union was set to press Obama at a summit in Brussels to help reduce Europe's reliance on Russian energy by exporting U.S. natural gas and oil, restricted by U.S. laws. Russia provides around one third of the EU's oil and gas and some 40 percent of the gas is exported through Ukraine. After visiting a World War One graveyard, Obama had just 75 minutes over lunch with the EU's top officials to tackle issues ranging from transatlantic trade negotiations to climate change. The Ukraine crisis has largely pushed aside strains in the U.S.-EU relationship over last year's disclosures of large-scale spying by Washington on European allies. Obama planned to assuage European concerns in a speech to some 2,000 guests reaffirming Washington's commitment to defend NATO allies and work in partnership with the EU, before leaving for Rome later in the day. "Right now, as we look around the world, there is a powerful reason for Europe and the United States to come together to demonstrate that they can take their relationship to a new level," said U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman. Obama affirmed that message when he visited war graves on Flanders Field in Waregem in western Belgium, where U.S. soldiers fought a century ago in battles where chemical weapons were first used on a massive scale. "This visit, this hallowed ground reminds us that we must never, ever take our progress for granted. We must commit perennially to peace, which binds us across oceans," he said. Obama did not mention tensions with Russia over Crimea but emphasised instead international cooperation - including with Moscow - to disarm Syria of its chemical weapons. "Our nations are part of the international effort to destroy Syria's chemical weapons, the same kinds of weapons that were used to such devastating effect on these very fields," he said. NUCLEAR, SHALE GAS IN FOCUS The quest to reduce reliance on Russian oil and gas supplies has prompted the EU to accelerate efforts to develop its internal energy market and revisit alternative sources such as liquefied natural gas, nuclear energy and shale gas, although the latter options raise strong environmental concerns. British Prime Minister David Cameron said on Tuesday energy independence and the adoption of technologies like shale gas fracking should top Europe's political agenda, calling Crimea a "wake-up call" for states reliant on Russian gas. "Some countries are almost 100-percent reliant on Russian gas, so I think it is something of a wake-up call," Cameron told reporters after a nuclear security summit in The Hague. He pointed to reserves of shale gas in southeastern Europe, Poland and England that could be extracted by the process of pumping liquids at high pressure into underground rock formations known as fracking, widespread in the United States. "I think it's a good opportunity," Cameron said. "Energy independence, using all these different sources of energy, should be a tier-one political issue from now on, rather than tier-five." Environmentalists say fracking is a threat to the water table and can cause earthquakes and landslides. Countries such as France and Bulgaria have banned it and others such as Britain and Poland have faced anti-fracking protests. (Additional reporting by Steve Holland and Robin Emmott in Brussels, Marcin Goclowski in Warsaw, Jeff Mason in Waregem, Belgium, William James in The Hague and Jason Bush in Moscow; Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Alastair Macdonald) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzFebruary U.S. durable goods orders data are out. Total orders rose 2.2% in February after falling a downwardly-revised 1.3% in January, beating consensus estimates for a 0.8% rise. Orders of durable goods excluding transportation items advanced only 0.2% in February — missing estimates for a 0.3% rise — after recording a downwardly-revised 0.9% gain in January. Orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, a measure also referred to as "core capex," fell 1.3%. Economists predicted core capex would rise 0.5%. January's 1.7% gain was revised down to 0.8%. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose 0.5% — missing the 0.8% consensus estimate — and January's 0.8% drop was revised to a 1.4% drop. "To be sure, the core durables data has been understating the recovery in business equipment spending because imports of capital goods have been climbing and some of business investment gets booked into R&amp;D and intellectual property," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. "Be that as it may, it is difficult to see how this lasts. First, most models of investment point to an accelerator effect. As growth improves investment rises more. So, if GDP is likely to pick up in Q2, investment will rise some multiple of that. Second, productivity is low and failing to invest in a depleted capital stock will put future corporate profitability at risk." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
After a experiencing only modest moves early in the European trading session, markets are picking up. Dow futures are up 67 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 7 points. Nasdaq futures are up 18 points. European markets are nicely in the green. Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is up 1.0%, and Germany's DAX is up 1.3%. At 8:30 a.m. we'll get the February durable goods orders report. Economists forecast a 0.8% increase.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
Credit SuisseBiotech is still up by 206% from its Nadir/Trough in Aug 2011 vs. 69% for the S&P 500Biotech stocks sold off sharply on Friday and Monday, and they underperformed the markets on Tuesday. This followed a monster 2-1/2-year long bull run that saw the sector more than triple as the S&amp;P 500 returned around 70% (see chart). In fact, biotech was the #1 performing sector in each of the last three years. "It’s no longer the elephant in the room: has the “biotech bubble” burst?" That's the question Credit Suisse's Ravi Mehrotra and Koon Ching seek to answer in a 19-page note published on Tuesday. It's notoriously difficult to sniff out bubbles. It's arguably even more difficult in the biotech sector as every company in the industry is essentially hoping their business will go from $0 to multi-billions overnight. Credit Suisse's team conducted their examination by considering the last biotech bubble, which coincided with the dotcom bubble. "When looking at the overall picture, it is clear that the biotech bull markets of 1999/2000 and 2013/2014 are notably different (now driven by an appetite for EPS growth vs. genomics/tech then, now valuation is arguably not stretched relative to other sectors). However, we also highlight that there are some similarities between this bull market and the last (generalist in-flows and pre- clinical public companies), which could drive some lingering market nervousness." They consider three points. "Sentiment vs. fundamentals is the prick for speculative bubbles," wrote the analysts. They noted that the turning point for the last bubble occurred on March 14, 2000 when then U.S. President Bill Clinton and then British Prime Minister Tony Blair began pushing for the open access, or non-patentability of gene sequences. This triggered a 49% drop in the sector in just one month. "Yes, the enthusiasm around biotech in 2000 was undoubtedly partly centered on the human genome project, so any negative comments on it were bound to have some sort of negative sentiment on the sector," they said. "However, “fundamentally” we all sort of knew that raw genetic sequences were not patentable. So the market used that White House te^te-a`-te^te as an excuse to mark down a sector on sentiment vs. fundamentals" Today, a comparable moment may have occured on Friday when Congress questioned Gilead Sciences about the high pricing of their new hepatitis C drug. However, the analysts say that the reaction in the market appeared to be driven more by sentiment than fundamentals. "Our point here is that sentiment shifts tend to prick “speculative” stock-market bubbles and be used as an excuse to sell-off vs. actually fundamental shifts," they said. Some companies look more expensive and some look more reasonable today compared to 2000. The analysts run through numerous companies in their report. They also offer some discussion about where companies are regarding clinical trials. As we've noted repeatedly, the real challenge with these companies is whether or not they'll be successful in pushing their products through the pipeline and onto the market. Based on earnings forecasts, large-cap biotech companies — including Amgen, Celgene, and Gilead — are trading at 13.5x 2016 earnings and 11.7x 2017 earnings, which is actually cheaper than 14.2x and 13.5x, respectively, for the S&amp;P 500. Of course, these are based on the assumption that the biotechs will recognize 21.5% annual earnings growth through 2017 versus 5.5% for the S&amp;P 500. Ultimately from a valuation standpoint, the analyst say "things are not black or white, but more shades of gray." Considering the source of investor funds is an interesting way of analyzing a market to see if its a bubble. According to the analysts, investor dollars today and back in 2000 can be characterized as "generalist fund flows," which means these aren't investors that were just focused on biotechs and health care. Rather, the investment capital has been coming from people who typically invest more broadly. In 1999/2000, generalist were attracted by all the buzz surrounding genomics. There was also the "overflows" from all the money people were making from the dotcom boom. "This time, it is demand for quality defensive and growing earnings within the large caps (and a ripple effect into SMIDS caps) – well at least according to our "generalist GARPy inflow hypothesis,"" write the analysts. "Now, the biotech sector’s performance is driven by good “old- fashioned” product success stories from both large and selected SMID-caps." GARP is short for growth at a reasonable price. With the stock market at all-time highs and interest rates at record lows, investors have increasingly found themselves drifting to riskier corners of the market in hopes for higher returns. The authors don't actually articulate whether or not they're convinced biotechs are a bursting bubble. They do, however, state the somewhat obvious and say that a further sell-off would make the sector cheaper. "In our view, unless we see a fundamental disappointment in the “leadership” companies, we think valuation of (at least the large caps within) the biotech sector is supported and actually provides room for upside," they wrote. "We note that if we see a further 10.5% decline in the stock across the large caps it would place the sector at 2015 PE parity to the S&amp;P (with &gt;4x the EPS growth). Large cap biotech is now trading at a 2015 and 2016 PE discount to the S&amp;P500!" A discount to the S&amp;P 500 would certainly be good news for prospective biotech investors. Of course, one would then have to consider whether or not the S&amp;P 500 is overvalued... FREE AppDownload
Eric Micotto Instagram now has 200 million monthly active users sharing 60m photos a day, the service has announced, totaling to 20bn photos shared since it launched in 2010. The photo-sharing service has added around 170 million users since its acquisition by Facebook in April 2012 for $1bn, with 50m joining in the last six months. “From documenting a passion for jazz to the protests in Kiev, we’re continually surprised and humbled by the moments you share,” said an Instagram spokesperson in a blog post. Since being bought by Facebook, Instagram has added support for Windows Phone, introduced Instagram Direct – a private photo sharing feature – and added the ability to share video clips of up to 15 seconds. Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, also announced that the social network had passed the 1 million monthly active mobile user milestone, during a call discussing the company’s purchase of the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset on Tuesday. Facebook had 945 million monthly active users on mobile in the fourth quarter of 2013, which generated 53% of the company’s advertising revenue in the same quarter. Facebook’s recent $19bn acquisition of the WhatsApp mobile messaging service, as well as the introduction of Facebook Paper and other in-house Facebook mobile apps shows that the social network is focused on mobile, as more and more eyeballs migrate to the portable screen. • The future of Facebook is to reach billions of mobile users This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/BabuSupporters of J. Jayalalithaa, chief minister of India's Tamil Nadu state and chief of Anna Dravida Munetra Khazhgam (AIADMK), wear masks as they gesture during an election campaign ahead of the general elections in the southern Indian city of Chennai March 21, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Virtual reality. Facebook bought virtual reality headset and product developer Oculus Rift for $2 billion. Atlantic's Alex Madrigal says it's a sign companies are flailing to get their hands on The Next Big Thing. "Maybe they go after a share of TV money, or bet on the Internet of Things, or get in early with the explosion of consumer robotics. These massively valuable companies need to grab some land in whatever big technology wave comes next. And they are starting to buy where they think the fertile territory is.  More wearables. Intel bought Basis Science, a wearable tech firm that makes wristbands similar to Nike's Fitbit, for $100 million.  Candy Crush. King, the maker of addictive gaming app Candy Crush Saga, priced its initial public offering at $22.50 a share ahead of its public debut on the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow, CNBC reports. Bullard. The outlook for the U.S. economy is "pretty good," St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said at a Credit Suisse panel in Hong Kong Wednesday. He expects unemployment to fall below 6% by the end of the year. Russian debt. The FT reports the value of Russian financial institutional loans has declined to their lowest level in more than three years, at 98.2% of their face value. They were already at 99.1% of their face value at the start of February. Thomson Reuters began collecting data on the loan market in October 2010. Data. Durable goods orders for February come in at 8:30. Consensus headline is for growth to have increased 0.8% from -1%; ex-transportation for a decrease to 0.3% from 1.1%. At 9:45 we get Markit services PMI, expected to increase slightly to 54.0 from 53.3. Markets. Stocks and futures were green across the world, led by Korea's Kospi at 1.19%. The Aussie dollar is rounding its second month of strong gains against the greenback, and was up 0.71% today. Italian consumers. March consumer confidence in Italy jumped 4.2 points to 101.7, the highest reading since June 2011. January retail sales fell 0.9%, less than expected. ECB.  The Wall Street Journal's Brian Blackstone says European Central Bank officials are sending "strong signals" that more aggressively dovish monetary will come to fight off deflation. "The possible tools, cited by some top policy makers from different parts of the euro zone, include effective negative interest rates—meaning rates so low that commercial banks would essentially pay the ECB to park their extra cash overnight. They also include purchases of government or private-sector debt to hold down long-term rates and spur lending." The agency next convenes April 3. Poison pill antidote? Dan Loeb's Third Point is suing Sotheby's, of which it is the largest shareholder, to strip the auction off its poison pill clause designed to ward off activist shareholders, with the broader goal of making the measures illegal nationwide. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis Balibouse View of building in which Trafigura has its offices in Geneva March 11, 2012.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Abrupt leadership changes at commodity traders Trafigura and Gunvor over the past week have put a sharp light on an industry-wide challenge: shifting oversight from a legion of legendary, aging leaders to a new generation. Trafigura's co-founder and chief executive Claude Dauphin, 63, who owns less than a fifth of the firm, stepped down this week to receive medical treatment. Jeremy Weir, who ran the mining and risk management divisions, will take over the firm, putting a 50-year-old Australian geologist in charge of the enterprise with a turnover of $133 billion. At Gunvor, Russian founder Gennady Timchenko was forced to sell his 43.5 percent share to Swedish co-founderTorbjorn Tornqvist after the United States slapped sanctions on him to pressure President Vladimir Putin over Crimea. Tornqvist, 60, who has long been CEO, now has full control. Both changes were generally unexpected, and are prompting wider questions of succession in an industry historically known for both its secrecy and its powerful, charismatic leaders whose trading skills and global contacts built the foundation of today's global titans, which also include Vitol, Glencore &lt;GLEN.L&gt; and Mercuria. While most remain reluctant to talk openly about their plans for one day relinquishing control, some say they are grooming future leaders as a generation of traders who were instrumental in the creation of the modern day commodity markets enter their 60s with paper fortunes and a rapidly changing landscape. "Succession planning is definitely an issue for the banks that finance commodity traders, they're interested in understanding it," a high level source at a trading house said. Yet while chief executives have in recent years thrown off the cloak of secrecy and become prominent industry figures, the names of those next in line remain, in many cases, largely unknown. Weir had not been on most rivals' radar before this week even though he was a rare executive at Trafigura who gave several public interviews. Investors and bankers know that the show at the world's largest oil trader Vitol is run by CEO Ian Taylor, 58; at Gunvor by Tornqvist, 60; at Mercuria by CEO Marco Dunand, 51, and Daniel Jaeggi, 52; and at Glencore by Ivan Glasenberg, 57. The second layer of management is often much less visible. Vitol's Chief Financial Officer Jeff Dellapina is due to speak at a major industry conference next month - his first major public appearance. Vitol's chief oil trader Mark Couling and chief Trafigura oil trader Jose Larocca have not been interviewed in the business press. "I have never in over two decades seen much in the way of succession planning. Frankly, trading floors and their management run more like animal farm than General Motors. There is an implicit hierarchy, and that matters," said Chip Register, a long time commodity executive, currently at Sapient Global Markets. Vitol, one of the best paying firms in the industry which has repeatedly attracted top talent, is owned by its employees none of whom has more than 5 percent, which suggests a collegiate approach to decision-making could be likely. The firm has been around for 49 years and has had leadership changes in the past, although only under Taylor's leadership since 1995 has it grown into the world's biggest trader. In the past, other commodity companies that were indelibly linked to founders have faced transitions with mixed results. One of the industry's oldest firms, agricultural giant Cargill, was run by the founders' extended family for a century until 1960, when Erwin Kelm became the first president not descended from the Cargill-MacMillan families. More recently, upstart Singapore-listed trading firm Noble Group &lt;NOBG.SI&gt; has struggled to maintain its momentum since founder Richard Elman, 74, handed over the reins in 2010. Several senior leadership departures have followed. Oil traders have come a long way since the 1970-1980s era of Marc Rich, the godfather of contemporary oil trading, when they disclosed absolutely nothing about what they do. Some still operate that way, such as Westport, Connecticut-based Phibro, a once-mighty oil trading firm that some say would be hard to imagine without its chief Andrew Hall, 62, whose $100 million payday in 2009 caused a furor for then-owner Citigroup. &lt;C.N&gt; Dauphin, who started his career with Marc Rich and is not known to have ever given a single interview, introduced annual reports at Trafigura for bondholders which described performance of individual divisions in great detail including volumes, profitability and outlook - something not even many listed firms disclose. Listed Glencore also publishes detailed reports and unlisted Mercuria, Vitol and Gunvor have also increased the information they disclose in recent years. Trafigura introduced the next generation of leaders a couple of years ago when the company also disclosed it was buying out founding shareholders. When Glencore went public in 2011, investors got a glimpse into the company's bench strength and newly minted billionaires: Alex Beard for oil, Daniel Mate for zinc trading, Tor Peterson for coal trading and Telis Mistakidis as head of copper. Since then they have made investor presentations and occasionally spoken at media conferences. "Everyone among our long-standing division heads is a potential CEO," said a source close to Glencore. Glasenberg, a former coal trader, has run the company for over a decade. For Gunvor, the most visible executive beyond its CEO is chief investment and operating officer Jerome Schurink, 44, who oversees the firm's expansion strategy and accompanies Tornqvist to meetings such as in Davos. "We have a succession plan established, consisting of existing management and traders. We review it annually. We also have risk management policies in place regarding such things as how many and which executives are allowed to travel together," a Gunvor source said. Mercuria benefits to a certain extent by having two founders, rather than one, both of whom are as much as 10 years younger than most of their rivals. Mercuria has also beefed up its top executive ranks with commodity veterans including Roger Jones, formerly head of commodities at Barclays's &lt;BARC.L&gt;, and chief investment officer Shameek Konar from Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;. "At the end of the day the bench strength of the trading industry - commodities included - should not be underestimated," said Register. "Significant income opportunities have been driving talent into these markets for decades and there are a lot of great middle managers waiting for their shot at the title." (Additional reporting by Anna Sussman, Peg Mackey, Alex Lawler, Silvia Antonioli; Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
Last week we were given a special opportunity to try new breakfast items by Taco Bell. We ate and devoured the Waffle Taco, A.M. Crunchwrap, and Cinnabon Delights. The verdict? In a word — "Mmm."  Produced by Will Wei. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
Wikimedia CommonsUniversidad de los Andes, Bogotá.Colombia and Argentina are trading economic claims again. Two years ago, the former proudly proclaimed it had overtaken the latter to become Latin America’s third-largest economy in 2012, behind Brazil and Mexico. Argentine economists cried foul, saying the claim, which relied on nominal figures and a black market exchange rate, was therefore invalid. Undeterred, the Colombians have claimed third place for 2013 after Argentina devalued its peso. The Colombians’ rationale: While their country’s GDP of $369 billion trails Argentina’s $485 billion using Argentina’s official rate, it would take the lead under a parallel rate that many economists consider a more accurate gauge. But the truth is, it doesn’t really matter who’s right. What does? The fact that Colombia’s economy is becoming a stronger force in the region and a magnet for foreign investment. While United States’ investors have been singing Colombia’s praises for several years, they’ve been primarily focused on two things: the country’s improved security situation and opportunities in energy and mining. But Colombia is also earning a reputation for sound economic policy ­– one that’s helped it weather global economic turbulence better than many of its neighbors. The country, previously ravaged by drug cartels and civil war, had one of the fastest-growing economies in Latin America in 2013, while inflation dropped to its lowest level in six decades. Combine that with increasing foreign direct investment, and the economy has been well positioned to withstand external shocks. This improved reputation couldn’t have come at a better time. Investors who only recently sought out emerging markets for higher returns began shunning them in mid-2013, when the U.S. Federal Reserve first announced its intention to begin “tapering” its recession-era policy of purchasing government and asset-backed securities. Capital outflows have only intensified in 2014, weakening emerging market currencies from Brazil to Turkey to India. Yet Colombia is in good shape. The peso has fallen 2.7 percent so far this year, but that hasn’t been due to foreign investment flows entering negative territory. “The Fed’s tapering has had an impact in emerging markets, but because Colombia’s macro fundamentals are sound, they have been relatively insulated from capital outflows,” says Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of the Americas, an organization that promotes free trade in the hemisphere. “Colombia’s disciplined macro policy has been buoyed by a favorable business climate that has led to increased foreign investment.” Favorable, indeed. Colombia registered $13.3 billion in incoming FDI in the first three quarters of last year, an amount 13 percent higher than the same period a year earlier. Total incoming FDI for 2012 was a remarkable nine times greater than the $1.7 billion the country recorded in 2003, according to the central bank. Colombia has achieved this steady increase through free trade agreements with the U.S., Canada and Chile and by making ongoing and sustained structural adjustments to its economy over the past two decades. Those include the elimination of currency controls, increased supervision of banks and a policy of maintaining low levels of public debt. The result: Long-term investment in Colombia’s oil, mining, manufacturing and transportation sectors is proving more stable than the equity and debt investments currently fleeing other emerging markets. That breadth of investment, too, has helped the economy withstand another development that’s kneecapping other countries: lower demand for commodities amid slower growth in China. “Colombia’s main trade partner is the U.S. and main export product is oil,” said Credit Suisse’s Colombia analyst Juan Maldonado. “Chinese demand for commodities is more centered on metallic commodities, like copper. In that sense, Colombia’s export structure is not as vulnerable as other countries in the region to lower demand from China.” The Colombians have also wrestled inflation to the mat. Consumer prices only rose an estimated 1.9 percent last year after increasing 2.4 percent in 2012, according to Credit Suisse, a far cry from the 7.7 percent posted in 2008. While inflation could accelerate to around 3 percent this year, interest rate hikes expected later in 2014 are likely to keep that increase in check. Credit Suisse expects the central bank to gradually increase the benchmark rate from its current 3.25 percent to 5 percent by the first quarter of next year. The peso has appreciated around 1.75 percent against the dollar since March 19, after JPMorgan announced it would increase Colombia’s weight in two of its local-currency bond indices thanks to improved investor accessibility and transparency. Credit Suisse noted a JPMorgan estimate that the move may fuel $9.4 billion in extra demand for bonds, increasing capital inflows and potentially giving support to the currency. It’s quite a turnaround for a country that was so violent just a few decades ago that investors wouldn’t touch it. Kidnapping was rampant, the FARC guerilla group often attacked military bases and rural towns, and terrorist bombs routinely went off in Bogota and Medellin. It was, as they say, the stuff of literature: the first few pages of Nobel prize winner Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s “News of a Kidnapping,” recount the abductions of prominent Colombians in the early 1990s by notorious drug lord Pablo Escobar’s cartel. Even in the past decade, government troops have still battled guerillas as the FARC fought paramilitary groups in the countryside. While the violence hasn’t entirely ended—a car bomb decapitated a former government minister’s driver in Bogota in 2012—it’s a far cry from where it used to be. The government is even in the midst of peace talks with the FARC, which has fought the state for half a century. “The reduced violence has certainly led to increased investor confidence,” Farnsworth says. A successful peace process, along with an ambitious government plan to invest in infrastructure, should boost Colombia’s potential GDP by at least one percentage point in the next five years, Credit Suisse says. Strong consumer demand and a favorable outlook for investment led Credit Suisse in March to increase its 2015 growth forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.7 percent. “Colombia has had a lot of years of good macroeconomic management and market-friendly policies.” Maldonado said. “It’s a country that is much better off than 15 to 20 years ago.” If Colombia keeps acting like this, its GDP might just grab a lead over Argentina’s that becomes indisputable. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
Hunter Walker  Bern's Steakhouse is an opulent Tampa, Fl. institution that boasts of having the "world's largest wine cellar." Business Insider visited Bern's last week, and wine steward Chris Lewis gave us a tour of the facilities where the restaurant claims to store more than 600,000 bottles of vino.  On the way into the wine cellar there are shelves for wine that's available by the glass.  Hunter Walker  There are separate storage areas for the reds, whites, and Madeiras that are sold by the glass. Lewis showed off this Madeira from 1839. Hunter Walker  Lewis said the aisles in the cellar at the restaurant are "set up like your local library" and numbered from one to 10,000. The entire collection has never been catalogued and staffers sometimes find surprises in the stacks.  Hunter Walker  According to Lewis, there are about 100,000 bottles in the cellar at the restaurant and another 500,000 in this building next door. Louis described the collection as "about a 70-30 split" between red and white wines. He said there are more reds since they are more commonly paired with steak.  Hunter Walker This is the locked "rare room" where Bern's keeps its priciest bottles individually wrapped in plastic. "There are a lot of last bottles on Earth in this room," Lewis said. "The oldest in this room is an 1815 Port." Hunter Walker  Lewis went into the "rare room" to get us a picture of what he said were the two most expensive bottles "by far" — a $15,000 2007 magnum of Romanée Conti and a $30,000 1947 double magnum of Chateau Latour that was found in the cellar in 2010.  Hunter Walker The champagne shelves are kept a few degrees cooler than the rest of the cellar.  Hunter Walker  Since Tampa is on the water and isn't elevated, the cellar at Bern's is at the street level. Because of this, the walls are covered with insulation made from newspaper to keep the temperature controlled.  Hunter Walker  Here's Lewis showing off the wine list, which, as you can see, is quite extensive. An abridged copy sits on each table.  Hunter Walker  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a building where Mt. Gox is housed in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - A representative of Mt. Gox said on Wednesday that the bitcoin exchange, which filed for bankruptcy last month, is working with Tokyo Metropolitan Police on an investigation into what happened to the 850,000 bitcoins the company has said were stolen by hackers. Mt. Gox is due to issue a statement with further details on its website later on Wednesday, the representative on a helpline for Mt. Gox creditors said. Mt. Gox filed for civil rehabilitation at Tokyo District Court on February 28, saying 750,000 of its customers' bitcoins and 100,000 of its own had been stolen in a hack, worth around $400 million at current market prices. It also said $28 million was "missing" from its Japanese bank accounts. Last week, Mt. Gox said it had found 200,000 "forgotten" bitcoins on March 7 in an old format "wallet" that the exchange had thought was empty. The exchange also filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States after U.S. customers with funds and bitcoin frozen at Mt. Gox started a class action against the exchange, alleging fraud by the company and its 28-year old CEO Mark Karpeles. (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
INETeconomics / YouTubeNomura economist Richard Koo is out with his first comments since Janet Yellen's first FOMC meeting last week. Remember, Yellen briefly spooked markets with what some perceived to be a hawkish tone, mostly owing to the specificity with which she talked about the timing of the first rate hike. According to Koo, the US is in a "QE Trap" and both the market and the media are missing it. This trap, he says, explains the hawkish bent. The argument is essentially that risks of very hot inflation are much higher now than they would be if we were coming out of a normal slump that didn't require QE. But because we did QE, and there are all these excess reserves in the system, the potential for very rapid loan growth and very hot inflation are now significant, and thus the Fed has no choice but to be more hawkish than it otherwise would be at this stage in the recovery. This is a contrarian stance that's not in line with most thinking, but then Koo rarely is. Markets and media unaware that US is in QE trap Nevertheless, it was easy enough to predict that the Fed would have to move in this direction when it began normalizing policy after years of quantitative easing. The media’s criticism of her dialog with the market and market participants’ complaints about the lack of further accommodation tells us that most of them have yet to realize the US economy has fallen into the QE trap. Their ignorance is of far greater concern, in my view. Market participants and members of the media simply do not understand that an economic recovery in a country that has undertaken QE is going to be very different from a recovery in a country that has not. ... Central banks much less tolerant of inflation after QE What they need to understand is that a central bank that has engaged in QE is far less tolerant of inflation expectations than a bank that has not. The central bank that has conducted only orthodox monetary accommodation can sit back and watch as private loan demand picks up, driving an economic rebound. Rate hikes need to be considered and implemented—gradually—only after the economy approaches full employment and prices and wages have started to rise. In this case there is no reason for the central bank or the markets to fear an economic recovery—it can be welcomed with open arms. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJames Bullard, President of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, speaks during an interview with Reuters in BostonHONG KONG (Reuters) - The U.S. unemployment rate is expected to fall below 6 percent by the end of this year, James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said on Wednesday. Bullard, speaking on a panel at the annual Credit Suisse investor conference in Hong Kong, also said the U.S. economy is set for a "pretty good year" despite recent weaker data. The unemployment rate for February rose to 6.7 percent from a five-year low of 6.6 percent as Americans flooded into the labor market to search for work. (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Germán Póo-Caamaño/FlickrGood morning! We're looking at yet another fairly quiet day in global financial markets. There was very little action one way or another during the Asian session. US futures are essentially flat at the moment after yesterday's back-and-forth, data-heavy action. The only major data coming out in the US today is Durable Goods data. FREE AppDownload
Confession time: Despite a financial and business education more comprehensive than most, I never invested. I grew up poor and just couldn’t wait for my first “serious” job and those big bucks. It was so bad, I decided to drop out of college in my senior year. “None of this ivory-tower crap is going to make me any more money,” I told everyone who would listen. Fortunately, both of them were able to talk me off the ledge. One of them was my future wife, bless her little gizzard. After graduation, my illusions were shattered: There are no high-paying jobs in a recession for someone with just a bachelor’s degree. There are hardly any jobs at all. Carol Burnett came up with the formula: Comedy = Tragedy + Time. That explains why I’ve been able to entertain so many guests after dinner with the now-humorous details of my early career. Bottom line: It took several years to set up a household on entry-level wages. My big break came when, in the final year of my MBA, I landed a job that tripled my income. (No matter what all the critics say, no single degree makes you as much money as an MBA.) Finally, we were rolling in it. The top restaurateurs in town knew us by name. You would think that someone with such a solid education (in accounting and finance, no less) would realize the time had come to start investing. You would be wrong. We had accumulated us some Joneses along the way, up with which we had to keep, and we did some serious “keeping” for the next few years. Of course, we told ourselves we were “investing.” (All big spenders do that.) You could call that spectacular wooded plot in the Cape (Town, not Cod) for our next dream custom-built home an investment. We did. You can call anything you spend money on “an investment” — nice cars (they will be collectible one day, you know), good wines (more valuable when aged), jewelry, and any number of other wanna-haves — investments, one and all. Deluding yourself that what you’re doing is smart is not hard. Wise readers know where that journey ended: Our debt tripped us up in our 40s, and we got wiped out in yet another recession. That’s when I got mad. And that’s when I got smart. I discovered the more you make, the more you spend. And it’s true what they say: Money can’t buy you happiness. Lack of money, though, doesn’t bring you barrels of fun, either. I haven’t heard too many people say that, because it sounds materialistic; but take it from someone who’s lived on both sides of that railroad track. There is more peace in the house when the finances are in order. This post was started in response to a question from a reader, who asked: How do you get started investing? Penny stocks, maybe? In response, I wrote a nice, sterile post with the five-point plan to get started. But after reading it over, I did the electronic equivalent of crumpling it up and tossing it in the wastepaper basket. Why? Because I’ve heard that all before and it never got me to start when I should have started. Why, then, would it help the non-investing reader? Everybody has heard the message that you’ve got to invest. And if I have a dollar for every “get-started” plan written, I’d be one of the sharks on “Shark Tank.” And yet, it is equally well documented how Americans are headed for retirement disaster because they don’t invest. Why not? 1. Passion Because none of those articles, lectures, books, posts, speeches, or admonitions addresses the starting point: passion. Until you get mad, you’re not going to change. That’s true for any lifestyle improvement: losing weight, quitting smoking, getting fit… or investing. So, Step One is making a passionate decision. It doesn’t matter if it’s fear, anger, humiliation, or even (dare I say it?) greed. Investing is a long, long grind. Along the way, you’ll face thousands of temptations to derail you, and very few to keep you on track. In the face of that barrage, you’ll only stay the course if you have a steely resolve, and we human beings are wired in such a way that pretty much the only way to maintain that steely resolve is to have it fueled with a long-term fire in your belly. Nothing but that passion will neutralize the onslaught of temptations coming at you day after day… after day. Once you’ve made that resolve, pretty much anything you invest in can work. My father-in-law only invested in a savings account. You could argue with him all you want (“C’mon, Dad, you can double your earnings with any other investment!”) but a savings account was the only investment he felt passionate about. He made it work. With passion, you can make anything work. 2. Foreground I started (late, to be sure) with a savings account. I wanted to open a brokerage account, but back then you needed a couple thousand or some huge number like that to open a new account. Along the way, I discovered a nice thing about a savings account: there’s no minimum to start, or to deposit. When we got a $15 refund for something, I could deposit that into the savings account and nobody would frown. It became a game: how high can we make it grow this month? Saving became a foreground activity, not a background activity as so many people think it ought to be. And that, I think, is Step Two: Make your investing an intentional, “foreground” part of your life. Facing my mid-40s with nothing forced me to admit that my lifestyle was proof that I’m not a natural saver/investor. And so, just like a recovering alcoholic, I need to be very deliberate in staying off the spending wagon. No more fancy cars, no more fancy nothing… and no more Joneses. I began measuring my worth in things other people couldn’t see. We were surprised to see how quickly our savings grew when it became an endeavor of passion. So we signed up for 401(k) plans where we worked, and went for the maximum deductions, matching or no matching. Mechanically, I think it’s important to start with safe investments, like a savings account, a 401(k) plan at work, stock market index funds — stuff like that. For the first four or five years, the lion’s share of your investment value will be your contributions, not your returns. You can always change your investments along the way. The important thing is picking a safe investment you’ll feel the most passion for. Then learn as much as you can. You’ll find out soon enough what generates the most passion. Then study that for a few years and you’ll be good. 3. Opportunities There’s something else very few people talk about, and that’s opportunity. J.D. wrote about it recently, but he’s one of very few. I discovered this a few short years into my now-passionate investing career: Once you make investing a foreground part of your life (i.e., you think about it a lot) it’s natural to want to learn more. As you do that, you become aware of things that passed over your head before. And one of those things is… opportunities. Life brings everyone a string of opportunities. Until I became conscious of investing and made it a priority, I was totally oblivious to them. When someone would mention something that sounded like an investment opportunity, I’d cut them off with a put-down like, “Oh, that’s just a scam. Nothing could be that good. What a waste of time. Wall Street’s just a casino!” And then I’d continue debating whether this great chef’s new restaurant would be as good as his previous one. When you’re thinking of buying a Honda, what do you see? Hondas all around you. Same with investment opportunities. It’s a well-known trait of the human brain that once you’re conscious of something, you notice much more of it. Every person has a few outstanding investment opportunities that come their way. So I’d say Step Three is to keep your eyes open for all investment opportunities that come along. Be prepared to pass on 90 percent of them, but be ready to pounce on a good one when it comes along. Being prepared comes naturally with anything you’re passionate about because you love to read about it, talk about it, and think about it. The nutshell As I said, it doesn’t really matter which particular investment vehicle you pick to get started, as long as it’s not too risky. Success in the long run will come from: No two of the people I know who succeeded in their investing followed the same path to success, or invested in the same things. But all of them were passionate about it, thought about it a lot and took advantage of at least one good opportunity which gave them that boost you can never plan for. It’s easy to talk yourself out of anything and find fault with any option. Those who succeeded didn’t talk; they acted. To misquote my good friend Vern: thinkers think and doers do. Until thinkers do and doers think, investing is just another word in the overburdened vocabulary of broke Americans. This article originally appeared at Get Rich Slowly.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
