InstagramEarlier today, Newsweek dropped a bombshell story that supposedly unmasked the anonymous creator of Bitcoin, which most believed was the pseudonymous "Satoshi Nakamoto." But according to the story, Nakamoto is no pseudonym. Reporter Leah McGrath Goodman claims he's a man with that name living in a modest home in Temple City, Calif. He has vehemently denied the report, and says he was misunderstood when the reporter confronted him at his doorstep. "I got nothing to do with it," he told the AP. Gadi Schwartz, a reporter with NBC Southern California, has uploaded a new short video of Nakamoto to Instagram, where he seems rather incredulous at the mention he could be worth $400 million. "I have a 94-year-old mother in there, I am taking care of her," he says. "I don't have a maid, I don't have a gardener. You think I'm capable of making or having $400 million dollars and live in this house?" While Newsweek and Goodman are standing by the story, it looks like it's one person's word against the other. But as The Wire's Sara Morrison notes, Goodman never found any conclusive link to Bitcoin, just plenty of circumstantial evidence. Further, The Bitcoin Foundation has come out strongly against the Newsweek report, telling Reuters, "... We have seen zero conclusive evidence that the identified person is the designer of Bitcoin." The Associated Press has also uploaded a short video of its interview with Nakamoto, where he says he wants to clear his name because he has "nothing to do with Bitcoin." Here are the videos:   FREE AppDownload
Do you recall a time in America when the income of a single school teacher or baker or salesman or mechanic was enough to buy a home, have two cars, and raise a family?  I remember. My father (who just celebrated his 100th birthday) earned enough for the rest of us to live comfortably. We weren’t rich but never felt poor, and our standard of living rose steadily through the 1950s and 1960s.  That used to be the norm. For three decades after World War II, America created the largest middle class the world had ever seen. During those years the earnings of the typical American worker doubled, just as the size of the American economy doubled. (Over the last thirty years, by contrast, the size of the economy doubled again but the earnings of the typical American went nowhere.)   In that earlier period, more than a third of all workers belonged to a trade union — giving average workers the bargaining power necessary to get a large and growing share of the large and growing economic pie. (Now, fewer than 7 percent of private-sector workers are unionized.)  Then, CEO pay then averaged about 20 times the pay of their typical worker (now it’s over 200 times).  In those years, the richest 1 percent took home 9 to 10 percent of total income (today the top 1 percent gets more than 20 percent).  Then, the tax rate on highest-income Americans never fell below 70 percent; under Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican, it was 91 percent. (Today the top tax rate is 39.6 percent.) In those decades, tax revenues from the wealthy and the growing middle class were used to build the largest infrastructure project in our history, the Interstate Highway system. And to build the world’s largest and best system of free public education, and dramatically expand public higher education. (Since then, our infrastructure has been collapsing from deferred maintenance, our public schools have deteriorated, and higher education has become unaffordable to many.) We didn’t stop there. We enacted the Civil Rights Act and Voting Rights Act to extend prosperity and participation to African-Americans; Medicare and Medicaid to provide health care to the poor and reduce poverty among America’s seniors; and the Environmental Protection Act to help save our planet.  And we made sure banking was boring.  It was a virtuous cycle. As the economy grew, we prospered together. And that broad-based prosperity enabled us to invest in our future, creating more and better jobs and a higher standard of living.   Then came the great U-turn, and for the last thirty years we’ve been heading in the opposite direction.  Why? Some blame globalization and the loss of America’s  manufacturing core. Others point to new technologies that replaced routine jobs with automated machinery, software, and robotics.  But if these were the culprits, they only raise a deeper question: Why didn’t we share the gains from globalization and technological advances more broadly? Why didn’t we invest them in superb schools, higher skills, a world-class infrastructure? Others blame Ronald Reagan’s worship of the so-called “free market,” supply-side economics, and deregulation. But if these were responsible, why did we cling to these ideas for so long? Why are so many people still clinging to them?  Some others believe Americans became greedier and more selfish. But if that’s the explanation, why did our national character change so dramatically?  Perhaps the real problem is we forgot what we once achieved together.  The collective erasure of the memory of that prior system of broad-based prosperity is due partly to the failure of my generation to retain and pass on the values on which that system was based. It can also be understood as the greatest propaganda victory radical conservatism ever won. We must restore our recollection. In seeking to repair what is broken, we don’t have to emulate another nation. We have only to emulate what we once had. That we once achieved broad-based prosperity means we can achieve it again — not exactly the same way, of course, but in a new way fit for the twenty-first century and for future generations of Americans.  America’s great U-turn can be reversed. It is worth the fight. FREE AppDownload
Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits The United Nations' headquarters is at the epicenter of international relations. This past week, the Security Council took up meeting after meeting to decide a course of action amid Ukrainian-Russian tensions. That's standard for the ambassadors of the 193 member states of the U.N. But most people not involved in international dealings will never get to see beyond the U.N.'s Visitor Centre. Alfred Hitchcock was famously denied entry, so he used a guerrilla camera to film Cary Grant entering the U.N. in "North by Northwest." "The Interpreter," starring Nicole Kidman, was allowed limited access to the listening booths, but that was prior to the installation of the current facilities team at the U.N., who closely guard the organization's newly renovated headquarters on Manhattan's far east side. That same facilities team initially rejected a request from Bloomberg Pursuits, the finance company's new luxury magazine, to stage a workwear fashion shoot inside the building. But Pursuits' creative team was persistent.  They shared the story of one of their most challenging photo shoots to date with Business Insider.   "It was four months with negotiations close to daily," said Bloomberg Pursuits editor Ted Moncreiff. "First, we said we wanted to do a story on the U.N. and on their renovation. Once we got them to say yes to that, we introduced the idea of a fashion shoot. After that, there was just a lot of legal wrangling." "They're very properly protective of the U.N.'s reputation and they also can't ever be shown to give favoritism among the member states. I think there were just a lot of very legitimate sensitivities there, on top of the fact that we wanted an all-access pass," Moncreiff added. Pursuits wanted to be the first to bring readers inside the new U.N., which underwent $2.1 billion in updates — and is now the first magazine to do a full spread in the building. Vogue made a portrait of former U.S. ambassador Susan Rice in the Security Council for a June 2009 issue, but no publication has photographed as much of the U.N. as Bloomberg Pursuits.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits The crew prepares a shot in front of Swedish artist Bo Beskow’s “Composition for a Concave Wall” mural in the library’s penthouse."The paperwork literally wasn’t complete until Wednesday, January 8th at 3:45 p.m. and the photo crew started loading in at 6 p.m. that day," said Brenda Milis, director of photography for Bloomberg Pursuits. What really pushed the agreement to the wire was the U.N.'s $4,309 location fee. The business division of Bloomberg couldn't okay the charge without a W-9 form, but the U.N. doesn't have a W-9 because the international organization doesn't pay taxes. Moncreiff cut the check himself for the location on the day of the shoot and crossed his fingers that he would get reimbursed later. (He was, thanks to a different document that satisfied the magazine.) "It was close," Moncreiff said. "I really did have this moment where I thought the whole thing is going to hinge on whether I remember to bring in my checkbook that day. I literally stuck a note on my phone. I wrote out two checks: One to 'The United Nations' and one to 'United Nations,' just in case." (Without the "the" is correct.) A team of 14 went to the U.N. for the 17 hours of work split over the two-day shoot. The models came with an appropriately international pedigree. Christina Kruse is German, Alex Manning has a Japanese mother, and Edwin Gill, whose parents are from St. Thomas, fought in Iraq before becoming a model.  Milis registered everyone beforehand with photo IDs. The make-up artist's case was too big to fit through the x-ray machine, so she had to unpack everything to get security clearance. "The U.N. staff were unfamiliar with the makings of a fashion portfolio," Moncreiff said. "They thought the models arrived in cabs all made up in the one outfit that we would just shoot over and over and over again. They didn’t understand that we needed a hair and make-up and wardrobe room."Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits A spare meeting room in the library of the U.N. became the hair, makeup and wardrobe room."In the beginning it was slow," Milis said. "It’s interesting that the U.N. employees came up to us like 'What are you doing?' They were a little suspicious. Then, toward the end of the first day, it was like we were all best friends. The staff was having their pictures taken with the models." Once they started working, the shoot went smoothly, largely because the Pursuits team had to follow a strictly set pre-approved shot list for each room they visited: The lobby, the Security Council chambers, an interpreter's booth, the Dag Hammarskjöld Library, the kitchen, and the blocky exterior.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits Photographer Ralph Mecke (left) and his first assistant (right) shoot model Edwin Gill in front of the UN Building for Bloomberg Pursuits’ Spring 2014 cover.They only deviated from the schedule on the first day when they realized they could get a sunny shot of the building's facade, before a snowstorm arrived the second day of the shoot. For the most part, everything they photographed was an organic part of the U.N. Their biggest prop was an old-fashioned TV showing a bomb exploding in Syria. "We have some kind of tension happening in every shot," Bloomberg Pursuits creative director Anton Ioukhnovets said.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits "To me, an inspiration came a little bit from 'All The Presidents’ Men.' What was interesting there was that it’s people working on some kind of crisis situation. That’s what we had in mind when we went there," Ioukhnovets said. "There’s a lot of glory in the U.N.," Moncreiff added. "But we weren’t seeking to glorify it. There are heroic shots and then there are pictures that anyone who works in an office can relate to." You can see that in the balance of the Security Council's intensity and the quotidian kitchen, with a rotary phone that somehow escaped the billions of dollars in renovations.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits Only twice did fashion photography and U.N. policy butt up against each other as the security personnel followed the Bloomberg Pursuits team through the headquarters. The first time was when model Christina Kruse was shot in the public lobby wearing a lace skirt with no lining that was basically see-through. (It appears differently in the final image.)Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits "They gently reminded us that when we go into the Security Council chamber, we should be much more conservative," Ioukhnovets said, "and we happily obliged."    Then, the Bloomberg Pursuits team wanted to show the names on the plaques at the horseshoe-shaped table in the Security Council to add another layer of authenticity.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits Contributing Fashion Director, Markus Ebner (left) working with models Christina Kruse and Alex Manning in the Security Council Chamber of the UN to set up the opening shot of the UN Fashion Feature.They were asked not to, however, because it might show favoritism to have some countries' nameplates published in an international fashion magazine while others were excluded.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits Ralph Mecke photographed the spread, Markus Ebner styled it and Anthony Graneri produced it. The spring issue of Bloomberg Pursuits hits newsstands March 14.Ralph Mecke/Bloomberg Pursuits  FREE AppDownload
Forbes recently released its 28th annual ranking of the world’s billionaires. This list of the wealthiest people in the world revealed that there are a total of 1,645 billionaires. According to the list, Bill Gates has regained his position as the wealthiest man in the world. It appears Bill was hard at work last year. His net worth is now at $76 billion, which is a big jump from last year when it was a mere $67 million. Despite being known around the world as the richest man, he has not been at the top of the list in the past four years. Even so, he still has ranked at the top for 15 out of the last 20 years. Last year he was second in the world, just behind the telecom billionaire, Carlos Slim Helu. Where do the top 10 wealthiest people in the world rank? Get a glimpse of the richest people and the sources of their wealth. Mark Zuckerberg: A notable mention not yet in the top 10 billionaires is Mark Zuckerberg. The creator of Facebook is currently ranked number 21 on the list of wealthiest people in the world, but it’s worth noting he was able to significantly increase his fortune this year. Currently, Zuckerberg’s net worth is at $28.5 billion, up from $13.3 billion, an increase of $15.2 billion, which is one of the biggest gains among billionaires since last year. Expect Zuckerberg to work his way to the top 10 and remain there within the next five years or so. Fun Fact: According to the list released from Forbes, the top 10 billionaires in the world have a combined net worth of $507.6 billion. This article originally appeared at MyBankTracker.  Copyright 2014. Follow MyBankTracker on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The man fingered by Newsweek as the creator of Bitcoin says his supposed admission was misinterpreted. According to an interview with the AP's Ryan Nakashima, Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto said that what he meant when he told Newsweek's Leah McGrath Goodman, "I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it," he meant he was no longer in engineering. "And even if I was, when we get hired, you have to sign this document, contract saying you will not reveal anything we divulge during and after employment," he told AP. "So that's what I implied." He continued: "It sounded like I was involved before with Bitcoin and looked like I'm not involved now. That's not what I meant. I want to clarify that," he said. Meanwhile, a post on a long-dormant PeerToPeer Foundation site believed to belong to the Satoshi Nakamoto who created Bitcoin suddenly became active Thursday, with the user denying he was Dorian. Goodman told Nakashima she is sticking by her story. "I stand completely by my exchange with Mr. Nakamoto," she said. "There was no confusion whatsoever about the context of our conversation -- and his acknowledgment of his involvement in Bitcoin." Earlier today, Goodman told BI she had no doubt Dorian Nakamoto was Bitcoin's creator. "It was his response to me that made it clear," she said, referring to his evasiveness upon encountering her. "If I weren't the founder I'd be like, "That's very amusing, I run a bagel shop." Click here to read the full story on AP.com » FREE AppDownload
Darmon RichterAs crazy as that abstract Steve Jobs statue in Belgrade was, perhaps the most absurd monument to the late Apple founder is the one in China's biggest ghost city. The sculpture, a hexagon containing the outline of an apple and Jobs’ face, is not that strange in itself. What's strange is that it is located behind an apparently unused school, in the middle of hundreds of thousands of vacant apartments in the Kangbashi New Area of Ordos, a shining metropolis built by China in Inner Mongolia that has been called the world's biggest ghost city. Urban explorer Darmon Richter uncovered the sculpture among other bizarre sites in a recent trip to Ordos. He was shown the monument by a local guide who "took great pleasure in pointing out the elaborate features around us — while explaining how much each one had cost to install," Richter writes. "He would quote prices, then wave his arms about at the empty streets, his gestures doing much to communicate the madness of such grandiose investment in a ghost town." Next to an empty school were three apple-themed statues, featuring Steve Jobs, Isaac Newton, and someone Richter could not identify. The sculptures cost "ten thousand Qaui!," according to their incredulous guide, which is around $1,670. Check it out: Darmon Richter www.thebohemianblog.com FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Bill Gross, the co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co, has accused departing CEO Mohamed El-Erian of seeking to "undermine" him by talking to The Wall Street Journal about deepening tensions between the two executives who have been jointly running the world's largest bond house. Gross told Reuters that he had "evidence" that El-Erian "wrote" a February 24 article in the Journal, which described the worsening relationship between the two men as Pimco's performance deteriorated last year, including a showdown in which they squared off against each other in front of more than a dozen colleagues at the firm's Newport Beach, California headquarters. Gross, who oversaw more than $1.91 trillion in assets as of the end of last year and who is known on Wall Street as the 'Bond King', said in a phone call to Reuters last Friday: "I'm so sick of Mohamed trying to undermine me." When asked if Reuters could see the evidence about El-Erian and the allegation he was involved in the article, Gross said: "You're on his side. Great, he's got you, too, wrapped around his charming right finger." He said he knew that El-Erian, who had been widely seen as the heir apparent to Gross but is now due to leave in mid-March, had been in contact with Reuters as well as the Wall Street Journal. Gross indicated he had been monitoring El-Erian's phone calls. A Pimco spokesman said in an emailed statement: "Mr. Gross did not make the statements Reuters attributes to him. He categorically denies saying this firm ever listened in on Mr. El-Erian's phone calls or that Mr. El-Erian 'wrote' any previous media article." He added: "As a regulated company, PIMCO is required to retain records of its employees' communications to help ensure compliance with the firm's policies." Pimco's owner, German financial services company Allianz SE &lt;ALVG.DE&gt;, was not available for comment. El-Erian, who was named to a part-time position as chief economic adviser to Allianz last week, could not be reached for comment. When asked about Gross's claim that El-Erian "wrote" the article, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones, the publisher of The Wall Street Journal, said: "This is an astoundingly incorrect claim about a thoroughly reported article that was in the best tradition of The Wall Street Journal." El-Erian signed a non-disclosure agreement as part of his Pimco departure terms, according to a source close to him. Reuters couldn't ascertain the details of his exit package, including its confidentiality aspects or the size of his payout. The February 24 Journal article detailed the unraveling of the once vaunted investment and management partnership between Gross and El-Erian. The article revealed the increasing strains between the two executives over Gross's combative management style and whether he should trust other investment managers more. "I have a 41-year track record of investing excellence," Gross told El-Erian one day last June, according to the Journal article, which cited two witnesses as its source. "What do you have?" "I'm tired of cleaning up your s---," El-Erian responded, referring to conduct by Gross that he felt was hurting Pimco, these two people recalled, according to the article. A source who was present at the time confirmed to Reuters that the report of the exchange was accurate. SOME PIMCO INVESTORS ON EDGE The latest signs of a rift between Gross and El-Erian, who once praised each other fulsomely, come as Gross is grappling with clients who are also turning their backs on the very asset class that has made him famous. That is happening partly because the Federal Reserve continues to reduce its controversial bond buying that has provided stimulus to the U.S. and world economies. Pimco saw its assets under management shrink by $80 billion in 2013 due to outflows and negative returns, according to Morningstar. In February, Gross's flagship Pimco Total Return Fund had $1.6 billion of net outflows, its 10th consecutive month of outflows, and it lagged 71 percent of its peers with a return of just 0.52 percent last month, according to Morningstar. In 2013, it suffered a negative total return of nearly 2 percent. In mid-February, Gross sought to reassure the firm's clients about the new leadership structure he has put in place since Pimco's announcement of El-Erian's departure on January 21. Gross called his announcement of six new deputy chief investment officers a "significant improvement" from Pimco's previous structure, which concentrated nearly all investment strategy decision making onto the shoulders of Gross and El-Erian. "I've never seen Bill and Pimco scrutinized like this before. This is the most attention I have seen on them," said Eric Jacobson, Morningstar senior analyst who has covered Pimco for nearly two decades. "A couple of high-profile stumbles and mediocre showings, coupled with some outflows - and with no identified successor for life after Bill - clearly has some investors on edge." Still, Jacobson said that Gross holds one of the best records in the bond industry with the Pimco Total Return fund's 10-year and 15-year annualized returns at 6.04 percent and 6.68 percent, respectively. The fund's returns are beating 96 percent of its peers for those time periods, he added. (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Additional reporting by Jennifer Saba; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
AP NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. — Not only are many conservatives not concerned about the so-called "Bridgegate" scandal but also some attendees at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference say it could actually improve New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's standing.  Christie spoke at CPAC Thursday, one year after being snubbed and denied an invite in the wake of his very public embrace of President Barack Obama ahead of the 2012 presidential election. His speech earned a mostly positive reception from attendees — not as fervent as the reaction for the crowd-appeasing Sen. Ted Cruz or even Donald Trump, but enough to qualify as a standing ovation. Perhaps more importantly, CPAC attendees were eager to defend Christie from the story that has dominated national headlines for much of the past two months — the revelation some of the governor's top aides were involved in a decision to close access lanes onto the George Washington Bridge from Fort Lee, N.J., last September. The closures caused days of gridlock in Fort Lee and some Democrats have said it was an act of political retribution against the mayor there, Mark Sokolich, who declined to endorse Christie for re-election. "I just have to laugh at that whole 'scandal,'" said Hans von Spakovsky, a senior legal fellow at The Heritage Foundation. "We have real scandals going on. People were killed in Benghazi," he added, referring to the Sept. 11, 2012, terrorist attack on the U.S. mission in Libya. The conservatives we spoke to largely agreed it would have been bad news if Christie was involved in ordering the closures for political reasons. Their responses on that front included the words "stupid," "dumb," and "idiotic." However, several CPAC attendees also noted the intense media coverage of the scandal, which has largely receded in recent weeks, could actually help the governor as battling the "liberal mainstream media" could help him appeal to the conservative base.  One CPAC attendee who didn't want to be named said he understood the media interest in the story, especially in a slow news period. However, he said he saw a double standard from the media's coverage. "Traffic in New York is constant," the attendee said. "And it's national news for two months? Four Americans were killed in Benghazi. How long was that a story?" He added, "I'm not saying Christie doesn't have his flaws. But I think he could expose the media's bias probably better than any other candidate we have." Another conservative at the conference predicted coverage of the scandal would continue to decrease and would have disappeared by the time Christie would be ready to begin preparing for a presidential run. This could give the impression Christie had triumphed over the liberal media.  "I think it's a lot of inside baseball, especially as far as internal New Jersey politics go," Kevin Mooney, a writer at Liberty Alliance, told Business Insider. "Unless something tangible is found, it could work to Christie's advantage. ... We need someone who beat the news media." Outside of the conservative base, Christie's image has clearly taken a hit from the scandal. A poll released last week showed just 31 percent of Republicans want Christie to run in 2016, while 41 percent do not want him to run. One CPAC attendee who spoke to Business Insider conceded the scandal could cause Christie to lose more moderate voters. That would be bad news for the governor since, as indicated by last year's CPAC snub, he was hardly on solid footing with conservatives. "He has a lot deeper problems with the base," said Steve Deace, a conservative Iowa radio host. "But I understand the hesitation people could have about him — imagine if your dad was on that bridge, and had a heart attack? ... What if your wife was in a crisis pregnancy, like mine was twice?" FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewSatoshi NakamotoIn another bizarre twist to today's bombshell Newsweek story on Bitcoin, California man Satoshi Nakamoto is now denying he created bitcoin. "In an exclusive two-hour interview with The Associated Press, Dorian S. Nakamoto, 64, said he had never heard of Bitcoin until his son told him he had been contacted by a reporter three weeks ago," reports the AP's Ryan Nakashima. This contradicts the Newsweek feature, which was written by reporter Leah McGrath Goodman. Goodman wrote that she had contacted the man behind Bitcoin, the controversial digital crypto-currency spreading across the world. Her investigation led her to a Japanese-American father of six who lives in a single-family home in Southern California. "I don't have any doubt in my mind," said Goodman when our Rob Wile asked her if she really believed Nakamoto was indeed the founder of Bitcoin. Immediately, reporters from numerous media outlets tracked down Nakamoto and camped out outside his Temple City home. Eventually he emerged and agreed to have lunch with an AP reporter, who we now believe was AP's Ryan Nakashima. That lunch led to a chase, which was live-tweeted by the reporters. The most surprising tweet probably came from LA Times Deputy Business Editor Joe Bel Bruno: "OK so #nakamoto DENIES being the the creator of #bitcoin. Yes, DENIED." Goodman's story was published at 6:05 a.m. ET on Thursday morning, and it immediately had the entire digital currency world buzzing. After completing what she said was "a two-month investigation and interviews with those closest to Nakamoto and the developers who worked most frequently with him," Goodman said "the facts are much stranger than the well-established fiction." Indeed. The name "Satoshi Nakamoto" first appeared on a 2008 paper proposing the digital currency. Unable to locate that Nakamoto, many of the Bitcoin-watchers proceeded to assume that "Satoshi Nakamoto" was actually a pseudonym.  Goodman actually made a jab at these folks in her story: ...Far from leading to a Tokyo-based whiz kid using the name "Satoshi Nakamoto" as a cipher or pseudonym (a story repeated by everyone from Bitcoin's rabid fans to The New Yorker), the trail followed by Newsweek led to a 64-year-old Japanese-American man whose name really is Satoshi Nakamoto... Reporters, including those at Business Insider, were taken aback by how quickly and easily Goodman was able to track down "Nakamoto." From her story: ...There are several Satoshi Nakamotos living in North America and beyond - both dead and alive - including a Ralph Lauren menswear designer in New York and another who died in Honolulu in 2008, according to the Social Security Index's Death Master File. There's even one on LinkedIn who claims to have started Bitcoin and is based in Japan. But none of these profiles seem to fit other known details and few of the leads proved credible. Of course, there is also the chance "Satoshi Nakamoto" is a pseudonym, but that raises the question why someone who wishes to remain anonymous would choose such a distinctive name. It was only while scouring a database that contained the registration cards of naturalized U.S. citizens that a Satoshi Nakamoto turned up whose profile and background offered a potential match. But it was not until after ordering his records from the National Archives and conducting many more interviews that a cohesive picture began to take shape... "For the past 40 years, Satoshi Nakamoto has not used his birth name in his daily life," wrote Goodman. "At the age of 23, after graduating from California State Polytechnic University, he changed his name to "Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto," according to records filed with the U.S. District Court of Los Angeles in 1973." Without making any conclusions about whether Nakamoto was indeed the "Satoshi Nakamoto" behind Bitcoin, there were a lot of details that readers struggled with. For someone theoretically worth around $400 million, Dorian Nakamoto lived a remarkably modest lifestyle. He drives a silver Toyota Corolla CE and lives in a single-family home in a less-than-glamorous part of Southern California. Not that there's anything wrong with that. It's just a bit unusual. If anything, he wasn't the type of person interested in attracting a whole lot of attention. Even in her story, Goodwin noted that the first thing he did was call the cops when she appeared at his home. From her story: ...It seemed similarly implausible that Nakamoto's first response to my knocking at his door would be to call the cops. Now face to face, with two police officers as witnesses, Nakamoto's responses to my questions about Bitcoin were careful but revealing... One Goodwin's sources Bitcoin scientist Gavin Andresen immediately regretted helping her with her story. "I'm disappointed Newsweek decided to dox the Nakamoto family, and regret talking to Leah," tweeted Andresen. The Bitcoin community as a whole was outraged by the revelation. For one, they agreed that Nakamoto didn't need to have his whole world disrupted. Two, pro-Bitcoiners didn't like how this diverted attention away from Bitcoin itself. Three... "I kind of liked it better when we didn't know," tweeted Bitcoin enthusiast Arianna Simpson. "More sense of community ownership." With the Goodwin-Nakamoto story now unraveling, Simpson's desire for anonymous community ownership may be satisfied once again. FREE AppDownload
The Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish its February jobs report at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday. According to economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the consensus estimates U.S. companies added 149,000 nonfarm payrolls during the month.. Goldman Sachs' David Mericle expects the number to disappoint and come in at 125,000. "We expect that cold temperatures and snowstorms during the February reference week and the weeks just prior will exert a drag of about 60k on payroll gains," wrote Mericle in a note to clients. "In addition, we view the February employment indicators as a bit weaker than the recent trend, with the sharp decline in the ISM-nonmanufacturing index a particularly worrisome sign." On Wednesday, we learned that the ISM-nonmanufacturing employment sub-index plunged to 47.5 in February from 56.4 in January. Companies surveyed blamed weather and the Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare). While weather certainly had an unfavorable impact, most folks consider it to be a temporary disruption and not reflective of real weakness in the underlying economy. The number to watch in the report may be the unemployment rate. Mericle believes it probably fell to 6.5% from 6.6%. "In addition to the declining trend, we expect that the expiration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation at the end of 2013 is likely to put further downward pressure on the unemployment rate in February," wrote Mericle. "To count as unemployed, a person must have actively looked for work in the prior four weeks. Because late December still fell within that four-week window during the January reference week, it would not be surprising to see some of the impact of expired benefits show up in February." In other words, expect a lot of noise and confusion when the numbers cross at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday. FREE AppDownload
AP A new poll released Thursday showed the majority of New Yorkers do not like Donald Trump.  The NBC 4 New York/Wall Street Journal/Marist Poll found 61 percent of New York City voters have an unfavorable impression of Trump. Only 36 percent were found to have a favorable impression of the reality television star and four percent were undecided.  Trump, who has made a habit of publicly flirting with the possibility of running for president, has indicated he might be interested in running against Democratic New York Governor Andrew Cuomo this year as a Republican. The poll found Cuomo would defeat Trump 70 percent to 26 percent with 5 percent undecided. According to the poll, Cuomo would also easily defeat his other two likely potential rivals, Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino and Buffalo, N.Y. businessman Carl Paladino.  FREE AppDownload
Stan Honda/AFP A new poll released Thursday contained some bad news for newly-minted New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. The NBC 4 New York/Wall Street Journal/Marist poll found, just two months after he took office, only 39 percent of New Yorkers approve of the job de Blasio is doing. Furthermore, the poll found 20 percent of New Yorkers think he's doing a poor job, a figure Marist College Institute for Public Opinion Director Lee Miringoff described as a "stark number." De Blasio's approval rating is far lower than the 50 percent approval former Mayor Michael Bloomberg enjoyed at the same period in his first term in 2002. At that time, just six percent of New Yorkers indicated they thought Bloomberg was doing a poor job. According to Marist, Bloomberg left office at the end of last year with a 49 percent approval rating and 17 percent saying they thought he was performing poorly. There was one bright spot for de Blasio in the poll. This has been one of the snowiest winters on record in New York City and the poll indicated 56 percent of people think de Blasio has done a good job responding to the many storms that have occurred during his brief tenure.  FREE AppDownload
Of the 5.3 million households who lost their home to a foreclosure or short sale from 2007 to 2013, we believe that: Single-family rental landlords and homeowners will benefit from boomerang buyer demand. Riverside-San Bernardino will see the greatest activity, followed closely by Los Angeles and Phoenix. Renters The renter households created each year by foreclosures and short sales has declined over the past few years. Still, we expect a significant number of these households to rent for the foreseeable future. Single-family rentals should benefit the most from these renters. Note our estimate of the trend in renter households caused by the 2007–2013 distress: John Burns Real Estate Consulting Recent FHA Changes Will Hurt Homeownership FHA loans are the most common loans for boomerang buyers, whose credit is not yet repaired. We expect the recently reduced FHA loan limits to impair the higher price points in a handful of markets. Those hoping to get a mortgage between the 2013 and new 2014 loan limits shown below will be disappointed. John Burns Real Estate Consulting The FHA loan limit changes will hurt the new home market more than the resale market because many new homes are priced right in the ranges eliminated by the new limits. The Future We have detailed metro data for boomerang buyers and other metrics relating to distress. These metrics, including shadow inventory and investor activity, significantly affect markets across the country. They will also impact home building and single-family rental businesses. For further information on boomerang buyers, rental households, and our metro-level analysis, please contact Sean Fergus at sfergus@realestateconsulting.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. People Invested In Just The US Are Missing Over Half Of The Global Opportunity Set (Vanguard)  U.S. equities now account for 49% of the global stock market. "A portfolio investing solely within the U.S. stock market thus automatically excludes over one-half of the global opportunity set," writes Christopher Philips at Vanguard. He thinks U.S. investors should consider a 20% allocation to international securities. "Allocations closer to 40% may be suitable for those investors seeking to be closer to a market- proportional weighting or for those who are hoping to obtain potentially greater diversification benefits and are less concerned with the potential risks and higher costs," Philips writes.  "On the other hand, allocations closer to 20% may be viewed as offering a greater balance among the benefits of diversification, the risks of currency volatility and higher U.S. to non-U.S. stock correlations, investor preferences, and costs." How Advisors Can Draw Female Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  A Boston Consulting Group study found that by 2014, women would control $30 trillion of the world's wealth. And advisors not making an effort to involve women are missing out on a huge opportunity, writes Jacqueline Ko Matthews of Virginia-based PJMint. "Not only do women represent a giant segment of the investing population, but evidence shows that they tend to be very good long-term investors; the kind of investors that make great clients," she writes. So what do advisors need to do to appeal to women? "Women want facts, they want to understand how products work, and they want to be engaged. Women don't want to answer a questionnaire about age and risk tolerance and then wait for an adviser to come back to them with a recommendation about how they should allocate their assets." Surging Valuations Are A Bigger Threat To The Markets Than A Geopolitical Blowup (Ed Yardeni)  "There are more hints of a melt-up in stock prices, that could be a more serious threat than any geopolitical blowup to my prediction that the secular bull market could run for another two years or longer," writes Ed Yardeni. On Tuesday the forward P/Es for the S&amp;P 500 was 15.4. "Bullish sentiment has rebounded sharply during the past few weeks. The Bull/Bear Ratio compiled by Investors Intelligence fell from a recent high of 4.23 during the week of December 24 to 2.40 during the week of February 11. Over the past three weeks, it has bounced back to 3.62." JP Morgan Securities Is Recruiting Aggressively (Investment News) JP Morgan recently hired six advisors that collectively managed over $1.2 billion. And now they're cranking it up a notch by hiring recruiters to help. JP Morgan Securities has now signed the 'Protocol for Broker Recruiting' reports Mason Braswell of Investment News. This offers advisors some legal protection when they take client information with them while changing firms.  "I think they were just trying to maintain after the great recession," Rick Rummage, a career consultant told Braswell. "Now they're making sure their deals are competitive and making sure their platform is competitive along with their product offerings because at the end of the day, people have to know they're in the market, and most advisers didn't." We Could Be Up Another 26% (S&amp;P Capital IQ)  The S&amp;P 500 hit a new intraday high on Thursday, exactly five years after it hit an intraday low of 666.79 on March 6, 2009. "Should this bull market celebrate its sixth birthday, and perform similarly to prior sixth-year bulls, we could be up another 26% to beyond 2340," S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall earlier this week. Of course, past performance does not guarantee future results. S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderGap's stock is tanking after reporting that same-store sales dropped 7% in February, when analysts expected a 1.1% rise.  Of the company's three brands, investors should be most concerned about Banana Republic, where sales dropped 7% in February, according to Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors. Banana Republic was once the office standard for style, but it's offerings have grown stale, Sozzi said. He gave these four reasons for why the brand is failing: Sozzi also noted that Banana Republic was not a top performing brand for Gap in sales during any month in 2013. The brand's sales were negative for seven out of the 12 months in 2013, and four of those months came at the end of the year during the crucial holiday period. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking (Reuters) - Private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management is close to announcing a deal to acquire U.S. grocer Safeway Inc for more than $9 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter. The deal, which values Safeway at around $40 per share, could come as early as Thursday afternoon pending final approval from the company's board of directors, the person said, who asked not to be named because the matter is not public. Reuters first reported on February 21 that Cerberus was in advanced talks to buy Safeway and was trying to finalize an agreement within weeks. Cerberus declined to comment, while Safeway did not immediately respond to requests for comment. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis and Olivia Oran in New York. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewSatoshi NakamotoIn a bizarre twist to a very unusual story, California man Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto has reportedly denied being the founder of Bitcoin. This is according to a tweet from LA Times Deputy Business Editor Joe Bel Bruno, who says he is currently following Nakamoto with a crowd of reporters. In a feature for Newsweek today, reporter Leah McGrath Goodman said that she had contacted the man behind Bitcoin, the controversial digital currency. Her investigation led to a 64-year-old Japanese-American father of six who lives in a single-family home in Southern California. "I don't have any doubt in my mind," said Goodman when our Rob Wile asked her if she really believed Nakamoto was indeed the founder of Bitcoin. Nakamoto, who had been holed up in his house, emerged this afternoon to a swarm of reporters including Bruno. Nakamoto's denial apparently came as he tried to flee from the reporters. Here's Bruno's tweet.   OK so #nakamoto DENIES being the the creator of #bitcoin. Yes, DENIED. FREE AppDownload
    Subliminal messaging has been part of advertising for a long time. And more often than not, that messaging is related to sex in some way. Here are five examples of innocent products that hid some risqué material in their ads. FREE AppDownload
Dimas Ardian/Getty ImagesGap is down 4% to $40.61 after hours. This comes after the retailer reported that comp sales were down 7% in February missing expectations for a 1.1% rise. Gap Global comp sales were down 10%, compared with a 2% rise last year. This missed expectations for a 1.4% rise. Global Banana Republic comp sales were down 7%, compared with -5% last year. Meanwhile, global Old Navy comp sales were down 6%, compared with a positive 6% a year ago. The company said 450 stores "experienced closures" because of the extreme cold. "While February was clearly a difficult month, we remain focused on executing our global priorities,” Glenn Murphy, chairman and CEO of Gap Inc said in a press release. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@CPACWASHINGTON, D.C. — Donald Trump took center stage near the end of day one of the Conservative Political Action Conference on Thursday, began his speech by likening Obama and his falling approval ratings to the "late, great Jimmy Carter." However, former President Carter is very much alive.  Trump, who says he is still considering a run for governor in New York, went on to blast fellow CPAC speakers Rep. Paul Ryan and Sen. Marco Rubio for their positions on various issues. He then praised Russian President Vladimir Putin's intellect, while noting he was dangerous because of his close relationship with Iran. Trump suggested Putin was outsmarting Obama in the still-escalating crisis in Ukraine. He knew this because he spent time in Moscow a few months ago.  "Putin even sent me a present!" he said, adding that the Russian leader was "toying" with Obama. Trump then proceeded to the main theme of his speech, which was a warning the U.S. is in "trouble." He described Ryan and Rubio as part of the problem. Trump bashed Rubio for his work on immigration reform, saying the Florida senator was someone who wants to "let everybody in." He also cautioned about an influx of immigrants taking potential votes from Republicans. "They're taking your jobs," he said. "You better be careful." Trump prefaced his slam of Ryan by saying he "like[d] him very much." But he suggested that it was a mistake for the former vice presidential nominee to keep talking about cuts to Social Security and Medicare. "I don't like what they're saying," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNew Satoshi Nakamoto and an AP reporter he chose to interview him are being chased in Nakamoto's Prius by all the other reporters apparently left behind, according to L.A. Times biz editor Joe Bel Bruno. The unnamed reporter and Nakamoto were driven to the AP's L.A. Bureau. Nakamoto is denying Newsweek's story. Newsweek is standing by it. Bel Bruno said he and a colleague were two cars behind. We've reached out to AP to ask who's with Satoshi. Earlier today, Leah McGrath Goodman reported she'd tracked down the Satoshi Nakamoto who wrote the first-ever Bitcoin spec paper. He is an engineer and former government contractor living near L.A. Bel Bruno's colleague Andrea Chang says Nakamoto is denying everything. Here's Bel Bruno's feed so far: OK, apparently #Nakamoto picked one reporter outside his house to take to sushi. Surreal #bitcoin And now a dozen reporters camped out #Nakamoto's Temple City house are in chase. #bitcoin So the AP reporter takes #Nakamoto to lunch for the #Bitcoin scoop, to a sushi restaurant in Temple City. Other reporters chase them. Then reporters barge into the sushi restaurant, confront the @ap reporter and #Nakamoto Here's a few more photos: REUTERS/David McNew REUTERS/David McNewA man widely believed to be Bitcoin currency founder Satoshi Nakamoto is surrounded by reporters as he leaves his home in Temple City, California March 6, 2014.  And here's a video via Buzzfeed's Hunter Schwarz:  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe bull market celebrated its fifth birthday today, and it was a happy one. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDennis Lockhart, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Twist and Shout: The Limits of U.S. Monetary Policy" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve should continue to pare its massive bond-buying program even if a key jobs report due out on Friday falls short of expectations, a top Fed official said on Thursday. "In my mind, unless we really fall off track in the economy pretty dramatically, I think the tapering program should proceed," Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Dennis Lockhart told Reuters in an interview, adding that he has "modest" expectations for the Labor Department's nonfarm payrolls report. Lockhart pegged the recent weakness in economic data to severe winter weather, and said that he expects it to be well into the second quarter before the Fed has real clarity if the softness has a more persistent cause. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Writing by Ann Saphir; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoToday Simon and Schuster canceled its book deal with John LeFevre, the man behind the Goldman Sachs Elevator twitter meme. Goldman Sachs, in turn, used Lefevre's favorite means of communication to express its satisfaction with the news. Warning: This tweet burns. Guess elevators go up and down, http://t.co/xkDPZgaCI8 FREE AppDownload
The dollar bill, with its many symbols and prominent portrait of George has had a rich history. Learn where our paper money came from.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
AP Photo/John Bazemore, FileWorkers build the pit that will house a new nuclear reactor at the Plant Vogtle nuclear power plant in Augusta, Ga. While the popularity of nuclear power worldwide took a major hit in the aftermath of the Fukushima-Daiichi Nuclear Disaster in 2011, it remains one of the cheapest, most efficient, and carbon-friendly forms of energy generation that we currently have. Energy superpowers like the United States, Russia, and Canada have made nuclear power lucrative, not just through cheap energy, but through licensing their technology to developing countries looking for a new energy source. For that reason, nuclear power has remained a viable and important form of energy, one which will be integral to the world over the next fifty years. We took a look at global statistics provided by the UN's International Atomic Energy Agency to determine which countries are the biggest nuclear energy powers. We rated each country based on the total amount of electricity produced by nuclear power.  FREE AppDownload
AnonymousTo everyone eagerly awaiting the Goldman Sachs Elevator book, "Straight to Hell: True Tales of Deviance and Excess in the World of Investment Banking," our sincerest apologies. Simon &amp; Schuster has canceled its deal with former Citi banker John LeFevre. He was notified today via email.  "It's just a comical mystery to me," LeFevre told Business Insider. "As of Friday afternoon, after all of the noise — during which Simon &amp; Schuster prohibited me from responding and defending myself — they have continued to support me and stand by our project. Well, until today apparently." A statement from Simon &amp; Schuster given to Business Insider says: "In light of information that has recently come to our attention since acquiring John Lefevre's STRAIGHT TO HELL, Touchstone has decided to cancel its publication of this work." Since LeFevre's identity was reported by Dealbook's Andrew Ross Sorkin, publications from Gawker to New York Magazine have questioned his credibility. New York Magazine played with the idea that LeFevre was not acting alone, while Gawker accused him of outright plagiarism. So Lefevre took to the Internet to defend himself. "We always counted on my identity being revealed and we were confident that it would lend credibility and support to my story and vantage point. And my publisher had been vocal in supporting me after I was outed. So today it's quite surprising to see them walk away from a contractual obligation." LeFevre is confident that the show will go on, and that new opportunities await. "This doesn't change anything for me," LeFevre continued. "In the immortal words of Carl Fox, 'money is only something you need if you don't die tomorrow,' Since I have been able to respond, my credibility has only increased. I have been asked to write a regular column for two of the most prestigious capital markets publications, in addition to being an on-record source regarding the new investigation into fixed income allocation practices at Goldman Sachs and other firms."  So this isn't the end of the tweeting, the story-telling, or the satire.  That will remain the same. What's new is that there's a guy walking the earth who signed contracts with both Goldman Sachs and Simon &amp; Schuster ... and lost money on them both (for now).   FREE AppDownload
TwitterEarlier today, Leah McGrath Goodman reported she'd found the creator of Bitcoin. We reached out to McGrath Goodman to hear how she did it. Below is a Q&amp;A, lightly edited for clarity and brevity. Business Insider: What interested you about this story? Leah McGrath Goodman: I was wondering why no one wanted to know who it was, at least among the fanbase in Bitcoin. There'd always been a lot of talk, just a cult following of this man, but without knowing who he was. I was really surprised when Gavin Andresen, the Bitcoin developer, said he hadn't received that many questions about what it was like working with him, about who this guy was.  There are so many articles about how Bitcoin works, its ingenious nature mechanically, the bitcoin mining, the proof of work. The engineering is a thing of admiration, but very little was known about the person behind it. Being curious allowed me to care. BI: How did you figure out Satoshi Nakamoto was not a pseudonym? LMG: I couldn't find why it seemed like everyone had accepted it was a pseudonym; that was an issue to me. When I first talked to people who'd worked with him, I asked whether he would use a nom de plume ... That seemed to be something very few people had looked into. I looked into what had led where, and this lead really kept going ... a lot of others were dead ends.  BI: How many other potential candidates did you pursue, and how did you use forensic analysis? LMG: I looked at a lot, but there weren't a lot who seemed compelling for very long — it was clear their background or level of expertise didn't match any number of things, so that didn't work. We were really confused about British spellings, it looked very chameleotic. The paper itself — the first time I read it, I wasn't a Bitcoin follower — didn't seem to have anything to do with what I'd seen in the press about him — he didn't seem like a young guy in his 30s at all. Because of his age, a number of places he worked didn't have much information. He had an unclaimed bank account with NorCal [the defunct telecom giant], an AmEx card there, but their back office is very poor.  The main thing when matching up the person was with some writing, that was the first breakthrough. I noticed, for example, depending on the audience or perceived audience, the tone could change. If it was more casual, he would use a lot more abbreviations, but if it was more formal, like a letter to a newspaper, there would be much more, and there would be full spellings.  This was a team effort, with other researchers working with me frequently who were good at forensic analysis in ways that an investigative journalist doesn't know about. One thing the analysts said to me that was interesting was that they could trace the career path of his brothers but not him — their career paths were pretty straightforward, but with him it was just like a void for quite some time. One of the analysts called it "contextual silence" and considered it a red flag — sometimes it's an indicator of trying to keep things hidden.  As one of them said, it's all about eliminating them, finding out why they aren't the person, and I agree with that. Up until the moment I met him, I prepared for it to not be person at all.  BI: What happened when you got to his house? (Note: In the article, McGrath Goodman writes that the only thing Nakamoto would say is,  "I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it," dismissing all further queries with a swat of his left hand. "It's been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection.") LMG: I let him know I was coming, I did all I could to be really open. When I did come, I left him a Bitcard [a Bitcoin gift card — ed.] endorsed by Gavin. I came back two hours later, knocked on the door, and he called the cops.  But when they got there they said, "Oh what did you want to say?" I said, "I want to talk to him about Bitcoin," and it turned out they wanted to hear what he had to say — they were just like "Oh really?" It ended up that I was able to ask a few things ... It was his response to me that made it clear — if I weren't the founder I'd be like, "That's very amusing, I run a bagel shop." Every journalist, we want to show up and and find the thing no one else found first, and have them congratulate you and have them say "Come in, let me make you a drink!" It wasn't the most satisfying thing, the fact that I couldn't have a conversation beyond a brief one.  BI:  What impression of him were you left with? LMG: This man is kind of mysterious to even his own family, not just the developers. I didn't report everything they said — but in many ways he could be mystifying to people close to him. BI: Did you have any qualms about revealing information about such a private guy? LMG: It was definitely a tough call to say that he lives in California and such, although it's easy to just Google his name find out yourself. But you don't want to be a jerk, you don't want people camped out on his lawn; that would not be desired. BI: Is there any doubt in your mind that it's him? LMG: I don't have any doubt in my mind, but I am open to new information. For example, if he had helpers whom other people might find. I just don't think you can ever say the information is complete.  I really wanted to do something in depth, but I have to say I'm kind of looking forward to somebody being able to get something more in depth.  FREE AppDownload
BloombergWarren Buffett took to Berkshire Hathaway's annual letter to reveal one of his best investments ever. The billionaire certainly has many to choose from, but in 1993, New York real estate titan Larry Silverstein told him about a property adjacent to New York University. The Resolution Trust Corp. was selling the place after a real estate bubble popped, and Silverstein wanted to get Buffett in on helping to buy it. Bloomberg's Betty Liu and Noah Buhayar report that Buffett made a $1 million investment in the property, which now makes up a string of retail shops on University Place between 8th and 9th Street in Lower Manhattan. Buffett says he has made more than $1.5 million in special capital distributions from the property. That's on top of the regular increasing payments, Bloomberg reports. "The analysis was simple," Buffett writes in his letter. "The unleveraged current yield from the property was about 10%. But the property had been undermanaged by the RTC, and its income would increase when several vacant stores were leased." And that's exactly what happened. Plus: "The property's location was also superb: NYU wasn't going anywhere." Now, annual distributions exceed 35% of their original investment. Not like Buffett needs the cash, but he still cites it as a great example of how to think long-term about investing — simple, little downside, and stressing what something produces over than its daily changing valuation. So what does Buffett think of his big real estate deal? '"I have yet to view the property," he admitted in the letter. “Considering that we both are in our 80s, he thought it appropriate to express his gratitude while he could do it, and I could hear it!” Silverstein wrote in an email to Bloomberg. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomers are seen outside of a Bank of America in TucsonLONDON (Reuters) - Bank of America has suspended a senior foreign exchange trader in London, a source familiar with the matter said on Thursday. Joseph Landes, head of spot trading for Europe, Middle East and Africa, has been put on leave as the bank investigates allegations of currency manipulation. Landes couldn't be reached immediately and Bank of America declined to comment. This is the latest twist in the global investigation into allegations of price manipulation in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market, the world's largest financial market. It adds Bank of America's name to the growing list of big banks who have put on leave, suspended or fired more than 20 traders since the middle of last year. The Bank of England on Wednesday suspended an employee as part of an internal probe into what Bank officials knew about alleged manipulation of key currency rates by traders. (Reporting by Jamie McGeever; Editing by Nigel Stephenson) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TV, Wikimedia CommonsMarc FaberThe stock market is setting new all-time highs today. Exactly five years ago today, the U.S. stock market began an epic bull market run that continues today. The S&amp;P 500 is up 180% during that period. Along the way, many stock market watchers turned bearish. Some have been bearish the whole way. While their forecasts may have been based on legitimate concerns, the bears were just dead wrong. The bottom line is that stock prices — for whatever reason — went up. Last fall, some of the most vocal "perma-bears" voiced concerns that we were in a stock market bubble. With that in mind, many actually warned very clearly that we could see stock prices go up. So, traders who bought stocks on that are probably doing well. Here's are some quotes we've heard since last fall: These folks continue to sound warnings about the stock market. Earlier today, Societe Generale's uber-bear Albert Edwards provided an update, which probably captures some of what these other bears must be going through. "Readers sometimes ask why I see the world so differently from the consensus," he wrote. "Are my strident warnings of doom merely attention-seeking because something happened to me in my childhood? – a dysfunctional relationship with one’s mother often explains such perverse behavior in adulthood. Nothing substantive came out of the many counselling sessions I’ve had over the years, although I do vividly remember one counselor stopping the session and breaking down as I was relating my particular personal problems at that time. I did think this was a bit much - after all he only had to listen for an hour a week. I had to live it." It must be challenging being called crazy all the time. But that's not to say they aren't right once in a while. FREE AppDownload
Michael Philip Manheim / EPA (via Flickr)The Federal Reserve's Q4 2013 Z.1 "flow of funds" report is out. According to the release, household net worth rose 3.8% ($2.95 trillion) to a new all-time high of $80.66 trillion in the fourth quarter, following a 2.7% advance in Q3. Total assets on household balance sheets rose 3.3% in Q4. The value of household real estate rose 2.1%, while the value of corporate equities climbed 10.5% and the value of mutual fund shares advanced 5.5%. On the liabilities side of the balance sheet, the value of outstanding mortgages fell 0.1%, but consumer credit outstanding rose 2.0%. FREE AppDownload
NOAAForecast models predict an increase in sea surface temperature anomalies later this year.On Wednesday, NOAA's Climate Prediction Center issued an El Niño watch, with a roughly 50% chance of development in the summer or fall of this year.  El Niño, also called the southern oscillation, is a warming of the tropical Pacific ocean that happens about every five years. This warming changes wind patterns and affects weather and storm systems around the world.  On the eastern coast of the United States, for example, strong El Niño events generally result in warmer, dryer than average winters. California, on the other hand, could expect a wetter than normal winter. This could be beneficial for the currently rain-starved state.   "Increased thunderstorm activity over the eastern Pacific allows moisture to rise into the upper atmosphere and leak into this branch of the jet stream," the Washington Post's Dennis Mersereau explains, "creating the opportunity for beneficial rainfall across the affected areas next fall and winter, especially in California where they are experiencing exceptional drought conditions." El Niño could also lead to fewer storms during the Atlantic hurricane season.  "El Niño conditions tend to make quieter than average Atlantic hurricane seasons, due to an increase in upper-level winds that create strong wind shear over the Tropical Atlantic," according to Wunderblog's Jeff Masters. For an El Niño event to be declared, average sea surface temperatures in the eastern Pacific need to be 0.5°C above average or warmer for three months in a row — so there's now a 50% chance these temperature anomalies will happen later this year.  NOAAAn animation from NOAA shows weekly average sea surface temperature anomalies in the tropical Pacific for the past 12 weeks. The El Niño watch doesn't necessarily mean that El Niño will occur. “A watch simply means that conditions across the tropical Pacific are favorable for the development of El Niño during the next, roughly, three to six months,” said Mike Halpert, deputy director of the Climate Prediction Center, according to Weather.com.  "While all models predict warming in the tropical Pacific, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether El Niño will develop during the summer or fall," NOAA said in an alert. "If westerly winds continue to emerge in the western equatorial Pacific, the development of El Niño would become more likely. However, the lower forecast skill during the spring and overall propensity for cooler conditions over the last decade still justify significant probabilities for ENSO-neutral." FREE AppDownload
Speed-reading techniques to help you tackle a book or a paper in no time. Produced by Daniel Goodman. Originally published in September 2013.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesI don’t pretend to be the final word on CrossFit, but after doing it for a year and a half at one location, and having tried out three other locations on various trips, I have a strong understanding for what CrossFit offers. I won’t say it’s for everyone, but if you’re a BroBible reader, I will venture that it’s probably for you, so pay attention. 1. Group classes are better than solo workouts Notice I said group classes, and didn’t specify CrossFit—maybe Zumba or Spinning classes are more your speed. If so, go for it. Ten bucks says you’ll feel less ridiculous doing Zumba or Spinning in a group class anyway. But if you belong to a gym and find yourself going there to run on a treadmill and lift weights by yourself, it’s time you think about joining a CrossFit gym. Here’s why: Unless you’re part of that extreme minority who can consistently push themselves without outside motivation, you’re not going to see results working out by yourself. Slightly more muscle in your shoulders, maybe somewhat better definition in your triceps—fine, you might notice moderate improvement. But starting CrossFit, and by extension starting to work out in group classes will result in dramaticimprovements. You’ll make friends, enjoy working out more, want to come back more frequently, become competitive with yourself and those around you, and, as a result of all those things, workout harder. Try it out—many CrossFit locations offer a free trial class. 2. CrossFit is more expensive than being part of a gym—sort of This is a hard subject to talk about accurately, since prices for both regular gyms and CrossFit gyms can vary significantly depending on location, but it’s something often mentioned as a negative about CrossFit, so I’ll address it. Let’s put it this way: While talking accurately about prices is difficult, it is safe to say that CrossFit will be somewhat more expensive than belonging to a regular gym. But that discounts what CrossFit offers in addition: expert instruction from trainers, a ready-made group of people who share at least one interest with you, and those trainers and members taking a vested interest in seeing you get healthier, seeing that you get stronger. So sure, at face value, CrossFit is more expensive, but I see it this way: Spending my money at a regular gym every month would be a waste of my time and money, because I wouldn’t have the trainers to advise me, I wouldn’t have the group classes to motivate me, I wouldn’t want to go as often, and I wouldn’t end up seeing tangible, meaningful improvements—and isn’t that the goal? 3. Competitiveness can be your friend–or your enemy Before you go thinking I’m another member of Cult CrossFit drinking the Kool-Aid, let me address a serious (potential) downside. While the group class format is great, it can result in competitive, inexperienced members pushing themselves too hard and getting injured. A competitive guy myself, I quickly learned after a few pulled hamstrings early on that I needed to pay more attention to my body’s signals and decrease the load. It’s not the trainer’s job to hold you back—it’s yours, and that can be too much of a burden for an inexperienced and overly eager athlete to bear. If this sounds like you, proceed with caution, in CrossFit and in life. 4. A warning Upon starting CrossFit, you’re starting, at least according to some, a new sport. The girl and guy winners of the yearly CrossFit Games—yeah, they’re dubbed the “Fittest on Earth.” You don’t have to subscribe to that belief—that they’re the fittest or that it’s a sport—but be ready for people who do, and who will aggressively argue that over a Progenex Recovery protein shake after class. 5. CrossFit makes you goal-oriented In another way, the CrossFit Games is a blessing, regardless of whether or not you believe what’s said about the winners. Why? Because it’s an early iteration that’s open to anyone—the CrossFit Open—gives you something to work towards every year, a bench mark by which you can measure your improvements. This year, several hundred thousand people are participating worldwide, and I’ll get to see how I fare against them as we compete in five different workouts over five weeks. 6. Mobility matters You’d think a guy with a yoga teacher for a mother would have known this. Whoops. Instead, it took about a year of CrossFit for me to recognize the importance of stretching and flexibility. When I started, I hit personal records for lifts almost every other week, since I hadn’t lifted seriously before starting. But once I plateaued in my lifts after about a year, the trainers at my gym emphasized that recording new personal records would require greater mobility in various joints and muscles. So I set to work, stretching every day for a half hour before and after class. Two things happened: First, I did indeed notice improvements in my lifts, as promised. And second, I noticed that I stopped having injuries all together. Duh, everyone tells you growing up that stretching is an important part of avoiding injury, but it never really clicked how important it was until I made it a priority. 7. Community counts In a society where online dating is the norm because it’s so hard to meet people, CrossFit provides a ready-made community of people who share your interest in fitness. Through classes, bit-by-bit, you get to know the people at your gym—that’s not to say you’ll get along with or befriend everyone, but chances are you’ll find a group you like. Pretty soon, you’ll find yourself meeting up with people outside of the gym, organizing parties with CrossFit friends, and becoming more and more invested in your gym. This is where the accusation that CrossFit is a “cult” enters the conversation, but that’s a misnomer. To call something a cult implies that deception is used to dupe a group of people into following a cause. CrossFit is just the opposite; people are educated in Olympic lifts, gymnastics, aerobics, and plyometrics with the goal of bettering themselves. The fact that so many people become dedicated to their CrossFit gyms is merely a result of enjoying that education and the benefits that follow. Tolly Taylor is a regular contributor to BroBible. FREE AppDownload
Nicholas Carlson/Business InsiderA view of Hong Kong from above.Hong Kong remains the most expensive place in the world to rent a luxury apartment, according to new data from ECA International, a global consulting firm that releases the figures for companies sending employees to work abroad. An average unfurnished, high-end three-bedroom apartment in a popular part of Hong Kong costs an average of $11,440 per month. New York City ranked fourth on the list, with the average rent for a similar apartment costing $9,200 per month. Rents for such apartments in Hong Kong have actually fallen slightly; in 2013 the average was $11,549, and in 2012 it was $11,813. "With a high population density and a consistently limited supply of property, average rents in the territory have long been significantly more expensive than other high-profile cities," ECA International wrote in a release. Rents rose the most year-over-year in Caracas, Dubai, Sao Paulo, Nairobi, and Jakarta, while they fell the most in Dakar, Barcelona, Gaborone, Madrid, and Ho Chi Minh City, respectively. The table below shows the 20 most expensive places to rent a luxury apartment. (Source: ECA International's Accommodation Survey 2013/14 - unfurnished three-bed high-end apartment.) ECA International   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerA pro-Russian man (not seen) holds a Russian flag behind an armed servicemen on top of a Russian army vehicle outside a Ukrainian border guard post in the Crimean town of Balaclava March 1, 2014. Ukraine accused Russia on Saturday of sending thousands of extra troops to Crimea and placed its military in the area on high alert as the Black Sea peninsula appeared to slip beyond Kiev's control. Investment firms have sharply increased the protection they buy against macroeconomic shocks, so called "tail risk" hedging for a potential armed conflict in Eastern Europe. "There's been an uptick in hedging activity—we've definitely seen funds add to tail hedges in case the conflict escalates," said Jon Kinderlerer, who analyzes Credit Suisse's hedge fund client portfolios as head of risk and portfolio advisory for the bank's prime brokerage division. In February, the percentage of funds that purchased "deep downside" protection—a financial bet that would gain if there is a significant drop in global stocks—hit a two-year low of less than 13 percent. That spiked to more than 17 percent as of Monday, according to Credit Suisse data. CNBC That level is still below the peak of the European crisis in the summer of 2012 and the financial drama in Cyprus in early 2013. Hedge fund clients of Credit Suisse had less than 0.5 percent of their portfolios exposed to Russia and Ukraine as of Monday. And hedge funds have lowered that already small exposure in recent weeks, according to Credit Suisse. The real risk is from the likely global economic ripples in the event of more serious Russian military moves in Ukraine. "Ukraine is a non issue for hedge funds, but if conflict breaks out, the region becomes a wider risk for them. There would likely be a flight to quality out of emerging market stocks. Treasurys and gold would also rally," Kinderlerer said. Charlemagne Capital, a $2.7 billion asset manager that focuses on emerging markets, especially in Russia and Eastern Europe, recently told clients its exposure to Ukraine was minimal, but there was still cause for concern. "We are continuing to monitor this situation closely," Charlemagne wrote to clients. The firm noted that stocks in its Russian and Eastern European portfolio "have almost no exposure to Ukraine." The one exception, Russian telecommunications group Mobile TeleSystems, has less than 10 percent of its sales in Ukraine. But the firm is switching the holding into another stock, according to the client note. While hedge funds are largely unaffected so far, at least one private equity firm sees the turmoil as an investment opportunity. "There are so many areas where Ukraine could do extremely well but they need financial support to get some macroeconomic situations in order. After that, investments in Ukraine are still very promising," Michael Bleyzer, president of $1 billion Eastern European specialist SigmaBleyzer, told CNBC on Friday. "I'm optimistic, even after 20 years of a fairly tough investment environment in Ukraine. We've done pretty well. Certainly the opportunity is much greater," Bleyzer added. He said agriculture was the most important opportunity in the country, along with smaller plays in cable, pharmaceutical, chocolate and software companies. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@stevefeissSteve Feiss, an interest rate strategist at Government Perspectives, points us to an article in his local New Jersey newspaper discussing the boon this year's harsh winter weather has been for sellers in the housing market. "The American dream is back; it really is," said Andrew Zastko, a local realtor, in an interview with the News Transcript. The upshot of the article is that unseasonally harsh winter weather has caused a big drop in listings of homes for sale. That leaves less choices for motivated buyers, meaning the smaller group of sellers is seeing increased demand for the houses remaining on the market, allowing them to get offers closer to their asking price. Zastko told the News Transcript that the "millennial" generation accounts for a large share of emerging buyers in the market. So, while winter weather may be contributing to a big slowdown in housing market activity, that doesn't mean every party involved is suffering as a result. FREE AppDownload
The formerly unknown creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto, appears to have been identified. Creating your own digital currency puts you in a place to make a lot of money if the currency catches on, and  Newsweek pegs Nakamoto as having quite a digital fortune, worth some $400 million. He has so far not touched the money despite his family telling Newsweek reporter Leah McGrath Goodman that "he — and they — could really use the money." So why hasn't he spent it? There are several theories afoot. Gavin Andresen, chief scientist at the Bitcoin Foundation and a correspondent of Satoshi's, told Newsweek, "If you come out as the leader of Bitcoin, now you have to make appearances and presentations and comments to the press and that didn't really fit with Satoshi's personality. He didn't really want to lead it anymore. He was pretty intolerant to incompetence. And he also realized the project would go on without him." There's also the possibility that Nakamoto lost the access keys that would enable him to spend his fortune, though Andresen is doubtful toward this, saying that Nakamoto was "too disciplined" to make a mistake as simple as that. Here's the far more likely explanation on why that money remains undisturbed: If Nakamoto ever sells his Bitcoin fortune, he would likely have to do so at a legitimate Bitcoin bank or exchange, which would not only give away his identity but alert everyone from the IRS to the FBI of his movements. While Bitcoin lets its users conduct transactions anonymously, all transactions can be viewed transparently online — and everyone is watching Nakamoto's Bitcoin to see if he spends it, says Andresen. To convert the digital currency into usable money would require outing himself to the government. And as has been established, Nakamoto wants very little to do with the government. FREE AppDownload
TwitterLeah McGrath Goodman has the story of the morning, writing in Newsweek she believes she figured out the identity of the inventor of Bitcoin. We wrote about why the response to the story in the Bitcoin community is less than enthusiastic — they think the hunt for the inventor's identity is a distraction from the overall Bitcoin mission, and that outing him could put him in danger. And McGrath Goodman is now responding to some of their concerns on Twitter. So far she's revealed that the photo she included of Nakamoto, as well as his home, are in the public domain, though she did not state how she acquired them. Beyond that, she said, she left out sensitive personal information. She also responded to the concern that someone might now threaten the man, identified as Dorian Nakamoto, who is said to be worth $400 million. Check it out: @jvnk @Newsweek I am not sure about 'intimate.' I took great pains to leave those out. I did want to offer a sense of his humanity, though. @SlammingAtom @Newsweek This man invented something that shaped our world. Should all inventors now fear murder? #Bitcoin @EntropyExtropy Good question. Pictures and info people are asking about (including residence and car) already public. His name too.#Bitcoin @paulrobichaux Yes, there were. We felt showing he lives humbly, despite his achievement, was both telling and inspiring. #Bitcoin FREE AppDownload
Metro.netAmong the things Leah McGrath Goodman reports in Newsweek about the apparent founder of Bitcoin is that he changed his name to versions of Dorian Nakamoto.  We also learn he lives in Temple City, Cal., a suburb of L.A.  Below is a letter that seems to be consistent with all those things. It is apparently a comment submitted to a public response notice about a proposed train line through Los Angeles. In it, Dorian Nakamoto from Temple City warns of a train service that would serve as a "get away" by the "thieves and criminals" in East L.A., a majority-Hispanic neighborhood: Metro.net Another nugget is that Nakamoto a model train enthusiast. So here's a photo of a train on Facebook designed by a man with that name. It looks meticulously designed, as one might expect from the designer of Bitcoin. Facebook FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 just hit a new intraday all-time high of 1,881. This comes exactly five years after it hit an intraday low of 666.79 on March 6, 2009. That's a 182% gain. "Should this bull market celebrate its sixth birthday, and perform similarly to prior sixth-year bulls, we could be up another 26% to beyond 2340," said S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall earlier this week. "As always, use history as a guide, not gospel, especially since there has been a limited number of sixth-year bulls." S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoRuss Brown, superintendent of One Times Square, checks his vintage Mickey Mouse watch a few hours bfore the illuminated ball in the background was to be hoisted into position atop the building, Dec. 31, 1980. Brown, who has officiated over the ball dropping for the past 16 years, says he's retiring with the entry of 1981.In my piece this morning, The Relentless Bid, Explained, which has since gone mega-viral by the way (thank you!), I laid out a theory for why the stock market has had a relentless bid beneath it for years now, with shorter and smaller corrections along the way. The premise was that investor behavior has changed – owing largely to the way big advisory firms are allocating assets and planning retirement portfolios. I’ve gotten a ton of feedback behind the scenes, including comments from some heavy hitters in the industry. Many of these responses center around the following three points: 1. Too many dollars chasing too few assets (share buybacks and a dearth of IPOs have shrunk the investable markets) 2. The presence of the Fed and the endless ZIRP / QE of recent years 3. Demographics play a role – portfolios have calmed down because the largest percentage of investors have aged and calmed down themselves I agree with all of them, and they all have room to coexist with what I’ve said. In fact, they not only coexist, they converge.  But the most important thing I think should be brought out is the fact that my theory does not mean “It’s different this time.” I am describing what has been going on as relentless, not endless. I am also not projecting it out indefinitely into the future. In fact, I’d like to quote a passage from Robert J. Shiller’s Irrational Exuberance, specifically the 2005 edition, to show that we’ve seen similar market environments before, which have certainly not run on forever. What these eras have had in common is that each one bore its own creation myth:  The first of the three major peaks in the price-earnings ratio since 1881 occurred in June 1901, right at the dawn of the twentieth century. Prices had achieved spectacular increases over the preceding twelve months, and in mid-1901 observers reported real speculative fervor… There was another important theme in 1901: that stocks were now being held in “strong hands”: “The ownership of stocks has changed hands. The public speculators do not now own them. They are owned by people who are capable of protecting them under any circumstances, such as Standard Oil, Morgan, Kuhn Loeb, Gould and Harriman Interests. These people who are the foremost financiers of the country evidently know when they go into a proposition what ultimate results may be expected.” This theory, like theories expressed at other market peaks, finds it inconceivable that there could be a selling panic. In the shortest run, perhaps this theory is right. But those strong hands did not stop the stock market crash of 1907, nor the dramatic slide of stock values between 1907 and 1920. If the “Strong Hands” line of thinking doesn’t sound remarkably like the modern T.I.N.A. (There Is No Alternative), then I don’t know what does. It also reminds me a great deal of the “Permanently high plateau” patois that ended Irving Fisher’s career shortly after he spoke it ahead of the 1929 crash. I believe that there is some basis in reality for TINA but that, like all small truths, it can be taken toward illogical conclusions and reckless behavior. George Soros once remarked that “Stock market bubbles don’t grow out of thin air. They have a solid basis in reality — but reality as distorted by a misconception.” Believe me, I am highly aware of the fact that “Relentless Bid” can be misconstrued to represent some kind of “new paradigm” that could persist forever. I want to make it clear that I believe the very opposite – that it will suck in the maximum amount of people taking the largest amount of risk just at the point where it will come to an ignominious end. But as in the 1901-1907 example, miconceptions can persist for a very long time before they’re debunked. Read Also: The Relentless Bid, Explained (TRB) The Relentless (for now) Bid (Above the Market) T.I.N.A. (or the Seller’s Dilemma) (TRB) Peter Atwater: An ‘Oligopoly in Confidence’ Puts Global Markets at Risk (Minyanville) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicChinese internet giant Tencent has collaborated with Taikang Life, to offer WeChat users health insurance protection, reports Tech In Asia's Josh Horwitz via SCMP. Horowitz says the service lets users between the ages of 18 and 39 pay one yuan ($0.16) and receive 1000 yuan (about $163) worth of protection for a year. Or 300 yuan ($49) for those between the ages of 40 and 49. If a user then shares the service or asks for a donation of one yuan, they will get an additional 1000 or 300 yuan in protection, depending on their age, for a 1 yuan contribution. The coverage is capped at 10,000 yuan ($1,634) and is reportedly limited to malignant tumors. China's healthcare has changed significantly since 2003 and the government has boosted healthcare spending. "The percentage of people covered by health insurance surged from 30 percent in 2003 to 95 percent in 2011," writes Yanzhong Huang in a CFR column. "As a result, the share of out-of-pocket spending decreased from 56 percent to 36 percent in that same period."  Chinese healthcare still struggles with two fundamental things: "access and affordability," he writes. While this move by Tencent isn't a game-changer in and of itself, considering its limitations, we are seeing a broader trend of Chinese internet companies revolutionizing various sectors in China. The most visible one: the financial sector. Tencent has already tied its financial product, Licaitong, to its messaging app WeChat. Over the Lunar New Year holiday, Tencent also used WeChat to deliver virtual red envelopes of money to their family and friends, and getting users to tie their bank accounts to the app.  Chinese banks already feel threatened by these services. They've seen their deposits fall, been forced to raise their deposit rates, and are capping the amount of money individuals can move to these online financial products. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The identity of the mysterious "Satoshi Nakomoto," founder of Bitcoin, has allegedly been revealed in this great Newsweek article. His given name is actually Satoshi Nakomoto, which flies in the face of the theories that it's a pseudonym for one person or a large group of people concealing its numbers. Newsweek reporter Leah McGrath Goodman interviewed some of Nakomoto's family, and it's likely no surprise that they described him as "intelligent," "obsessively private," and "paranoid."  One of the most striking tidbits of his character was revealed by his daughter, Ilene Mitchell: "He is very wary of government interference in general," she says. "When I was little, there was a game we used to play. He would say, 'Pretend the government agencies are coming after you.' And I would hide in the closet." For being such an odd "game," this seems to fit with the character of someone who designs and builds an anonymous digital currency that completely circumvents banks and governments. FREE AppDownload
The release of better-than-expected weekly U.S. jobless claims data this morning at 8:30 AM ET has provided the spark for a sell-off in the Treasury market and sent the U.S. dollar surging against the Japanese yen. The euro, meanwhile, is getting a big lift against both the dollar and the yen this morning following the European Central Bank's latest decision to make no changes on the monetary policy front for another month. The 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at a yield of 2.74%, three basis points above yesterday's closing levels. The S&amp;P 500 is trading up 0.3% at 1879, a new all-time high, but futures were little changed throughout the morning prior to the opening bell, despite movements in other major markets. The charts below show the latest price action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and NYMEX crude oil futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThere are more hints of a melt-up in stock prices. That could be a more serious threat than any geopolitical blowup to my prediction that the secular bull market could run for another two years or longer. The forward valuation multiples of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 are now at bull-market highs and slightly exceed the 2007 highs of the previous bull market. On Tuesday, the forward P/Es of the three S&amp;P composites rose to 15.4, 17.7, and 19.1. Bullish sentiment has rebounded sharply during the past few weeks. The Bull/Bear Ratio compiled by Investors Intelligence fell from a recent high of 4.23 during the week of December 24 to 2.40 during the week of February 11. Over the past three weeks, it has bounced back to 3.62. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Peace Prize. (1) Putin: A man of peace. (2) All quiet on the stock market front. (3) Geopolitical flare-ups tend to be buying opportunities. (4) Forward P/Es at bull-market highs. (5) Forward earnings stagnating for S&amp;P 500, but still rising for US MSCI. (6) Ex-US, global earnings continue to flat-line. (7) Europe’s recovery is too weak to boost earnings estimates. (8) China staying with 7.5% growth. (9) Pollution is China’s “red-light warning.” (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi.The European Central Bank announced no new changes to monetary policy today, and the euro is rallying. The ECB elected to leave its benchmark euro area refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25%, as expected. The rates on the marginal lending facility and the deposit facility were untouched as well. Notably, however, ECB President Mario Draghi did not announce during his monthly press conference following the release of the interest rate decision that the Bank would cease to sterilize purchases of euro area government bonds it makes under its Securities Markets Programme in order to boost liquidity in the banking system, a move that many were expecting. "The news that has come out since the last monetary policy meeting is, I would say, by and large on the positive side," said Draghi during a Q&amp;A session with reporters following the announcement, citing purchasing managers indices and consumer confidence surveys. The euro is trading around $1.3820, up from levels around $1.3750 before Draghi began speaking and 0.7% above yesterday's fixing. The latest update to the ECB's staff economic projections contained an upgrade to the 2014 growth forecast — the Bank now sees the euro area economy expanding by 1.2% this year, up from the previous 1.1% estimate. The 2014 inflation forecast was downgraded to 1.0% from 1.1%, but the 2015 forecasts for both growth and inflation were left unchanged at 1.5% and 1.3%, respectively. Before today, there was a growing camp that believed the Bank's Governing Council would pull the trigger on a rate cut. "It is important to note that our issue is one of when the ECB will act rather than whether it will act," write interest rate strategists at Rabobank in a note to clients this morning prior to the announcement of the ECB's decision. "As such, any bearish market response today were the Bank not to act should be faded as this arguably simply represents the ECB deferring rather than dismissing additional policy support. Indeed, one might argue that no action today will see a need for great action later — another reason as to why one should look through any bearish market response." Nordea strategists Anders Svendsen, Lars Peter Lilleøre, and Aurelija Augulyte have a different take. "We believe the ECB is done easing," they say. "The economy is improving and we expect inflation to bottom in March and move up just a bit. Risks remain. The March inflation number will probably be the lowest in this cycle; we would be surprised not to see some lagged weakness in euro zone PMIs stemming from weakness in both the U.S. and China; and money market conditions may be affected by the ongoing Asset Quality Review and stress tests. Thus, the easing bias will remain for some time." FREE AppDownload
Investors and eBay board member Marc Andreessen is out with a new note about activist investor Carl Icahn, who has been calling for an eBay breakup. Icahn's allegation is that Andreessen has a conflict of interest serving both on the board of eBay but also as an investor who bought a stake in Skype, which ebay owned and then spun off. Here's Andreessen's new letter (annoyingly posted as an image) in which he accused Icahn of making a conspiracy theory up out of thin air. Marc Andreessen Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
TwitterLeah McGrath Goodman has apparently tracked down the man who invented Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.  The Bitcoin community is not thrilled. Writing in Newsweek, McGrath Goodman talked to, among others, Gavin Andresen, one of Bitcoin's volunteer developers who interacted with Nakamoto in the digital currency's infancy. This morning, Andresen took to Twitter to voice his disapproval of Goodman's reporting: I'm disappointed Newsweek decided to dox the Nakamoto family, and regret talking to Leah. RE: Satoshi: remember we are pattern-seeking, storytelling animals. http://t.co/C8o8pZTllf But some who responded do not appear to be heeding his advice. @CryptoCobain this is all gonna backlash on Newsweek so hard... pissing off an entire community of geeks and hackers is always a smart move. @gavinandresen Poor guy, the floodgates are going to open. #bitcoin is now tethered indefinitely to the man and his actions. @gavinandresen Bitcoiners need to STOP talking to press or create a media strategy with prepared statements. McGrath Goodman is not the first to attempt to track down the man behind the global financial phenomenon. But those previous efforts all failed, in large part because those in the Bitcoin community itself feared the hunt would divert attention from the cryptocurrency's potential.    Assuming this is the actual #Satoshi, I kind of liked it better when we didn't know. More sense of community ownership. reddit Although there are a few more level-headed voices. reddit But some now fear for Nakamoto himself, since he is estimated to be worth north of $400 million. .@marcvanway even if it's NOT him, she still painted a 1,000,000BTC target on this man's home... It's possibly worse if it's not him.... FREE AppDownload
TBIThe Department of Labor has reported initial jobless claims fell to 323,000 during the week ending March 1 from 349,000 the week prior. This was lower than the 336,000 expected. "At last, some good news from the labor market, supporting our view that last week's jump in claims to 349K was triggered by winter storm Pax," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "That said, the seasonals are friendly this week;  we need to see more than just one week's data to confirm  that the underlying trend in claims remains about flat behind   all the weather-induced noise." The 4-week moving average is at 336,500, down from 338,500. "If claims stay down, big job snapback is in store," tweeted Deustche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. Continuing claims fell to 2.907 million from 2,915 million. "While the Labor Department suggested that the fluctuations in claims coincide with winter storms, the gradual improvement in the 4-week moving average of claims remains a positive development," said TD Securities' Gennadiy Goldberg. "The modest improvement in claims should continue to signal that further declines in claims should help push nonfarm payrolls back into the 175-225K range over the coming months" The Bureau of Labor Statistics will publish the February employment situation report on Friday at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate U.S. companies added 150,000 nonfarm payrolls during the month. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsToyota Corolla CEDigital currency enthusiasts are thrilled to learn that Newsweek's Leah McGrath Goodman has contacted Bitcoin founder Satoshi Nakamoto. Reportedly worth north of $400 million, Nakamoto lives a remarkably modest life. Some highlights from Goodman's report: Read more at Newsweek.com. FREE AppDownload
btckeychainNewsweek's Leah McGrath Goodman claims to have found the inventor of Bitcoin. His name: Satoshi Nakamoto. Most people speculated that "Satoshi Nakamoto" was a pseudonym, which was attached to the 2008 paper proposing the digital currency. But according to Goodman, that is his real name. "For the past 40 years, Satoshi Nakamoto has not used his birth name in his daily life," wrote Goodman. "At the age of 23, after graduating from California State Polytechnic University, he changed his name to "Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto," according to records filed with the U.S. District Court of Los Angeles in 1973." Perhaps that's why it only took her two months to track him down. "There are several Satoshi Nakamotos living in North America and beyond - both dead and alive - including a Ralph Lauren menswear designer in New York and another who died in Honolulu in 2008, according to the Social Security Index's Death Master File," wrote Goodman. "There's even one on LinkedIn who claims to have started Bitcoin and is based in Japan. But none of these profiles seem to fit other known details and few of the leads proved credible. Of course, there is also the chance "Satoshi Nakamoto" is a pseudonym, but that raises the question why someone who wishes to remain anonymous would choose such a distinctive name. It was only while scouring a database that contained the registration cards of naturalized U.S. citizens that a Satoshi Nakamoto turned up whose profile and background offered a potential match. But it was not until after ordering his records from the National Archives and conducting many more interviews that a cohesive picture began to take shape." Read more at Newsweek.com. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsKIEV (Reuters) - The Ukrainian region of Crimea could adopt the Russian ruble as its currency and "nationalize" state property as part of plans to join the Russian Federation, a regional official was quoted as saying on Thursday. Interfax news agency cited Rustam Temurgaliyev, Crimea's vice premier, as saying: "All Ukrainian state enterprises will be nationalized and become the property of the Crimean autonomy." Hoping Moscow would let Crimea become part of Russia, he said: "We are ready to introduce the ruble zone." (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSClerks take orders and signal them into the S&P 500 futures trading pit at the CME.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a summary of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   S&amp;P Futures touched a fresh all-time high overnight before retreating into the ECB decision at 7:45 today.  BOE stands pat - as expected – and there is no consensus for the ECB today – almost a even split between those calling for a cut, and standing pat – We’ve had another decent EU Eco print this AM, with German manufacturing coming in stronger than expected.   Germany’s DAX is up 20bp, with trading heavy (30% above average) into the ECB.   There is some Ukraine Angst, with Crimera setting a vote to join the Russian Federation – this has Ukraine CDS up slightly, but Russia’s equity market off nearly 2%.  Over in Asia, the Nikkei cheered the Yen hitting 2week lows, jumping almost 1.6%.  China bounced 30bp, led by Property developers on bullish government comments.   The Sensex jumped over 1%, as many investors are viewing thr upcoming elections in positive light.   Globally, Financials remain well bid, as do property stocks. The 10YY is up small, on highs of the session and testing the week’s peaks.   We get 2 more clues on the employment picture this AM, but most believe tomorrow’s NFP print will be discounted due to the heavy weather skew during the BLS “reference week”.   The € is in rally mode into the ECB, bearing down on 1 week highs.   This is driving the DXY down near that “key” 80 level, a tailwind for commodities.   Platinum remains bid, due to the South Africa strike situation, but both gold and silver are lower as risk-aversion recedes.   The energy complex is mixed, with Natty and Brent up small – while WTI continues to trend red after yesterday’s Distillate inventory build.   The commodity to watch today is Hogs – as a virus is spreading through the supply – Hogs have leapt 24% in the last week, the 2nd best performing commodity behind Coffee.   We have Challenger Job Data at 7:30 today – The ECB has it’s rate decision at 7:45, followed by a Draghi Presser at 8:30.   We have Weekly Claims data and Non-Farm productivity at 8:30, Factory Orders at 10, DOE Natty Gas Data at 10:30, a small POMO at 11, EM watchers will focus on the Brazil Bond Auction at 12, and we have Fed’s Plosser speaking at 1. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerA couple stands next to armed servicemen outside a Ukrainian border guard post in the Crimean town of BalaclavaGood morning! Here's what you need to know.  Crimea's parliament votes to secede from Ukraine and become a part of Russia. There will be a region-wide referendum in Crimea, which is heavily ethnically Russian, on March 16. While tensions between the two countries have cooled since the beginning of the week, Russian troops without insignia control Crimea and surround Ukrainian military facilities despite pressure from the international community to stop the incursion. Meanwhile, Congress will vote on sanctions against Russia. The House will vote on a measure to grant $1 billion in loan guarantees for Ukraine, and Congressional Republicans are also pushing for a strong condemnation of Russia. "The House Foreign Affairs Committee is set to consider a non-binding resolution that would condemn Russian actions, call for sanctions on that country’s officials, banks and other state agencies, and urge members of the G-8 to consider expelling Russia from the group," Bloomberg reports. The ECB releases its decision on interest rates at 7:45 a.m. ET. While the consensus estimate is for no change, "Economists at Citi, Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole, Credit Suisse, and a few other shops think the ECB will pull the trigger on Thursday, announcing a cut to its benchmark refinancing rate — which currently stands at 0.25% — by either 10 or 15 basis points," reported Business Insider's Matthew Boesler. Mario Draghi's monthly press conference will follow the announcement. Meanwhile, the Bank of England kept interest rate unchanged at 0.50% and asset purchases at £375 billion, in line with economist expectations. Initial jobless claims come out at 8:30 a.m. Economists expect claims fell to 338,000 from 348,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims likely fell after an unexpected rise," wrote Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "The four-week moving average probably stayed in the prevailing 330K to 340K range." Then at 10:00 a.m., we'll get factory orders. Economists are looking for a 0.5% dip in January. "Durable goods orders fell 1.0%, with all the weakness accounted for by a pullback in the volatile aircraft category, and we look for a small gain in nondurable goods prices, with a pullback in petroleum product prices a drag on nominal shipments," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "The inventory/sales ratio has been quite steady in the manufacturing sector in the past few years and should show a bit of upside in January but stay within recent ranges." Global markets were higher in overnight trading. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei jumped 1.59% and Korea's KOSPI climbed 0.22%. Markets across Europe were in the green, and U.S. futures pointed to a positive open. China eases back on the 7.5% growth goal. China's finance minister Lou Jiwei said that the government's most important goal was to create jobs, and that it's fine for China to slightly miss its lofty 7.5% economic growth target as long as the labor market is healthy.  "Let's say for instance, this year's economic growth is not 7.5 percent, but 7.3 percent or 7.2 percent. Does this count as around 7.5 percent? Yes, it counts," he said. IBM workers in China go on strike. More than 1,000 employees went on strike at an IBM factory in southeastern China. IBM is set to sell its Chinese computer service business, which includes the factory, to Lenovo, and the strikers are pushing for better wages and conditions. The demonstration represents a growth in worker activism in China lately. Costco's profit falls 15%. The discount club reported earnings this morning, posting a profit of $463 million ($1.05 a share), compared with $547 million ($1.24 a share) a year earlier. Analysts were expecting EPS of $1.17.  Global food prices spike in February. Food prices had their sharpest climb since mid-2012 due to higher commodity prices, Reuters reports. The United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization's price index — which looks at monthly changes in dairy, meat, sugar, and other commodities — came in at 208.1 points in February, up 5.2 points from January. FREE AppDownload
After a two-month investigation, Newsweek's Leah McGrath Goodman says that she has found and communicated with Satoshi Nakamoto, the founder of Bitcoin. From McGrath: I'd come here to try to find out more about Nakamoto and his humble life. It seemed ludicrous that the man credited with inventing Bitcoin - the world's most wildly successful digital currency, with transactions of nearly $500 million a day at its peak - would retreat to Los Angeles's San Bernardino foothills, hole up in the family home and leave his estimated $400 million of Bitcoin riches untouched. It seemed similarly implausible that Nakamoto's first response to my knocking at his door would be to call the cops. Now face to face, with two police officers as witnesses, Nakamoto's responses to my questions about Bitcoin were careful but revealing. "I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it," he told her. "It's been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection." According to Goodman, he is a 64-year-old Japanese-American father of six who graduated with a physics degree from California State Polytechnic University. His name is indeed Satoshi Nakamoto. Nakamoto's name first appeared on a 2008 paper proposing the digital currency. Most people believed he was operating under a pseudonym. According to records uncovered by Goodwin, he had been living as "Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto." Read Goodman's article at Newsweek.com.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleAlbert EdwardsAlbert Edwards of Societe Generale has just published his latest bearish message to his readers. He warns of the "double threat of Chinese renminbi devaluation and complacent investor expectations." We'll take a look at the latter. "This week our preferred market-based measure of US core PCE (personal consumption expenditure) slumped well below the core PCE rate the market focuses on," writes Edwards, who has long warned the U.S. is on the brink of all-out deflation. He begins by relaying a message from the bond king Bill Gross: Bill Gross at Pimco hit the nail on the head earlier this year when he said “I am amazed at the fascination and emphasis placed on the u-rate during employment Fridays. Bond prices will move (in some cases by points) with a minor up or down change in unemployment relative to expectations, but when it comes to the third pig in the litter – inflation – no one seems to care. This number – the PCE annualised inflation rate – is released near the 20th of each month, but you won’t see CNBC or Bloomberg analysts waiting with bated breath for its release. I do.” PCE is the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, and it's been telling us the threat of inflation has been falling. "In particular I have noted previously that the US Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) releases a “market based” measure of PCE," he writes. "The BEA say “the market-based PCE is a supplemental measure that is based on household expenditures for which there are observable price measures. It excludes most imputed transactions (for example, financial services furnished without payment)”, i.e. it excludes prices which the statisticians have to invent!" Societe Generale "Yet despite deflationary reality, 10y implied inflation expectations have not budged at all," he continued. "Indeed on a 5y basis, implied inflation expectations seem to be drifting upwards! The gap between reality and expectations (or hope) just gets wider and wider!" Deflation is a scary thing. When prices are falling, consumers are encouraged to wait for even lower prices. This often forces businesses to lower prices even further in their efforts to spur demand. Meanwhile, profit margins collapse, layoffs ensue, and the economy spirals. On top of all that, the economic data has been disappointing. "The US economic surprise indicator as calculated by Citigroup is seeing the weakest start to the year since 2008," he noted. "Investors have decided to dismiss this weakness as wholly weather-related. The danger to the market is that as the weather improves the data does not, and both the equity and bond markets (viz inflation expectations) find themselves in totally the wrong place." Then again, if the economy is indeed improving, we'll get the activity that ultimately leads to higher prices. Indeed, there are actually some strong anecdotal signs that inflation may already be picking up. FREE AppDownload
WealthTrackDavid RosenbergBusiness Insider is offering a new feature in our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" email newsletter where we interview top strategists, economists, and traders to get their thoughts on key market questions. Wednesday's interview was with David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff. Sign up for our newsletter at the bottom to receive Q&amp;As and more in your inbox every weekday morning. BUSINESS INSIDER: To what extent do you think poor weather has impacted this winter’s economic data? DAVID ROSENBERG: I would say that the slowing is 50% weather and 50% fundamental with respect to inventory adjustment/savings rate and housing (tight mortgage lending). BI: What’s the big story that nobody is talking about right now? DR: That energy prices are on a discernible upward path. BI: Are you optimistic about Janet Yellen as Fed chair? DR: I’m optimistic that her policies will in the end generate far more inflation than is generally acknowledged. BI: The stock market is roaring back to all time highs. Do issues in EM not have as big an impact on U.S. markets as people argued a few weeks ago? DR: EM has a marginal impact at best… look at the 1997-98 Asian crisis: GDP growth averaged 4%, the unemployment rate went from 5% to 4.5% and the S&amp;P 500 ran up 20%… only became an issue towards the end of the crisis when it became a domestic financial event with the turmoil surrounding LTCM. BI: What’s something you’ll be watching this week and next? DR: The February employment report. Whether the S&amp;P 500 can break back above the mid-January highs on a closing basis. Beyond that, the March-April data will tell the tale as to just how much the latest poor data flow was a weather report. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSignage for a T-Mobile store is pictured in downtown Los Angeles, CaliforniaFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Telekom's Chief Executive Tim Hoettges said on Thursday T-Mobile US is currently valued at $46 billion after shares have gained on the back of the company's turnaround. T-Mobile US added 2 million new branded postpaid customers last year after losing subscribers for four years. Deutsche Telekom holds a 67 percent stake in T-Mobile US. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by Jonathan Gould) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChinese Minister of Finance Lou smiles before G20 finance ministers and central bank governors family photo in WashingtonBEIJING (Reuters) - It is all right for China to slightly miss the government's 7.5 percent economic growth target this year as long as enough jobs are created, the finance minister said on Thursday, stressing that a healthy labor market is more important. Lou Jiwei told a briefing at China's annual parliament meeting that the government has three broad economic policy goals each year: create jobs, control inflation and boost the economy. He said jobs are the most important of the three. "Let's say for instance, this year's economic growth is not 7.5 percent, but 7.3 percent or 7.2 percent. Does this count as around 7.5 percent? Yes, it counts," said Lou, who was previously the chairman of China's sovereign wealth fund, China Investment Corp. &lt;CIC.UL&gt;. "Whether GDP growth is to the left or to the right of 7.5 percent, that is not very important. What is important is job creation." China aims to create 11 million jobs this year, he said. China has for years set annual growth targets to drive its centrally-planned economy. But these targets were mostly meaningless as they were always exceeded by the government in its pursuit of double-digit growth. However, as China seeks to revamp its maturing economy and move it towards slower but better-quality growth, away from exports- and investment-driven expansion, the annual growth targets are taking on a new meaning. China said on Wednesday that it is aiming to expand the economy by about 7.5 percent this year, slightly above last year's actual expansion of 7.7 percent. At the same time, the government declared a "war" on pollution, and promised to slow investment growth to a decade-low. A QUARTER OF A CENTURY Three decades of blistering growth has turned China's economy into the world's most powerful growth engine, but has also left it with deep problems including widespread pollution and corruption, ominous debt levels and a yawning wealth gap. The last time China missed its growth target was 25 years ago in 1989, according to Standard Chartered. For seven years up until 2011, China had an annual growth target of 8 percent. But it was shaved to around 7.5 percent in 2012 as part of plans to rebalance the economy. Premier Li Keqiang, who announced the 2014 growth target on Wednesday, said the level was decided after careful comparisons and repeated weighing of various factors. The Finance Ministry said separately in its report to parliament that the growth target is "flexible", and instructed local officials to not compete with each other to deliver the highest growth rate. Some analysts had welcomed the 7.5 percent goal as a sign that Beijing will keep the world's second-biggest economy on a steady footing, while pursuing sweeping reforms likely to dampen activity in the near term. But others who had hoped China would be more radical in it reforms were disappointed that Beijing did not reduce or scrap its growth target to signal that it is ready to tolerate weaker growth in exchange for reforms. A series of economic surveys this year have shown China's factories fighting multi-month low business orders, leading some analysts to predict China may need to loosen policies for the economy to grow faster than the targeted rate. Pan Gongsheng, vice governor of China's central bank, said separately on Thursday it is "totally possible" for authorities to fine-tune economic policies this year if need be, repeating the bank's standard rhetoric. He also said the central bank hopes to unveil as soon as possible its system for insuring deposits, one of the much-anticipated financial reforms that analysts say will pave the way for China to free its interest rate market. (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Shao Xiaoyi; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA vendor sells potatoes and other vegetables to a customer in an open market in central AnkaraROME (Reuters) - Global food prices rose in February in the sharpest climb since mid-2012, the United Nations food agency said on Thursday, due to higher prices in all commodity groups except meat. The Food and Agriculture Organisation's (FAO) price index, which measures monthly price changes for a basket of cereals, oilseeds, dairy, meat and sugar, averaged 208.1 points in February, up 5.2 points from a slightly revised January index of 202.9. FAO said the strongest rises were in sugar, up 6.2 percent, and oils, up 4.9 percent. FAO raised its global cereals output forecast to a record 2.515 billion tones, up 13 million tonnes from its previous forecast. It raised its estimate of world cereal stocks at end-2014 season slightly to 578.5 million tonnes. Its first world wheat output forecast for 2014 was 704 million tonnes, a drop of 1.7 percent from the 2013 record harvest, but which would still be the second largest crop ever, FAO said. (Reporting by Naomi O'Leary) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo CasilliItaly's Prime Minister Matteo Renzi speaks during a confidence vote at the Senate in Rome February 24, 2014.Most of us are given our nicknames for something that we’ve already done. But Matteo Renzi, who became Italy’s youngest-ever prime minister when he replaced fellow Democratic Party member Enrico Letta last month, has one based on what he plans to do: Italians have taken to calling him “ll Rottamatore” or “The Scrapper.” He earned the moniker for his calls to scrap huge chunks of the Italian political status quo, which is widely seen as having failed a country that is clawing its way out of its worst recession since World War II. No one expects change—Renzi calls it “exiting the swamp”—to happen overnight. The new prime minister told Parliament last month that he would form a government that would serve until its term expires in 2018. (In Italy, the governing coalition can resign at any time, forcing politicians to form a new one. If they fail to do so, the President can call for new elections.) But Renzi, who was fierce in opposition, is also going to have to start delivering quickly on his ambitious reforms, lest he himself be scrapped. Although he currently enjoys the highest approval ratings of any politician in the country, they won’t stay high for long if voters don’t sense changes in Italy’s political and economic landscape. After shrinking 2.5 percent in 2012 and another 1.9 percent last year, Italy’s economy is expected to expand just 0.6 percent this year, according to European Commission forecasts. Unemployment, which hit a recent low of 5.8 percent in April 2007, has been trending upward ever since—and it hit 12.9 percent in January. “Shocking numbers, the highest for 35 years,” Renzi tweeted after the figures were released last week. Youth unemployment, meanwhile, is off-the-charts. Some 42.4 percent of 15-to-24 year-olds were without a job in January, the highest level since 1977, according to national statistical agency Istat. Renzi hasn’t let any time go to waste: in January, when he was just the Democratic Party leader and not the Italian Prime Minister,he struck a deal with former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, leader of centre-right Forza Italia, to advance a new electoral law and constitutional reforms. After that, the prime minister has promised to reform the labor market in March, overhaul the public administration in April, and tackle tax reform in May. The charismatic 39-year-old former mayor of Florence will need every bit of his well-known charm to successfully tackle issues that a long list of past Italian governments have failed to address. “[The needed reforms] have been clearly listed by different domestic and international authorities since…2011,” Credit Suisse analysts who cover Italy wrote in a recent note entitled, “The Steep Climb.” “However, opposition inside and outside [both parliament and] the public administration is likely to be harsh.” Renzi does have a few things going for him. First of all, he’s new. And in a fed-up society, new counts for a lot.“The popular support that Renzi enjoys…together with the disillusion versus the current political class and some modest economic upturn may help the new prime minister deliver at least some of this much needed reform,” Credit Suisse analysts wrote. Renzi’s first objectives – passing constitutional and electoral reform – are likely to be the easiest, due to the support he’s already secured from the center-right Forza Italia. These reforms aim to make Italy’s fractious government more stable by granting 55 percent of the seats in Parliament to the party that wins more than 37 percent of the vote. (In the event that two parties earn more than 37 percent, it would trigger a runoff election.) The move would diminish the importance of small parties that lack broad support, which have made it difficult for recent governments to build stable coalitions. Renzi also wants to de-emphasize the sprawling Senate by limiting its powers and restricting its membership. Then comes the hard stuff: economic reforms. “Priority number one…has to be job creation,” says Vincenzo Scarpetta, a political analyst for the Open Europe think tank. Renzi’s proposed Jobs Act would provide universal unemployment benefits, cut employment taxes deeply and offer tax incentives for companies that create jobs, particularly for young people. It would also make it easier for companies to fire employees, which is notoriously difficult in a country where workers can sue if they feel they have been fired without just cause. It would also make it impossible for judges to order businesses to reinstate their fired workers. Renzi’s labor market reforms could boost GDP by 5.75 percent within five years of being introduced, according to IMF research from 2013. But such reform is extremely controversial in Italy, and will likely elicit howls from lawmakers and citizens alike. And even if the reforms do pass, implementing them won’t be easy, either. “He will have to deliver reforms that have been awaited for years and find the resources needed to cover them in a very short time,” says Davide Tentori, an International Economics Research Associate at Chatham House, the Royal Institute of International Affairs, a policy think tank in London. Complicating matters is the fact that Renzi lacks a decisive parliamentary majority. In the Lower House, his Democratic Party’s coalition holds 60 percent of seats, but in the Senate, it has a far thinner majority of 169 senators out of the total 315 and the 5 senators for life. The majority is similar to the one enjoyed by former PM Letta, including a center-right splinter group from Berlusconi’s party, two centrist parties and a conglomerate party of various regional political groups. A quite diversified support and a lot of partners to keep happy. There may be an outside chance that the popular Renzi could assemble a stronger Senate coalition than Letta’s. That is, if Berlusconi’s Forza Italia group extends their support for electoral and constitutional reform to other measures. Disenchanted members of comedian Beppe Grillo’s Five-Star Movement (M5S) protest party, which has developed notable fault lines of late, could also throw their weight behind some of Renzi’s proposals. Still, Enrico Colombatto, director of the International Centre for Economic Research in Turin,predicts Renzi won’t wait until 2018 to call an election, but will do so as soon as he has enough popular support to stand a chance of strengthening his coalition. Credit Suisse analysts agree, and think snap elections could happen any time Renzi feels confident in the result. The upshot of that, says Colombatto, is that Renzi might play politics over policy, and end up diluting reforms to placate members of his coalition. “I think he’ll proceed with half-hearted labour reform so he can say, ‘I started to change things,’” Colombatto said. “But then to the left, he can say, ‘I have not made you jobless and penniless.’” A fresh face in the prime minister’s chair or not, Italy is in for a bumpy ride in the coming months. “The busy and ambitious agenda outlined by the prime minister will likely be tested soon,” Credit Suisse says. For the moment, however, Renzi represents new possibility for a people sick of lost opportunities. That’s reason enough to believe he just may succeed where others have failed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ints KalninsEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi.The camp predicting that the European Central Bank will soon cut rates is growing. Economists at Citi, Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole, Credit Suisse, and a few other shops think the ECB will pull the trigger on Thursday, announcing a cut to its benchmark refinancing rate — which currently stands at 0.25% — by either 10 or 15 basis points. The ECB will release its decision on interest rates at 7:45 AM ET. ECB President Mario Draghi's monthly press conference ensues at 8:30 AM. The majority, however, still believe the Bank's Governing Council will elect to leave rates unchanged. "Expectations of a rate cut are off the mark, despite continued low inflation readings," says Lorcan Roche Kelly, an analyst at Agenda Research. "ECB President Mario Draghi continues to insist that inflation expectations are firmly anchored over the medium term. He would only move on interest rates if he thought disinflation or deflation was becoming self-sustaining." Much of the debate centers on the outlook for inflation. Last week, data from Eurostat revealed that the euro area-wide harmonized index of consumer prices (HICP) rose 0.8% from a year earlier in January, above the initial 0.7% estimate released a month ago. Eurostat's initial estimate for February HICP, released a few days later, matched January's 0.8% reading. The ECB will publish updated staff macroeconomic forecasts for inflation and other variables. "We forecast a small (10bp) cut in the ECB's main refinancing rate next week, but the surprising uptick in euro zone core inflation in February does increase the risk of a delayed policy response," says Frederik Ducrozet, a senior euro zone economist at Crédit Agricole. "There remains a tactical case for pre-emptive easing, in our view, as the ECB staff forecasts should reflect downside risks to the medium-term outlook for price stability and March HICP will likely reach new record lows, especially if the euro remains 'too strong' for too long." Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at Rabobank, disagrees. "Recent comments by ECB Governing Council members, including Peter Praet, Benoit Coeure, Ewald Nowotny and Draghi himself, suggest that they genuinely believe that deflation is not around the corner (perhaps one couldn’t expect otherwise)," says de Groot. "We expect no change in the inflation risks balance. For now, we also believe the deflationary threat is insufficient for the ECB to roll out its heaviest artillery, for its recoil could be far from painless." One thing many ECB watchers expect on Thursday, however, is an announcement that the ECB will no longer sterilize purchases of government bonds it makes under its Securities Markets Programme (SMP) in order to boost liquidity in the banking system, given recent press reports that the Bundesbank has dropped its opposition to such a move. "A complete end to SMP sterilization could see the Eonia fixing fall around 6-7 basis points, with longer-dated rates rallying a bit less," say Robin Brooks and Mariano Cena, strategists at Goldman Sachs. "We think the instantaneous impact on [the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate] would be quite small, around half a big figure." Again, the ECB will release its decision on interest rates Thursday at 7:45 AM ET. Mario Draghi's monthly press conference ensues at 8:30 AM. FREE AppDownload
APStocks are in the green early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%. Germany's DAX is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.8%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.9%. Later today, the European Central Bank (ECB) will announce its monetary policy decision. The consensus expects no change. But with inflation low and the economy persistently weak, there is a growing minority of economists who believe a rate cut or new monetary stimulus package is on its way. "Economists at Citi, Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole, Credit Suisse, and a few other shops think the ECB will pull the trigger on Thursday, announcing a cut to its benchmark refinancing rate — which currently stands at 0.25% — by either 10 or 15 basis points," reported Business Insider's Matthew Boesler. "Expectations of a rate cut are off the mark, despite continued low inflation readings," says Lorcan Roche Kelly, an analyst at Agenda Research. "ECB President Mario Draghi continues to insist that inflation expectations are firmly anchored over the medium term. He would only move on interest rates if he thought disinflation or deflation was becoming self-sustaining." The ECB will release its decision on interest rates Thursday at 7:45 AM ET. Mario Draghi's monthly press conference ensues at 8:30 AM. FREE AppDownload
