Shares of Green Mountain &lt;GMCR.O&gt; soared 42 percent to $114.85 in extended trading, while those of its likely new rival, SodaStream International Ltd &lt;SODA.O&gt;, retreated 3.9 percent to $34.39. Under their 10-year agreement, the companies will collaborate on the development and introduction of Coca-Cola products on Green Mountain's upcoming machine that will serve both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, including soft drinks, tea and juice. Green Mountain's Keurig machine popularized the use of pods - small packets containing everything from coffee, tea or hot chocolate powder - for easy, in-home, one-cup brewing of hot drinks. The company has sold more than 30 million Keurig machines around the world for use in homes, offices and other locations. The deal will make Green Mountain the global exclusive partner for the production and sale of Coke's branded single-serve, pod-based cold beverages, the companies said. Still, Green Mountain also retains the option to sign deals with other cold drink makers, President and Chief Executive Brian Kelley told Reuters. That includes Coke rival PepsiCo Inc &lt;PEP.N&gt;, which last year shot down rumors it planned to buy SodaStream. A spokesman for Pepsi declined comment for this article. "We'll do deals with brands consumers love," said Kelley, who added that Green Mountain has coffee deals with most major chains, including Starbucks &lt;SBUX.O&gt; and Dunkin' Donuts &lt;DNKN.O&gt;. "We are really excited to start with Coca-Cola," said Kelley, who came to Green Mountain from the world's largest soda maker, where he was viewed as a product-savvy executive with expertise in product and supply chain management. Green Mountain's cold drink machine is scheduled to debut in fiscal 2015, which begins in October this year. Coca-Cola CEO Muhtar Kent said on the call that the deal would give his company access to new business opportunities. He added that it would enhance Coca-Cola's bottling system and that its bottlers would have a complimentary role. "This gives Green Mountain a beverage partner with some hugely powerful global brands. For Coke, it gives them access to some really cool, new cutting-edge pod cold-beverage technology," said John Sicher, editor and publisher of Beverage Digest. Sicher said soda sales in the United States have been in decline since 2005, while growth in pod-based coffee brewing has boomed. Under the terms of the agreement, Coca-Cola will acquire roughly 16.7 million newly issued shares of Green Mountain. The new shares have been priced at $74.98, which represents the trailing 50-trading-day volume weighted average price as of market close. Coca-Cola has the option to increase its minority stake up to 16 percent through open market purchases of Green Mountain common stock during the first 36 months, a spokesman for the Coca-Cola said. The significant after-hours move in Green Mountain's stock appeared to be a classic short squeeze as traders who bet against the stock scrambled to cover their positions. David Einhorn, who runs hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc., was among investors with short positions in Green Mountain as of October 15. Greenlight's spokesman declined to comment to Reuters on Wednesday. The most recent data from Nasdaq, which dates to January 15, had short interest in Green Mountain at about 25 percent of shares outstanding - about 37.6 million shares. That's lower than peak short interest in November 2012, when more than 51 million shares were being shorted. The average consumer staples company has just 1.6 percent of shares held short, according to Thomson Reuters Starmine. Green Mountain separately reported better-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday. The Waterbury, Vermont-based company said net income rose 28 percent to $138.2 million, or 91 cents per share, for the fiscal first quarter ended December 28. On an adjusted basis, the company earned 96 cents per share - 6 cents better than analysts on average had expected, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net sales rose almost percent to $1.39 billion. Green Mountain also plans to launch a new hot drink brewing system this fall. Called Keurig 2.0, it will use both single-serve K-Cups and larger-sized K-Carafe packs that brew 28 ounces of coffee. (Additional reporting by Martinne Geller in London and David Gaffen and Jennifer Ablan in New York; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Blockchain/ScreenshotApple has removed popular Bitcoin wallet Blockchain from the App Store without any clear reason given, Wired reports. The removal of the Blockchain app, which allows users to send and receive Bitcoin quickly and easily, means iOS users are left with no native Bitcoin wallet option, according to Coindesk. (Apple previously banned Coinbase and CoinJar).  The closest Blockchain received to an explanation was an email from Apple saying it was removed "due to an unresolved issue," Wired reports. From Wired: Some believe that Apple may be dumping bitcoin wallets because of the emerging, somewhat confusing international regulations surrounding bitcoin. But like others, Blockchain’s Cary argues that his app was pulled because Apple sees bitcoin as a potential competitor. “I think that Apple is positioning itself to take on mobile payments in a way they haven’t described to the public and they’re being anti-competitive.” That theory is floated in a longer, scathing statement on the Blockchain blog responding to Apple's move. "These actions by Apple once again demonstrate the anti-competitive and capricious nature of the App Store policies that are clearly focused on preserving Apple’s monopoly on payments rather than based on any consideration of the needs and desires of their users," the company wrote. The statement continues: The blockchain application is the same one that has been on the App Store for 2 years, with more than 120,000 downloads, no customer complaints, and a broad user base. The only thing that has changed is that bitcoin has become competitive to Apple’s own payment system. By removing the blockchain app, the only bitcoin wallet application on the App store, Apple has eliminated competition using their monopolistic position in the market in a heavy handed manner. The company went on to compare the removal due to an "unresolved issue" as the same thing as "because we said so." We've reached out to Apple and will update this post if we hear back. FREE AppDownload
"Historically, rising equity prices have been associated with falling bond prices (rising bond yields), as stronger economic fundamentals drove investors to stocks and away from bonds, and weaker economic growth produced the reverse," notes Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd. This is the kind of stuff we all learned when we were first introduced to investing as kids. "However, over the past few years, equity and bond prices began moving together as both markets were inflated by floods of liquidity from accommodative U.S. monetary policy, which distorted the traditional relationship," added Minerd. Indeed, many pundits spent this time blasting the Federal Reserve for messing up the investment game. But for whatever reason, it appears that markets have gone back to their old ways. "After tapering of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve was first suggested in mid-2013, markets began returning to more normal correlations, driven not by expectations of continued quantitative easing, but by the economic outlook," said Minerd. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe last few years of global merger and acquisition activity have been, in a word, “abnormal.”  The nominal amount of M&amp;A deal volume has been abnormally depressed. As a percentage of market capitalization, the value of M&amp;A transactions has been abnormally low. Corporate balance sheets, meanwhile, have abnormally low levels of debt.  All of which has created, according to Credit Suisse’s Global Equity Strategy team, an exceptionally good opportunity for companies to boost their earnings by joining forces with or buying other companies. As an added bonus, acquirers might find themselves in the relatively unusual position of seeing an immediate positive market reaction when they announce a deal. In a report published last week, “M&amp;A: Welcome to the Recovery,” the strategists note that pursuing either share buybacks or cash-financed M&amp;A could enhance earnings per share for nearly half of all European companies and almost a quarter of American ones. Though most corporate buying activity of late has been in the form of share buybacks, Credit Suisse notes that companies tend to step up their M&amp;A activity as the stock market rises – and the S&amp;P soared 32 percent last year. The collective balance sheet is certainly ready to be put to use: 73 percent of U.S. companies and 56 percent of European ones have an astonishingly low level of debt on their balance sheets compared to their total market capitalization. Even if companies in both regions borrowed only enough to return to historic average leverage levels, they would have a remarkable $2.3 trillion of “firepower” available for corporate M&amp;A activity. Private equity companies have another $1.1 trillion on hand. Finally, surveys show that corporate confidence is improving in both the U.S. and Europe, another factor that tends to signal an upswing in M&amp;A. All that said, corporate cash levels have been rising and debt levels falling since 2008. And yet M&amp;A activity levels have not responded accordingly. The value of global M&amp;A transactions in 2013 was $2.91 trillion, a seemingly healthy 9 percent increase over 2012, according to Dealogic. But that’s still nearly 8 percent lower than 2008 totals. What’s more, the number of deals in 2013 was 37,212, down 15 percent from 2012. But the last few months have been particularly busy, at least when compared to recent history. From the beginning of December, no fewer than nine deals valued at more than $1 billion each have been announced. Google, for example, raised eyebrows when it announced last month that it would acquire Nest Labs, a company that creates “smart” thermostats and smoke detectors, for $3.2 billion. In each of the nine cases, the acquirer’s stock jumped by more than 5 percent the day of the announcement, with the average increase being what the analysts dubbed a “staggering” 17 percent. Credit Suisse thinks M&amp;A volumes should continue to accelerate. But in another report released last week, “M&amp;A: Acceleration and Implications,” they point out that not all industry groups and sectors will necessarily catch the M&amp;A bug. Dollar stores and food retailers – both highly competitive businesses – could realize significant synergies by consolidating, says analyst Edward Kelly, who covers dollars stores and food and drug retailers. Overcapacity, says small-cap bank analyst Matthew Clark, could well spur forward smaller institutions eager to build scale, such as BankUnited Inc., to potentially eye banks or thrifts in the New York metropolitan area, and Hancock Holding Co., to potentially consider banks in northern Florida and Houston. Given the United States’ boom in shale oil and gas production, the energy market has seen surprisingly light volumes of M&amp;A activity, but Co-Head of Global Oil and Gas Equity Research Ed Westlake suggests that Asian strategic buyers may take a look at shale gas reserves in North America.  Semiconductor companies with businesses tilted in favor of consumer electronics—where unit and revenue growth have fallen or disappeared entirely—seem likely candidates for using acquisitions as a way to diversify. Semiconductor analyst John Pitzer, who also heads Credit Suisse’s technology sector research, suggests that companies such as Broadcom, Texas Instruments and Maxim Integrated Products may be inclined to seek opportunities to expand into industrial markets by buying or merging with companies that are already strong in those areas. As the shift toward cloud computing continues to gather steam, so too should consolidation in the space—witness Oracle’s $1.5 billion purchase of Responsys in December. That transaction “could signal the start of a larger M&amp;A cycle” among cloud-focused companies, suggests small- and mid-cap software analyst Michael Nemeroff. If there’s a single transaction that’s been buzzing in the New Year, it’s press reports of a potential tie-up between Sprint and T-Mobile. And while such a deal has the potential to provide $4.5 billion of operating synergies, says telecommunications analyst Joseph Mastrogiovanni, he also warns that it remains “fraught with obstacles,” not least of which would be the approval of both antitrust and telecommunications regulators. Sprint’s interest in buying T-Mobile also risks attracting possible rivals, including DISH. The analysts also point out a handful of industries that don’t seem ripe for a pickup in M&amp;A activity. The metals and mining industry, says Credit Suisse, will probably see a decrease in M&amp;A volumes this year, since “without the tailwind of an appreciating commodities price environment, it is a lot harder to construct value-accretive deals.”  Casual dining chains aren’t likely candidates for consolidation either, suggests restaurants analyst Karen Holthouse, as “high multiples [have made] public targets somewhat unattractive.” What’s more, a handful of the most active acquirers, including Starbucks and Darden Restaurants, Inc., have declared publicly that they’re not in the market for more properties. Even those not in a position to benefit from their own M&amp;A opportunities stand to reap rewards from a recovery of deal activity. Call it a virtuous circle: As noted above, strong stock markets tend to prompt M&amp;A. And in return, M&amp;A tends to prompt strong stock markets. Historically, the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 9 percent in the six months following a trough in M&amp;A activity, the analysts say in their M&amp;A overview. While the prospect of a single-digit increase won’t necessarily impress in light of the S&amp;P 500’s double-digit returns last year, it isn’t so shabby for a bull market that is starting to get long in the tooth. FREE AppDownload
“I am hoping for the market to drop 40% so stocks will again become, from a value perspective, attractive again…I think stocks are, by and large, fully priced.” I run into this sort of thinking quite a bit.  It’s the idea that you’re just going to sit on your cash and wait for the next fat pitch and then hit the big home run that sets you on the path to financial freedom.  After all, that’s what hot shot investors like Warren Buffett do, right?  Buffett famously talked about how he likes to wait for “fat pitches”: “I call investing the greatest business in the world,” he says, “because you never have to swing. You stand at the plate, the pitcher throws you General Motors at 47! U.S. Steel at 39! and nobody calls a strike on you. There’s no penalty except opportunity lost. All day you wait for the pitch you like; then when the fielders are asleep, you step up and hit it.” … “Wait for a fat pitch and then swing for the fences.” I really don’t like this way of thinking about the world of asset management and I think it blurs the line between what someone like Buffett does and what most of the rest of us do when we allocate assets.  Most importantly, it distorts what we really should be trying to do. Here’s my reasoning: The bottom line: don’t fall for the fat pitch myth.  It’s more likely to lead you astray as you try to maintain your portfolio over the long-term. FREE AppDownload
Greg KoniecznyExecutive Vice President, Templeton Emerging Markets Group The Romanian economy had a successful year in 2013, surpassing initial expectations. Romania’s GDP growth is expected to have reached or even exceeded 2.5% in 2013,1 coming in ahead of forecasts 12 months ago of growth below 2%. The capital market has experienced probably its best year in the last five years, with some initial public offerings (IPOs) at record values. We expect this trend could continue in 2014 and, based on the facts discussed below, are optimistic there could be further acceleration of growth as well as crucial capital market developments this year. In our view, there is potential for a positive evolution of the local Romanian economy, which could benefit from a recovery of global growth that seems to be gaining momentum, along with an uptick in global trade. We agree with the World Bank’s expectations for Eurozone growth to potentially accelerate to an annual average of 1.1% in 2014.2 Within the Eurozone, it seems most probable to us that Germany will be the engine of growth for the region in 2014, which means any positive spill-over effect could be felt in the periphery and in Central and Eastern Europe, including Romania. We think the Romanian economy could continue to potentially accelerate. The World Bank currently forecasts GDP growth of 2.5% for 2014,3 but this may even be improved if this year’s harvest turns out to be similar to the one in 2013, which saw particularly strong wheat, corn and barley crops that helped drive export growth. One of the drivers for Romania’s potential growth in 2014 is likely to continue to be tied to exports, in our view. We see opportunities in services, the energy and the automotive sectors. In addition, Romania has access to European Union (EU) structural funds, which are one of the main EU instruments designed to sustain economic growth while reducing disparities between regions in the EU. Romania’s economy could be boosted by its higher absorption rate of EU structural funds as well as a pickup in construction (both commercial and residential). Moreover, we believe one of the strongest contributors to growth could likely be consumption. Domestic demand in Romania has been picking up very slowly in the past couple of years but, with record low inflation, decreasing interest rates, low and stable unemployment levels and a low base compared to 2007-2008, we expect it could improve in 2014. We do not anticipate inflation to grow meaningfully over the next 12 months. It is our view that interest rates could further decline following cuts in the Romanian central bank’s base rate that took place in the first weeks of this year to a record low of 3.50%. In 2013, Romania recorded the lowest annual inflation rate since 1990: 1.55%.4 For 2014, the National Bank currently estimates inflation will not likely surpass 3%. Further cuts in the base rate would follow a trend set by the central bank last year, when the base rate was cut gradually by a total of 1.25%. This year may be another year of transformation for the country’s capital market that we believe could ultimately lead Romania—currently classified as a frontier market by index provider MSCI—closer to achieving emerging market classification. In 2013, Romania saw a significant growth of the capital market, with two IPOs of state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Given that the government is committed to respect the calendar of new IPOs currently in the pipeline, 2014 could continue this positive trend. MSCI has several criteria related to capitalization, free float and other factors that a market must meet to be classified as emerging. With the upcoming IPOs, Romania may get closer to meeting these criteria. Romania’s current frontier status has proven to be very beneficial, as investors had a very strong interest in these markets last year: Frontier markets saw record high inflows despite net outflows recorded by emerging markets generally. In 2014, it’s possible we could see another record-high issuance of new equity and secondary placements for Romanian shares, given current listing plans. We anticipate the most important transactions are still expected to come from the state, with several announced IPOs in utilities/electricity. We may also see some private companies looking at IPO opportunities, as banks in Romania continue to be very cautious in their lending policies. Also, the corporate bond market could continue the encouraging volumes of new deals from 2013; issuance of corporate bonds was the preferred method of financing for several companies last year, as interest rates for loans are still high.   The increasing participation of retail investors could be another key element in the development of Romania’s market. Private individuals have shown a great deal of interest in the state’s public offerings last year, and we expect them to be increasingly more active not only in IPOs and Secondary Public Offerings (SPOs) but also by potentially investing in retail investment vehicles which in turn invest on the Bucharest Stock Exchange, Bursa de Valori Bucuresti (BVB). A good incentive for accelerating this trend is the fact that interest rates for deposits have fallen to record-low levels in the past six months. We also think Romanian pension funds could likely increase their exposure to equities, which represent only a modest share of the market at this time. Of course, there are always risks and unexpected events that could change the outlook. On a political level, 2014 will be marked by two electoral campaigns which usually generate a lot of noise and volatility. This may affect investors’ decisions in the short term. However, we do not expect this to have a strong long-term impact on the economy, as what we deem to be Romania’s strong fundamentals and commitment to its agreements with international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) may help prevent any major sideslips. Despite this possible election-related short-term volatility, we are hopeful Romania’s economy and capital market will quietly continue moving in a positive direction. Dr. Mobius’ and Mr. Konieczny’s comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or a recommendation to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. This material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.   All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets.  Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets.   1. Source: The World Bank. 2014. Global Economic Prospects, Volume 8, January 2014, World Bank, Washington, DC. doi:10.1596/978-1-4648-0201-0 License: Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0.  2. Ibid. 3. Ibid. 4. Ibid. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Everyone's talking about cigarettes today in the wake of CVS Caremark's huge decision to ban sales of tobacco. Thanks to varying excise taxes, a pack of Marlboro reds runs just under $5 in Kentucky, compared to $14.50 in New York. But the price of a pack of cigarettes varies even more by country to country. This chart from Goldman Sachs shows cigarette prices (and what portion of that price is due to taxes) in dollar terms. Check it out: Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog So far so good: Commodity prices suggest that the global economy is holding up well despite the latest emerging markets crisis. This confirms that the crisis remains contained mostly to the "Fragile Five" and isn’t morphing into a contagion--so far, knock on wood. I construct a YRI Global Growth Barometer by simply averaging the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil with the CRB raw industrials spot price index. Our YRI-GGB registered 106 on Monday. It has been fluctuating around this level for the past two years. Both components are very sensitive indicators of global economic activity. Both are holding up remarkably well given the headline news about the EM crisis and the strength of the dollar, which tends to depress commodity prices. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Fragile Fear. (1) The Fragile Five are submerging. (2) Fickle short-term capital flows. (3) Are F-5 scarier than five PIIGS? (4) Greece again, but no Grexit. (5) EMs do matter to both US and the world. (6) The F-5 may not matter all that much. (7) Severe devaluations stress F-5 with higher import prices, and wider trade and budget deficits. (8) Not much stress in commodity prices so far. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Paramount PicturesThe Wolf of Wall StreetThe most vivid description of what happened to the victims of real-life Wolf of Wall Street Jordan Belfort's stock pumping scam unquestionably came from Christina McDowell, formerly Christina Prousalis.  She is the daughter of Tom Prousalis, who along with Belfort pled guilty to money laundering and wire fraud. In an op-ed for LAWeekly in December, McDowell wrote about the pain she suffered growing up as the daughter of a criminal: The day my father had to surrender to prison, I drove him. My mother had locked herself in the bathroom crying and throwing up, becoming nothing short of a more beautiful version of Cate Blanchett in Blue Jasmine. Ironically enough, Marty, she looks like a cross between Sharon Stone and Michelle Pfeiffer. Totally your leading ingénue type. Anyhow, after my father successfully laundered money in my name, hiding what was left of our assets from the government in a Wells Fargo bank account, I arrived home to discover multiple phone calls from creditors and attorneys threatening to sue me. He'd left me in nearly $100,000 worth of debt. He left and never told me. The thing is, America can't get enough of anything having to do with "The Wolf of Wall Street," good or ugly. So it's not too surprising that the Hollywood Reporter's Andy Lewis writes that McDowell is getting a book deal. The Simon &amp; Schuster imprint is pitching it as "a classic father/daughter story and a cautionary, yet ultimately positive, tale of starting over" that shows the "consequences not just for one family, but for society as a whole." McDowell's story, the publisher says is a "younger, more innocent, true-life version of Woody Allen’s recent hit film, Blue Jasmine." The book is set to drop in spring of 2015. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Great Fallacy Of Target Date Funds (CFA Institute)  Investors should look at more than just their age when determining their risk tolerance. "The great fallacy of target-date funds is that age is used as a shorthand for the level of investment risk an individual should take," writes Michael Lipper at the CFA Institute. Target date funds are funds that rebalance assets based on a future date, and typically get more conservative closer to retirement. "There are many other measures to take into account, some more important than others, like assets including intangibles, liabilities including contingencies, and mental and physical health." With that in mind Lipper suggests "some attention should be paid to time horizons beyond a century, possibly 120 years." LARRY FINK: Hedge Funds Will Consolidate But That's Not Problematic (Bloomberg TV)  Hedge funds returned an average of 7.4% in 2013, compared to the S&amp;P 500 which was up 30%. BlackRock's Larry Fink told Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle that he thinks hedge fund consolidation will continue. "There's already been consolidation. And they're going to continue to do it, but you're seeing some very successful hedge funds doing quite well. And you're seeing some of the other ones that are starting to struggle. So I don't find that to be a problem. That's the evolution in the marketplace. Winners take on more share. You see that in the mutual fund business. You're seeing that in the entire investment management business. I think the larger successful organizations are going to pick up more and more market share. And so I don't find that problematic." FINRA Rejigs Plan For Broker Disclosure Link (Reuters)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is presenting a new plan to its board next week for a disclosure link on brokers websites, reports Suzanne Barlyn at Reuters. Earlier this year, FINRA approached the SEC on a version of the plan that would also required firms to post these links prominently on their social media pages. It rescinded the application after some brokerage industry groups wrote to the SEC saying that it would be hard to do so as many limit the text or format in which these links can be provided. The History Of 10% Stock Market Sell-Offs (Deutsche Bank) After stellar returns in 2013, stock markets have been hurting this year. Many are wondering if this means we're slated for a correction. In a December note, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco wrote that it's possible to go four years without a correction.  "S&amp;P 500 corrections of 10% or more, including those that turned into bear markets, occur nearly every 1.5 years (357 trading days) on average since 1957. The last correction began over two years ago (550 trading days) in the summer of 2011, but that correction was severe and nearly a bear market with a 19% decline. But more importantly, there is enormous variation around the mean of trading days between corrections. The STD is higher than the mean, thus a correction is not more than 80% likely, based on precedent since 1957, until 750 days from the last correction. Moreover, corrections are less frequent the past 25 years vs. the past 50+ years. From 1990 to 1997 the S&amp;P avoided a 10%+ decline (1994 was close), also from April 2003 to September 2007. Thus 4 years without a correction is possible, especially if earnings climb and inflation and interest rates stay low vs. history, but a higher PE raises the risk." Deutsche Bank3 Simple LinkedIn Practices That Firms Need To Focus On (Investment News) Financial advisory firms are beginning to grow their social media presence. Caitlin Zucal at Investment News thinks there are three easy things that firms can do to make the most of LinkedIn.  1. Create a full profile — This includes using professional photos, adding skills, using "industry-focused keywords in your tagline," and keeping your profile current. 2. Focus on the quality of connections — Focus on quality over quantity and remember to "write something personal to the individual you want to connect with instead of sending the standardized LinkedIn message." 3. Stay active — Post a few interesting piece a day or join a conversation in a relevant group. FREE AppDownload
What CNN called the “British Invasion” of rock music immediately preceded the demise of the Bretton Woods fixed currency exchange rate regime (1945-1971). That era was brought to a close by a global run on gold, President Nixon’s devaluation of the US dollar, and closure of the gold window. The Beatles split up in 1970; the Bretton Woods agreement collapsed in 1971. Since the old regime came unanchored, the world has operated with floating currencies. Any particular currency has an ever-changing value relative to others unless the government that issues it tries to peg it to another or tries to manipulate the exchange rate. This new global monetary system has been analyzed in serious work by a number of skilled economists. One of them, Mike Dooley, is a fishing regular with us in Maine. Mike has nicknamed the current regime “Bretton Woods II” (Michael P. Dooley, David Folkerts-Landau, Peter Garber; September, 2003; "An Essay on the Revived Bretton Woods System"). Readers should note that this paper was written BEFORE the global financial crisis exploded in 2007-9. Form your own opinions about whether this paper was too optimistic at the time of its publication. What is critical for me is the depth at which it explains the relationships that we see as part of the present-day turmoil. In our view, the present system is as vulnerable to contagion as the old one was – where contagion is defined as the spreading of financial turmoil due to fluctuating foreign-exchange rates and the unintended consequences of governments trying to intervene in the currency adjustment process. In the last few weeks we have written about contagion and discussed it publicly. Bloomberg, Fox Business, Reuters, the Wall St. Journal, and others have shown interest in our focus on this topic. We expect the global volatility associated with the current turmoil in emerging markets to intensify this discussion of contagion as markets drive investors to change their allocations in response. We thank readers for their questions about our views on contagion risk. We will try to answer the most important questions raised by clients, their consulting professionals, website readers, and others. Hence, the remainder of this commentary will have a FAQ (frequently asked questions) format. Q-1. Are you really seriously concerned about contagion? Yes, indeed. We would not be analyzing it, writing and talking about it, and making portfolio changes if we didn't think it was a serious risk. This writer fails to understand why so many investors and other market agents remain sanguine about contagion risk. Perhaps they are younger and do not remember the demise of the Bretton Woods era. But most should remember 1994 or 1997. And they were certainly around during the last five years, when they witnessed a contagion in a currency zone (the Eurozone). They saw how things started in Greece and what happened after the first elements of failed government policy became apparent to markets. Later, they saw Cyprus’s banking system collapse. And they have witnessed the outcome of policy failures in the largest currency zone in the world (that of the US dollar). All contagions start in a small, seemingly isolated way. Originally they appear minor and readily containable, whether they are triggered by Greek debt excesses, improvident US housing mortgages, Thai civil unrest, or Turkey’s latest interest rate hike.  Financial contagion poses a serious risk. Like a virus, the risk is there all the time, poised to flourish when the financial “immune system” is weak. In periods of stability and strength, steady economic growth, and excess liquidity, that risk is suppressed and masked by other forces. That does not mean the risk has vanished. Then along comes a unique and perhaps unexpected sequence of events that may at first appear to be disparate and unrelated. But that would actually only be the case if all economic entities operated as closed systems, did not trade with each other, and did not have interdependent financial flows – if they were isolated islands. In an interconnected, interdependent world like ours, contagion risk exists at all times. It surfaces here and there, and most of the time it quickly dies back; but given the right conditions it can spread like wildfire. And the degree of spreading and the damage done are always unknown until after the fact. Q-2. Do rising interest rates matter for emerging markets? Absolutely, yes. A serious study by Ned Davis Research examined the relationships among interest rates in emerging-market and major economies. That January 30, 2014, study compared US interest rates with those of other countries. It computed the correlations among rising rates and market effects and determined whether these correlations were reliable or useless. The study's conclusion is clear: “Investors can view interest rates as a threat to emerging markets in some environments, an encouraging sign of economic growth in others, and useless noise” in still other instances. Ned Davis asserts that, statistically, rising US interest rates tend to trigger negative impacts in emerging countries like Indonesia and Turkey. On the other hand, rising US interest rates can sometimes have positive effects, as in China. Q-3. Why do changes in interest rates in one place have impacts elsewhere? The impacts depend on the composition of the financial relationships and trade flows of goods and services. That leads to the question of why certain markets respond to forms of contagion differently from others. The Ned Davis study lists all major emerging-market countries and breaks them into categories of interest-rate sensitivity, useless noise, and insulation or beneficial impacts from interest sensitivity. At Cumberland, we use services like Ned Davis and also our own internal work to develop a nuanced awareness of these sensitivities and responses as we continually evaluate over 40 countries. Q-4. What is going on in the world today, anyway? We see interest rates being used by central banks and governments to defend currencies or to alter the composition of flows in their economies. Turkey may be the most obvious example today, but we see similar activity in South Africa, India, and elsewhere. I am purposefully ignoring Argentina since it is an ongoing, century-old casualty of policy failures. What is interesting to note is that the linkages of causality between interest rates, internal turmoil, and subsequent contagion are unclear. The roots of contagion within each country originate in policy failure. The resulting contagion may take years to evolve before it turns into a financial explosion that makes the headlines. Paradoxically, chronic policy mismanagement leads to reduced contagion. Argentina is the world’s premier example of repeated policy failures, where sequential defaults and reconstitutions of governments have led to the dismissal of Argentina worldwide. Argentina no longer causes contagion because its economic actions are now largely uncorrelated to those of the rest of the world. It has isolated itself as an unreliable place, and the rest of the world has “quarantined” it in response. Thus, it will experience its own turmoil and destruction of wealth, with reduced life quality. It will not have much additional impact on the countries around it. Chilean businesses know what they have as a neighbor. Q-5. Why does one failed policy in a country lead to contagion while a different failed policy does not? Sequential failures lead to a change in worldview. Just as Greece has recently become the poster child of a failed economy in the Eurozone, Argentina has accomplished the same status in South America. It took years of policy failure in Greece to lead to the crisis that subsequently engulfed much of Europe in a contagion during the last decade. For Europe’s new Eurozone, Greece was the trigger. In Argentina, policy failures began to occur over a century ago. The world grew to expect repeating failed policies; hence, the contagion risk from Argentina disappeared. In an excellent paper entitled “Argentina: Closing the gap between policy and public opinion” (January 23, 2014), Joshua Rosner of Graham Fisher &amp; Company summarized Argentina’s history as follows: At the turn of the last century, Argentina, was the eighth-largest economy in the world. Today, according to the World Bank, the country is ranked 73rd in real per capita income. According to Transparency International’s corruption index, it is ranked 106 out of 177 countries (with 177 being “highly corrupt”). Following the World Bank’s cost of “Doing Business” index, Argentina is ranked 124 out of 185 countries. And to top it off, according to the recent World Index of Economic Freedom, Argentina is in the bottom 15 countries in the world and 27th in the region. Q-6. If a currency exchange-rate crisis is a trigger for contagion, how does it impact business? Recall the recent news about gunfire erupting in Thailand. As a tourist about to travel to that country, would you go on that trip or change your plan? I will flash back to Argentina. On one of my 15 trips to the country, I watched three presidents take office and then leave office in less than one week. I recall sitting in a Bariloche restaurant as demonstrators marched outside because the banks were closed and they could not make withdrawals. I personally watched the Argentine government fail in its promise to protect its citizens’ money. The sequence in each country is different, but the impact of civil unrest and turmoil is the same. It quashes business activity, adds financial risk, and spurs agents to store liquidity and value of their assets in any form that is attainable. It therefore leads to economic contraction and payment failure, at which point a contagion multiplier may take over. That is why contagions are unpredictable. In the modern world, we are not always sure who owes how much to whom, when it is due, and how it is to be paid. Here is an example from BCA Research. Banks in the UK, France, Greece, and Spain have a “combined exposure of US$123 billion” to short-term, private-sector Turkish bank debt. “It is unclear” if this borrowing is hedged, says BCA. “What is certain, however, is that the capability of Turkish debtors to meet their obligations has been seriously impaired by the 60% fall in the lira since 2010.” Q-7. Does interest-rate policy in the major economies impact contagion risk? Yes. The normal adjustment process among currencies takes place by means of interest-rate shifts. That is, during periods when interest rates are not anchored close to zero worldwide, interest rates are the adjustment mechanism. Suppose I am a businessman doing business in currency A, and the outlook is for my currency to weaken against currency B by 5% over the next year. That 5% outlook is set by market-based pricing every day. In normal times it will show up in the interest-rate differential between currency A and currency B. If I am involved in cross-border trade, I will make payments in currency B instead of A if I can be compensated with 5 points of additional interest for the transaction. But if this natural interest-rate adjustment mechanism has been hobbled by the actions of central banks, then my transactions may be hindered by uncertainty premia, added volatility, and increased costs or reduced profits; or I may even forego the transactions entirely. Major central banks worldwide have all taken their interest rates down to zero and held them there for the last five years. They continue to do so as each acts to address its own domestic crisis. Collectively, they weaken the pricing mechanism that would otherwise adjust trade flows between those developed markets and the emerging markets. The result is increased volatility in the foreign exchange markets. That is, when major developed markets anchor their short-term interest rates near zero, they put currency exchange rates in a higher risk mode. That is why emerging markets must be reactive and do extraordinary things with their banking systems and interest rates. Therein lies the problem for Turkey. It has now taken interest rates to a level that will cause its economy to contract. Furthermore, Turkey will have to examine all of its trade relationships with the surrounding region. Look at where Turkey is positioned geographically, and it is evident how dramatic this adjustment may become. The same is true elsewhere in the world, because the principle is the same. Interest rates are an arbitraging mechanism among countries and currencies. Take them all to zero, and volatility can explode, as we are seeing now. John Mauldin describes this in his latest newsletter: “Since Chairman Bernanke's first taper warning on May 21, 2013, the "Fragile Five" (Argentina, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, and South Africa) have seen their currencies fall more than 15%.” If you take a longer view (3 years), the decline is over 30%. Q-8. The governor of the central bank of India blames the Federal Reserve for the current turmoil. Some newsletter writers agree with him. Do you blame the Fed?  No. The developed-country central banks owe primary allegiance to their nations and governments. They are creatures of the politics of those governments. Expecting something else is a mistake that investors often make. India has a large economy and is a globally important player, which is why the comments of the new central bank governor received so much attention. Let me excerpt part of a thoughtful response offered by Ed Truman of the Petersen Institute. For the full text see:  http://blogs.piie.com/realtime/?p=4225.  When Governor Raghuram Rajan of the Reserve Bank of India, an acknowledged international monetary heavyweight, speaks he makes news. Often he delivers a well-deserved wake-up call. Unfortunately, on January 31, speaking to Bloomberg and as reported in the Financial Times, he sounded the wrong alarm in declaring that international monetary cooperation has broken down and implicitly blaming the difficulties facing a number of emerging market countries on that breakdown. Governor Rajan did a disservice to international monetary cooperation in three respects. First, he declared that, during the dark days of the global financial crisis in 2008–09, the emerging market and developing countries stimulated their economies through the application of monetary and fiscal policies in order to do their part to support global growth. It is true that many of these countries adopted expansionary policies. It is not true that they did so primarily out of a desire to help the advanced countries. Their principal motivation was to counteract the effects of the global slowdown on their own economies. In the three years before the global financial crisis (2005–07), growth in the emerging market and developing countries averaged 8.1 percent, on a purchasing power basis. During the crisis years (2008–09), growth slowed to 4.5 percent. And it has averaged 5.8 over the past four years (2010–13), not hitting the precrisis average in any year. Emerging market and developing countries adopted the right policies in 2008–09 in their own interests. In doing so, they participated in a cooperative global effort. Second, Governor Rajan argued that the adoption of a second round of quantitative easing in 2010 by the Federal Reserve, and subsequent similar actions by other central banks, were motivated solely by self-interest without regard for or communication with the authorities in other countries. Governor Rajan knows better. He knows that in 2010 the Federal Reserve’s plans were widely discussed at the annual Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, and by the G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors meeting in Korea before the policy change was announced. More seriously, Governor Rajan failed to answer his own explicit and implicit questions: What should the Federal Reserve and other central banks and governments of advanced countries have done differently? Did those policy actions damage the global economy as a whole, which is not the same as inconveniencing a few countries? By omitting any constructive suggestions, he has effectively contributed to international monetary non-cooperation. Third, Governor Rajan argued that the Federal Reserve has acted selfishly, in the interests of the US economy alone but not those of the world economy, first, in signaling in May and June of 2013 that the third round of quantitative easing would likely come to an end (taper off) and, second, in adopting such a policy in December 2013. Governor Rajan implied that his Federal Reserve counterparts told him bluntly: We will do what we need to do, what you do is your business, and you should let markets and prices adjust. I doubt this is the case, based on what would be the normal practice of communication among central bankers. On this point, he again failed to articulate what would have been a better and more cooperative Federal Reserve policy over the past year that would have benefitted both the United States and the global economy. Q-9. Why do some stock markets and countries do better than others when the world faces contagion risk? Success in fending off contagion depends on the composition of the market and whether the economy of the particular country puts that market at greater or lesser risk as the world goes through an adjustment. Barclays (January 24, 2014) discussed the disentangling of country factors from market composition. Barclays notes, for example, that the Energy sector is 9% of MSCI world market capitalization. However, the sector accounts for only 1.2% of the market in Japan and is completely absent in Germany’s market. At the other extreme, energy accounts for 57% of Russia’s total market capitalization. Globally, the financial industry accounts for 21% of advanced-market and 25% of emerging-market capitalization. The sector ranges from roughly 15% in Germany and the US, to nearly 40% in Spain and China and even higher in Hong Kong. Look at a mature market like Italy and examine the ETF for Italy (EWI). The largest weight in it (17%) is an energy company, Eni (Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi). Look at Germany, another mature economy. It is evident that the largest two weights in EWG (combined 17%) are Bayer and Siemens. Both of those countries are in the same mature currency zone. Both countries are large weights in that zone and share the same central bank, the ECB (European Central Bank). Between them and among others in the Eurozone, cross-border currency risk comes from their trade flows. Both Germany and Italy are anchored to the short-term interest-rate policy of the ECB. Compare that to the extreme case of Argentina. It has no anchoring. It has a nationalized energy industry, and the government has essentially undermined it. Alternatively, look at Mexico attempting to revitalize its energy industry by privatizing it. Mexico is closely aligned to its North American neighbor, the United States. Mexico is an example of a country that is turning its trend in a positive way, while Argentina heads into another downward spiral. We might also note that being within a currency zone is a stabilizing influence as long as the trade and financial flows of the zone are part and parcel of those of a larger currency region. A good example is Puerto Rico and its relationship to the US. The stories about Puerto Rico, its heavy debt load, its recent credit downgrade to junk status, and its cash-flow problems, are widely known. We have discussed them repeatedly. However, in Puerto Rico the citizens are all US citizens. The currency is the US dollar; the banking system has its deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); and payment flows are in many respects similar to those in the US. Puerto Rico alone cannot cause a global or even regional contagion. Puerto Rico can experience internal reduction of quality of life and suffer when wealth exits to other places in the US; and all that is indeed happening in Puerto Rico because of repeated policy deficits over many years, economic shrinkage, possible corruption, and civil unrest. The key is to look at contagion sources item by item and country by country in order to assess the degree of risk. Q-10. Does the Fed (Federal Reserve) know all of this? Will it influence their decision to taper?  Yes, of course they know. All major central banks have the skill sets and the data to determine contagion progress. The central banks coordinate their conversations on a regular basis. The Fed reviews the entire world situation in a daily call. I am told that call always includes one member of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), and there is a rotating system for the participants on the call. Staff coordination about international impacts is constantly part of most major central banks’ activity. The Fed’s tapering policy will only change if the global turmoil becomes a massive new crisis. The Fed wants to maintain a gradual and predictable downward path to bring stimulus back to neutral. It has already taken two steps, reducing $85 billion a month to $75 billion and now to $65 billion. It has led the markets to believe that it will continue on that path for all of 2014. The Fed wants to accomplish predictability with regard to its policy. It wants to reduce risk premia, encourage US economic activity and the expansion of US employment, and attempt to raise the inflation rate in the US up to 2% from the present level of 1%. Under those circumstances, one cannot expect the Fed to respond to the developing situations in Thailand, Turkey, India, or South Africa. It will look at the economic risks and examine trade flows, but it will not alter its course of action in anticipation of a problem. The Fed may act differently when and if there is a crisis leading to calls for a response. One can look at 1997 and 1998 as an example. The trouble started in Thailand with its currency, the baht. Its collapse was deemed to be a one-off event at the time, but within a year or so the Russian ruble was in trouble. Long Term Capital Management (LTCM), whose vaunted investment model had not anticipated the Russian "black swan," went critical, threatening widespread banking contagion. Fed Chair Alan Greenspan maneuvered adroitly and arranged an intervention involving the largest US banks. He was worried about the deterioration of credit and capital markets in the US. The process by which the deterioration of the Thai baht led to Greenspan’s intervention in New York took over a year. That is how a contagion works. When it started in 1997, no one could foresee that in 1998 Greenspan would use his power as Chairman of the Fed to intervene and dampen risk in the US financial markets. The bottom line is, do not count on the major central banks to alter their domestically focused policies in anticipation of rising contagion risk. Their political structures do not allow them to do so. Only after the fact, and after the damage is evidenced, is there a possibility that central banks will intervene and alter policy. Q-11. Is there a contagion effect when it comes to US municipal bonds? The answer is maybe. Look at the securities issued by Guam, which has a different political construction from Puerto Rico but is still a tax-free jurisdiction. Guam's debt is trading at a much lower yield than comparably rated PR debt. Both are junk bond status according to S&amp;P; actually Guam is BB- while PR is BB+. My colleague Michael Comes and I reviewed multiple Guam trades over the last few days and observed slight variances in the credit spreads between baseline credits and Guam debt of similar credit quality. Will the market focus on Guam and ask if it is the next Puerto Rico? Will the market distinguish between the political and fiscal situations of Puerto Rico and Guam? We do not know. Only time will reveal the answer to that question, as well as the larger question of whether there is a contagion risk in the municipal bond space of the US dollar currency zone. The key is that contagion intensifies this examination. High-grade tax-free bonds remain cheap. They yield more than Treasurys of the same maturity. The New Jersey turnpike, for instance, is a monopolistic franchise maintained by a government, and its tax-free bond is backed by pledges sufficiently strong that the holder of the bond will be paid. Why would an investor want to go into an instrument that is taxable when a higher return can be obtained on a New Jersey tax-free bond? It makes no sense not to take advantage of such a security. Contagion risk doesn’t reach to the NJ Turnpike. But headline risk is different. My colleague John Mousseau has written and spoken about it at great length. Puerto Rico and Detroit are examples. If PR pays, a very high yield relative to anything else will be received. If it ceases to pay, do not get angry because a court had to redo a pledge that was thought to be rock solid. Detroit’s plan for emerging from bankruptcy is a perfect example of how reliable or unreliable a legal construct may be once it is in front of a judge. The purpose of judges and courts is to referee alternative claims. In Detroit, the antagonists fight over who will get paid out of a limited pot. Bondholders are one of the many claimants. Just because a governing authority issued a bond promising protection does not mean that protection will continue to exist if it is contested before a judge. People who made assumptions about Detroit are going to take haircuts on the debt they held. People who are making assumptions about Puerto Rico may or may not have the same experience. Q-12. What is an investor to do? Some principles are important. Stay domestically focused within areas that are familiar to you. Emphasize credit quality. Maintain a cash reserve, because no one can know how a contagion will play out; its trajectory and scope can only be assessed after the fact. Use the cash reserve to redeploy in an opportunistic way as things unfold. The best time to enter may be when things look terrible. At Cumberland we have made major changes since the end of 2013. The US stock market was a wonderful place to invest last year. Those clients that participated with us are pleased. The market went flat for three weeks starting January 1, 2014, and has been in turmoil ever since. The transition period saw early-warning evidence that a contagion could evolve. We have a defensive strategy in place at Cumberland. We have a cash reserve that is substantial and higher than usual for us and for our clients. We are overweight in the Utility sector – the first time in years we have taken this sector to an overweight. Why the Utility sector? It provides us with the cushion of an ongoing high yield. The Utility sector comprises domestic businesses that are stable in terms of the products and services they provide. The sector is highly insulated from global activities. Defensive sectors have a role in portfolio management, particularly when the outlook for 2014 is for single-digit market growth. If the target for the year is 8%, then 4% of that may be obtainable from the Utility sector. The other 4% can be obtained from price appreciation to fulfill the entire year’s objective. Now let’s move to the credit markets. At the end of 2013, we watched professional consultants and asset allocators move monies to the stock market and out of their higher-grade bonds. We watched investors who worried about rising and spiking interest rates liquidate mutual funds. In the end, they did what they classically do: they made the wrong move at the wrong time and acted to their own detriment. High-grade tax-free bonds remain cheap. And now they are in a rally. The key to success in credit markets is clear. Use skill sets to discern credit quality. Not all cities in California are alike, even though they are all cities within the same state. Not all pension systems have made the same promises, even though they all are funding mechanisms for retirees. One must do detailed work on credit and not make broad-based assumptions when it comes to debt markets of the 90 thousand separate issuers in the US. Let’s sum this up. Contagion risk is rising in the world. It requires portfolio changes, very strong attention to credit quality, and analysis of the details that are embedded in debt instruments. If you are an ETF investor, you must carefully review the composition of the securities within the basket of the ETF. Industry breakdowns must be examined. Find the best places in the markets. Maintain a cash reserve as things unfold, because opportunities are going to present themselves very rapidly. When they do, they must be seized. We hope most of the questions were addressed. This has been a long commentary to prepare. As the Beatles sang, “It's been a hard days’ night.” This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Photo by Susan Watts-Pool/Getty ImagesGeorge W. Bush, the last in a long line of Bonesman in his family, gives a speech as president. In 1832, five Yale students — including future President William Howard Taft's father — founded one of America's most famous secret societies: Skull and Bones. Since then, the group has come to signify all that both mesmerizes and repulses the public about the elite. Each year, only 15 seniors are "tapped," or chosen, for lifetime membership in the club.  A windowless building on 64 High St., the "Tomb," serves as the club's headquarters. The roof is a landing pad for a private helicopter, according to Alexandra Robbins' book, "Secrets of the Tomb." For that perk and others, Bonesmen must swear total allegiance to the club. Click here to see the 16 most powerful members » New members divulge intimate personal details, including their full sexual histories, before they're inducted. They also agree to give part of their estates to the club. But, in return, they receive the promise of lifelong financial stability — so they won't feel tempted to sell the club's secrets, Robbins writes. Until 1971, the organization published annual rosters, kept on file at the university's library. While most recent members of the society remain tight-lipped about those secrets, we at least know the identities of some of most powerful Bonesmen. Among those business titans, poets, politicians, and three U.S. Presidents, we picked the honor roll. Thornton McEnery contributed research to this article. FREE AppDownload
Sheryl Sandberg would be proud of enterprise startup Zendesk. Earlier this week, the company announced three new board members, all of them women. It's seven-member board is now 4-3, men to women with the addition of these names: Zendesk offers a cloud service for tech support and customer service. It has raised $85.5 million total and is expected to go public soon. We do need to point out that the "women in tech" shortage isn't about women working for tech companies generally. Plenty of women work in the tech industry. The shortage is in the engineering disciplines, where men outnumber women at a rate of about 4 to 1,  according to research from the Department for Professional Employees. And the woman appointed to this board come from the professions where women in tech do well: PR, finance, and lawyers. But as Facebook's COO Sheryl Sandberg points out, there's also a shortage of women in top leadership across corporate America. In the Fortune 500, only 16% of board positions are held by women, according to The Catalyst research group. Sandberg is trying to change this with her book and feminist non-profit organization called Lean In. In tech, the numbers are even more dismal. In Silicon Valley, eight out of the top 13 companies that went public in 2013 had no women on their boards, says the political action group 2020 Women On Boards, which wants 20% of board seats to be held by women by 2020.  For instance, Twitter was slammed for not having any women on its board until it after its IPO, appointing Marjorie Scardino in December. Even Facebook didn't have any women on its board for ages, until Sandberg was appointed in 2012. It also added Susan Desmond-Hellmann about a year ago. That's two women out of eight board positions. So when we hear of a company, and an enterprise tech company at that, adding three women in one fell swoop, that deserves a shout out. FREE AppDownload
Pandora's stock has been down as much by 9% ever since its earnings came out. During Pandora's earnings call, the stock has dropped by as much as 10.69%. That might seem somewhat strange given that Pandora reported its biggest quarter of profit since it went public in 2011, and continues to lead the market by number of listeners. Pandora also nearly matched analyst's expectations for the quarter with revenues of $200.8 million versus $201 million, and beat analyst's expectations with an EPS of $0.11 versus $0.08. Ok, so why exactly is the stock tanking? Well, Pandora's guidance for this year doesn't match up with what analysts expect, and that worries stockholders. As they looked to the company's first-quarter guidance, it saw a bigger loss than expected. For Q1, Pandora expects revenues between $170 million and $176 million, below the average $176 million estimate. Pandora expects EPS between -$0.14 to -$0.16, much worse than the average analyst estimate of a -$0.12 EPS. For the full year, Pandora expects non-GAAP revenues in the range of $870 million to $890 million. But analysts, on average, expect revenues of $896.3 million.  On its earnings call, Pandora CEO Brian McAndrews says it's much more relevant for investors to look at its Q4 and full year revenues, as opposed to the guidance for this year.  Pandora's stock is currently down 9.96%, trading at $32.26 per share.  FREE AppDownload
Twitter's stock was punished by the market after its first-ever post-IPO earnings disclosure when investors saw anemic growth in the number of active users on the site. Shares immediately traded down by as much as 17% after hours. Monthly active users were 241 million. The company added only 9 million more users since the last quarter — that is very weak progress. Only 1 million users were added in the U.S. Worse, timeline views (a measure of how engaged users are with Twitter) actually declined sequentially. Wall Street analysts pounded CEO Dick Costolo repeatedly on the call, trying to get him to explain why user growth was slowing down and why engagement was decreasing. Costolo didn't give specifics, but said the company was experimenting with changes and was heartened by early results. The bad news obscured the good: Revenues were $242.7 million, up 116%. Earnings per share were $0.02. Both were solid beats. Analysts had been expecting EPS of -$0.02 on revenues of $217.82 million. The company now gets 75% of its total ad revenue from mobile. Twitter is basically a mobile app company at this point, not a desktop company. Right now, it looks like the future for Twitter will be all about increasing average revenue per user and revenue per 1,000 timeline views (that's a specific measure that Twitter uses to gauge how much money it can make from running ads in people's tweet streams.) It will not, pointedly, be about challenging Facebook for dominance of social media. Twitter is a niche social media platform — a niche of a quarter billion users, granted — but does not look right now as if it is going to break out of its core base of social media power-users. CEO Dick Costolo began the call by admitting Twitter was difficult to use for new users. "We are doubling down in 2014 to accelerate growth of our core user base," he said, and taking steps to make user interface easier for new users. "These initiatives are working well." This is the chart that's killing the stock. User growth shows only 1 million new U.S. members in the last quarter, and international growth slowed too: Twitter Timeline views, a measure of engagement were down sequentially — yikes! — but up year over year: Twitter To put that in perspective, note that the percentage growth of timeline views was already declining before it declined as a whole: Business Insider Intelligence Here are the revenue charts: Twitter Twitter And revenue per 1,000 views: Twitter Here is the full earnings release. Some revenue highlights: Here's the guidance: Revenue v. profit: Business Insider Intelligence Highlights from the call: Twitter chose classical music for listeners on hold prior to the call — a stark departure from the usual upbeat lite rock that most tech companies use for conference calls. CEO Dick Costolo: He begins with a backgrounder on what Twitter is for analysts who haven't been paying attention. "Twitter has created a level playing field essentially democratizing content creation." There were 5.4 million tweets on the death of Nelson Mandela. User growth: "we are confident in our ability to scale revenue." "We are doubling down in 2014 to accelerate growth of our core user base." Taking steps to make user interface easier for new users. "These initiatives are working well." Simpler user onboarding experiences also coming. "A combination of changes over the year." Some changes we make could result in changes to our metrics, such as timeline views. "We are essentially increasing the value of each timeline view." Threaded conversations are a great example ... make it easier to follow conversations ... but that cuts timeline views because no need to scroll. ... helps new users more quickly grasp conversational nature of platform. Costolo says he wants Twitter to reach entire world. Looking to enhance conversational nature of Twitter. We want to do a better job of organizing content along topic lines not just chronological. CFO Mike Gupta: company made a "series of product changes across both iOS and Android designed to increase user interaction per timeline view." Questions from analysts! Changes that were negative factors on timeline growth: Did it also impact user growth? Costolo: Until last year our growth was viral and organic ... "growth happened to us." ... but then company made changes ... hypotheses we have .... "that gives us confidence that roadmap would be successful." "We don't think we need to change anything about the characteristics of our platform we simple need to make Twitter a better Twitter..... we will improve the new user experience particularly on mobile. ...  improve onboarding, native mobile sign up, connections, ... looking to make Twitter more accessible ... more visually engaging medium ... a better tool for conversations both public and private ... "you often want to whisper to the person next to you about the thing you are observing." ... better job of organizing content along topical and relevance lines rather than just chronological lines. You said no. 1 priority is driving MAU [monthly active users] ... did any of these new rollouts create MAU churn? Costolo: We have benefit of infrastructure allows testing simultaneously ... that will deliver "the change in the slope of the growth curve we want to see." ... seeing early results ... confident in plan. What happened with timeline views? Costolo: The volume of interactions for timeline view was something we were hoping to drive in Q4 and that was successful ... Gupta: We will see fluctuations especially as we're experimenting ... think of timeline views as long term. [Opinion: Costolo hasn't given any detail on what these experiments are or why they would would hurt timeline views or slow user growth. Hmm.] Another question about user and timeline growth. Gupta: We've seen strong growth in revenue per 1000 timeline views. ... big increase in ad engagement ... we improved prediction and targeting caps ... modest inc in ad load ... we have meaningful revenue in front of us. Question on ad load re Facebook, etc. Also, Amplify (Twitter's video ad product): Gupta: Amplify adoption early but strong. ... sports leagues signed on ... ad load: we're not sharing a specific no. ... it's very light. (They're taking Q's from analysts' Twitter accounts!) Another brutal question on user U.S. growth: "Even if you triple the current growth, it will take you 12 years to get to 200 million domestic users. Can you get there?" Costolo: "We have a plan to make a broader audience to get Twitter to understand more broadly. We've seen success on preliminary steps on that, we believe the cumulative effect of changes we make over the course of the year ... will result in changing the slope of the growth curve. We have every confidence that will happen. What exactly the slope of that growth curve will look like and when it will occur we cannot guess at. How many people come on the platform, try Twitter and then leave? ... that seems to be the problem. C: We're not going to speak specifically to any specific no.s of new user retention. ... [We want to change Twitter so that users see that] it's not just 'get it' in the first weeks or months on Twitter, it's get it on the first day on twitter ... so that's a focus. Question on whether Twitter will get video ads: C: There is an enormous opportunity there and we will continue to invest there. ... [on mobile ads] ads perform better [on mobile] when they are content first. ... beauty of one to one marketing. Last question: How dependent is 2014 guidance on user engagement? Gupta: "From a user perspective we are not assuming any inflection in the user growth curve." ... More dependent on the timeline view side. Costolo ends the call by promising to call his mom! This was the background before the numbers were released: Analysts were all over the place with their estimates prior the call, according to Barron's: In the absence of a clear view on Twitter – difficult when the 27 analysts who follow it are sharply divided on earnings – it is probably best to treat Twitter like a spring-loaded mystery. Estimates range from earnings of four cents a share to a loss of 13 cents. The consensus estimate is a loss of two cents. The risk to the mystery view is that Twitter, like Facebook, is a cult-theme stock. People own Twitter and Facebook (FB) because of what they will be tomorrow and earnings are incidental to the theme. Remember Google (GOOG), which went public a decade ago at $85? The same valuation debates engulfed Google that now envelop social-media stocks. Google recently traded around $1,165. The main metric to watch for will be monthly active users. In Q3 2013, Twitter reported it had 232 million users. Bullish investors will want to see that number growing robustly. If it does not, that may suggest that Twitter is more of a niche social product than a mass medium like Facebook, the company to which it is frequently compared. Even so, Twitter has made progress with advertisers over the last year. The question is, can the company produce the kind of explosive sales growth seen at Facebook and Google after their IPOs? Analysts on average expect revenue to be $217.82 million. That would be nearly 100% growth in revenue: in the year-prior period it was just $112.3 million. Sequentially, in Q3 2013, it reported $168.6 million. There are, of course, some skeptics. The stock is currently trading around $66 but one analyst believes it is only worth $26 because dilution from executives and inside investors who hold options has yet to hit. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Pedro Ribeiro SimõesWhen it comes to understanding how to handle money, figuring out where to start can be fairly overwhelming. Walk into any Barnes and Noble store and you'll find hundreds of titles offering advice on how to spend it, save it, make more of it, and keep what you have from disappearing. But not all advice is created equal. When you're in your 20s, you want easy-to-read books that will teach you the foundations of investing, the best way to budget for major purchases down the road, and how to finally pay off those student loans. To help narrow down the choices and find the best advice, we reached out to personal finance experts and authors to find out which foundational books everyone should read before turning 30. FREE AppDownload
Soraya Heydari[Editor's note: This article was written by Soraya Heydari, who recently traveled from London to work as a nanny for a wealthy Chinese family in Hangzhou. Following a popular Reddit AMA in which she revealed that her host family had five Porsches, Business Insider asked her to write a longer account, which we have lightly edited and printed below.] It was around the time when I sat, still dazed from the jet lag, in the booth of a steakhouse with my family had taken me to, or perhaps when I took the elevator up to my new Chinese home, lined with posters advertising skin and hair lightening treatments, that I realized this was not going to be the Red China I had heard about. In fact, standing in the street lined with designer shoe stores, burger joints, and pizza spots, the very idea that I was in a Communist state seemed laughable. My decision to move to China had been somewhat incidental. I'd had a terrible last year at university and I didn’t have the money saved to travel freely as I would have liked. When I saw the job listing for a live-in teacher and nanny in China, I knew this could be my chance to get away from my life in London and rural Hampshire, and I'd read a number of books about Chinese history and Mao's China. What I didn't realize was that I would be getting a front row seat at the new lives of the Chinese elite. Honestly, my family were extremely kind and welcoming and, more generally, the Chinese people seemed to be incredibly hospitable. The family had decorated my room with adorably kitsch furnishings and I was surprised to see how luxurious their apartment was. A love of luxury and Westernism permeated their lives, sometimes in an amusing parody of actual Western customs or products. Pizzas and salads are made with a curious mix of mismatched Western ingredients and almost always slathered with mayonnaise. My host mother is an incredibly stylish and good-looking woman, and I would watch in amazement as she had stacks of designer shoes delivered every week, seemingly with higher heels each time to boost her tiny 5-foot frame. She and the other kept women of the apartment complex where we lived seemed to pile on these designer ensembles, and she often lamented that she couldn’t find shoes in my size so that I couldn’t look as polished as her. Awkwardly, she would remark enviously about my larger chest when I changed in front of her or when we were looking for clothes. Despite having hundreds of millions of citizens living in poverty, China's surging population of new rich are all too willing to flash their cash. My family was one of them, and we spent our weekends having lavish 50-dish banquets plus tea and drinks and being driven around in one of the family’s many Porsches. During the week my days began early, taking the son to school, and then helping him with his homework and helping him learn English when he returned. The kid was very cute, decked out in designer gear like the rest of his family, but sometimes incredibly hard not to discipline — for example, he once spat in my face and I found I could do nothing to tell him off. The kid's life was ridiculously lavish and he was more than a little spoiled. For example, the family organized an event including famous singers from Hong Kong and a catwalk show that featured their son performing a song at the end. As the performance ended, several girls asked him to sign autographs and pictures and from that his already understandably slightly spoiled personality had another ego boost. A little while later, his Chinese teacher was helping me look after him one day and translated a remark he had made out of nowhere: He said we should be nicer to him because he is a star now. It was understandable he was a little big-headed — his mother kept trying to get him into TV and four evenings a week he had keyboard, singing, and piano lessons. She was sure he would be a star. Although he was often incredibly cheeky (he would pick his nose and wipe it on me, and also tried to sneak me pork, something which I don’t eat), this wasn’t all that bad compared to some of my friend’s experiences. One girl who lived about an hour from me witnessed the younger child who was about five being allowed to pee on the floor or into a bucket in the living room so he didn’t have to move the 10 steps into the bathroom. Other kids are extremely violent: A girl in the next building was often cracked on the head with wood or kicked in the face and chest by the three-year-old she looked after. Worse still was the experience of my friend who was constantly called fat by the agency and her hosts, screamed at by her family members, and forced to cook using peanut oil, to which she is allergic. My own issues were usually not due to the family being jerks, but more to a massive culture clash and due to problems with the agency that had helped me find a job. It certainly wasn't all bad. Everywhere I saw kids playing happily or sat by the lake or pond with their grandparents, just enjoying being there. My host-mother would give her son a big kiss and I heard excited squeals before he went to bed coming from the bathroom as she washed him and they played games. Often he would come into my room and talk to my friends on skype or just sit on the bed playing next to me. Once when it was time for bed he looked up at me and said "wo xihuan ni," which means "I like you." I’ll remember that much better than the mango, mayo, and tomato salad. FREE AppDownload
Here's an absolute stunner from Twitter's earnings report.  Last quarter, Twitter users had 148 billion timeline views. This was a drop on a quarter over quarter basis.  There is simply no reason for Twitter users to be less engaged with the product. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
YouTubeSodastream was down as much as 13% after hours. This comes after Coca-Cola announced that it is taking a 10% stake in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. Green Mountain filed an application to register a product called "Karbon," which would be used with machines to produce cold water, soda and carbonated beverages. Here's the line in the press release that has investors freaking out.  "With The Coca-Cola Company as a global strategic partner in our multi-brand at-home Keurig Cold beverage system, we believe there is significant opportunity to premiumize and accelerate growth in the cold beverage category by empowering consumers with an innovative, convenient way to freshly prepare their favorite cold beverages at the push of a button,” said Brian P. Kelley CEO of GMCR. The company reported disappointing year-end figures back in January. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNanking bodies 1937Japanese officialsn have little to say about a government appointed Japan Broadcasting Corporation executive who said that the Nanking Massacre of 1937-1938 never happened, the South China Morning Post reports. To get a sense of how Chinese people are responding, just check out the headline on popular blog Shanghaiist — "Some a**hole in Japan just said that Nanjing Massacre 'never happened." Historians debate about what exactly happened during the 'The Rape of Nanking' — the six weeks after the Japanese invasion of what was then the Chinese capital. China says 300,000 civilians and soldiers were killed during the incursion. Other historians bring that number down to 42,000, with 20,000 women raped. So for Naoki Hyakuta, board member of broadcaster NHK, to call the entire story "propaganda" couldn't be more insulting to the Chinese. The only thing worse than that would be for the Japanese government to shurg its shoulders at such comments, which is exactly what it did. From SCMP: Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters yesterday that Hyakuta, a noted right-wing novelist, was entitled to his opinions. "I'm aware of the reports, but I've learnt [that expressing personal views] doesn't violate the Broadcast Law. The government declines to comment on the issue," he said. China and Japan already have a relationship that has started to seriously worry the international community. Their territorial dispute in the South China Sea, for example, has become a hot button issue discussed by leaders from The World Economic Forum in Davos, to The Yale CEO Summit in New York City last December. Since the U.S. is a Japanese ally, any conflict between China and Japan could pull in the United States and perhaps the rest of the world. Insulting statements like Naoki's denial don't help calm tensions. At all. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Coca-Cola will purchase a 10 percent minority stake in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, according to a press release.  The stock is now going nuts — it's up 40% in after hours trading. The companies have entered into a strategic agreement relating to Green Mountain's at-home cold beverage system, Keurig Cold. "With The Coca-Cola Company as a global strategic partner in our multi-brand at-home Keurig Cold beverage system, we believe there is significant opportunity to premiumize and accelerate growth in the cold beverage category by empowering consumers with an innovative, convenient way to freshly prepare their favorite cold beverages at the push of a button," Brian Kelley, President and CEO of GMCR said in the statement. Greenlight Capital, the hedge fund founded by David Einhorn, is short Green Mountain, and has said that the company's “books are cooked”. Meanwhile, shares of Sodastream have tanked on this news.  Here's the full release: The Coca-Cola Company (KO) and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. (GMCR) (GMCR) announced today that the companies have signed a 10-year agreement to collaborate on the development and introduction of The Coca-Cola Company’s global brand portfolio for use in GMCR’s forthcoming Keurig Cold™ at-home beverage system. Under the global strategic agreement, GMCR and The Coca-Cola Company will cooperate to bring the Keurig Cold™ beverage system to consumers around the world. In an effort to align long-term interests, the companies also entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement whereby The Coca-Cola Company will purchase a 10% minority equity position in GMCR. Under the terms of the equity agreement, The Coca-Cola Company will acquire 16,684,139 newly issued shares in GMCR for approximately $1.25 billion, which represents an approximate 10% ownership in GMCR (after giving effect to the issuance). The newly issued shares have been priced at $74.98, which represents the trailing 50-trading-day volume weighted average price (“VWAP”) as of market close today. As part of the strategic collaboration, GMCR will be The Coca-Cola Company’s exclusive partner for the production and sale of The Coca-Cola Company-branded single-serve, pod-based cold beverages. The two companies also will explore other future opportunities to collaborate on the Keurig® platform. “With The Coca-Cola Company as a global strategic partner in our multi-brand at-home Keurig Cold beverage system, we believe there is significant opportunity to premiumize and accelerate growth in the cold beverage category by empowering consumers with an innovative, convenient way to freshly prepare their favorite cold beverages at the push of a button,” said Brian P. Kelley, President and CEO of GMCR. “This global relationship combines The Coca-Cola Company’s unparalleled brand, distribution and marketing strengths with GMCR’s innovative technology and beverage system expertise.” “Our 2020 Vision calls for decisive and timely action to continuously improve and evolve our global system to best serve our customers and consumers around the world,” said Muhtar Kent, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The Coca-Cola Company. “This agreement demonstrates our creative approach to partnerships and ability to identify and stay at the forefront of consumer trends driving the industry. By pairing The Coca-Cola Company’s brand leadership and global footprint with GMCR’s innovative technology, together we will be able to capitalize on the many exciting growth opportunities in the single-serve, pod-based segment of the cold beverage industry. Importantly, this partnership provides our consumers with a convenient way to enjoy the brands they love through in-home preparation.” The investment is expected to close in March 2014, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. GMCR’s Keurig Cold™ single-serve beverage system is currently under development with expected availability in GMCR’s fiscal year 2015. Keurig Cold™ will use precisely formulated single-serve pods to dispense freshly-made cold beverages including carbonated drinks, enhanced waters, juice drinks, sports drinks and teas in consumers’ homes with the one-touch simplicity, quality and variety that North American consumers love about the Keurig® brand hot system platform. The cold system is expected to be a similarly open-architecture platform like the Keurig® hot system. GMCR’s Use of ProceedsGMCR intends to execute a meaningful share repurchase program to reduce dilution from the transaction. This will be executed under the Company’s existing $1.1 billion share repurchase authorization. In addition, GMCR intends to use a portion of the proceeds from the new equity issuance to fund anticipated capital expenditures for its Keurig Cold™ beverage system over the next several years. BofA Merrill Lynch served as financial advisor to GMCR and Baker &amp; McKenzie LLP is acting as legal advisor. FREE AppDownload
Mary Cybulski/Paramount PicturesWall Streeters, like any other group of people, have their own language based on what they do and see every day. That means it's a language based on money. Wall Streeters go "long" or "short" on anything and see "upside" or "downside" everywhere.  The same word for clients is also used for girls.  Not all of Wall Street's tribes — the traders, the investment bankers, the analysts, brokers etc. — use all of these phrases. Some of them are specific to each group. For example, if you ever hear someone say they're "junked up" on something, you can bet you're talking to a trader. That's just how they roll. Be aware. Big shouts to Turney Duff, author of The Buy-Side: A Wall Street Trader's Tale of Spectacular Excess, for helping us with some of the definitions for the following 22 phrases you'll hear on Wall Street. This could be handy if you ever find yourself stuck behind some i-bankers waiting for a drink at Ulysses. It's hard to be in a world where you don't know the language. ____________ Long and short, used to describe investments expected to go up or down, respectively, are used to replace positive or negative feelings about anything. A typical usage: Banker 1: "I'm long seersucker, short flannel. Hipsters are a fad, my friend." To communicate absolute certainty, a banker may say they're "triple long" or "triple short" an outcome or object. A sarcastic way to say "absolutely not." A typical usage: Banker 1: Let’s watch ‘Love Actually’ Banker 2: SOLD This indicates that there's a lot of (upside), or no (downside) benefit in a given situation. Banker: "Upside of going to the Hamptons this weekend is that James is throwing a party at Pink Elephant, downside is that he's inviting my ex." A piker is somebody who pretends to know everything about the Street but doesn't actually know anything and makes very little money working for bottom tier firm. This term comes from the late 19th century slang verb "pike" meaning "withdraw from an agreement because of overcautiousness." If you don't know this term, you haven't been anywhere near anyone on Wall Street. The BSD is the person that does the biggest deals, bring in the most money, and is generally a badass everyone looks up to. The term was referenced in Michael Lewis's "Liar's Poker": "If he could make millions of dollars come out of those phones, he became that most revered of all species: a Big Swinging D*ck." Most famously said by Warren Buffett, this means that you're looking for big deals. Here's how he put it after announcing that he would do a deal to acquire Heinz with private equity firm 3G. "I'm ready for another elephant. Please, if you see any walking by, just call me," he told CNBC. "We're prepared. Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is itchy." Trading big money or a large number of securities. Hedge fund trader: "I have a friend over at Morgan Stanley that trades size all day every day. We should poach him." The money it would take for you to leave your job and never work again. This can be in reference to any security, and it means you're super bullish. Traders could also use it in real life to express enthusiasm for an object. Trader: "I'm junked up on Venezuelan 10-years!" When a sellside analyst upgrades or downgrades a stock for a stupid reason. Trader: "You see that Guggenheim analysts' Twitter clowngrade? You can't monetize that s--- yet!" Traditionally and professionally this means that you're building business, a portfolio of trades or deals. In slang, it means collecting drug deal orders from friends to call them in. Back in the old days, trade orders to be executed by brokers came out on ticker tape — a long roll of paper constantly printing orders and emptying them out to the trading floor. Now all of this is done by computers, of course. However, the phrase has stuck. Now the tape isn't just for stocks or bonds though, it could be for ordering anything from food to drugs. Meaning you're filled on an order and can take no more requests for anything from food to drugs. This means maybe. When placing an order for a client, a trader may say "treat me subject" to indicate that the client may have the order they want after the trader makes a phone call to double check that it's all in the clear. The phrase is also used in everyday conversation to say maybe. Banker 1: "We're going to Nobu 57 after work." Banker 2: "Treat me subject." Girls or clients, either way there are a lot of them in the sea. In trading terms, this means you're free to go to the market. Conversationally, it means "feel free." Banker 1: "Should we order the $300 bottle of Barolo?" Banker 2: "It's not held, so whatever." An upgrade. Say you're partying at PH-D at the Dream Downtown and your Managing Director decides to buy a bunch of bottles of Grey Goose. That is an uptick. You beat someone to the punch. It's a technical term, yes, but if a Banker 1 is eyeing a girl at the bar and Banker 2 goes and talks to her first... The next day at the office, Banker 2 to Banker 1: "Sorry bro, traded ahead." This would usually be salted with expletives, and followed by junior bankers scurrying. The staffer is the usually the very unhappy VP who has to give assignments to analysts and associates, often at night or on the weekends. In most work environments, this could be a friendly question or perhaps a segue into a negotiation about working a bit on Sunday. On Wall Street, from the staffer, it means whatever plans you had are canceled.  This is a request for additional details, something that you'll hear analysts ask on earnings calls. In conversation, it'd more likely be asking for details about a night out.  Looking at YouTube.   FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Kathy WillensYelp just announced its Q4 earnings and the company beat on revenues and hit on earnings per share. The stock is up by about 8% in after-hours trading because of the company's solid financials.  Here's what the company delivered: Here's what analysts had predicted: Yelp's average monthly unique visitors grew by 39% from 86 million Q4 2012 to 120 million Q4 in 2013. Year over year, its number of cumulative reviews grew by 47%, from 36 million to 53 million, and its number of active local business accounts grew 69% from 40,000 to 67,000. Yelp sees a full year revenue of between $353 and $358 million.  Yelp also saw a big increase in unique visitors from mobile from 33 million to 53 million year over year. The company is steadily becoming more mobile-focused. More than half of its traffic comes from mobile and in 2013, 30% of its reviews came from mobile. On its earnings call, an investor asked Yelp about the $4 million that the company has in cash, and Yelp CFO Rob Krolik said that it would be keeping its eyes peeled for other strategic acquisitions that would help it to continue to close the loop with businesses (Yelp acquired online reservations startup SeatMe in July). Ideally, Yelp wants to give users the opportunity to do more through the app–whether that' means making a reservation or buying a product–while giving businesses the ability to see that their Yelp postings are having an impact on their business.  Interestingly, an investor also asked Yelp about an increase in defamation cases filed by business owners over nasty reviews. "They just don't impact our business," CEO Jeremy Stoppelman said.  Here's a chart that shows Yelp's revenue growth: Yelp  Here's a chart that shows the company's mobile growth:  Yelp  FREE AppDownload
gareth1953 the original/FlickrMaybe you know you should be saving more for retirement, but you aren’t quite sure how. Or perhaps you’ve been steadily saving for years but as retirement gets closer, you want to bulk up that nest egg. Olivia Mitchell, executive director of the Pension Research Council at the University of Pennsylvania, shares 10 ideas that can help boost your savings: Retirement isn’t what it used to be, Mitchell says, largely because our standards for what life should be like at age 70 and 80 have changed drastically over the last century. That means the old standard advice, that people should plan to replace about three-quarters of their preretirement income, is no longer sufficient. “A 100 percent replacement rate is a safer place to start,” she says. SEE ALSO: 10 Steps for Retiring Entrepreneurs Baby boomers often have big plans for retirement, from travel to new hobbies, and those plans usually require money, Mitchell says. “They’re not going to be sitting on the front porch on a rocking chair. They’re going to do volunteer work, travel and do part-time work. Health care costs are likely to be a lot higher in the future as well. So it’s not obvious our expenses will be easily cut, and taxes will likely go up to help bail out the deficit we’re confronting.” The concept of retiring at age 62 is not realistic for many Americans. “A significant portion of the baby boom generation — more than half — is not adequately prepared for retirement, especially if they retire young. … If you delay retirement, benefits will be higher, and you’ve deferred eating into that nest egg for more years,” Mitchell says. “My husband just quit work at 63, and I said he couldn’t claim Social Security until he’s 70.” That’s because mid-career workers today are unlikely to see a repeat of what their parents experienced: housing prices that grew quickly and substantially. A stock market that blossomed for much of their working lives. And in some cases, generous pensions. “If we were to extrapolate from our parents’ generation, we might think, ‘We really don’t have to save that much because it’s happening automatically.’ [But] we now realize that putting all our money in one house is a really silly thing to do. It’s not diversified, and values can plummet. We saw what happened to the stock market — on top of Social Security and Medicare facing extraordinary financial challenges,” Mitchell says. That’s why you can’t look to past generations for guidance, and one reason why boomers feel so much angst about their retirement prospects. “They really wish that the past would be replicated in the future, and it probably won’t be,” she adds. SEE ALSO: 10 Saving Strategies That Can Backfire Mitchell encourages her two 20-something daughters to put aside between 15 and 25 percent of their income now. “If we’re all going to live to 100, we’re just going to have to put aside a whole lot more money than in the past,” she says. In response, her daughters ask why they should bother, given the low-to-nonexistent interest rates paid on savings accounts and paltry stock market returns. Mitchell acknowledges there are no easy answers. “That’s a huge obstacle we’re going to face when it comes to convincing the younger generation to save,” she says. “You’ll need to retrain, retool and potentially return to school for a new career. You can’t afford to be 50 and have no marketable skills. You have to always push yourself and encourage yourself to take the next step, whatever it is — software on the computer, skills in a profession. If you don’t, you won’t be employable,” Mitchell says. No one knows how long they’ll live, which means we should all assume we’re living for a long time — and prepare accordingly. “It’s very, very expensive to live to be 100, and you don’t know if you will be one of those or not,” Mitchell says. She adds that women born today have a 1 in 4 chance of living to age 95, especially if they are educated and have access to health care. That means setting aside as large a chunk of your income each year as you can manage — perhaps as much as 40 percent, given the low returns savers and investors currently face. SEE ALSO: Target Date Mutual Fund Rankings Target-date funds that shift assets into more conservative investments as a target retirement date approaches can help investors who feel overwhelmed to the point of paralysis when it comes to picking funds. “Not doing anything is the wrong response. It’s better to save something and put it in a diversified fund with a professional manager who’s managing the glide path for you than to do nothing,” Mitchell says. “At least you have a prayer of building up savings.” “Saving is just no fun at all. In this world, we feel rewarded by shopping, by spending — you get to try it on and wear it to the next party. Whereas saving is the reverse,” Mitchell says. “You’re telling yourself you cannot consume something today, you have to set it aside for a rainy day, or for when you’re 90 years old. So it’s hard for young people to visualize.” That’s why she’s intrigued by new research that suggests showing people an aged picture of themselves, depicting how they’ll look at an older age, helps them decide to save more now. “The idea is to put you in touch with your future self, so you might begin to care about that future self and take good care of that person,” she says. “Most of us will never be mathematicians, but we have found that a little bit of knowledge goes a long way,” Mitchell says. Her research has found that even a simple financial literacy class in high school, for example, can increase savings rates later in life. “It’s worthwhile to invest not just in saving and pension accounts, but in your human capital — you need training to be successful in that last third of life,” Mitchell says. “And I also encourage people to invest in friendships, communities, families, because it is those networks that will help us age more successfully.” This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriStocks erased early losses and ended up barely budging.  Here's the scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,751.64, -3.56, -0.20%Dow: 15,440.17, -5.07, -0.03%NASDAQ: 4,011.55, -19.97, -0.50% And now the top stories: Don't Miss: Staying In Sochi Is Turning Into A Nightmare » FREE AppDownload
Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesCVS revealed Tuesday that it will stop selling tobacco products in its stores nationwide starting in October. The decision will barely impact CVS's revenue — shaving an estimated 1.2% off the pharmacy chain's annual earnings — and it will have no effect on the tobacco industry as a whole, according to a research note by Morgan Stanley analysts.  The analysts gave these six reasons for why the decision won't impact the industry: 1. Other retailers, including Target, have stopped selling tobacco products without impacting industry sales. 2. The majority of cigarettes are sold through convenience stores (about 65%) and tobacco outlets (about 10%), "and these channels are gaining market share (due to relative ease/speed/variety of purchase)," the analysts wrote. Pharmacies, by comparison, represent an estimated 4% of industry volume. 3. Roughly 250,000 outlets sell cigarettes in the U.S., so CVS’s 7,600 outlets account for only about 3% of cigarette outlets. The analysts estimate that the pharmacy chain accounts for an even smaller percentage (about 2%) of industry volume. 4. Smokers will not quit buying cigarettes. They will simply go elsewhere to purchase them. 5. Other major retailers, including the Dollar Stores, have been entering the tobacco category. 6. Globally, restrictions on tobacco sales have had no impact on the prevalence or consumption of cigarettes. "From a global context we see no difference in smoking prevalence and/or total consumption in markets with highly restricted retail tobacco sales (e.g., France or Spain, where a license is necessary) versus those without any sales restrictions," the analysts wrote. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP As journalists arrive in Sochi, the Russian city hosting the 2014 Winter Olympic Games, they are noticing some strange things: there were the two toilets in a single stall, taps are spewing some kind of poisonous semi-opaque liquid, and professional athletes are dropping out of events due to the fact that they are afraid of injury and/or death on some of the freshly built facilities. Obviously, this isn't good. Russian President Vladimir Putin has staked a lot on Sochi, hoping to show that Russia is a modern, organized, safe country. These bumps, even if pretty trivial in the grand scheme, are embarrassing. And of course, given the fact that Russia's Olympics are said to be the most expensive ever, it doesn't seem like a sensible expense. So far, it seems like Russia spent $51 billion to look ridiculous. Still, we should remember that the games at Sochi haven't actually started yet — and, more importantly, in the build-up to the games, the Olympics always appear ridiculous. Think back to the London Summer Olympics. Back in July 2012, just a few weeks before the games started, Business Insider published a list that outlined the "43 Signs That The London Olympics Will Be A Complete Disaster." Here are some of the points we had at the time: Okay, perhaps none of these were quite as terrible as the mass poisoning of stray Sochi dogs, but they are still enough to show you why people were very skeptical of the London 2012 games. In fact, virtually every Olympics receives a ton of negative press before it starts — it happened to Beijing 2008 too, and Greece in 2004. In hindsight, were early concerns about past games over the top? Perhaps, but, unfortunately, that doesn't mean those games were successes. When you think about the Olympic games and the costs/benefits for the host nations, you begin to realize what an awful deal the games are. The group that organizes the games is notorious for allegations of corruption, the proposed budgets for Olympic bids are "more like a fictitious minimum that is consistently overspent," and tourism profits rarely, if ever, make up for the extreme expenses. They even have a phrase to describe it: "The Olympic Curse." Why do countries want to host the games in the first place? The idea is that they can use the games to invest massively in infrastructure: In Sochi, Russia should gain a world-class winter sports resort, while in London, the city's deprived east gained a stadium and new transport links. Perhaps these investments will be worth it — it's far too early to tell — but they probably won't be: The only Olympics that anyone can actually agree had a net positive on a city was Barcelona, way back in 1992 (they created a man-made beach!) So, remember this when you see the stories coming out of Russia over the next few days. It may seem like the Sochi Olympics are an example of Russia's corruption, disorganization, and waste, and perhaps that is true, but there's a broader picture too: The Olympics Games are always ridiculous — and they're usually financially disastrous, too. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithChinese economic growth slowed to the lowest level since 1999 last year, expanding 7.7%. Policymakers have recognized the need to rebalance economic growth and are now slowly transitioning away from a credit and export driven economy to one driven by consumer growth. Some argue that the recent crackdown on shadow banking and the money market rate spikes are part of this effort. But what sort of ripple effects impact is all of this having on the global economy? First, let's take a look at economies that rely on China to consume their exports. Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart that shows the percent of country's total exports consumed by China. Michael McDonough/Bloomberg A marked slowdown in China would obviously have a significant impact on these economies. "Australia's export prices have been declining for some time because they're more dependent on the Chinese business and industrial cycle," SocGen's Alvin Tan told our Steven Perlberg.  Dylan Grice perfectly summed up Australia's predicament, by describing the country as "a credit bubble built on a commodity market built on an even bigger Chinese credit bubble, Australia looks like leveraged leverage, a CDO squared." But it isn't just at a national level. We're also beginning to see the impact of the slowdown, the reforms, the credit crunch, efforts to curb pollution, and other issues in the earnings of various companies with exposure to China. The overall commentary is mixed but we highlighted key insights from those worried about China.  Mastercard CEO, Ajaypal Banga said: "In Asia Pacific, consumer and business sentiment levels declined in the fourth quarter across major markets, including Australia. In addition, worries about slowing growth in China go beyond being just a domestic issue and have broader implications, as you all know, for other markets that depend on Chinese demand." "...Asia is dominated by what happens between China, Japan, Australia and India. And if you think about China -- yes, China's growth has slowed, but China's growth has slowed first in domestic expenditure, which impacts us very little because we don't get to play in the domestic processing yet, right? Japan is actually beginning to show signs of life. Australia depends a great deal on what happens with China because Australia's economy relies a great deal on the exports into China." LVMH Moet Hennessy CEO, Bernard Arnault: "The global economic climate and this will come as a surprise to no one, a number of high growth countries have slowed a little on the one hand, furthermore China has taken a number of measures that were implemented during the course of the year such that the consumption of luxury or rather high end products has been slowed slightly in some areas that was not the case, bit more in wines and spirits, you will see that a number of wines and spirits companies have presented their results and we’ve seen that iconic sales have been hit with Mr. Nava, we’re fortunate in being very responsive. So, bottles that weren’t sold in China were sold elsewhere, but it did nevertheless impact the momentum somewhat. So generally speaking, slightly less growth and dynamism in a few emerging markets." Boeing CEO, Jim McNerney: So I think from time-to-time we do have these currency flurries. China as they go through their leadership transition, there is some uncertainty and a point or two of slowdown in the overall economy as they try to get their feet underneath them with the new leadership. I don’t think the China story has changed firstly. I see the currency as a country by country. And I think the big picture and so I don’t see an epidemic at this stage. Royal Caribbean International CEO, Adam Goldstein: "...We have a lot of work to do, and as you mentioned, the Japan-China dispute is still a wildcard that we're having to work our way around." Caterpillar CEO, Douglas Oberhelman: "Let me add a little bit on China. We are watching it very, very closely from a couple of aspects. Obviously liquidity in the banking system, and we keep a close eye on that, as well as their reform efforts. And we have been laser focused on being a leader in China, and that’s, again, around building field population. "So we have seen our market share go up, our field population go up, and our business go up as a result. That is not to say China is not without lots of caution, which we are very much aware of, and we watch that every day. But at the same time, we have to have our dealers, with a field population they can work on, when times are bad or good. So that’s really our focus, is that business model inside China." Texas Rare Earth director, Jack Lifton: I don't know that, quite frankly, where mining is in any way an environmental problem or would be an environmental problem in the United States as long as we obey our own rules. Chinese don't do this. They've made a mess of it. They are slowing down. They don't care how important the rare earths are to their overall economy. The government in China cares about how important survival is to it, the government, so they are cracking down on environmental pollution. This means a severe contraction, and starting now, in Chinese rare earth production. Since the Chinese are the only producers on earth of heavy rare earths, it means a real crunch for heavy rare earths. And this is not going to be a momentary thing.  Many expect economic growth to slow further to 7.5% in 2014. Societe Generale's Wei Yao expects 6.9% growth this year. "On one hand, we are strong believers that the new leadership will go ahead with painful short-term adjustments for the long-term good," she write.  "On the other hand, we are well aware that it would never be Beijing<U+0092>s intention to push the economy into a hard landing." We'll be watching closely to see how this plays out. FREE AppDownload
2013 saw a robust rally in the stock market with few memorable declines. In fact, the last time we saw a correction of 10% or more was in the summer of 2011. However, 2014 has been all about volatility. After touching a high of 1,850 on January 15, the S&amp;P 500 has been tumbling. Today, it touched 1,737. That's a 6.1% decline. So, is this the beginning of something bigger and much worse? Are we doomed for a correction (i.e. a 10% sell-off)? Back in December, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco argued that "a correction is not past due." Citing history, he argued that it's possible to go four years without a correction. From his note: S&amp;P 500 corrections of 10% or more, including those that turned into bear markets, occur nearly every 1.5 years (357 trading days) on average since 1957. The last correction began over two years ago (550 trading days) in the summer of 2011, but that correction was severe and nearly a bear market with a 19% decline. But more importantly, there is enormous variation around the mean of trading days between corrections. The STD is higher than the mean, thus a correction is not more than 80% likely, based on precedent since 1957, until 750 days from the last correction. Moreover, corrections are less frequent the past 25 years vs. the past 50+ years. From 1990 to 1997 the S&amp;P avoided a 10%+ decline (1994 was close), also from April 2003 to September 2007. Thus 4 years without a correction is possible, especially if earnings climb and inflation and interest rates stay low vs. history, but a higher PE raises the risk. To be clear, Bianco is not screaming buy. In fact, his 1,850 price target on the S&amp;P 500 is the most cautious on Wall Street. He's been advising clients to "wait for dips to buy." "Don’t fear being left behind," he said. Ultimately, 10% is a pretty arbitrary number. But for what it's worth here's a chart of history's 10%+ corrections. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
After a rough start this morning, stocks have erased nearly all of their losses this afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 is trading down 0.2%, near 1752. Earlier, it traded as low as 1737. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is unchanged on the day after being down earlier as well. Notably, Treasuries are down today as well, marking a departure from the inverse trading relationship between the two asset classes in recent days as global markets have sold off. The release of the results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of services-sector firms at 10 AM revealed an acceleration in hiring, which should augur well for the big event — the release of the official jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on Friday morning. The charts below show price action in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and the dollar-Turkish lira exchange rate. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFor most people, a home is the largest purchase they’ll ever make, so choosing the wrong property can have disastrous implications for their wallets and well-being. Still, many homeowners feel a strong sense of pride in putting their mark on the property, building equity and having a place to truly call their own. Whether you’re a seasoned or first-time buyer, here’s a look at seven home-buying mistakes to avoid. 1. Using the wrong real estate agent. Just because your sister’s college roommate’s friend just got a real estate license doesn’t mean she’s the right agent for you. San Francisco real estate agent Herman Chan suggests vetting agents and looking for someone who does real estate full time and knows the local inventory. “You can lose an offer if you’re not responsive in a couple of hours,” he says. Request the agent’s sales data, and find out how he or she communicates. Chan recommends asking questions like these to gauge the agent’s tech-savviness: “Is it OK if I text you? Is it OK to DocuSign things? If I can’t make an open house on Sunday, can you shoot me a video?” If you prefer to check texts and emails on your phone, you may not want an agent who insists on faxing contracts. SEE ALSO: The Best Online Tools for Your Housing Search 2. Shopping before you get preapproved. Before you get serious about buying real estate, find out how much mortgage you qualify for and get a preapproval letter from your lender. “If you fall in love [with a property], write that offer and then find out you can’t afford it, it’s an emotional roller coaster you can’t afford,” Chan says. Many agents won’t even take buyers to showings until they have a preapproval letter for that very reason. 3. Maxing out your spending power. Qualifying for a half-million dollar mortgage does not mean you should buy a McMansion. Jon Sterling, regional sales manager for Chase International Real Estate in Lake Tahoe, Calif., says he’s seen people, especially first-time buyers, make this mistake. “It’s wiser to be a little more conservative,” he adds. Homeowners have additional expenses such as property taxes, condo fees and maintenance that renters do not, so some first-time buyers fail to budget for these extra costs and assume they can afford a monthly mortgage equivalent to the rent they paid. “If you buy into a [homeowners association], you don’t know what their future plans are,” Sterling says. If, for instance, a storm rips the roof off the clubhouse or the association decides to upgrade the common areas, you may get hit with a special assessment to cover those costs. For these unexpected situations, it’s a good idea to keep a cash reserve on hand. Some dual-income couples choose to qualify based on just one income to give themselves a financial buffer. 4. Taking advice from outsiders. Parents, relatives or friends who haven’t bought property in the local market may not understand local pricing and market conditions. Parents or in-laws who own houses in the suburbs may also have unrealistic expectations about what the equivalent amount of money buys in the city. “Be careful about people that are giving you advice from across the country,” Sterling says. When parents are gifting money for a down payment, their input may be necessary, so Sterling tries to show properties only when “all the decision-makers are in the car.” SEE ALSO: What to Know Before Gifting a Down Payment 5. Skipping the inspection. Home inspections can help alert potential buyers to problems such as structural issues, faulty wiring and other problems a layperson probably wouldn’t spot. But if you’re in a market that moves quickly, you might be tempted to skip an inspection to make the offer more appealing, Sterling says. Insisting on an inspection might slow the process, but as he points out, “any seller that is going to knock you out because of that is probably hiding something anyway. You’re spending hundreds of thousands of dollars, [so you want] to make sure you’re getting what you think you’re getting.” 6. Overdoing contingencies. While home inspections are recommended, Michael Alderfer, a Washington, D.C., agent with the national real estate brokerage Redfin, says some homebuyers include so many inspection-related contingencies that it can scare off the seller and his or her agent. “Some buyers are nervous, so they’re looking for extra ways to change their mind and walk away,” he says. “You can write a competitive offer without all these extra things and leave yourself a couple of ways to get out.” He suggests talking to your agent before submitting the offer, so you’ll feel confident your interests are protected. SEE ALSO: 6 Tips for Boomers Leaving Big Homes Behind 7. Getting too attached to one property. In competitive markets, you may have to put in offers on several properties before one is accepted. Alderfer says some buyers get so infatuated with one property that a rejected offer hits them hard. “It’s OK to feel anxious, but you need to be able to fall in and out of love during a home search,” he says. “If you find a home that you think is perfect for you and you don’t get it, you can’t stay down too long. You have to recognize that wasn’t the house for you.” This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Blue PointAnheuser-Busch Inbev will acquire Blue Point Brewing Company, the Long Island-based beer-maker known for its flagship Toasted Lager, the companies announced today. Brewbound reports that the deal was for $24 million. It comes weeks after AB acquired Korean beer giant Oriental Brewery for $5.8 billion five years after selling it to KKR. Blue Point produced 60,000 barrels last year, half of which was the Toasted Lager. The brewery also makes Hoptical Illusion and Blueberry Ale, among other seasonal expressions. "Together, our talented brewing team and Anheuser-Busch will have the resources to create new and exciting beers and share our portfolio with even more beer lovers," co-founder Mark Burford said in a statement. AB has been pretty aggressive in M&amp;A lately. In a controversial deal that required an antitrust settlement with the Justice Department, AB merged with Mexico's Gropo Modelo last year. The Bluepoint deal is expected to close early in the second quarter of this year. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TV Real-estate billionaire Sam Zell, the co-founder of Equity Group Investments, defended Tom Perkins' letter and comments this morning on Bloomberg TV in an interview with Betty Liu.   Last month, legendary venture capitalist Tom Perkins wrote a controversial letter comparing today's treatment of the ultra-rich (a.k.a. the 1 percent) to Nazi Germany targeting the Jews during World War II. Later, Perkins defended his letter and bragged about his $380,000 watch on Bloomberg TV afterwards.  When Liu asked Zell this morning about Perkins' letter, he responded, "I guess my feeling is that he’s right. The 1 percent are being pummeled because it’s politically convenient to do so." Here's part of the transcript from the interview:  LIU: Let me ask you about Tom Perkins because you are part of the 1 percent. You are clearly part of the 1 percent. Tom Perkins came out with this – with this letter where he defended the 1 percent and he said, look, we are being persecuted the same as the – as the Nazis were persecuting the Jews. And he was just lambasted and he came on our network and defended it. How did you feel when you read that letter and when you heard his comments? ZELL: I guess my feeling is that he’s right. The 1 percent are being pummeled because it’s politically convenient to do so. The problem is that the world and this country should not talk about envy of the 1 percent. It should talk about emulating the 1 percent. The 1 percent work harder. The 1 percent are much bigger factors in all forms of our society. LIU: But Sam, tell that – tell that to the person who’s on minimum wage who’s living below the poverty line that they should try to emulate the 1 percent. How are they going to get there? ZELL: The stories are rampant of people who started with a candy store and took it from there. There are lots of people who have the ambition and have the motivation and have succeed. Lots of people have come from nowhere and become part of the 1 percent. Watch the full interview below:   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Our economy has progressed from making things to supplying financial services.  We no longer manufacture devices, we manufacture analyses. Investment banks, private equity firms, corporate law firms, and management consultancies are all vitally important to today’s U.S. economy. They serve crucial roles in helping companies raise capital, get acquired, document complex transactions, and integrate new technologies, among plenty of other necessary tasks. These types of professional service firms operate in incredibly competitive contexts. Their sustained success hinges on the type of people they have working for them. Everything is honed to a razor’s edge. They thus focus assiduously on getting the very smartest people that they can inside their walls. They invest millions in this process and offer prestige, high-starting salaries, training, expense accounts, and the promise of community and open doors. As one of the cofounders of a major management consultancy explained it to me:   It’s very admirable and well executed — exactly what you would hope the consulting firm would do if you were a shareholder. But this firm is jockeying for position with dozens of other firms that implement the same sort of process. And before long you have a sort of tragedy of the commons, where the firms are all grazing on the same field to depletion. To give a sense of the resources being dedicated to this effort, Teach for America’s recruitment and selection budget alone in 2011 was $37.6 million. A friend who works in financial services recruiting estimated that her firm spends $50,000 per recruit. If you project the analogous expenditures from every major bank and consulting firm to develop talent pipelines, you have tens if not hundreds of millions being spent each year at campuses across the country. One hedge fund spends so much on recruitment that it offered to pay Dartmouth students a hundred dollars each to tell the company why they chose not to participate in its recruitment process. In 2012, of the four Dartmouth valedictorians, two went to Goldman Sachs, one to Morgan Stanley, and one to McKinsey. There’s an arms race for the best talent at dozens of universities each year. To be clear, no one’s at fault. Private firms ought to be doing their utmost to maximize their own well-being. In this case, that means getting on campus, spending time and money, and fighting it out for the top educational prospects in the country.  The recruitment culture gives rise to a general pursuit of pathways of prestige as undergrads see those around them heading down well-defined tracks and look to do the same. Most banks and consulting firms make offers between August and December of a student’s senior year; imagine being a competitive and slightly insecure senior watching this process unfold around you. What is the result of this war for talent? Statistics are measured and reported differently, but here’s the general picture for top university grads, measured over the last several years of available data. Postgraduate Pursuits of National University Graduates Andrew Yang Take a minute to survey these numbers. While there’s some variation (i.e., more Yale grads go to law school, more people from Johns Hopkins go to med school, and so on), you get a sense that they’re all pretty similar in terms of breakdown. As you can see, a literal majority of national university graduates will pursue one of these six paths after graduation, none of which leads directly to new business formation or growth. What begins as a universe of options quickly shrinks to just a few. I’ve spoken to hundreds of college seniors who are in this predicament on the front lines. Some examples of the things I heard: “If I go to career services, they’ll tell me straight out that they only have finance and consulting jobs for me to look at. That or Teach for America.” "It seems like everywhere you look people are in suits scurrying to another banking interview. It has an effect on you after a while.” “My friend tried to look for a job at a startup, but it was really difficult. Eventually he gave up and joined a consulting firm.” Some observers mistakenly believe that the recent downturn in financial services and the existence of the movie "The Social Network" mean that the world has changed. But the reality on the ground is determined by which organizations have the resources, brand equity, know-how, time horizon, and consistent and predictable need for new recruits to go on campus and roll out the welcome wagon. These factors have remained more or less constant even after the financial crisis. Let’s say that you’re a small growth company that wants to hire a few top prospects to help fuel your growth. It’s not going to be easy. First, you’d have to start trying to hire months in advance, even though your needs may change by the time the hire shows up. You’d have to dedicate scarce staff time and resources to sign up for career fairs, post job descriptions, and show up on campuses that might be several states away. You’d have to compete side by side against name-brand companies with giant displays and well-dressed alumni. You’d have to make a competitive offer against firms that are offering outsize wages and likely recruiting multiple people at once. You’d struggle to get the attention of career services officers because you’re probably only looking to hire one or two college seniors. You’d have to evaluate candidates for fit. And after all that, there’s little guarantee that you’d actually get your man or woman. It’s a daunting landscape that doesn’t serve the little firm very well, so most don’t bother trying to go down this road. Yet it’s these small firms that will potentially expand, innovate, and hire more and more people if they mature to a certain stage of development. From "SMART PEOPLE SHOULD BUILD THINGS" by Andrew Yang© 2014 Andrew Yang. Reprinted courtesy of Harper Business, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. This article originally appeared at Venture for America.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APHouse Republicans' two main options for dealing on raising the debt ceiling are dead, a GOP aide confirmed Wednesday.  Republicans had planned to tie a debt-limit increase — something that Treasury Secretary Jack Lew has said needs to happen by late February — to either the approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline or a repeal of a provision of the Affordable Care Act known as "risk corridors." But in a meeting on Wednesday, House Republican leaders acknowledged that neither proposal would have the required 218 votes to pass.  Right now, there are no clear options moving forward. But a House Republican leadership aide said it was too early to assume that the House would pass a so-called "clean" debt-limit increase without strings attached. "I expect so, yes. That’s what we’re working on right now," the aide told Business Insider. Some conservatives that have made the debt-limit one of the main vehicles of the opposition have even urged House Speaker John Boehner and other Republican leaders to pass a clean increase and avoid "theater." "We should bring up a clean debt ceiling, let the Democrats pass it, and just move on," Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) told The Washington Post's Robert Costa on Tuesday. "Our constituents are fed up with the political theater. If we’re not going to fight for something specific, we might as well let the Democrats own it." Democrats are privately gleeful that Republicans have been so openly divided on their strategy. Senate Democrats are waiting to let House Republicans move first on a debt-limit increase. "We are hoping this is all a kabuki dance to show their members that a clean bill is the only option," a Senate Democratic leadership aide told Business Insider. Don't be surprised, the aide said, if some Senate Republicans come out for a "clean" increase to avoid the so-called theater. Any option on which House Republicans decide would need near-unanimous support from their caucus. It's likely that very few, if any, House Democrats will vote for anything other than a "clean" debt-ceiling increase. FREE AppDownload
wikimedia commonsArgentina's Merval Index is down 4.3% today as the country's government is still working to set any kind of agenda for fixing its economic problems. The Burcap, a weighted index which includes stocks in the Merval, is also down 4.4%. Last month the country devalued the Argentine peso in an effort to keep up dwindling foreign currency reserves and prices soared. The government also announced minor changes to its tight restrictions of dollar buying — changes that some say don't go far enough. Yesterday, President Fernandez said she was considering punishing dollar buyers by taking away government electric and gas subsidies, and railed against the "divisive" U.S. government. The country's inflation rate also accelerated to 4.26% in December, the highest rate in 12 months. What the government needs is a plan, Argentine traders have told Business Insider. Instead, the Kirchner administration has blamed speculation and big corporations for price increases. “We need to fight speculation of those industry leaders, suppliers, and businesses,” said Cabinet head Jorge Capitanich said, reiterating they are committing an “abuse.” “It is good Argentines know the truth about price formation” and “we ask people to share with us the effort to avoid abuse,” he added. This is obviously not very comforting to investors. FREE AppDownload
Chart courtesy of Kase Capital  A month ago, hedge fund manager Whitney Tilson sent out a note saying that he thought the rise of 3-D Systems' stock "would end very badly."  Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, is short the 3-D printer-maker's stock. Today, 3-D Systems' stock is cratering after the company said it was increasing spending, which will impact earnings. Tilson has a new note out today, which includes the above chart, saying that it's the "beginning of the end for the 3D printing bubble." He also referred to the 3-D printing sector as a "STUUUUUUUUUPID bubble."  Even with today's decline, Tilson said he's not going to cover shares.  He said a month ago that he had a price target of $10 a share. He said that he added more to his short position.  Tilson also included a chart of 3-D Systems topping out after it hired will.i.am. as its Chief Creative Officer at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Vegas.  Here's Tilson's full note:  This could well be the beginning of the end for the 3D printing bubble (I’m short five stocks across the sector, the largest of which is DDD). I’m not the slightest bit inclined to cover anything today and, in fact, just shorted a bit more DDD as it bounced above $62 on the entirely predictable rush by analysts to reiterate their buy ratings – “move along, nothing to see here”. What, you think they’re going to admit they’re wrong? And risk losing the banking business of a highly acquisitive company? HA! 3D printing is real, but the stock valuations aren’t. For example, coming into today, DDD was trading at 17xrevenues. So now it’s trading at 14x. So what? Even if DDD is accounting properly for its nearly three dozen acquisitions in the past three years – which I highly doubt – it’s maybe worth 3x. The story is the same for pretty much every company in the sector, which is in a completely obvious and STUUUUUUUUUPID bubble. PS—Was it really only last month that we were subjected to this foolishness at CES? 3D Systems Appoints will.i.am as Its Chief Creative Officer. Here’s a video of will.i.am with DDD CEO Ari Reichental: www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=DOVbJ_NOeXM#t=299 – high comedy! And you gotta love this stock chart of DDD over the past year:      FREE AppDownload
Featureflash / Shutterstock.comWendi Deng “Oh, shit, oh, shit . . . Whatever why I’m so so missing Tony. Because he is so so charming and his clothes are so good. He has such good body and he has really really good legs Butt . . . And he is slim tall and good skin. Pierce blue eyes which I love. Love his eyes. Also I love his power on the stage . . . and what else and what else and what else . . . ” It sounds like something a teenage girl might write, but apparently these were the words of a successful businesswoman in her 40s, married to the world's most notorious media mogul: one Rupert Murdoch. According to a new feature in Vanity Fair, Murdoch's then-wife, Wendi Deng, wrote the note, apparently to herself, to describe her feelings about an unlikely object of affection. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. Rumors about Deng and Blair first emerged last year, shortly after the announcement that Murdoch, the Australian billionaire, would be divorcing his Chinese-born wife. A coyly titled article by Murdoch biographer Michael Wolff hinted at a Deng-Blair liaison, and the speculation was so rife that Blair's team was forced to release an outright denial of an affair. It was a PR war, and the legal implications were so strict than went the Daily Mail wrote about the pair, they were forced to add the line: "There is no suggestion by this newspaper of any impropriety by Mr. Blair or Ms. Deng." The Vanity Fair report, written by Mark Seal, implies nothing came to fruition between Deng and Blair — at least initially. Seal recounts a time the former British PM was invited to the Murdoch family home later during his marriage to Deng, sometime around 2012: They were all mutual friends; there was no reason Mr. Murdoch wouldn’t have welcomed Mr. Blair into his home. But one day Mr. Blair arrived and Mrs. Murdoch was sort of being very flirtatious. She was charming him. He asked the staff, ‘When is Mr. Murdoch going to arrive?’ And when he was told, ‘Tomorrow night,’ Mr. Blair rolled his eyes and gave a panicked look. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom DeMark.Noted market-timer Tom DeMark did not sound optimistic about the prospects for stocks in an interview with CNBC this morning. DeMark compared today's market to that preceding the Black Friday crash in 1929. "When the market made its high on September 3, [1929], there were 23 subsequent trading days where the Dow Jones Industrial Average had a short-term bottom," he said. "23 days aligns with the low end on Monday. And subsequent to that, we had a four-day rally, and then the market unraveled — went down 48%. We are currently at that inflection point. Like I said, so far, everything is aligned. We think the next two to three days are extremely critical." DeMark explained why: We get into the minutia as well as the long-term, and what it looks like to us — if we were to, yeah, just for as an example — if today were to be an up close, versus the prior day's close, and then tomorrow, we close down, and we follow with a lower opening the next day, and trade a little weaker, we're probably going to unravel quickly. Now, yesterday, we did have an up close on most of the major U.S. indices. So, if we get a down close today, and tomorrow we open lower and trade lower, we're probably going to unravel, and the news, regardless of what it is on Friday, will be negative — perceived negative. What we're seeing right now, if the market does unravel, I think we'll have a correction of 40% off the high, which would put us at about 1100 [on the S&amp;P 500 index]. We should note that DeMark has been looking for a top in the stock market for a while. FREE AppDownload
Macall B. Polay / HBOEarlier today, Time Warner Cable released its Q4 earnings and year-end results highlighting HBO's record year. Last year, the cable network's revenue rose 4% reaching $4.9 billion, according to Reuters. Also, adjusted operating income grew 8% hitting $1.7 billion. While this shows the cable network is financially healthy thanks to its slate of original shows and subscribers, both of these statistics should make Netflix nervous. In 2013, Quartz writes that Netflix made $4.375 billion in revenue. Netflix CEO Reed Hastings has always made it clear that premium channels like HBO are his company's primary target. A few weeks ago, Hastings mocked HBO over shared passwords and famously passed HBO's subscriber base at the end of last year. Hastings can brag all he wants about his subscribers, but HBO making more money means this war just got more intense.  FREE AppDownload
My father once said to me “One of the interesting things about getting older is realizing that the clichés, prejudices, and popular wisdoms that we rejected as young, educated, independent thinkers turn out, in the end, to be true.” I love this idea, in part, for its double-contrarianism. The Way to Wealth by Benjamin Franklin reminds me of my father’s world-view, formed as a Depression-era child, delivered in Franklin’s 18thCentury style. Also, these clichés are true. We know “Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise,” and a few others, but I had not heard most of them. The Way to Wealth originally formed the preface to Franklin’s Poor Richard’s Almanack.  The book’s conceit is that Franklin’s alter-ego Richard overhears an old man (Father Abraham) quoting his favorite parts from the Almanack to a group gathered together before an auction.  As such, the farmer gives a kind of fast-and-furious greatest hits of aphorisms, tied together by the themes of Industry, Care, Frugality, and Knowledge. Some of my favorites from this book, which I hadn’t already heard: On complaints about government taxes: Friends, the taxes are, indeed, very heavy; and, if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might more easily discharge them; but we have many others, and much more grievous to some of us.  We are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly; and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or deliver us, by allowing an abatement. On the urge to buy things that seem cheap, on sale, or a bargain: Here you are all got together at this sale of fineries and knickknacks.  You call them goods; but, if you do not take care, they will prove evils to some of you.  You expect they will be sold cheap, and, perhaps, they may [be bought] for less than they cost; but, if you have no occasion for them, they must be dear to you…He means, that perhaps the cheapest is apparent only, and not real; or the bargain, by straightening thee in thy business, may do thee more harm than good.  For in another place he says ‘Many have been ruined by buying good penny worths.’ On the relativistic nature of time, if you owe money at the end of the month: When you have got your bargain, you may, perhaps, think a little of payment; but, as Poor Richard says, ‘Creditors have better memories than debtors; creditors are superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times.’  The day comes round before you are aware, and the demand is made before you are able to satisfy it; or, if you bear your debt in mind, the term which at first seemed so long, will, as it lessens, appear extremely short: Time will seem to have added wings to his heels as well as his shoulders. ‘Those have a short lent, who owe money to be paid at Easter.’ The little book’s scant thirty pages could, with smaller type and larger sheets, condense to about five pages.  So you’re looking at about 10 minutes of dense wisdom from a founding father of the United States. This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonSteven Cho, head of spot and forward foreign exchange trading at Goldman Sachs will leave the bank, the Wall Street Journal Chiara Albanese reports. The announcement came hours after Reuters reported that the global head of foreign exchange at Citi, Anil Prasad, will leave the bank. A source told Reuters that Prasad's decision was "entirely unrelated to the on-going FX investigations." Major banks have been shedding currency traders amid a multi-government investigation into widespread rigging of the FX market. Deutsche Bank suspended the head of its EM foreign exchange trading desk in New York, Diego Moraiz, in connection with the investigation, Reuters reported days ago. Regulators are investigating whether traders cooperated in order to manipulate the benchmark WM/Reuters "fix." "The evidence, in the form of electronic chat-room messages, appears to show what banks have feared for months," the Journal's Katie Martin and David Enrich reported in December. "That traders from different banks shared information about client orders and agreed to a sequence for placing their own trades to their advantage." Bloomberg's Greg Farrell reports that Benjamin Lawsky, the superintendent of New York’s Department of Financial Services, has asked more than a dozen banks about their currency trading practices. The investigation is heating up, and like the similar Libor scandal, it looks like heads may roll here. FREE AppDownload
General Motors says that criticism from Fox News and Think Progress of new CEO Mary Barra's compensation is "premature and flawed." The automaker is completely right. Barra will make $1.6 million in salary and $2.8 million under a short-term incentive plan, GM announced in an SEC filing in January. Outgoing CEO Dan Akerson made about $9 million in 2013, prompting Elizabeth McDonald at Fox to ask, "why does GM think Barra’s value as its CEO is currently worth 52% less than Akerson's?" Think Progress piled on, writing, "while [Barra] may have shattered that glass ceiling, her pay is another story." Their arguments were sparked when the White House invited Barra to join Michelle Obama at the State of the Union. In his address, the President both praised GM for choosing its first female CEO, and criticized unequal pay for women. But the automaker is right to defend itself. Criticizing Barra's pay is premature, because her full compensation hasn't been announced yet. As GM said in its recent statement (and mentioned in the original filing), the salary and short-term incentives are only two of three ways Barra gets paid: Specific long-term incentive compensation numbers will be included in the company’s April 2014 proxy filing, which likely will dispel any notion of pay inequity. Stockholders at GM’s Annual Meeting must approve the long-term portion of her pay. As the Associated Press noted back in January: [Barra's] pay would climb further if GM shareholders approve a new long-term incentive plan at their next annual meeting. Stock and option awards make up the bulk of CEO pay at GM and many other publicly traded companies. So we don't know how much Barra will actually be paid, and it's likely the final number will be up there with what Akerson got. GM rep Greg Martin told Business Insider the full compensation will "dispel any notion of pay inequity."  In their attacks, Fox and Think Progress also pointed out that Akerson had no experience in the auto industry before taking the helm at GM, while Barra has been with the automaker for decades. So she deserves more, right? Not really. Unlike Barra, Akerson had worked as CEO before, at Nextel and XO Communications. And he wasn't brought into run a regular automaker. He was chosen by the U.S. Treasury to guide GM through a wrenching bankruptcy, and put its finances in order. By most accounts, he did a fine job. Now that the ship has been righted, Barra, who comes from the product side of the business, is charged with running a company that will succeed in the long run. We'll know how much GM thinks that's worth come April, when Barra's long-term incentive compensation will be announced, pending stockholder approval. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of services-sector firms is out. The report's headline index rose to 54.0 from December's 53.0 reading. Economists were looking for a smaller advance to 53.7. The all-important employment sub-component advanced to 56.4 from 55.6. The figures suggest that overall business activity in America's services sector — which accounts for roughly 80% of the economy — accelerated more than expected in January, as did hiring in the sector. The acceleration in hiring augurs well for Friday's release of the official jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Click here for the full ISM release » FREE AppDownload
American smokers, especially in highly-taxed states like New York, like to brag about how many cartons of cheap cigarettes they purchased during travels to cheaper markets. That's because excise taxes (SET) vary so much state-to-state. A pack of Marlboro reds will cost you just under $5 in Kentucky, compared to $14.50 in New York. As of October 1, smokers won't be able to purchase tobacco at CVS, the company announced this morning. They'll have to go elsewhere. Based on figures collected by the Awl — which called up gas stations in each state — the average cost for a pack of Marlboro reds is just under $7 as of this summer. Here's a map from Citi that shows state cigarette excise tax rates: Citi
REUTERS/Thomas Peter A picture shows a figure that was created by means of 3D printing in Berlin, January 7, 2013. Figure is a 3D printed representation in plastic of the original model that was recorded with 3D scanning technology by Gismo at the Raumfahrtagentur hacker space in Berlin. Shares in 3-D Systems (ticker DDD) are off nearly 27% this morning after the company announced it was ramping up spending, which would impact earnings. The company now sees adjusted 2014 earnings per share coming in at $0.73 to $0.85. Consensus expectations according to Bloomberg was $1.29.  The company develops and manufactures 3-D printers, which can make components for everything from body parts to guns (as well as desktop widgets like the one above). Expected 2013 adjusted EPS also missed expectations. The company now sees a range $0.83 to $0.97 — a downward revision from $0.93 to $1.03, and below the consensus estimate of $0.97. Revenue came in in-line with expectations. Last month, Credit Suisse downgraded 3-D on concerns about losing market share to rival Stratasys. Dow Jones reports DDD has announced “substantial” R&amp;D spending increases to try to close that gap. “As we previously stated, we are willing to tolerate earnings reduction and even slight gross-profit-margin compression during this period to substantially accelerate our growth rate and market share,” says CEO Avi Reichental. All 3-D printing stocks are suffering this morning though, with Stratasys down nearly 12% and ExOne down 14%. Both gave mixed-to-weak outlooks for 2014 last month. Here's the stock chart for DDD: Yahoo FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermid It was recently uncovered that former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, who is currently fighting insider trading charges in a New York courtroom, was kicked out of Harvard Law School for forging his transcript and then forging documents to try to convince the school that he hadn't forged his transcript. However, Martoma was still able to get into Stanford's Graduate School of Business a couple years later and graduate with his MBA.  It's startling to hear that someone who was found to have gone to exceptional lengths to commit fraud at Harvard would quickly be admitted to Stanford. So the next questions are: Did Stanford know that Martoma booted out of Harvard for forging his transcript? If Stanford didn't know, will the university now rescind Martoma's MBA after discovering that he concealed highly material information when applying to the school? The full backstory: In September 1999, Martoma, who was then going by the name Ajai Mathew Mariamdani Thomas, was expelled by a Harvard Law faculty committee for changing his B's to A's on his transcript. Even after the committee voted to expel him, he tried to appeal by creating a fictitious computer forensic company to persuade Harvard that he didn't forge the transcripts, court documents show.  In 2001, Martoma was admitted into Stanford's Graduate School of Business, one of the best MBA programs in the country. He graduated from there in 2003.  Citing federal laws, Stanford would not comment on Martoma's situation in particular.  They were able to give us statements regarding their admissions policies in general. In general, MBA programs, including Stanford, ask applicants if they have ever been disciplined or dismissed from a school. If he were being honest, Martoma would obviously have had to disclose to Stanford that he was expelled from Harvard Law, and then explain why. The fraud he was kicked out for, Stanford says, would make it very difficult for him to be admitted.   "Our application includes questions asking applicants about attendance, academic status, and disciplinary actions at other institutions. Expulsion from another institution due to fraud, if it were disclosed or known, would create a serious impediment to admission," a spokeswoman for Stanford GBS told Business Insider in an emailed statement.  The spokeswoman continued, "We ask applicants if they have ever been suspended or dismissed from any college, university, or post-secondary institution or been the subject of disciplinary action by such an institution. We also ask if they have been placed on academic probation. If they answer yes to any of these questions, we ask for a full explanation. We also require transcripts from all post-secondary institutions attended." The Stanford spokesperson also explained what often happens when it is revealed that an applicant lied in his or her application (rescinding of admission offers or expulsion), but she did not comment on what happens if the fraud is uncovered years after graduation. "There's no blanket policy, but we regard misstatements or material omission as very serious matters and application fraud can lead to dismissal.  We would treat a misstatement about, for example, leaving a job in May vs. June differently from a fraudulent transcript. In a typical year, we revoke 1-3 offers of admission."  Another question is if Martoma did lie, why didn't Stanford catch it? That remains unclear. But one factor may have been his sudden name change. 1991 Merritt Island High School yearbookMartoma was Ajai Thomas in this 1991 high school yearbook photoAfter leaving Harvard, Martoma changed his name from Ajai Thomas to Mathew Cochukattil Martoma, according to Bloomberg News. Although you have a legal right to call yourself whatever name you chose, it would be illegal to perpetrate a "fraud" by assuming another name so you could avoid your past and be admitted to a school.  However, if Martoma didn't lie to Stanford and somehow convinced them that he had learned from his behavior at Harvard Law, then Stanford should not have any recourse in rescinding his MBA.  Meanwhile, a verdict for Martoma could come out any day now in Manhattan federal court.  The jury is currently in deliberations deciding his fate. In November 2012, Martoma—who worked at SAC subsidiary CR Intrinsic Investors— was charged in what prosecutors have described as "the most lucrative" insider trading scheme in history.  Prosecutors said Martoma used negative confidential drug trial info to trade in the stocks of pharmaceutical companies, Elan Corporation and Wyeth, between the summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. The SAC fund was then able to exit those positions and short those stocks avoiding losses of $276 million, prosecutors said.  FREE AppDownload
Eduardo Deboni/flickrAmerican firms should be celebrating CVS' announcement this morning that they'll stop selling cigarettes. That's because according to a 2013 Ohio State University study, workers who smoke each cost their employers $5,800 a year, and can range from $2,885 to $10,125 annually. The biggest costs came productivity lost to smoking breaks, followed by health care expenses in excess of what nonsmokers end up paying. “We tried to be conservative in our estimates, and certainly the costs will vary by industry and by the type of employee,” co-author Micah Berman said in OSU's release on the study. “Several of these estimates are based on hourly employees whose productivity can be tracked more easily.” The authors also took into account a socioeconomic bias: smokers’ salaries were discounted by 15.6% to reflect their tendency to have lower wages than non-smokers. Here's the full breakdown of costs: The morbid "benefit" from employing a smoker is that they die earlier and therefore are owed less in retirement, thereby offsetting some of the firm's overall costs — but only by $296.  FREE AppDownload
APBill Gross.In his February investment letter, Bill Gross, the manager of the biggest bond fund around at PIMCO, warns investors to "be careful." Why? Gross believes the rally has been fueled by ever-expanding debt. Now, due to a combination of smaller government deficits and tapering of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, the rise in debt is slowing, which Gross argues is bad news for risky assets like stocks and good news for bonds. In his note, Gross writes: [Credit] used to grow pre-Lehman at 8–10% a year, but now it only grows at 3–4%. Part of that growth is due to the government itself with recent deficit spending. A deficit of one trillion dollars in 2009–2010 equaled a 2% growth rate of credit by itself. But despite that, other borrowers such as households/businesses/local and foreign governments/financial institutions have been less than eager to pick up the slack. With the deficit now down to $600 billion or so, the Treasury is fading as a source of credit growth. Many consider that as a good thing but short term, the ability of the economy to expand and price-to-earnings ratios to grow is actually negatively impacted, unless the private sector steps up to the plate to borrow/invest/buy new houses, etc. Credit over the past 12 months has grown at a snail's 3.5% pace, barely enough to sustain nominal GDP growth of the same amount. Is there a one-for-one relationship between credit growth and GDP? Certainly not. That is where velocity complicates the picture and velocity is influenced by interest rates and the price of credit. But with quantitative easing beginning its taper, and interest/mortgage rates 150 basis points higher than they were in July of 2012, velocity may now negatively impact the equation. MV=PT or money X velocity = GDP is how economists explain it in old model textbooks. Actually the new model should read CV=PT or credit X velocity = GDP but most economists are classically trained to the Friedman model, which viewed money in a much narrower sense. Against this backdrop, Gross advises caution. "Our PIMCO word of the month is to be 'careful'," he writes. "Bull markets are either caused by or accompanied by credit expansion. With credit growth slowing due in part to lower government deficits, and QE now tapering which will slow velocity, the U.S. and other similarly credit-based economies may find that future growth is not as robust as the IMF and other model-driven forecasters might assume. Perhaps the whisper word of “deflation” at Davos these past few weeks was a reflection of that. If so, high quality bonds will continue to be well bid and risk assets may lose some luster." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Daniel MunozMohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCO, speaks during a media briefing in central Sydney February 8, 2010Everyone watches the Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly jobs report very closely. It's where we get timely updates on payrolls and the unemployment rate. "Certainly, the fanfare around this data release will not end," writes Mohamed El-Erian, outgoing Co-CIO of PIMCO, in the Financial Times. "'Employment Friday' will remain – at least for a while – one of the most widely followed data releases, not only nationally but also internationally. Yet, unless analysts get their forecasts really wrong, we should expect the report as a standalone to have a diminishing role as a notable mover of asset prices and policies." The unemployment rate in particular has been used as a gauge for the health of the U.S. economy. It's also been scrutinized for clues on the Federal Reserve's next moves regarding its monetary policy.  But other factors feed into the declining unemployment rate. For instance, a drop in the labor participation rate,  which reflects many have just stopped looking for jobs, has often been blamed for distorting the unemployment rate in a favorable way. This is why El-Erian writes that the unemployment rate "is now a less effective predictor of policy changes." But he adds that there are two other reasons the unemployment rate has diminishing value as well. From the FT: "First, Fed policy has been placed largely on autopilot. Consistent with Fed signals, we should expect a regular “measured reduction” in asset purchases at forthcoming policy meetings so that the institution is out of the quantitative easing business by the end of the year. Indeed, only major turbulence at home would prompt the Fed to override this autopilot course. "Second, and now that the economic recovery appears better entrenched, officials have greater flexibility to consider the potential negative consequences of prolonged reliance on experimental policies, including the impact on asset prices, the functioning of markets and asset allocations." El-Erian thinks the Fed will now move towards watching inflation and "other real economy indicators." While the jobs report will still get some press he expects it will play a smaller role in moving markets and policy. Read the entire piece at » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarThis morning, CVS announced it will remove tobacco products from all its stores nationwide by October 1. That will cost the pharmacy chain an estimated $1.5 billion a year, only a tiny portion of CVS's $123 billion in 2012 revenue. It's an even tinier portion of global retail sales. Excluding duty free and China (the market there is essentially closed to outside tobacco companies), global retail sales topped $554 billion in 2012, according to Citi. And only 16% of that — $89 billion — came from U.S. sales. So how upset are tobacco companies about CVS and its $1.5 billion? It's hard to say.  Smokers who can't buy their cigarettes from CVS will likely go elsewhere for their fix. The more serious concern for big tobacco is waning demand in America. U.S. tobacco sales are decreasing as a portion of global sales. That's why tobacco companies have long targeted other regions as growth opportunities. "On a volumetric basis, the global cigarette industry (excluding China and duty free) is increasingly concentrated outside of the U.S., which market accounted for 8.2% of volumes in 2012 (vs. 9.4% in 2008)," wrote Citi economists. CVS is the first major U.S. pharmacy to ban tobacco, and the move may spur others to do so. As Wonkblog's Sarah Kliff noted, CVS thinks this will end up being a shrewd business decision for its bottom line. Not to mention it gets positive press (and commendation from President Obama, himself a former smoker) for paving the anti-smoking way. But with tobacco companies shifting attention to growth areas like Asia (Indonesia, Malaysia and the Phillip pines are particularly profitable), you have to wonder whether they even care about CVS. Citi FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe focus of this year's emerging-market currency turmoil is shifting to Ukraine today. Citing traders, the WSJ reports the U.S. dollar was above 9.00 against Ukraine's hryvnia, a level not seen since February 2009. Ukraine has been in political chaos in recent months as anti-government protestors have been clashing with the police since November. That was when President Viktor Yanukovich walked away from a controversial trade deal with Europe. Russia agreed to buy $15 billion of government bonds and cut gas prices. At the time, prime minister Mykola Azarov said the deal saved the Ukraine from bankruptcy. Since then, "Russia, which bought $3 billion of Ukrainian bonds in December, has delayed the next tranche of aid to ensure its neighbor doesn’t reverse President Viktor Yanukovych’s rebuff of an EU cooperation deal," reported Bloomberg's Andras Gergely and Krystof Chamonikolas. Bloomberg reports that the country's foreign currency reserves fell to around $18.8 billion in January from around $20.4 billion in December. The Ukrainian hryvnia (UAH) rate is then understandably heavily dependent on Russian financing. In a January 31 note, Morgan Stanley's Alina Slyusarchuk and Jacob Nell identified two ways this could play out.  "Russia deal on: If the new government is formed quickly and manages to maintain cordial relations with Russia (which would require no resumption of talks with the EU on the FTA, and we think the government would likely postpone a decision until after the elections) and Russia continues disbursements, then Ukraine would be able to maintain UAH at current levels until the March 2015 presidential elections. We think that the NBU will then keep hryvnia at the new level of 8.4-8.5 versus USD as it would have a high cost in reserves to move it back to 8.2.   "Russia deal off: In the event that Russia suspends disbursements, we see a high probability of a sharp FX adjustment. Ukraine is likely to have a significant net financing need before March 2015, which we previously estimated at US$17.6 billion. With current elevated FX pressures it can reach US$20 billion, which approximately equals the current size of the reserves, and we are sceptical that Ukraine will be able to raise it on the markets or that a coalition government in a pre-election period will be prepared to agree to the tough measures required to unlock IMF funding." Political tensions however continue to remain high and Ukraine continues to remain divided on Russia and Europe. And as the country spirals deeper into financial turmoil, the local currency and bonds continue to come under immense pressure. Here's a three-year look at the dollar-hryvnia exchange rate via Bloomberg: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Todd BradleyNEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Two of Hewlett-Packard Co's most powerful executives, until they were sidelined by CEO Meg Whitman, are preparing to leave the company in the coming weeks, several sources say. Todd Bradley and Dave Donatelli have been interviewing for potential jobs for several months, four sources familiar with the situation said. The men accepted a deal of new stock options in exchange for a quiet exit, two of the sources said. The departures of two HP veterans who pre-dated Whitman may strengthen her grip on the company, midway through a five-year plan to try and turn around the once-dominant Silicon Valley computing icon. Former PC chief Bradley and ex-enterprise group chief Donatelli, once rising stars at the computing giant, are now waiting for restricted stock to vest under the undisclosed agreement. Bradley is expected to leave HP at the end of February, with about $12 million in hand as part of the vesting agreement, the sources said. Donatelli is expected to remain with HP until March, receiving $8 million to $10 million, the sources said. The deals were struck last summer and one person said the delayed departure was an attempt to minimize publicity. Bradley and Donatelli, long considered by industry watchers as contenders for top jobs at companies ranging from Dell to Juniper Networks, are among the highest-profile casualties of a deep restructuring kicked off by Whitman when she took the helm in 2011. Bradley once headed HP's single largest division, personal computers and devices, which has shrunk or stalled for years and was recently deposed by Lenovo Inc as the largest PC maker. He was replaced in June and charged with improving its China business. In late summer, after Donatelli's enterprise division posted a 9-percent decline in fiscal third-quarter sales, Donatelli was replaced and tasked with identifying early-stage technologies for investment after Whitman blamed the enterprise business for HP's poor quarterly results. One of the sources said Donatelli argued for a spinoff of his division, an idea Whitman scotched. HP declined to comment. "The reason Todd and Dave were removed from their positions is because they were not making progress fast enough on the turnaround, and Meg wanted new leadership in those roles," HP spokesman Michael Thacker said on Tuesday, for the first time publicly commenting on the reason for their change in jobs. Thacker declined to confirm their departure or comment on whether the men had received options in exchange for a quiet exit. Neither executive responded to requests for comment. Two sources who spoke to both executives said they disagreed with aspects of Whitman's vision, which involved transforming HP into a provider of servers, storage and networking to corporations, rather than taking on Apple Inc. or Samsung in mobile computing. When asked about such differences, Thacker said the board and executive leadership, including Donatelli and Bradley, were aligned with Whitman's strategy. Both executives had stopped regularly going in to work at HP months ago, two sources said. Thacker stressed they were still working for HP. It is unclear where the two executives will go, but both have been actively interviewing with companies and headhunters in the past months, the sources said. Bradley oversaw the ill-fated and short-lived TouchPad tablet in 2011, a six-week effort that ranks as one of HP's most embarrassing duds in the consumer electronics arena. At the time, under then-CEO Leo Apotheker, the company was considering a spinoff of its PC business. "Meg retained a lot of the incumbents in place for a while," one of the sources said, adding that the departures reflected the executives' performance, not a general housecleaning. (Editing by Peter Henderson and Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
ADP, Inc.; Moody's AnalyticsADP's January National Employment Report is out. The payroll-processing firm estimates 175,000 workers were hired by private-sector firms in January. Market economists were looking for a 185,000 estimate. The December estimate from ADP's previous report was revised down to 227,000 from 238,000. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Goods-producing employment rose by 16,000 jobs in January, down from a downwardly-revised figure of 50,000 in December. Nearly all of the growth came from the construction industry which added 25,000 jobs over the month; this followed increases of 30,000 and 32,000 in the prior two months. Manufacturing lost jobs in January; the decline of 12,000 followed a revised gain of 16,000 in the prior month and was the first decline in industry payrolls since July 2013. Service-providing industries added 160,000 jobs in January, down from an upwardly-revised December figure of 177,000. The ADP National Employment Report indicates that professional/business services contributed the most to growth in service-providing industries, adding 49,000 jobs. This was well below the average gain of the prior two months of 65,000. Expansion in trade/transportation/utilities slowed to a gain of 30,000 jobs in January. Financial activities employment was flat over the month, following two consecutive months of gains of 6,000 apiece. "The U.S. private sector added 175,000 jobs in January, which is in line with the average monthly growth throughout 2013,” said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, said, "Cold and stormy winter weather continued to weigh on the job numbers. Underlying job growth, abstracting from the weather, remains sturdy. Gains are broad based across industries and company sizes, the biggest exception being manufacturing, which shed jobs, but that is not expected to continue." Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, says despite the slowdown in the ADP series, he is not too concerned. "This is a clear slowing from December's 227,000 but we are not too concerned," writes Shepherdson in a note following the release. "We reckon about half the downshift is real, captured in the drop in the ISM manufacturing jobs index, at least some of which is weather-related. The other half likely reflects technical factors. The headline ADP number is generated by a model, of which the key component is the actual survey of people employed by firms using ADP's payroll services, but it also includes lagged official data. The December BLS number was very weak, and that has fed into the January ADP. We think it likely the BLS number for January will overshoot ADP, and we are still looking for private payrolls to rebound about 225,000, recovering some of the lost December ground." S&amp;P 500 futures have continued drifting lower in the wake of the release, while Treasury futures continue to head higher. Now, all eyes are on the release of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of services-sector firms, due out at 10 AM ET — and in particular, what it has to say about employment. "We would pay much closer attention to ISM Non-Manufacturing headline and the employment sub-series," says Bryan Zarnett, a strategist at Citi. "With U.S. data continuing to surprise to the upside and market expectations of Fed tightening being brought forward, this morning's ADP print may initially cause some volatility in fixed income and FX markets. However, we believe that ISM is much more important in supporting our long-term USD positive view." FREE AppDownload
derekskey via www.flickr.com creative commonsEating on a budget in Paris often used to leave you feeling like the spectre at the feast, or rather sadly deprived of the city's gastronomic excellence.  To be sure, there were always a few wallet-friendly French places where the food was better than average, plus some great ethnic options, but cheap eats rarely equated with seriously good food.  Happily, a new generation of innovative restaurateurs are rebooting the French capital's offer for pennywise travelers, with food that's good enough even if you aren't counting your centimes. Oh, and in case you were wondering, Chartier, probably Paris's most famous budget restaurant, soldiers on as a place people go to get a meal for a tenner (euros, bien sur), just because you can. Just a short walk from the Louvre, this cheerful bistro with a nostalgic decor worthy of a Parisian postcard (globe lights, frosted glass windows) is a local favourite for tasty Gallic grub such as steak frites (here served with a smoldering sprig of thyme), confit de canard (grilled preserved duck) or roast chicken. Skip a starter and share a dessert instead, maybe the tarte tatin or the profiteroles with lashings of hot chocolate sauce. • 6 rue La Vrillière, 1st arrondissement, +33 1 42 61 43 78. Open daily for lunch and dinner, average two-course meal €20. Métro: Palais-Royal-Musee-du-Louvre, Pyramides or Sentier At this clever mini-chain of three restaurants in the heart of Paris, five three-star chefs – including Anne-Sophie Pic, Régis Marcon, and Emmanuel Renaut – were recruited to create recipes for a selection of eat-in or takeaway starters, mains and desserts using mostly organic produce. Most dishes come in recyclable glass jars (bocal, pronounced "boco," is French for jar), and they run from Pic's starter of coddled egg with lentils and red onions, to Renaut's polenta lasagne with mushrooms and spinach, and Marcon's braised beef parmentier (shepherd's pie). Don't miss star pastry chef Philippe Conticini's black sesame cream and pistachio crumble for dessert. And note these are also great places to pick up a picnic. • Boco Opéra, 3 rue Danielle Casanova, 1st arr, +33 1 42 61 17 67, boco.fr. Other branches at Bercy-Village and Saint-Lazare. Open Monday to Saturday for lunch and dinner, average three-course meal €20 The Marais branch of an excellent crêperie from the seaside Breton town of Cancale, serves buckwheat galettes and crêpes made with top quality ingredients – organic wheat and buckwheat flour, farmhouse butter and Valrhona chocolate. The freshly shucked oysters here are a worthy splurge, or you can go right to one of their crispy-edged and neatly folded savoury galettes, maybe the Cancalaise, filled with smoked herring, crème fraîche and herring roe, or the complet, which comes with an egg, ham and cheese, and can be dressed up with extras like mushrooms or artichoke hearts. For dessert, follow the regulars with a salted caramel and vanilla ice-cream crêpe. Wash it all down with one of the 15 different artisanal ciders on offer.• 109 rue Vieille du Temple, 3rd arr, +33 1 42 72 13 77, breizhcafe.com. Open all day Wednesday to Sunday, closed for three weeks in August, average €15. Métro: St-Sébastien-Froissart Right in the heart of honky-tonk Pigalle, talented bistro chef Christian Etchebest's recently-opened restaurant offers excellent eats from south-west France at surprisingly affordable prices. It is ideal for those feeling weary after a tour of the local shops selling life-size dolls and fur-lined hand-cuffs, or, more decorously, on their way back from visiting the Sacre Coeur. Portions at this friendly place serving non-stop from 8am-2am are generous, so share a slice of the excellent pâté, then go for the sausage with white beans or cod in sauce vierge, and finish up with some Ossau-Iraty cheese from the Pyrenees with black-cherry jam or maybe a slice of mirabelle tart with almond cream. • 124 boulevard Rochechouart, 18th arr, +33 1 55 79 10 10, cafelacigale.com. Open Monday to Saturday for breakfast, lunch and dinner, average two-course meal €20. Métro: Pigalle, Abbesses or Anver Though it's landlocked, Paris is one of the best cities in the world for seafood lovers, because it's well supplied from French ports on the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. Usually, a good French marine feast is expensive, but at this easygoing little place in the Marais, you can share a starter – maybe some taramasalata or half a crab, and then tuck into a dozen oysters or a plate of smoked fish without a major wound to your wallet.• 4 rue de la Corderie, 3rd arr, +33 6 95 12 86 61, no website. Open Tuesday to Friday for lunch and dinner, Saturday dinner only, average two -course meal €20. Métro: Temple, République or Filles du Calvaire Chef Gregory Marchard's bistro Frenchie (he acquired the nickname when he was working for Jamie Oliver in London) in the Sentier, Paris's old garment district, is one of the hardest reservations in town to land, and beyond the reach of budget diners. You can still sample his wares, however, at this casual takeaway or eat-in shop with a moreish menu that runs to first-rate Reuben and pulled pork sandwiches, fish and chips, cheesecake, doughnuts and homemade ginger beer. They also serve breakfast all day long. • 9 rue du Nil, 2nd arr, no phone, frenchietogo.com. Open Tuesday-Saturday 8am-6pm, with lunch from 12-4pm, breakfast served all day, average €15. Métro: Sentier or Strasbourg-Saint-Denis. Just around the corner from the chic bistro La Fontaine de Mars, where the Obamas famously dined, Le Petit Clerc is its excellent-value sibling and ideal for a meal before or after a visit to the Eiffel Tower. Popular with the locals – so book – this place offers everything from croques (open sandwiches) to omelettes and well-garnished salads, making it relatively vegetarian friendly. There's a different hot dish served daily for €12.50, including roast veal on Tuesdays and roast chicken on Sundays, and steaks come with garnishes of a jacket potato and salad. You'll never feel like you're penny-pinching either when you can tuck into cheese from Marie-Anne Cantin, one of Paris's best-known fromagers, or sorbets and ice-cream from local legend Berthillon. • 129 rue Saint-Dominique, 7th arr, +33 1 47 05 46 44, fontainedemars.com. Open daily for lunch and dinner, average two-course meal €20. Métro: École Militaire or Pont de l'Alma (RER C) The 10th arrondissement, an old working-class district in the heart of Paris, is in a sweet spot right now. The recent influx of young creative Parisians has added some excellent bars and restaurants to the neighborhood without gentrifying local businesses like African hair-grooming salons or Balkan groceries out of the mix. Le Richer, a popular cafe-bar-restaurant that's the annex of the popular L'Office bistro across the street, is one the best deals in the quartier, too. Sit at the bar and get a beautifully cooked main course – maybe braised beef cheeks with buttered cabbage, salsify and pears with a glass of red for €20. Or you could share a couple of starters – maybe trout tartare with cauliflower and tomato-citrus mousse and wild rabbit terrine – instead. Lunch is even cheaper and they also serve breakfast. Friendly service and a great crowd.• 2 rue Richer, 9th arr, no phone, facebook page. Open daily 8am-1am, average lunch €15, average dinner main course €16. Métro: Cadet or Grands Boulevards Escape the fast-food cluster around the Gare du Nord for a cheap and delicious meal at chef Thierry Breton's third restaurant; his Chez Michel and Chez Casimir, a few doors down, are among the better bistros in Paris, and you get the same quality here for a lot less money. The name refers both to a peninsula in Brittany and a pig's snout, the latter hinting at the menu, which runs to rustic barnyard eats like pig's snout with tapenade and oxtail with celery root puree. There are sandwiches, including a few vegetarian ones, made with Breton's baked-on-the-premises bread, for less adventurous eaters, and Breton desserts like a delectable chocolate kouign amann and far Breton, a thick flan with prunes, are not to be missed. The box wines served here do no harm and keep the prices down, too. • 8 rue de Belzunce, 10th arr, no phone or website. Open all day Monday-Saturday, average €20. Métro: Gare du Nord or Poissonnière Though this place tops out at the high-end of the €20 bracket without drinks (the price ceiling that defines budget eats in Paris these days), it's eminently worth the splurge as one of the last old-fashioned no-nonsense seriously good workaday bistros in Paris. If you need to stay in the shallow end of things, go for a main course – maybe venison with homemade potato puree, since this is one of the rare restaurants in Paris where game is still affordable, and a glass of red wine. If you can manage a little more, however, the €25.90 prix fixe menu comes with all sorts of goodness, from a very good steak with real (as opposed to frozen) chips and a lavish cheese course, to a stewed sanglier (wild boar) and freshly-made fruit tart. They also do a heart-warming range of old-fashioned bistro dishes, including coq au vin, and wines are reasonably priced, too. Always busy, so book.• 45 avenue Ledru-Rollin, 12th arr, +33 1 43 43 34 38, no website. Open Tuesday to Friday for lunch and dinner, Monday dinner only, main courses from €17, prix fixe three-course meal €29.50. Métro: Gare de Lyon • Paris-based Alexander Lobrano is the author of Hungry for France and Hungry for Paris. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSYeah, I read that too.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures are off small, but remain off the lows of the overnight.   Seems quiet out there, with Traders unwilling to take big bets ahead of PMI Services today (representing roughly 80% of our economy) – and ADP, both which will set the tone for NFP Friday.  EM remains stable, with the FX basket higher against the $, and most CDS coming off peaks quick.   Some stress remains in Ukraine, where their FX is barely bouncing despite the smackdown yesterday, and their CDS remains elevated.  In Europe, we are getting solid PMI data, but Germany remains under slight pressure ahead of the ECB decision tomorrow.   EU Fins continue their upward trajectory, however, as Yields across the PIIGS all drop on another Greek bailout (but not “haircuts”), and PMI in Spain jumping with unemployment reversing lower, a first in 6 years.    While China remained closed, Hong Kong lost 60bp, and Japan had a very “tepid” bounce despite some solid earnings reports.    EM Asia was mostly higher, but Aussie lost another 50bp as the RBA’s hawkish tone weighs heavy.    Globally, Financials were in favor, along with Technology – while Materials and Industrials seem the biggest weights.  Some Single Stock US movers include MU +3% (Moody’s u/g), ZNGA +2% - While Losers include LVS -3.5% (Macau), INTC -1%. The 10YY is unchanged, after failing an attempt to get upside y’days 2.63% peak.   Credit folks will be watching Munis with Puerto Rico downgraded to Junk, a well expected move.  Stress has come off some of the Treasury Bills maturing in March, as signs indicate the House to accept a “clean” bill raising the debt ceiling.  The $ is losing ground to both Euro and Yen – and the bulls are watching the “Carry Trade” reversing most of yesterday’s gains with the $-Yen cross struggling to stay upside 100dma this morning.   With the DXY lower, we have a tailwind for commodities – and we continue to see upticks in some Industrial metals like Silver and Copper, and Gold 50bp higher as it gears to test the 100dma again.   WTI is higher, not only from Inventory data, but reports of “limited” exports to Europe nearing.   Nat Gas is off 1%, as investors take profits after yesterday’s pop higher, and the CME hikes margins again – a 2nd time in a week.   We have a day chock full of important catalysts – starting with ADP employment at 8:15, at 10 the double whammy of our Services PMI, and the “Online Help Wanted Index”.  At 10:30 we get DOE data for Crude – and 2 Fed speakers chatting on the Economy: Plosser at 12:30, and Lacker at 1:40, both among the largest “hawks” –   We also have a rare Double POMO day – a small $.85-$1.15B buy at 11, followed by a larger $2.5-$3B buy at 2:15.  FREE AppDownload
The big business news of the day seems to be CVS Caremark's announced planned ban on tobacco products. A pack of cigarettes can be quite expensive. However, it turns out that tobacco represents a relatively small expenditure for the American consumer. CVS management expects to lose just around $2 billion of its over $120 billion in annual sales. The chart below comes to us from Goldman Sachs. It shows what percent of disposable income consumers spend on alcohol and tobacco around the world.  In the U.S., it's less than 2%. And as most of us know, CVS and other large pharmacies sell a lot more than just drugs, beer, and tobacco. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ammar AbdullahA man pulls a trolley containing belongings as a woman walks behind at the Karaj al-Hajez crossing, a passageway separating Aleppo's Bustan al-Qasr, which is under the rebels' control and Al-Masharqa neighbourhood, an area controlled by the regime February 4, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — CVS Caremark will stop selling tobacco products in its pharmacies by October 1. "Ending the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products at CVS/pharmacy is the right thing for us to do for our customers and our company to help people on their path to better health," said CVS president and CEO Larry J. Merlo in a statement. "Put simply, the sale of tobacco products is inconsistent with our purpose." — The big potential market mover today is the release of payroll processing firm ADP's monthly National Employment Report — a precursor to Friday's official BLS jobs report — at 8:15 AM ET. Economists predict the report will estimate that 185,000 workers were hired by private-sector firms in January, down from ADP's December estimate of 238,000. "Given its recent history of overshooting payrolls, the market reaction to an upside surprise is likely to be somewhat muted," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "On the other hand, a big downside miss on expectations is likely to result in a strong reaction from the markets, as a weak performance is likely to be interpreted as a signal of downside risks for consensus payrolls expectations." — S&amp;P 500 futures point to a slightly negative open while Treasury note futures point to a slightly positive open and gold resumes its upward trajectory. In a repeat of price action in the past few days as global markets have tumbled, the dollar is sliding against the yen. European indices are rising with the exception of the German DAX, which is down marginally. The Japanese Nikkei 225 closed up 1.2% on Wednesday, and the Hong Kong Hang Seng closed down 0.6%. — Nikos Chrysoloras and Rebecca Christie at Bloomberg News report on discussions surrounding a new financial aid package for Greece. "The next handout to Greece may include extending the maturity on rescue loans to 50 years and cutting the interest rate on some previous aid by 50 basis points, according to two officials with knowledge of discussions being held by European officials," write Chrysolaras and Christie. "The plan, which will be considered by policy makers by May or June, may also include a loan for a package worth between 13 billion euros ($17.6 billion) and 15 billion euros, another official said." — The Institute for Supply Management releases the results of its monthly survey of U.S. services-sector firms at 10 AM ET. Economists predict the report's Purchasing Managers Index advanced to 53.7 from December's 53.0 reading, indicating a slight acceleration in the pace of expansion in services industries in January. Follow the data LIVE on Business Insider » — In the eurozone, Markit's January services-sector Purchasing Managers Index survey revealed a slight but unexpected deceleration — the PMI fell to 51.6 versus expectations for an unchanged reading at 51.9. Italy's services PMI rose to 49.4 from 47.9, above expectations for a smaller gain to 48.9. France's services PMI rose to 48.9 versus expectations for an unchanged reading at 48.6. However, both remain below 50, which means the services sectors in those two countries are still contracting, though at a slower pace than before. — Eurozone retail sales fell 1.6% from the previous month in December after advancing a downward-revised 0.9% in November. Economists were looking for a 0.7% drop. On a year-over-year basis, sales were down 1.0%, while expectations were for a 1.5% rise. "The ECB meeting tomorrow offers a slight chance of a dovish surprise," says Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. "It’s worth noting that the ECB was able yesterday to fully sterilize its bond purchases under the SMP program. It had failed in its previous two operations. Recently, there have been press reports that Draghi was seeking German support for ending the sterilization operations. However, that seems unlikely to happen at this juncture." — Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, relays what traders are talking about this morning: "Seems quiet out there, with traders unwilling to take big bets ahead of ISM services today (representing roughly 80% of our economy) – and ADP, both which will set the tone for NFP Friday. EM remains stable, with the FX basket higher against the $, and most CDS coming off peaks quick...Stress has come off some of the Treasury bills maturing in March, as signs indicate the House to accept a 'clean' bill raising the debt ceiling. The $ is losing ground to both euro and yen – and the bulls are watching the 'carry trade' reversing most of yesterday’s gains with the $-yen cross struggling to stay upside of the 100-day moving average this morning. With the dollar index lower, we have a tailwind for commodities — and we continue to see upticks in some industrial metals like silver and copper, and gold 50 basis points higher as it gears up to test the 100-day moving average again. WTI crude oil is higher, not only from inventory data, but reports of 'limited' exports to Europe nearing. Natural Gas is off 1%, as investors take profits after yesterday’s pop higher, and the CME hikes margins again — a second time in a week." — JPMorgan is in talks to sell its commodities business, reports Dmitry Zhdannikov at Reuters. "Fast-growing trading house Mercuria, led by two former Goldman Sachs executives, emerged as the front-runner to buy the physical commodities unit of JPMorgan, one of the most powerful oil and metals desks on Wall Street, two sources told Reuters," writes Zhdannikov. — Today is a rare "double POMO" day in which the Fed will conduct two open market operations. It plans to buy $0.85-$1.15 billion of TIPS at 11 AM and $2.5-3.0 billion of Treasuries at 2:15 PM. This could provide support for markets. FREE AppDownload
SonySony is in talks with investment fund Japan Industrial Partners to sell its loss-making Vaio personal computer division, according to reports A new company would be set up by Japan Industrial Partners to take over the Vaio brand's operations in Japan, Reuters claimed. Financial details and stake holdings in the new entity were still under discussion. Sony is also considering a withdrawal from overseas PC markets among its options, a source told Reuters. The Nikkei business daily reported that the Vaio PC unit would be sold for up to 50bn yen (£301m) and that Sony would retain only a small stake in the new company.  FREE AppDownload
This is why it's huge news today that CVS Caremark announced it would soon stop selling tobacco products at its more than 7,600 stores. In its announcement, management warned that it will lose around $2 billion in annual revenues from this decision. That breaks down to around $1.5 billion in tobacco sales and $500 million in sales of other products to tobacco customers. This represents around 17 cents per share. To the bottom line, it represent $0.06 to $0.09 in earnings per share. In fiscal 2012, CVS had $123 billion in net sales and earned $3.03 per share from continuing operations. Shares are down by around 1.6% in premarket trading. Management says the sales ban will go into effect October 1. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eduardo MunozLONDON (Reuters) - Fast-growing trading house Mercuria, led by two former Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; executives, emerged as the front-runner to buy the physical commodities unit of JPMorgan &lt;JPM.N&gt;, one of the most powerful oil and metals desks on Wall Street, two sources told Reuters. JPMorgan decided to sell its multi-billion dollar physical commodities division last year under rising regulatory scrutiny and political pressure on banks to retreat to their core business of lending instead of speculating in raw materials. In recent weeks, Mercuria was competing with Australian bank Macquarie Group &lt;MQG.AX&gt; and private equity manager Blackstone Group LP &lt;BX.N&gt; to buy JPMorgan's unit, sources has said. "This week, JPM entered into exclusive talks with Mercuria," one of the sources familiar with the process told Reuters. The final deal could take a few months to conclude, one of the sources said. The deal, if agreed, would catapult Mercuria into the top tier of trading houses with Glencore Xstrata &lt;GLEN.L&gt;, Vitol and Trafigura &lt;TRAFGF.UL&gt;. Private and lightly regulated trading houses have benefited most from a major retreat by banks from commodities trading over the past two years. Companies like Glencore and Russian oil major Rosneft &lt;ROSN.MM&gt; hired whole teams of traders from banks such as Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; but Mercuria could become the first trading house to absorb an entire physical division from a bank. JPMorgan and Mercuria both declined to comment. Mercuria was founded by Marco Dunand and Daniel Jaeggi, who both worked as executives at Goldman Sachs and then trading house Sempra, which was later bought by JPMorgan from the Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt;. In less than a decade, Dunand and Jaeggi have built Mercuria from a relatively small trading house into one of the world's largest oil traders with annual revenues of around $100 billion and 700 traders around the globe. The deal value has yet to be agreed and will depend to a large extent on the valuation of large stockpiles of oil and metals the bank holds, one source said. In documents circulated to potential buyers, JPMorgan valued its physical commodity business at $3.3 billion, with an annual income of $750 million. JPMorgan paid nearly $2 billion to buy the largest part of the business from RBS in 2010. (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov, Oleg Vukmanovic, Veronica Brown, Henning Gloystein and David Sheppard; Editing by William Hardy and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesCVS will remove all tobacco products from its 7,600 pharmacies nationwide by October 1 at a cost of up to $2 billion in annual revenue, The Associated Press reports. "Ending the sale of cigarettes and tobacco products at CVS/pharmacy is the right thing for us to do for our customers and our company to help people on their path to better health," CVS President and CEO Larry J. Merlo said. "Put simply, the sale of tobacco products is inconsistent with our purpose. "As the delivery of health care evolves with an emphasis on better health outcomes, reducing chronic disease and controlling costs, CVS Caremark is playing an expanded role in providing care through our pharmacists and nurse practitioners," Merlo continued. "The significant action we're taking today by removing tobacco products from our retail shelves further distinguishes us in how we are serving our patients, clients and health care providers and better positions us for continued growth in the evolving health care marketplace." From Alice Park of Time reports: The move addresses what public health officials and pharmacists have long seen as a hypocritical practice: patients picking up medications to treat disease, not to mention smoking-cessation products, can also add a pack of cigarettes to their purchase.  Smoking is the leading cause of premature disease and death in the U.S. with more than 480,000 deaths annually. FREE AppDownload
Jiji Press/AFP/FileDeaf composer Mamoru Samuragoch, pictured in Hiroshima, western Japan, in December 2013A deaf composer dubbed Japan's Beethoven confessed on Wednesday to hiring someone to write his most iconic works, leaving duped broadcaster NHK red-faced, and casting a cloud over a figure skater set to dance to his music in Sochi. Mamoru Samuragochi, 50, shot to fame in the mid-1990s with classical compositions that provided the soundtrack to video games including Resident Evil, despite having had a degenerative condition that affected his hearing. Samuragochi, who has also spells his name Samuragoch, became completely deaf at the age of 35 but continued to work, notably producing "Symphony No.1, Hiroshima", a tribute to those killed in the 1945 atomic bombing of the city. In 2001 Time magazine published an interview with him, calling him a "digital-age Beethoven." "I listen to myself," Samuragochi told the magazine. "If you trust your inner sense of sound, you create something that is truer. It is like communicating from the heart. Losing my hearing was a gift from God." His reputation grew when public broadcaster NHK aired a documentary in March last year entitled "Melody of the Soul", in which it showed the musician touring the tsunami-battered Tohoku region to meet survivors and those who lost relatives in the 2011 catastrophe. The film shows Samuragochi playing with a small girl whose mother was killed in the disaster and apparently composing a requiem for her, despite his own struggles with illness. Viewers flocked in their tens of thousands to buy his Hiroshima piece, which became an anthemic tribute to the tsunami-hit region's determination to get back on its feet, known informally as the symphony of hope. But on Wednesday morning the composer's life was revealed to have been a fraud, and an NHK anchor offered a fulsome apology for having aired the documentary. "Through his lawyer, Mamoru Samuragochi confessed early Wednesday that he had asked another composer to create his iconic works," said the anchor. "NHK has reported on him in news and features programmes but failed to realise that he had not composed the works himself, despite our research and checking." The statement, seen by AFP, offered an unqualified mea culpa. "Samuragochi is deeply sorry as he has betrayed fans and disappointed others. He knows he could not possibly make any excuse for what he has done," it said. The broadcaster quoted Samuragochi as saying his deception had begun nearly two decades ago. "I started hiring the person to compose music for me around 1996, when I was asked to make movie music for the first time," he said. "I had to ask the person to help me for more than half the work because the ear condition got worse." He paid for the commission, said NHK, adding the real composer, whom it has not identified, has not yet responded to requests for comment. Japanese Winter Olympics medal hopeful, figure skater Daisuke Takahashi, has also been caught up in the row. Takahashi's programme in Sochi includes a dance to a sonatina allegedly composed by Samuragochi that was unveiled two years ago. Nippon Columbia Co, which has sold his CDs and DVDs, said in a statement that the company was "flabbergasted and deeply infuriated" by his revelation. "We had been assured by him that he himself composed the works," it said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA woman skates on ice at Wollman Rink at Central Park in New York January 22, 2014.  New York received about five inches of snow last night, and residents will have to deal with the subsequently melt and freezing rain this morning. Commuters are already facing obstacles in the form fo snow drifts and ice. A winter storm warning is in effect, and according to the National Weather Service, New York City is in for a combination of snow, sleet, and freezing rain until at least 3 p.m.  Forecasters expect about 3 to 5 inches of snow and about one-tenth of an inch of ice. As the snow pounded other parts of the country yesterday, numerous flights were canceled. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Renzo Apostoli Good morning! Earlier today markets were flat. Now we're starting to see some slippage. Asian markets were fine. But US futures are down a little bit, and European stocks are mixed. Germany is down, while France and Italy are higher. It's going to be a good day for economic data, as we have the ADP jobs report (at 8:15) as well as non-manufacturing PMI and ISM reports. There are also plenty of earnings coming out today, including from Disney, Coca-Cola, and Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/RednuhtThere's been concern about the US economic data, and the durability of the recovery of late. As such, both of today's economic datapoints will be watched closely. Via Calculated Risk: • At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for January. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 170,000 payroll jobs added in January, down from 238,000 in December. • At 10:00 AM, the ISM non-Manufacturing Index for January. The consensus is for a reading of 53.9, up from 53.0 in December. Note: Above 50 indicates expansion, below 50 contraction.  Both are important. The ADP, of course, is something of a preview for Friday's Non-Farm Payrolls report (remember, the December report was weak) and the ISM non-Manufacturing Index will be looked to to see if there's any balance against the manufacturing report on Monday. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERSLONDON (Reuters) - Ailing emerging markets are caught between a rock and a hard place - Washington andBeijing to be more precise. For much of 2013, the investor narrative was that currencies and stock markets from Mumbai to Moscow andIstanbul to Johannesburg were running aground as Federal Reserve largesse ebbed away. As the Fed slows its printing presses and reins in global liquidity via higher U.S. Treasury yields and a rising dollar, those markets that gained most from the swell of quantitative easing would suffer from its withdrawal, it was argued. And so it played out. Many of the frothier and most exposed emerging markets shook as 10-year U.S. yields surged more than 100 basis points last year to top 3.0 percent as 2014 dawned and the Fed, finally, embarked on its first 'taper' in January. Yet the odd thing about the stampede out of emerging markets this year - which sent Turkey's lira, Argentina's peso, Russia's rouble and South Africa's rand all plunging last month - is that it's happened just as Treasury yields went into reverse. They have dropped almost half a percentage point since January 1. The burst of Treasury buying was all the more remarkable given that the Fed has been buying fewer bonds and foreign central banks - many needing hard cash reserves to intervene in defense of their currencies - were selling more than $20 billion of Treasury securities in the week to last Wednesday. The causality goes a little haywire at this point. Did the start of the actual Fed bond taper last month feed such volatility on emerging and western equity markets as to prompt a counter-intuitive flight to safety in U.S. Treasuries? It makes sense if you watch parallel gains in gold and Swiss francs, for example, and a surge in seismographs such as Wall St's equity volatility index, the Vix &lt;.VIX&gt;. Or has the financial shock and currency-supporting interest rate rises in developing economies been bad enough to darken the economic outlook everywhere? That's why attention turns from America's rock to China's hard place - or maybe China's 'hard landing' more pertinently. "Emerging markets should be much more concerned about the 'China taper' than the Fed taper," said Crossborder Capital Managing Director Mike Howell. While long-standing China slowdown fears eased somewhat late last year, business surveys in January indicate another stall as authorities push on toward a more consumption-driven model and aim to tame the recent credit boom by squeezing the lending activities of its 'shadow banks'. Apart from monthly data from Beijing, a halving last month of world shipping prices &lt;.BADI&gt; - often seen as a play on Chinese demand - reveals some considerable alarm on that front. And to the extent that Chinese sovereign credit default swaps are any proxy for systemic and debt-related concerns, their resurgence over the past two months is also revealing. So while the fall in U.S. Treasury yields this year so far could act as some automatic stabilizer of emerging markets, the return of China angst pops up to replace it. "The two big threats facing EM have turned upside down," said Citi strategist David Lubin, adding that the dance between both influences could end up depressing world growth at the margins and make it increasingly difficult for many developing countries to export their way out of trouble. "The growth model, once so reliable and impressive, is in flux," Lubin said. This is not going away easily. If there's a rebound in growth in China after its new year celebrations, the likelihood is reduced global stress and repeated Fed tapering will lift Treasury yields again. If not, pressure may mount anyway. To be sure, there appears to be little panic among long-term investors who still insist cheaper emerging market equity will pay off over time in economies with higher growth potential, better demographics and better balance sheets than much of the developed world. "The long-term investment case hasn't dramatically changed," Franklin Templeton's veteran emerging markets investor Mark Mobius said last week. There are good reasons at least why full-blown sovereign and systemic crises can be avoided, unlike the late 1990s of rigid exchange rates and modest hard cash reserves. But the chillier international winds will expose any deeper structural and political flaws in capital-hungry emerging economies. And less patient mutual funds - where net $14 billion of outflows last month alone exceeded 2013 as a whole - may not want to hang about for that long. One choice may be to switch between interest-rate sensitive markets of the 'Fragile Five', Turkey, Brazil, India,Indonesia and South Africa, and those more hip to global growth at large, such as South Korea, Russia and Chinaitself. "I'd be more wary of the latter group right now," said Deutsche Bank emerging equities strategist John Paul Smith. "It may not be the time to turn incrementally more bearish but the outlook for the year ahead is just not positive." (Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Australian governmentWeather anomalies over the past six months, which Goldman believes are distorting inflation data.The key phrases in the RBA’s decision on interest rates yesterday were that monetary policy is “appropriately configured” and that the “most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability in interest rates”. Many take this as a signal that the bank’s easing cycle is done (it was even the headline in the FT’s report on the decision) and that the next move in rates will be up, towards the end of the year or early next. Goldman Sachs takes another view – that the RBA will still have to cut mid-year – built on an assessment that Australia’s economy is still pretty subdued, and a belief that the surprisingly high inflation number, at 2.7%, for the last quarter was partly driven by extreme weather. GS chief economist Tim Toohey and his team summarise lay this out in a note to clients today in which they move their forecast for the next rate cut from March to July this year, and also neatly encapsulate the domestic challenges for Australia here: The bottom line is that weather anomalies have temporarily distorted the data, underlying inflation is around the mid-point of the RBA’s target band, inflation expectations are near a 20-year low, domestic demand remains tepid, employment is contracting, and the biggest challenge of Australia’s long expansion – the normalization of the commodity prices and investment booms – lies ahead in 2014 and 2015. GS believes the domestic economy remains exceedingly patchy and with some big government spending reductions likely in May, the RBA will need to step in again before too long. “We continue to believe the combination of declining mining investment, declining commodity prices, a still disappointing acceleration in non-mining activity, and the announcement of the first phase of the new government’s fiscal consolidation plans will be the catalysts to see the RBA reduce interest rates once more this cycle,” the note says. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Here's more for the argument that the ECB needs to seriously step on it. Retail sales in Europe tanked in December. From Eurostat: In December 2013 compared with November 2013, the seasonally adjusted volume of retail trade1 fell by 1.6% in the euro area (EA17) and by 0.8% in the EU282 , according to estimates from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. In November retail trade increased by 0.9% and 0.8% respectively. In December 2013 compared with December 20124 the retail sales index decreased by 1.0% in the euro area and rose by 0.1% in the EU28. The average volume of retail trade for the year 2013, compared with 2012, fell by 0.9% in the euro area and by 0.2% in the EU28. The Eurozone has several signs of a flagging economy and a risk of deflation. This is just the latest. Eurostat FREE AppDownload
Interesting nugget here from BTIG's Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG): Contrary to what you may hear, 10% corrections are not ordinary. In fact, as one might infer, most of the corrections cited occurred during the late 1960s and 1970s. Since then and outside of bear markets, they have been somewhat unusual (although Europe caused one in 2010 and Washington caused one in 2011). “Normal corrections” tend to be anywhere from 5-8%, which is basically what we had/are having. If that’s the case, and our underlying fundamental views have not shifted (they have not), then stepping into markets down more than 5% should prove rewarding over time. Dan Greenhaus FREE AppDownload
Here's Germany's biggest newspaper. Today's @BILD front page: Greeks are richer than us, but German gov't is planning to give them further aid. pic.twitter.com/diuLnkvWJx FREE AppDownload
The data coming out of Spain continues to be very impressive. While other Eurozone countries continue to struggle (France and Italy come to mind quickly on that) Spain has been taking off. The latest service-sector PMI report, which came out this morning, corroborates this. The Spanish service sector made a positive start to 2014 as both activity and new orders continued to expand solidly. Moreover, employment stabilised, ending a sequence of job shedding which stretched back to March 2008. However, companies still discounted output prices sharply, while input costs rose following no change in December. The headline seasonally adjusted Business Activity Index rose to 54.9 in January from 54.2 in December, signalling a third successive monthly increase in activity in the sector. Furthermore, the solid expansion was the sharpest since July 2007. A number of respondents indicated that improving economic conditions had supported rises in business activity. Here's the key chart: Markit FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
