20th Century Fox In Marvel Comics, which is owned by Disney, the Avengers defeated the X-Men in a recent crossover known simply as "Avengers vs X-Men." In the box-office battle between Disney's recently dominant Avengers franchise and 20th Century Fox's X-Men, however, the mutants may be making a comeback. "X-Men: Days Of Future Past," which opened on Friday, is on track to earn the fifth-highest Memorial Day weekend gross at $110 million in the U.S. Although those numbers are not exceptional, it's a decent start, and very strong reviews should help generate a long run. Its timing seems good, too, stealing the spotlight from "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" and "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" and not facing another comic book movie until "Guardians of the Galaxy" in August. And it's got star power, with Hugh Jackman and Jennifer Lawrence, plus Michael Fassbender, Patrick Stewart, Ian McKellen, Ellen Page, Peter Dinklage, Chinese superstar Fan Bingbing and more. Most importantly, the new X-Men movie appears to be an effective step in launching a new and marketable superhero universe. That is, after all, what every studio has been trying to do since Marvel Studios, which was bought by Mouse House in 2009, launched its popular and prolific Avengers franchise — including Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, and Hulk, and their super team — which has grossed over $6.3 billion since 2008 and is expanding rapidly in spinoffs and sequels. "Marvel's The Avengers" (2012) alone is the third-highest grossing movie ever at $1.5 billion. Catching Disney has seemed nearly impossible in recent years. Sony, which licensed Spider-Man from Marvel in the '90s, has released a string of hit movies but gotten mixed critical reception and struggled to launch an expanded universe. "Spider-Man 3" (2007) was widely panned; "The Amazing Spider-Man" (2012) was better; "The Amazing-Spider-Man 2" (2014) was also panned, with critics assailing its lame attempts to set up spinoffs that no one cares about like "The Sinister Six" and "Venom" as part of a plan to release Spider-Man-related movies every year. Warner Bros., which owns DC Comics characters like Batman, Superman, plus less popular superheroes, has a lot to prove as it relaunches or introduces for the first time all characters but Superman in a sequel to the mediocre "Man of Steel" (2013) called "Batman V Superman: Dawn Of Justice" (2016). Fox, which licensed X-Men and Fantastic Four characters from Marvel in the '90s, lost momentum in its X-Men franchise after the high selling but poorly reviewed sequel "X-Men: The Last Stand" (2006) and spinoff "X-Men Origins: Wolverine" (2009). But it quietly started a comeback with retro relaunch "X-Men: First Class" (2011) and an improved sequel for Jackman in "The Wolverine," which were well reviewed and successful at $350 million and $415 million gross but still small by Avengers standards. Enter "X-Men: Days Of Future Past." Possibly Fox's most expensive movie ever at an estimated $250 million, the movie is an ambitious attempt to take the X-Men back to the big leagues in not just this movie but also the spinoffs and sequels the studio is already planning or hoping for. "It really needs to be one of the top five films of the summer, in terms of grosses. And that's just the bottom line," Jeff Bock, senior box office analyst at Exhibitor Relations Co., told CNBC. "It has to succeed on a major level." Will it succeed? It's got a long way to go on ticket sales, but again, good word of mouth should help. Directed by Bryan Singer in his first X-Men movie since the popular "X2," "X-Men: Days Of Future Past" has an engaging plot that is surprisingly comprehensible for a time travel story, complex and believable characters, smart dialogue and acting, sharp direction, well-crafted settings from the desolate future to the fantastic 1970s, and great action including the jaw-dropping Quicksilver sequence everyone's talking about. It really is better than Disney's latest offering, the disappointingly dumb though popular "Captain America: The Winter Soldier," in every nearly every facet. What's more, Singer and writer-producer Simon Kinberg adeptly bring together stars from the old and new X-Men franchises, making Jackman's Wolverine part of the new franchise; close off the old franchise in a satisfying loop that reverses some of the problems of "X-Men: The Last Stand"; and clear the way for the new franchise to advance into exciting and uncharted territory. Now Singer has urged restraint with Avengers comparisons, telling SciFiNow:  “[Disney's Marvel movies] are huge, colossal franchises that are peppered with all these other characters that are, again, extremely famous and so yes, Fox will at some point synergise [the X-Men] characters and that process is slowly beginning, but it’s very different than taking movies that gross close to a billion dollars and then pushing them together into these giant broad movies." But the comparison may not be too far-fetched. Fox, under Kinberg's lead, plans to follow this movie with a relaunched "Fantastic Four" in 2015, "X-Men: Apocalypse" in 2016, with talk of a Wolverine sequel, an X-Force spinoff, Deadpool and Gambit movies, a crossover between Fantastic Four and X-Men, and more. Notably, Jackman, after previously saying the next Wolverine movie would be his last, now says he will reconsider since "the whole thing feels fresher to me than ever." Speaking as one of the all-important 18–35 male demographic, I will say that I am at least as excited for the next X-Men movies as for any superhero franchise. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeBillionaire financier and Berkshire Hathaway Chief Executive Warren Buffett attends the national launch of the BYD M6 vehicle in Beijing September 29, 2010. For Berkshire Hathaway, succession is a huge issue. Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett is 83-years-old. He appears sharp, energetic, healthy, and dedicated to a few more decades of success at Berkshire. But eventually, his time leading the company will end. Given that he's such a uniquely talented investor and businessman, it's natural for investors to worry. During the annual shareholder meeting in Omaha, Warren Buffett and Vice Chairman Charlie Munger addressed the issue of succession for Buffett, Munger, and Ajit Jain, head of the company's reinsurance division.  Below are my notes on succession-related questions, along with responses from Warren and Charlie. Question: Has the board discussion turned to replacing your friend and vice chairman Charlie Munger? Warren Buffett: Charlie is my canary in the coal mine. Charlie turned 90, and I find it encouraging how well he is handling middle age. I hope to do the same thing myself. They always talk about replacing me, but they never talk about replacing Charlie.  Whoever replaces me will probably find someone they work closely with. We saw it with Don Keough and Roberto Goizueta at Coca-Cola, and Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Capital Cities. They worked better together, and I think partnership enhances things. But frankly, I have a lot of trouble thinking of anyone that could replace Charlie. Charlie Munger: I don't think the world has much to worry about. Most 90-year-old men are gone soon enough. In short, Munger is irreplaceable. He's a master of worldly wisdom, and he's been an invaluable counselor to Buffett.  Question: Matt Rose recently shifted from CEO of BNSF to executive chairman. Does that change anything at Berkshire? What about succession for Ajit Jain? Buffett: The only succession for Ajit will be reincarnation. We won't get another Ajit, but fortunately, we won't have to anytime soon. The situation with Matt doesn't have any implication for Berkshire. I have letters from every one of our managers telling me what I should do if something happens to them. I have their ideas. I wouldn't try to discern anything about parent-company succession based on subsidiary succession. Munger: I don't worry over the fears of succession problems. Folks have worse problems in life. We're doing very well. Jain is also irreplaceable. Fortunately, he's only 62, so hopefully he won't retire anytime soon. Matt Rose, though Buffett didn't confirm anything, is certainly a leading candidate for the next CEO. During the meeting, Buffett asked Rose to help answer questions several times.  Question: Todd Combs and Ted Weschler have gone from managing $3 billion to $7 billion, but still less than 10% of your total investment portfolio. Given both men have seemingly been involved in more than just investing, will Todd and Ted join you and Charlie on stage here at some point? Buffett: I got through college answering fewer questions than that. It's under $7 billion now. We will adjust that upward over time. They, as well as I, are seeing that it gets more difficult as the sums get larger. And it's still far better to move more money to them and away from me. And they are tremendous additions to Berkshire -- they know a lot of business. Ted and Todd have both been very helpful in doing things beyond their investment management duties that added value. That will continue as they like it, and they don't ask for extra comp for it. They know how I think, so they can get deals done. Obviously, this is a strong vote of confidence for both Weschler and Combs, whom shareholders should expect to shoulder the company's investment decisions when Buffett eventually steps down.  Rose, Weschler, and Combs aren't the company's only prominent leaders. Greg Abel, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Energy (formerly MidAmerican Energy) is also a leading candidate for the next CEO. During the meeting, Buffett called on Abel several times to help answer questions about the energy business. Clearly, Buffett trusts him. Tracy Britt Cool, though fairly young, works closely with Buffett, and she's gained his trust and respect. It's encouraging to see Berkshire developing another generation of leaders, though I'm in no hurry for a transition. FREE AppDownload
Linda R. Olsson Inc., RealtorThe Kennedy family's "Winter White House" in Palm Beach, Fla. has officially hit the real estate market for a whopping $38.5 million, according to Curbed. The 15,000-square-foot oceanfront home has 11 bedrooms, 12 bathrooms, and amazing views of the beach — not to mention an impressive history. The mansion was originally built in 1925 and sold to Joseph F. Kennedy (JFK's dad) for $120,000 in 1933. While the late President Kennedy technically never owned the home himself, his family would often visit for holidays, where they would "play tennis and spend time on the beach," according to the Sun Sentinel. JFK even held press conferences and presidential meetings inside the mansion. The property was saved from being torn down by its current owner, investment bank CEO John K. Castle, who spent $6 million and two years restoring it. From the look of the listing photos with real estate agent Linda R. Olsson, it was well worth it. FREE AppDownload
The new newspaper numbers are out. As this chart from Mark Penn of Carpe Diem shows, they're even worse than the last ones. On an inflation-adjusted basis, print advertising revenue in newspapers is now 14% below the 1950 level. When digital revenue is included, the number is only modestly higher. And it's still headed in the wrong direction. Carpe Diem, Newspaper Association of America  Why does newspaper ad spending continue to plummet? Because fewer and fewer people are reading newspapers. This chart from a recent UK survey on media habits shows what is happening. The survey charted favorite media by age. Some old people—those over the age of 75—still like newspapers, but very few younger people do. And once you get below the age of 35, no one favors newspapers—newspapers literally don't register on the chart. Ofcom, Benedict Evans The last, best hope for those in the newspaper business is that today's young people, who aren't reading print newspapers, will start reading them eventually — when they become older and more sophisticated. This is almost certainly wishful thinking. The shift to digital is generational: People who grew up reading newspapers are still reading them, because media habits die hard. People who grew up without newspapers, meanwhile, aren't reading them, and probably never will. In 10-20 years, today's 16-34 year old consumers will make up the sweet spot of the consumer market. If this group were ever going to develop a love of print, we would likely have seen it by now. More likely, this generation of consumers will never care about newspapers. As the generation of consumers who do care about print, meanwhile — increasingly old people (like me) who grew up on print — continues to age, the pressure on traditional print publications will continue to increase. Some hope that the $17 billion of ad revenue the newspapers have left will eventually begin to increase again as today's teenagers and millennials grow up and starting reading print. More likely, the real message in the charts above is that the newspapers still have $17 billion of print revenue left to lose. SEE ALSO: The Future Of Digital, 2013 FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Alex Today is National Accounting Day, and it's the perfect time to celebrate the brave souls who balance our books, sort out our files, and lead the way through tax season. To thank the pros who crunch the numbers so we don't have to, we polled accountants and auditors and scoured the web to round up 25 jokes that only accountants will love. 1. Welcome to the accounting department, where everybody counts. 2. What does CPA stand for? Can't Pass Again. 3. It's accrual world. 4. It's 4:04. Do you know where your auditor is? 5. Where do homeless accountants live? In a tax shelter. 6. A fine is a tax for doing wrong. A tax is a fine for doing well. 7. How do you know you have a great CPA? He has a tax loophole named after him. 8. What do you call an accountant with an opinion? An auditor. 9. An accountant is someone who solves a problem you didn't know you had in a way you don’t understand. 10. Why did the accountant cross the road? Because she looked in the files and did what they did last year. 11. How does Santa's accountant value his sleigh? Net Present Value. 12. What do accountants suffer from that ordinary people don’t? Depreciation. 13. Why are accountants always so calm, composed, and methodical? They have strong internal controls. 14. Be audit you can be. 15. What do you call a financial controller who always works through lunch, takes two days holiday every two years, is in the office every weekend, and leaves every night after 10 p.m.? Lazy. 16. What do you call a trial balance that doesn't balance? A late night. 17. An economist is someone who didn't have enough personality to become an accountant. 18. Why do economists exist? So accountants have someone to laugh at. 19. What's the difference between an accountant and a lawyer? The accountant knows he's boring. 20. What do you call a group financial controller who's lost his job? Bob. 21. How can you tell when the chief accountant is getting soft? When he actually listens to marketing before saying no. 22. There are just two rules for creating a successful accountancy business: 1. Don't tell them everything you know. 2. [Redacted] 23. What's an actuary? An accountant without the sense of humor. 24. What do actuaries do to liven up their office party? Invite an accountant. 25. Four Laws of Accounting:        1. Trial balances don't.      2. Bank reconciliations never do.      3. Working capital does not.       4. Return on investments never will. Looking for more accountant jokes? We found those that didn't come from friends and family at The Alternative Accountant, Crush The CPA Exam, Accounting Courses Online, Jokes4Us, and Pinterest. FREE AppDownload
The millennial generation is growing up, and they're going to have a huge effect on the country's economic future. There is no universal definition of exactly when the millennial generation begins or ends. Goldman Sachs, in a recent set of reports, chose to set the cutoffs as people born between 1980 and 2000. Sociologists William Strauss and Neil Howe, widely credited with coming up with the term millennial, define the generation as people born between 1982 and 2004. Historically, 16- to 24-year-olds have always had higher unemployment than their older cohorts, but unemployment for younger millennials has skyrocketed since the financial crisis and is only slowly returning to normal: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Labor force participation has been flat or dropping for teenagers and young adults for a while, with millennials less likely to be in the labor force than teenagers and young adults of past generations. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Goldman Sachs Millennials are coming into their 30s, which means they will be an increasingly important consumer group, as seen in this Goldman Sachs chart: Goldman Sachs Pew Research Center Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs This is a result of the culture of health prevalent among this generation: Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Millennials are more likely than other generations to share their opinions on the things they buy using emerging social-media technologies: Goldman Sachs Here's some demographic background on this rising generation. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau A higher proportion of 18- to 24-year-olds are going to college now than at any time in the past: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the National Center for Education Statistics Relatedly, older millennials and Gen-Xers are better educated than their parents and grandparents: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey Nine of the 10 cities with the highest proportion of people between 16 and 34 are college towns: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey   Overall, while millennials face economic headwinds, they're poised to become a highly technologically capable consumer force in the coming years. FREE AppDownload
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has a comprehensive new ranking of 30 cities in the world that offer the widest opportunities for businesses and the people who live there. PwC's sixth edition of its "Cities of Opportunity" report examined intellectual capital and innovation; technology readiness; how accessible a city is to the rest of the world; transportation and infrastructure; health, safety, and security; sustainability and the natural environment; demographics and livability; economic clout; ease of doing business; and cost. We took a closer look at the top 11 cities on the list, what got them there, and where they have room to improve. Sean Pavone / ShutterstockThis artistic hub in Germany scored particularly high for public transport and health, safety, and security. Berlin — Germany's largest city — tied for No. 3 for sustainability and the natural environment. It ranks No. 4 for demographics and livability. Anybody who's ever visited Berlin knows that the massive underground transit, known as the U-Bahn, is unbelievably clean and efficient. Berlin is a safe place for tourists, who can take in the city's vibrant art scene. More and more businesses are attracted to Berlin these days. Just last year, The New York Times reported that the city was having a "coming-of-age moment." From The Times: As it attempts to evolve from a city that relies heavily on government support to one with sustainable industries, companies like Google and Etsy have opened up offices, joining technology startups like SoundCloud and ResearchGate, giving credit to the hype that Berlin is becoming a contender for Europe’s Silicon Valley. The PwC report noted that Berlin had risen to No. 12 from No. 16 in its last report for technology readiness, "confirming its steadily rising reputation as a high-tech hub in Europe." Flickr/chicagogeekThe Windy City of nearly 3 million people is one of the biggest cities in America, and it earned high marks in the PwC study for cost, quality of life, and air quality. The city made the top 10 for ease of doing business, which means big corporations are attracted to the Midwestern metropolis. Indeed, there are nearly 30 Fortune 500 companies in the Chicago area, including the massive aircraft company Boeing. Chicago has a lot to offer culturally, and it appears to have rebounded from a particularly bloody crime wave in the summer of 2012. Earlier this year, The New York Times published a 36-hour guide for Chicago visitors. "As the temperatures fall, the city changes from a playground to a cultural promised land — a place of fine and varied food, inventive theater and one of the country’s great live music scenes," The Times reported. Unfortunately, the Windy City fell out of the top 10 in transportation and infrastructure. It's not entirely clear from the report why Chicago fared poorly in transportation, but last year the city had a disastrous rollout of a new fare-card system for the Chicago Transit Authority system of trains and buses. As for infrastructure, Chicago pledged in 2012 to invest billions to fix its crumbling underground water pipes, school buildings, and city buildings. Of course, big projects like that take time. REUTERS/Jeremy PiperSydney’s benefits are obvious: incredible weather, an abundance of beautiful beaches, and Australia’s favorable “work-life balance.” It consistently ranks highly in safety, friendliness, and quality of living surveys. In PwC's rankings, Sydney hit No. 1 for both sustainability and livability. As the financial, manufacturing, and cultural hub of Australia, Sydney has a strong, thriving economy and plenty of business opportunities. However, housing prices and the cost of living are, like all of Australia, high. For reference, rent for a one-bedroom in Sydney costs about $2,100 a month, while a pair of Levi's jeans will run you $100.  Regular daily expenses are 16% more expensive than the world average, making it the 12th most expensive city in the world. Christopher LanceDespite the incredible population density of Hong Kong, the city-state ranks high for quality of life and has the fifth-highest life expectancy in the world. The city has an exceptional public transportation system, with over 90% of daily travels occurring on public transport. The Index of Economic Freedom has ranked Hong Kong's economy as No. 1, in part because of its low taxes and sophisticated international financial market. Indeed, PwC rated Hong Kong No. 2 for ease of doing business. Hong Kong’s biggest problems are, unsurprisingly, pollution and air quality, which have gotten significantly worse in the past 20 years. Peter AdermarkStockholm is one of the fastest-growing cities in Europe with both its population and new businesses ballooning over the past 15 years. One of the city’s biggest innovations was creating a publicly owned broadband network in the mid-'90s, which has developed the booming tech industry that has spawned Spotify and DICE Games. "We have a very interesting mix of life science companies, information, and communications-technology companies, clean-tech companies, and the entertainment industries," Stockholm's vice mayor for innovation, Ulla Hamilton, told PwC. "That creates an innovative climate."  The city is exceptionally green. Sustainability has been a heavy focus of the city for more than 60 years, as it has worked to develop public transportation, clean water, and a heating district system that keeps pollution out of the environment. Immigration has become one of Stockholm’s — and Sweden’s — biggest challenges, as the influx of asylum-seekers over the past decade has coincided with a rise in crime. James WhitesmithParis is highly regarded for its libraries, respected universities, and high rates of literacy and education, ranking No. 1 in PwC’s rankings of Intellectual Capital and Innovation. Public transportation in the city is exceptional with 14 metro lines, a network of regional trains that connect the city to the suburbs, and express lanes exclusively for buses. While it's certainly an interesting place to live — full of the world's best museums — obscenely expensive housing, poor car traffic, and record unemployment have dragged down the city in recent years. Flickr/Jitze CouperusNot surprisingly, the heart of Silicon Valley was one of the top three cities for intellectual capital and innovation. San Francisco — population 825,000, compared to 8 million in New York City — is an example of a small city with outsize economic influence, according to the PwC report. Some of the world's biggest companies are based in and around San Francisco, and big companies like Google have major outposts there.  While the city got a relatively good ranking for cost (No. 6), the city is getting more expensive. As a result, families there are fleeing for the suburbs, the PwC report notes. "[I]n places like San Francisco, Seattle, and Berlin, families are deserting the city," the report says. "As cities become more expensive and apartments smaller, the suburbs start looking better." ValeStock / Shutterstock.comDespite Toronto's crack-smoking mayor, it has a reputation for providing an excellent quality of life. In the PwC report, the Canadian city made the top three for health, safety, and security and transportation, and infrastructure; it was ranked No. 4 for ease of doing business. The city is considered one of the safest in North America, and it ranked No. 1 in the PwC report for public transport systems. However, it ranked No. 13 for traffic congestion and No. 12 for ease of commute. "Toronto’s rankings in these two variables also reflect the city’s current reality, in which the lack of a fully integrated regional transportation system is one of the leading challenges for Toronto," the PwC report stated. Patrick Bingham-Hall/WOHAThis sovereign city-state ranked in the top three for city gateway, transportation and infrastructure, and ease of doing business. Singapore made big advances in this year's edition of PwC's "Cities of Opportunity," going up four spots to third place and dominating transportation and infrastructure. As the Lonely Planet travel guide notes, "Singapore has fantastic public transport, with a tangled web of bus and train (MRT) routes taking you to the doorsteps of most sights." It's also possible to island-hop near Singapore by taking one of the city's many ferries. Singapore established superior infrastructure and transportation when it was a British colony prior to 1963, according to the Encyclopedia of the Nations. In the '70s and '80s, the city-state reacted to increased traffic problems by investing heavily in its mass transit system. While Singapore falls out of the top 10 in sustainability and the natural environment, it may do better on that front in the next PwC report. Just last month, The New York Times reported on a massive new green park in the middle of the city known as the Green Corridor. The park was inspired by New York's High Line, but it's much bigger at 15 miles long. Shutterstock.com / upthebannerWhile New York City didn't finish first in any of the indicator categories, it finished strongly across the board, according to the PwC ranking. The Big Apple was the second-most-desired city for relocation (right after London), and it was in the top three for "ease of doing business" and for "economic clout." New York City is home of the two biggest stock exchanges in the world, the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, and it's a hub for a variety of industries, from finance to fashion to publishing to technology. The city isn't the easiest place to live or even visit, though. The Big Apple ranked 16th for transportation and infrastructure. The PwC reported cited the city's rising costs of public transportation (specifically, the MTA) and the difficulty of getting taxis. New York has a higher cost of living than other cities in the survey, such as Los Angeles, Chicago, and Beijing. Just last month, CNN reported it was the third-most-expensive city in the world to rent an apartment. Dan Kitwood / GettyLondon — the world's hottest city — finished first in technology readiness, city gateway, and economic clout. It jumped from the eighth spot for technology readiness in PwC's last report to No. 1 this time, in part because it provides internet access in many schools. The British capital is developing its tech sector, particularly in health technology. The British city's six international airports probably helped it ascend to the top ranking for city gateway. You can even hop on the high-speed Eurostar train and get from Paris to London in a couple of hours. As the PwC report notes, "More than ever, most roads (and flights) lead to London." England has been creating wealth for its citizens, and the world, for hundreds of years, the PwC report notes. Some citizens have more wealth than others, of course. Earlier this month, a new study of the world's wealthiest people found London had more billionaires than any other city. For people who aren't billionaires, London might be a tough place to live, as it ranked 15th in cost, which includes cost of living and cost of business occupancy. Just Tuesday, the radio show "Marketplace" asked whether London was becoming too expensive for poor Londoners. The program noted that more foreign investors are buying up luxury apartments there. “We’re the minority of London now,” one single mother told the show. “Londoners don't live in London anymore." FREE AppDownload
Getty/Oli Scarff 2014 was supposed to be the year the U.S. economy "broke out" and achieved growth at a higher rate than we've seen since the crisis ended. Instead, it's been the opposite. It looks like Q1 GDP, after all the revisions are in, will be decidedly negative. Goldman is currently tracking Q1 GDP at -0.7%! Of course, the weather was a well-known factor during the first few months of the year, and other data hasn't been quite as bad. So the negative GDP print doesn't actually tell the story. Nonetheless, at some point there will be no more excuses. In a note to clients, Goldman's top economist Jan Hatzius says it's now showtime for the U.S. economy. This paragraph really captures everything that's going on nicely. In addition to the cyclical short-term factors, the question of whether the U.S. is incapable of above-trend growth is something that's increasingly in vogue among mainstream economists. The bolded lines are ours: The first-quarter disappointment has resonated among economists and market participants for two reasons. First, it brings to mind the 2011 precedent, and more broadly the repeated downside surprises on growth in recent years. Second, it comes in the wake of the debate around “secular stagnation” that was kicked off by the speech by Lawrence Summers at the November 2013 IMF research conference. If the US economy cannot accelerate to a clearly above-trend pace even after the end of the private and public sector retrenchment at a time when monetary policy and financial conditions still look very supportive, then it is certainly appropriate to ask whether the forces holding the economy back are deeper and more structural in nature. In that sense, it is really “showtime for the recovery”, the title of our 2014 outlook article published last November. All the pieces are in place for the U.S. The fiscal drag is fading. Household balance sheets have improved. State and local bloodletting is coming to an end. If not now, when? FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comIstanbul ranks as having one of the world's best skylines.Every city in the world has a unique skyline. But which is the best? International building database Emporis attempts to quantify skylines by looking at the number and height of buildings in the world's major cities. The result is an ever-changing ranking of the world's most impressive cityscapes. To rank skylines, Emporis looks at completed skyscrapers (40 floors or more) and high-rises (12-39 floors), and assigns each building a point value based on its floor count. Taller buildings receive significantly higher values (see Emporis' complete methodology here). TV towers, masts, bridges, and other structures are excluded. Chicago recently fell in the rankings, while Seoul rose two spots.
Jean Georges/Mike Nudelman-Business InsiderWith 65 Michelin-starred restaurants — seven of which hold three star ratings — and more impressive new establishments opening up year after year, New York City is the gourmand capital of America. It's easy to see why so many of the places on our list of the 45 Best Restaurants In America are located in New York. We looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to create the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants. (You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here). We pulled the top New York restaurants from our list, and ranked them here so you can see the best of the Big Apple in one place. FREE AppDownload
There's a certain charm in speaking with a Southern drawl. So we turned to voice and dialect coach Patricia Fletcher to teach us how to do a Southern accent. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Eric Gaillard There is no casino more grand and more famous than the Casino de Monte Carlo in Monaco. The ornate gambling house has been featured in multiple "James Bond" movies and is perhaps the most iconic building in the tiny principality. Cameras are strictly forbidden inside the casino's gilded rooms. But Reuters photographer Eric Gaillard recently gained access to document the casino's inner workings over three days. He wrote on Reuters' photographers' blog: "I was surprised by the lavishly decorated interior, and greeted by the sound of vacuum cleaners as valets cleaned the gaming tables, removing dust and bits of foreign matter that might compromise gambling results. I quickly realize how privileged I am to witness this private world with its codes and particularities." Now step inside the world's grandest casino and meet the people who make it tick.
Business Insider / Skye GouldWomen are having a bigger effect on our world than ever before. In the past year, women have taken on serious new leadership roles around the world: Janet Yellen became chair of the Federal Reserve, Park Geun-hye became president of South Korea, and Angela Ahrendts was tapped to become the head of Apple's retail stores. These moves are redefining women's roles and empowering younger generations of women to step up. From tech to finance to retail, we've found the 30 women who are changing the world. Melia Robinson contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
Produced by Robert Libetti. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
