Thomson ReutersGeneral view of the headquarters of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt By Laura Noonan FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Investors were spared immediate pain on Sunday after the European Central Bank's landmark banking health check did not force massive capital hikes amongst the euro zone's top lenders. But the sector's long-term attractiveness has been damaged by revelations of extra non-performing loans and hidden losses that will dent future profits. The ECB said on Sunday the region's 130 most important lenders were just 25 billion euros ($31.69 billion dollar) short of capital at the end of last year, based on an assessment of how accurately they had valued their assets and whether they could withstand another three years of crisis. The amount of new money needed falls to less than 7 billion euros after factoring in developments in 2014, well shy of the 50 billion euros of extra cash investors surveyed by Goldman Sachs in August were expecting. That means existing investors will only be asked for a fraction of the demand they expected in order to maintain their shareholdings. But, those who read the details of the ECB's proclamation on the health of the euro zone banking sector would have seen more ominous signs too, as the ECB pointed to the amount of work that remains to be done to restore the region's lenders.  CHALLENGES AHEAD The review said an extra 136 billion euros of loans should be classed as non-performing - increasing the tally of non-performing loans by 18 percent - and that an extra 47.5 billion euros of losses should be taken to reflect assets' true value. "Banks face a significant challenge as the sector remains chronically unprofitable and must address their 879 billion euros exposure to non-performing loans as this will tie-up significant amounts of capital," accountancy firm KPMG noted. Others took a bleaker view. "One-fifth of European banks are at risk of insolvency," said Jan Dehn, head of research at Ashmore, referencing the fact that one-fifth of banks fell shy of the ECB's pass mark at the end of last year. He added that the ECB's efforts to boost the euro zone's sluggish growth through pumping money into the economy would not work if banks were too poorly capitalized to lend. After the ECB adjusted banks' capital ratios to reflect supervisors' assessments of banks' asset values, 31 had core capital below the 10 percent mark viewed by investors as a safety threshold, while a further 28 had ratios just 1 percentage point above. "(The results were) positive for equity, fundamentally disappointing on credit due to limited capital raising," Societe Generale strategist Kit Juckes noted. Banks need to lend more to boost their earnings, since they profit from the difference between the ultra-low rate they can borrow money at and the higher rate they charge to customers. Lending can also boost economic growth, which helps banks. Analysts from Citi remarked that the scale of the asset quality review adjustments "matter in terms of future potential regulatory constraints". Banks with big hits to capital ratios as a result of the ECB's adjustments will have less capacity to expand, lend more, or pay dividends. Others found a silver lining in the bad news delivered by the ECB. "We were positively surprised at the severity of the asset quality review, the scale of the additional non-performing loans for example," said Roberto Henriques European credit analyst at JPMorgan. "That additional information showed that they are going to be much more stringent." Several also welcomed the fact that investors at least now had transparent figures they could rely on. "This should ease any concerns about more skeletons the banks' closets," said Geir Lode, head of Hermes Global Equities. "(It's) positive for the markets." That extra information gives investors some protection if the ECB's relatively modest capital demand proves not to be the final word in how much the banks really need. "Everyone will be looking hard to decide whether the ... is too little to shore up the banks that are at risk," said Salman Ahmed, global fixed income strategist at Lombard Odier Investment Managers. "The good news is that the review process is fully transparent. Investors have been handed plenty of data on the banks' assets and are now in a position to judge for themselves."   (Reporting By Laura Noonan; Additional reporting by Nishant Kumar and Carolyn Cohn in London and Carmel Crimmins in Dublin. editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Facebook/The-Franklin-Mortgage-Investment-CoThe Franklin Mortgage Company in Philadelphia made our list.It's not just great drinks that make a great bar — it's also great service, great ambience, and fair prices that complete the experience. We looked at six notable bar rankings compiled by critics and experts and aggregated the rankings to come up with our own list of the Best Bars in America. The rankings we used were James Beard Foundation's 2014 Restaurant and Chef Award Semifinalists for Outstanding Bar Program; Esquire's Best Bars in America; Food &amp; Wine's Best Bars in America; Zagat's Hottest Bars in 15 US Cities; The World's 50 Best Bars from Drinks International; and Liquor.com's Best Bars in America. We gave each bar a numerical rating based on how many lists the bar appeared on and how high it appeared on lists that were ranked. We used the number of five-star Yelp ratings as a tiebreaker, where a bar with more five-star Yelp ratings outranked another bar when a tie occurred. You can read more about our methodology here. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/sloleeEARLIER this year it all looked so rosy. In April, just two years after Greece imposed the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history on its private creditors, it raised EUR3 billion ($4.2 billion at the time) in five-year bonds at a yield of less than 5%.  In July its ten-year bonds were yielding less than 6% and their Spanish and Italian equivalents less than 3%, not far off Germany's.  The troubled economies of Europe's "periphery" were beginning to turn around, it seemed, and the European Central Bank (ECB) would do whatever it took to keep the euro zone together. That all went out the window in the global market sell-off of October 15th-16th. Yields on Greek government debt briefly exceeded 9%; the spread between yields on German government bonds and those of debt-addled euro-zone countries widened and lower-rated corporate-bond yields rose sharply too. Part of the rise might have been due to bond markets' declining liquidity (see "Buttonwood: Liquid diet"). At any rate, some ground has since been regained, with corporate bonds especially buoyed by the rumour (later denied) that the ECB was about to buy corporate debt as part of an asset-purchase scheme. But worries that slow growth in the euro zone will be a serious drag on the world economy are increasing. Deflation, which makes debts harder to bear, has taken hold in the periphery, and threatens to afflict the euro zone as a whole. Faith that the ECB will be able to do much about either problem is declining. Against that background some euro-zone debt--both public and private--looks unsustainable. The Economist Between 2007 and 2013 the ratio of government debt to GDP in the euro area rose from 66% to 93%. The spike was more dramatic in the periphery (see chart): in Greece the ratio increased to 175% and in Portugal it virtually doubled to 129%. High government debt itself does not necessarily crimp economic growth. But as bond yields rise, servicing that debt becomes difficult. Italy--with the third-largest stock of government debt in the world, much of it refinanced each year--is a particular concern. According to estimates from Moody's, a rating agency, it will have to find around EUR470 billion of funding next year, worth nearly one-third of its GDP. The financing needs of other peripheral governments are not as drastic, but they are still high. The overhang of private-sector debt is also cause for concern. Overindebted firms struggle to grow and invest, while tying up scarce bank capital, which impedes lending to worthier borrowers. The picture is not uniformly grim. Despite Italy's staggering government debt, its households owe less than Germany's and its non-financial companies not much more. Spain's private sector has deleveraged substantially over the past few years, as big recapitalisations have left its banks better able to withstand write-downs of bad loans. But peripheral countries typically have a long tail of heavily indebted firms. In Portugal around a quarter of listed firms have debts of more than five times their earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and depreciation--the worst ratio in the periphery, points out Alberto Gallo of RBS, a bank. And the proportion of loans in default is still rising in Portugal, Italy and Greece, he says. REUTERS/John Kolesidis On October 26th the results of the ECB's review of the books of big euro-zone banks will be released. They are expected to show few serious problems. Banks have been raising capital to be sure not to be found wanting. After it they may write down more bad loans rather than rolling them over. Another change is to corporate insolvency regimes, which typically make it harder to call in debts or seize collateral in the euro area than in America. All the peripheral countries have either reformed their laws or promised to do so, and the European Commission is pushing a common European standard. Government debt looks more intractable, especially in light of the lacklustre growth and slide towards deflation that now seem entrenched. A recent analysis by Fitch, a rating agency, suggests that it will be very hard for any highly indebted euro-zone government to reduce its debt-to-GDP ratio by 20 percentage points over the next eight years, still less return it to its pre-crisis level. Governments need to run primary (ie, before interest payments) surpluses in order to pay off existing debt. The IMF reckons that Italy will reach and maintain a primary surplus of nearly 5% of GDP by 2018, but is less sanguine about other euro-zone debtors. Tax rises and spending cuts are hard to implement. A study of 54 emerging and advanced economies, by Ugo Panizza of the Graduate Institute, Geneva and Barry Eichengreen of the University of California, Berkeley shows that large and sustained primary surpluses are extremely rare.  People in the southern periphery are especially fed up with austerity, which has had a massive cost in terms of unemployment and living standards. More bad news, and the situation could look critical once again. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
On Sunday, the European Central Bank released the results of "stress tests" performed on 130 eurozone banks. Twenty-five banks failed. There's a bit of a split on whether or not these results were good. But there is no divide on whether or not the ECB considered one key scenario: deflation. Analysts at Societe Generale said the results show that in an adverse scenario that occurs in 2016, only 7 billion euros of capital would be needed. And given that these stress tests involved banks holding more than 20 trillion euros in deposits, they don't think this is a huge deal. Others aren't so sure, including economist Philippe Legrain who called the results, "Yet another eurozone bank whitewash." In a blog post Legrain, who wrote a book on the eurozone crisis titled, "European Spring: Why Our Economies and Politics are in a Mess — and How to Put Them Right," wrote in a blog post on Sunday that the stress test's capital need assumptions are "ludicrously overoptimistic." But aside from how you choose to argue some of the ECB's assumptions, the central bank said, point blank, that it did not consider a situation where prices fall across the eurozone.  In a press conference following the results, the ECB's Vítor Constâncio said, "The scenario of deflation is not there because indeed we don't consider that deflation is going to happen."  Constâncio added, "But let me highlight that nevertheless, whereas the baseline scenario which is in the stress test has inflation at 1.6 in 2016, in the adverse it comes down to 0.3. So this drop in inflation is indeed factored in, in the exercise and is a very significant drop. So it cannot be said that we did not consider the impact of a scenario of very low inflation. Indeed, we did it in comparison with the baseline." But the problem is that we are already seeing falling inflation across the eurozone, with prices rising just 0.3% across the economic bloc in September.  And what's more, deflation has already been a reality for many of the bloc's economies. The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard noted on Twitter that in the last six months we've seen deflation in Spain, Italy, Greece, and Portugal.  And as a whole, the euro area saw prices rise just 0.3% year-over-year in September, according to data from Eurostat, down from increases of between 0.7% and 0.9% a little less than a year ago.  Pantheon MacroeconomicsEurozone inflation is still trending downwards, far below the ECB's target. And Legrain goes so far as to argue that deflation would "wreak havoc" on the balance sheets of many eurozone banks, adding that the fact that this wasn't factored into the stress test's scenarios make them a "farce." On Friday, we wrote about how deflation might be a bit of an overhyped worry, as the word's appearance in media reports has surged to a multi-year high in recent weeks.  And maybe deflation fears are overhyped when you look at the US, and specifically when you look at the market's recent obsession with inflation expectations via 5-year forward breakevens. After all, inflation data from the US on Wednesday showed that prices rose 1.7% year-over-year. So, below the Fed's 2% target, but nowhere near outright deflation that sees prices fall year-over-year. But when looking at the eurozone, deflationary fears have been the topic of conversation throughout the late summer and fall.  And so it seems that by not factoring this scenario into its stress test, the ECB is missing a huge part of what the market is considering when it thinks about "stress" in the European banking system. FREE AppDownload
TwitterAn ISIS militantAccording to the US Treasury Department, the extremist group calling itself the Islamic State (also known as ISIS or ISIL) is garnering wealth at an alarmingly quick pace, with large chunks coming from black-market oil sales and ransom payments for hostages.  ISIS earns about $1 million each day in oil sales alone, said David Cohen, the Treasury Department's under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence. He also said the group has netted approximately $20 million in ransom payments this year. Additionally, Cohen said ISIS has raised funds through local extortion and crime, like robbing banks. "To some extent, ISIL poses a different terrorist financing challenge," Cohen said during remarks at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington on Thursday.  "It has amassed wealth at an unprecedented pace, and its revenue sources have a different composition from those of many other terrorist organizations. Unlike, for instance, core al-Qaeda, ISIL derives a relatively small share of its funds from deep-pocket donors, and thus does not, today, depend principally on moving money across international borders. Instead, ISIL obtains the vast majority of its revenues through local criminal and terrorist activities." Cohen heads the Treasury Department's efforts to disrupt and diminish the group's finances, which is part of President Barack Obama's strategy to "degrade and ultimately destroy" ISIS. During his remarks, Cohen outlined what the Treasury Department knows about ISIS' funds and the department's strategy to undermine them.  ISIS has tapped into a sophisticated oil black market in both Syria and Iraq, selling it at discounted prices to middlemen who then transport it out of ISIS strongholds. Cohen also said the Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad has "made an arrangement to purchase oil" from ISIS. Beginning in mid-June, he said, ISIS has made approximately $1 million a day in oil sales. Cohen said the Treasury Department would target with sanctions anyone who deals with ISIS' stolen oil.  "At some point, that oil is acquired by someone who operates in the legitimate economy and who makes use of the financial system. He has a bank account. His business may be financed, his trucks may be insured, his facilities may be licensed. All that makes ISIL oil facilitators vulnerable," Cohen said. He said the Treasury Department is "hard at work" identifying those individuals.  Dept. of Defense/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderA before and after aerial photo of an ISIS-controlled Gbiebeoil refinery. The US military has also begun targeting ISIS oil refineries in its campaign in Iraq and Syria. On ransom payments, Cohen said the US would work to make it an international consensus for countries to not pay ransoms for hostages — something that has long been US policy. "This policy rests on the sound premise – confirmed by experience – that an explicit and consistently applied no-concessions policy reduces the frequency of kidnappings by eliminating the underlying incentive to take hostages in the first place," he said. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Rick Wilking Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is again one of America's biggest land owners.America's 100 biggest landowners increased their private holdings by 500,000 acres in the past year, according to The Land Report, which just released its annual list of landowners by acreage. That's slightly down from 2013, when the top 100 added 700,000 acres to their holdings. Even so, it means these land tycoons control more than 30 million acres, or almost 2% of America's land mass. Media tycoon John Malone, who owns 2.2 million acres — more than twice as much land as the state of Delaware — tops the list for the fourth year running. We're taking a closer look at the top 25 land owners. You can download the full report here. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
IF YOU want to understand how China innovates, look no further than its hyper-competitive market for smartphones. Though Samsung and Apple dominate the business globally, the technology superpowers are being squeezed in China by aggressive local manufacturers. Now Chinese firms are selling their handsets abroad in ever-greater numbers and a battle is set to be fought that will reshape the global marketplace for handsets. China's smartphone-makers have a ready launchpad. Thanks to the frugal but feature-rich offerings from local firms, domestic sales have exploded. Over 100m smartphones were sold in the second quarter, accounting for over a third of global sales and making China the world's largest market. The EconomistStrikingly, eight of the top ten vendors were local firms. Xiaomi, a startup that only sells online, shot past Samsung to become the leading brand of smartphones in the country. After selling 15.4m in the second quarter (see chart), the firm is on track to peddle 60m handsets this year, and wants to sell 100m in 2015. The rise of the inexpensive smartphone is a boon for Chinese consumers, many of whom are going online for the first time. However, Chinese firms are no longer content to scrap for a share of the spoils at home. They are increasingly eyeing lucrative foreign markets. With much fanfare, Xiaomi launched in India in July. It did so in partnership with Flipkart, a leading local e-commerce firm. Xiaomi's handsets are now also available in most of South-East Asia and the firm plans to sell in Brazil next. Though it does not officially sell its phones in America, GPS patterns suggest that around 1m of its snazzy handsets have been detected in the country. As foreigners find it hard to pronounce its name, Xiaomi has even grabbed the website mi.com, perhaps to rebrand itself overseas as "Mi". Another local firm on the move is OnePlus. Reviewers in developed markets have been raving about its clever handsets, which offer top-notch performance and features for around $300--less than half the list price of the latest iPhone. Carl Pei of OnePlus argues that unlike its rivals, his firm was "born a global company". Since its founding late last year, it has targeted 16 countries--including such challenging markets as America and Britain. "It helps that a lot of people don't know that we are a Chinese firm," he confides. Steve Kovach/Business InsiderA OnePlus phone. Adding to the advance are those Chinese firms that have long been global, even if they are relatively new to the smartphone business. Huawei has sold unbranded "white label" handsets to telecoms carriers for a while, but is now keenly pushing its own Ascend and Honor brands. Lenovo has spent $2.9 billion to acquire Motorola Mobility, Google's handset division, which dramatically expands its reach in North and South America. It, too, has announced plans for a line of smartphones to be sold only on the internet. Rumours resurfaced this week that Lenovo might even buy BlackBerry, an ailing Canadian handset-maker. That seems unlikely as it makes little sense for a rising star to join hands with a sinking firm: Lenovo already turns a profit on the phones it sells outside China. Moreover, concerns that the Chinese government uses local tech companies to spy--unproven claims that prompted America's Congress to blacklist Huawei and ZTE, another Chinese telecoms-equipment firm--might prompt Canadian regulators to block any deal. They are emerging in force, but how will Chinese firms fare outside their sheltered home market? Some observers are sceptical, dismissing Chinese technology firms as shameless copycats incapable of innovation--the beneficiaries of a dodgy legal system that allows local firms to infringe international patents and keeps out world-class foreign competition. Google services, including the app store for its popular Android operating system, are effectively blocked in China. Jonathan Ive, Apple's lead designer, gave succour to the naysayers with recent comments dismissing Xiaomi's designs as derivative: "it really is theft and it's lazy and I don't think it's OK at all", he complains. Some things about Xiaomi are clearly borrowed from Apple, from its sleek designs and pleasing user interface to the Jobsian jeans-and-black-top presentations given by Lei Jun, the firm's charismatic founder. A serious threat to Chinese firms as they head overseas is lawsuits from Apple and Samsung, who themselves have long been entangled in nasty battles over intellectual property (IP). Ben Qiu of Cooley, an American law firm, believes that "Xiaomi is in dangerous waters of potential patent-infringement claims on the international markets." But he argues that the firm's clever management team, which includes former Google executives, can navigate these perilous seas because it is well prepared for legal and regulatory battles. UberGizmoThe Xiaomi Mi3 He points out that Tencent, a Chinese internet giant, expanded abroad successfully in part because its general counsel is a seasoned Silicon Valley lawyer. In addition to lawyering up, Chinese handset-makers must also build up arsenals of licences from existing patent holders. To sell phones in rich countries (which, unlike developing ones, strictly enforce IP rights) they have been forced to pay a quarter of revenues to patent holders. Building patent banks can reduce this burden: a mighty arsenal may scare off lawsuits, and patents can be sold or cross-licensed as necessary, to avoid conflict. Lenovo has spent pots of money of late to acquire thousands of patents from NEC, a Japanese firm, from Motorola and from patent trolls. Most importantly, they must come up with valuable inventions in-house. To their credit, Huawei and ZTE are among the world's most prolific generators of new patents. That intense rivalry and race to generate new ideas is the best reason to believe the Chinese upstarts can make it. The confluence of a giant market and cost-conscious consumers has forced them to squeeze component costs, make contract manufacturing more efficient and adopt technological innovations more quickly. This has prepared the best of the local firms to do battle with global titans. There is no denying that many Chinese firms got their start by copying foreign ones at the leading edge. But imitation has often been the starting point for innovation at companies in the rich world. Apple did not invent the compact music player or smartphone. Steve Jobs even flew a pirate's flag atop the old Macintosh headquarters as a reminder to his employees that innovators need to be rule-breakers. That transition from imitation to innovation is happening now at a breathtaking pace in Chinese technology firms. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsRemember market volatility? From September 19 to October 15, the S&amp;P 500 tumbled 9.8%. However, the S&amp;P has since climbed by 7.9%, with last week being the market's best week of the year. By no means does that mean we're in the clear. We're still far from the all-time high, and there's always the risk that selling will resume. This week, we hear from the Federal Reserve. Everyone's expecting them to finally announce the end of quantitative easing. Anything unexpected could always rattle the markets again. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists largely remain confident that the stock market will continue its march higher. Goldman Sachs David Kostin expects to see a new all-time high before the year's over. "As investors recognize the durability of US growth despite faltering global activity, we expect S&amp;P 500 will climb to 2050 by year-end and rise by 10% to 2150 in 12 months," Kostin said. Kostin acknowledges this would come even as earnings growth expectations are deteriorating. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sean Yong THE announcement this week that China's economy had grown by 7.3% in the third quarter year-on-year was widely seen as marking the country's "new normal" of slower growth. It was well below the roughly 10% pace China had averaged from 1980 until two years ago. Yet according to a new working paper by Lant Pritchett and Larry Summers of Harvard University, it is still abnormal: Chinese growth is likely to be lower still in future. Forecasters often extrapolate from recent growth rates, the authors note. The IMF, for instance, projects that Chinese growth will slow almost imperceptibly over the next five years, from about 7.4% this year to 6.3% by the end of the decade. Yet Messrs Pritchett and Summers point out that if it is possible to infer anything from past patterns of growth around the world, it is that economies suffer from "regression to the mean": growth rates in countries that have been growing fast tend to drop, often sharply, toward the long-run global average (of about 2% growth per year in real GDP per person). Given this tendency, China's long spell of breakneck growth--of more than 6% a year since 1977--already stands out. It is, the authors reckon, the longest such spell "quite possibly in the history of mankind, but certainly in the data". In almost every other remotely comparable episode, very fast growth ended in a sharp slowdown, with a median drop in the growth rate of 4.7 percentage points. The IMF's forecast of China's growth over the next five years may seem slightly bearish, but it is wildly optimistic by historical standards. China bulls may ask what it is that will hobble China's growth, but the authors reckon the question should be reversed: the onus is on the bulls to explain why China should continue to defy history. Slowdowns often occur despite seemingly sound prospects: both Brazil in 1980 and Japan in 1991 looked like juggernauts, yet they managed scarcely any growth at all in real GDP per person over the following 20 years. A slowdown is not a sign of failure, they say; rather, persistent rapid growth suggests unusually good fortune or policy. In China that has meant a broad move toward more liberal markets. The authors suggest that the way forward is treacherous, however. Richer countries are almost uniformly much more democratic than China. Yet a democratic transition (were China to embark on one) nearly always coincides with a period of falling growth (one notable exception being South Korea in the 1980s). The EconomistFor China to maintain its current rate of growth, in other words, it would have to beat long odds on multiple bets. The surest of historical rules of thumb implies that 20 years from now, China's economy, measured by market exchange rates, will probably still be smaller than America's (see chart). Click here to subscribe to The Economist    FREE AppDownload
LinkedIn's Sohan Murthy posted a fascinating interactive map showing the most disproportionately common skills listed by LinkedIn users in cities across the US and Europe. Here's a screengrab of the basic map for the US: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn Cities are color-coded based on what skill group most outperformed the nation as a whole. These are not necessarily the most commonly listed skills in each city. Instead, they are skills that LinkedIn users in a particular city listed on their profiles at a much higher rate than users in the US overall. Comparing the local rate to the national rate gives a handy measure called a location quotient that Business Insider has used in the past. Clicking on a particular city shows a breakdown of the most disproportionately common skills in that city: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn Given New York City's status as a center of finance, fashion, and media, the top skills here are not much of a surprise. Using the legend on the right, you can highlight a particular skill group. The Midwest's manufacturing legacy shows through with disproportionate numbers of people in Midwestern cities listing engineering skills on their LinkedIn profiles: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn There's a similar map for European cities as well. Here, location quotients are calculated by comparing city rates to rates for Europe as a whole: Sohan Murthy/LinkedIn The interactive map, and some further observations, can be found at the original LinkedIn blog post here. FREE AppDownload
Russia will struggle to avoid falling into a recession if oil prices are allowed to drop to $80 a barrel — and could face calamity if prices fall below that level. Brent crude oil prices have fallen from a June high of $115 a barrel to just over $86 a barrel Wednesday. This poses a huge problem for Russia as oil and gas account for around two-thirds of total exports from the country: Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley estimates that "every $10 fall in the oil price means a $32.4 billion fall in oil and gas exports, which is equivalent to about 1.6% of GDP" and around a $19 billion fall in government budget revenues. Morgan Stanley So using these rules of thumb, the recent oil price falls could have wiped out 4.8% of potential GDP growth and knocked almost $60 billion off Russia's budget revenues.  So what if it were to continue? Morgan Stanley estimates that at $80 a barrel — which the investment bank gives a 45% probability — the government's budget deficit would increase to 2% of GDP next year, while inflation would continue to climb to 9%. The country would most likely fall into recession with GDP falling by 2% over 2015. Under the far less likely scenario that oil were to fall even lower — to around $50 a barrel — it could cause widespread disruption. Inflation would leap up to between 13-15%, while GDP would contract by as much as 6%. Russian policymakers appear to think that the worst is over and that growth will start to pick up again next year, albeit at a gradual pace. This is what Morgan Stanley has to say about that: We expect growth to stagnate, as uncertainty restrains investment and consumption, with the public-sector wage freeze posing a downside risk to consumption. We expect inflation to remain above target, as a result of import restrictions and the weaker RUB pushing up inflation and inflation expectations. We expect reserves to continuing contracting as a result of high capital outflows, and the use of the Reserve Fund to finance the deficit. It looks set to be a cold winter indeed for the government in Moscow.  FREE AppDownload
Sofie Amalie Klougart In 2009, Sofie Amalie Klougart traveled to Mombasa, Kenya with the nonprofit ActionAid. Her day job was to document ActionAid’s numerous efforts to alleviate poverty in the country. Fascinated by the country, Klougart spent her nights and weekends traveling the country in search of stories. While visiting the country’s numerous beautiful beaches, Ama was struck by the many older European women she saw carousing with young Kenyans. When she inquired with one of the women, she found that she was witnessing what many call “Romance tourism” — lonely men and women who travel to impoverished countries in search of companionship and locals who willingly oblige, in exchange for gifts, free meals, and, sometimes, cold hard cash. Klougart began documenting the affairs of the many women she met on the beaches of Kenya who introduced her to the sometimes troubling and sometimes empowering world of women who go after exactly what they want and nothing more. Klougart shared a number of the photos with us here, but you can see the rest at her website.
GoogleData centers are typically shrouded in secrecy because they are the brains behind tech companies.  But not Google. The search giant has shared with the world photos that lift the veil off its massive and beautiful data centers around the world, in places both domestic, including Iowa, Oregon, Georgia, South Carolina, and Oklahoma, and abroad, in Finland and Belgium. Google says when you're on its website, you're accessing one of the most powerful server networks in the known universe. Looking at these images, it's hard to disagree. Google has been working on building its data centers for over 12 years. The search giant's centers are efficient, take advantage of renewable energy, and are as environmentally friendly as possible. The following tour is a glimpse inside a few of Google's data centers, which it calls the "physical internet." Kevin Smith wrote an earlier version of this post.
America and its friends benefit from falling oil prices; its most strident critics don't IN EARLY October the IMF looked at what might happen to the world economy if conflict in Iraq caused an oil-price shock. Fighters from Islamic State (IS) were pushing into the country's north and the fund worried about a sharp price rise, of 20% in a year. Global GDP would fall by 0.5-1.5%, it concluded. Equity prices in rich countries would decline by 3-7%, and inflation would be at least half a point higher. IS is still advancing. Russia, the world's third-biggest producer, is embroiled in Ukraine. Iraq, Syria, Nigeria and Libya, oil producers all, are in turmoil. But the price of Brent crude fell over 25% from $115 a barrel in mid-July to under $85 in mid-October, before recovering a little (see chart). The Economist Such a shift has global consequences. Who are the winners and losers? The first winner is the world economy itself. A 10% change in the oil price is associated with around a 0.2% change in global GDP, says Tom Helbling of the IMF. A price fall normally boosts GDP by shifting resources from producers to consumers, who are more likely to spend their gains than wealthy sheikhdoms. If increased supply is the driving force, the effect is likely to be bigger--as in America, where shale gas drove prices down relative to Europe and, says the IMF, boosted manufactured exports by 6% compared with the rest of the world. But if it reflects weak demand, consumers may save the windfall. Today's falling prices are caused by shifts in both supply and demand. The world's slowing economy, and stalled recoveries in Europe and Japan, are reining back the demand for oil. But there has been a big supply shock, too. Thanks largely to America, oil production since early 2013 has been running at 1m-2m barrels per day (b/d) higher than the year before. Other influences are acting as a brake on the world economy (see "The dangers of deflation: The pendulum swings to the pit"). But a price cut of 25% for oil, if maintained, should mean that global GDP will be roughly 0.5% higher than it would be otherwise. Some countries stand to gain a lot more than that average, and others, to lose out. The world produces just over 90m b/d of oil. At $115 a barrel, that is worth roughly $3.8 trillion a year; at $85, just $2.8 trillion. Any country or group that consumes more than it produces gains from the $1 trillion transfer--importers, most of all. China is the world's second-largest net importer of oil. Based on 2013 figures, every $1 drop in the oil price saves it an annual $2.1 billion. The recent fall, if sustained, lowers its import bill by $60 billion, or 3%. Most of its exports are manufactured goods whose prices have not fallen. Unless weak demand changes that, its foreign currency will go further, and living standards should rise. Cheaper oil will also help the government clean up China's filthy air by phasing out dirty vehicle fuels, such as diesel. Lighter fuels are dearer and, under current plans, drivers could pay up to 70% of the extra; lower prices will soften that blow. More generally, says Lin Boqiang of Xiamen University, lower prices should support the government's efforts to reduce subsidies (it has already freed some gas prices, and electricity prices are expected to follow next year). The impact on America will be mixed because the country is simultaneously the world's largest consumer, importer and producer of oil. On balance cheaper oil will help, but not as much as it used to. Analysts at Goldman Sachs reckon that cheaper oil and lower interest rates should add about 0.1 percentage points to growth in 2015. But that will be more than offset by a stronger dollar, slower global growth and weaker stockmarkets.  Extracting oil from shale is expensive. So when the oil price drops, America is one of the places most likely to pull back (Arctic and Canadian tar-sands producers are even more vulnerable). According to Michael Cohen of Barclays, a bank, a $20 drop in the world oil price reduces American producers' profits by 20%, and only four-fifths of shale reserves are economic to extract using current technology with Brent around $85. How quickly production will fall as a result, though, is unclear, since producers' costs vary and some have locked in prices via hedging. The impact will also vary by region. "If I'm in California, it's pretty clear-cut that this is a good-news story," says Michael Levi of the Council on Foreign Relations, a think-tank. "If I were in North Dakota [the biggest shale-oil state], I would be a lot more nervous." America is a net importer, so lower prices mean Americans get to keep more of their money and spend it at home. But the stimulative impact is less than it used to be, since imports are becoming less important, and oil is shrinking as a share of the economy. The Energy Information Administration, an independent government agency, expects net oil imports to drop to 20% of total consumption next year, the lowest share since 1968. In the early 1980s, when oil accounted for over 4% of GDP, a 1% price drop would boost output by 0.04%, says Stephen Brown of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That had fallen to 0.018% by 2008, and he reckons it is now about 0.01%. Cheaper oil could make more of a difference to monetary policy. Inflation expectations have become more stable since the 1980s, which means that the Fed feels less need to act when oil prices shift. But with inflation below its 2% target, it will fret that falling oil prices could be pushing expectations down, making it harder to keep inflation on target. It could decide to keep interest rates at zero for longer, or even extend its bond-buying programme ("quantitative easing"). Fears of deflation apply with greater force in Europe. Energy imports into the European Union cost $500 billion in 2013, of which 75% was oil. So if oil prices stay at $85, the overall import bill could fall to under $400 billion a year. But the benefits would be muted twice over. First, inflation in the euro zone is even lower than in America. Mario Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, claims that 80% of its decline between 2011 and September 2014 was caused by lower oil and food prices. Oil at $85 could lead to deflation, provoking consumers to rein in spending further. Second, European energy policy is only partly to do with price and efficiency. Europeans are also trying to reduce dependence on Russia and to cut carbon emissions by turning away from fossil fuels. Cheaper oil makes these aims slightly harder to achieve. REUTERS But one group of countries gains unambiguously: those most dependent on agriculture. Agriculture is more energy-intensive than manufacturing. Energy is the main input into fertilisers, and in many countries farmers use huge amounts of electricity to pump water from aquifers far below, or depleted rivers far away. A dollar of farm output takes four or five times as much energy to produce as a dollar of manufactured goods, says John Baffes of the World Bank. Farmers benefit from cheaper oil. And since most of the world's farmers are poor, cheaper oil is, on balance, good for poor countries. Take India, home to about a third of the world's population living on under $1.25 a day. Cheaper oil is a threefold boon. First, as in China, imports become cheaper relative to exports. Oil accounts for about a third of India's imports, but its exports are diverse (everything from food to computing services), so they are not seeing across-the-board price declines. Second, cheaper energy moderates inflation, which has already fallen from over 10% in early 2013 to 6.5%, bringing it within the central bank's informal target range. This should lead to lower interest rates, boosting investment. Third, cheaper oil cuts India's budget deficit, now 4.5% of GDP, by reducing fuel and fertiliser subsidies. These are huge: along with food subsidies, the total is 2.5 trillion rupees ($41 billion) in the year ending March 2015--14% of public spending and 2.5% of GDP. The government controls the price of diesel and compensates sellers for their losses. But, for the first time in years, sellers are making a profit. As in China, cheaper oil should reduce the pain of cutting subsidies--and on October 19th Narendra Modi, India's prime minister, said he would finally end diesel subsidies, free diesel prices and raise natural-gas prices. The International Energy Agency, an oil consumers' club, reckons that the global cost of subsidising energy consumption (mostly in developing countries) is $550 billion a year. The fall in the oil price should reduce that, all else being equal, to about $400 billion. That means many countries face a choice: seize the moment to dismantle subsidies, or keep on handing out goodies that now cost less? Either way, they will benefit--by ending an economic distortion (though with some risk of a consumer backlash), or by reducing its fiscal cost for a while. The EconomistThe choice is particularly stark for oil importers in the Middle East (see chart). Energy subsidies cost Egypt 6.5% of GDP in 2014, Jordan 4.5%, and Morocco and Tunisia 3-4%. A 20% fall in the oil price would improve the fiscal balances of Egypt and Jordan by almost 1% of GDP, says the IMF. But, fears Mr Baffes, the efficiency gains may not be enough to persuade regimes, especially shaky ones, to cut subsidies that mostly benefit the politically influential middle classes. Many other countries are also wrestling with energy subsidies. Indonesia spends about a fifth of its budget on them. Gulf oil exporters are even more profligate: Bahrain spends 12.5% of GDP and Kuwait, 9%. Brazil wants a high oil price to attract investment to its ultra-deep offshore (pré-sal) oil reserves. But cheap oil is a boon to its farmers, and in the short term to Petrobras, its state-controlled oil firm, which has been forced to import at world prices and sell at a government-capped rate in order to keep inflation artificially low. For the first time in years, it is no longer making a loss on the imports it sells. It might seem that the country which is the world's largest exporter must lose out. With oil at $115 a barrel, Saudi Arabia earns $360 billion in net exports a year; at $85, $270 billion. Its budget has almost certainly gone into the red. Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, an influential businessman, called lower prices a "catastrophe" and expressed astonishment that the government was not trying to push them back up. But Saudi Arabia's long-term interest may in fact be served by a period of cheaper oil. It can afford one, unlike most other exporters. Though public spending has risen in recent years, its foreign reserves have risen more. Net foreign assets were 2.8 trillion riyals ($737 billion) in August--over three years' current spending. It could finance decades of deficits by borrowing from itself even if oil were cheaper than it is now. Over the past year production by non-OPEC countries, such as Russia and America, has risen from 55m b/d to 57m b/d. The Saudis might conclude that the main beneficiaries of dear oil have been non-OPEC members. Some of the new output is high-cost, unlike the Saudis'. A period of cheaper oil could drive some high-cost operators to the wall, discourage investment in others and let the Saudis regain market share. In the mid-1980s Saudi Arabia cut its output by almost three-quarters in an attempt to sustain prices. It worked and other countries cashed in--but the Saudis themselves suffered a big loss of revenues and markets. They see little reason to make such a sacrifice again. REUTERS/Mohamed Al HwaitySaudi youths demonstrate a stunt known as "sidewall skiing" (driving on two wheels) in the northern city of Hail, in Saudi Arabia March 30, 2013. Performing stunts such as sidewall skiing and drifts is a popular hobby amongst Saudi youths.  Saudi Arabia can survive low prices because, when oil was $100 a barrel, it saved more of the windfall than it spent. The biggest losers are countries that didn't. Notable among these are three vitriolic critics of America: Venezuela, Iran and Russia. "However low the oil price falls," Nicolás Maduro, Venezuela's president, declared on October 16th, "we will always guarantee...the social rights of our people." The reality is quite different. Hugo Chávez, his predecessor, dismantled a fund intended to squirrel away windfall oil profits, spent the money and ran up tens of billions of dollars in debt. That debt is now coming due. Earlier this month a hefty service payment took Venezuela's foreign reserves below $20 billion for the first time in a decade. Every dollar off the price of a barrel cuts roughly $450m-500m off export earnings. By Deutsche Bank's calculation, the government needs oil at $120 a barrel to finance its spending plans--higher than before the recent tumble. So, unlike other oil exporters' budgets, Venezuela's was already in trouble. Last year's fiscal deficit was a reckless 17% of GDP. In response, the government printed bolívares, pushing inflation (even on official measures) over 60%. Industrial production is grinding to a halt and Standard &amp; Poor's, a ratings agency, downgraded Venezuela's debt to CCC+ last month. Analysts have long thought it would move heaven and earth to avoid default--not least because it has overseas assets that creditors could seize and depends heavily on financial markets. But the "d" word is increasingly often heard. The impact of Venezuela's oil-related travails may be felt beyond its borders. The country runs a programme called PetroCaribe, which provides countries in the Caribbean with cheap financing to buy Venezuelan oil. For Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica and Nicaragua annual deferred payments under PetroCaribe are worth around 4% of GDP. But it costs Venezuela's government $2.3 billion a year. So if Venezuela decides to cut back on its largesse, the shock waves will be felt throughout the Caribbean. Iran is even more vulnerable than Venezuela. It needs oil at $136 a barrel to finance its spending plans, most of them inherited from the profligate and inefficient government of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Last year it spent $100 billion on consumer subsidies, about 25% of GDP. Sanctions mean it cannot borrow its way out of trouble. Hassan Rouhani, who took office last year, has re-established a degree of macroeconomic stability. The central bank said the economy grew in the second quarter of 2014 for the first time in two years. But he was elected on the promise of improving living standards. It is not yet clear whether lower oil prices will force further reforms, and increase pressure for a deal with America over Iran's nuclear programme, or whether falling revenues will boost support for conservatives who are already making trouble for him. For Russia the impact will be less dramatic, at least at first. Its draft budget for 2015 assumes oil at $100 a barrel; below that, it will be harder for Vladimir Putin, the president, to keep his spending promises. Something similar happened when the oil price fell in the mid-1980s, leaving the indebted Soviet Union cash-strapped. REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinVladimir Putin talks at an oil conference. But Russia now has reserves of $454 billion to cushion against oil-price fluctuations. More important, the rouble has fallen. Next year's budget assumes a dollar is worth 37 roubles, so it balances with oil at 3,700 roubles. A barrel currently costs 3,600 roubles (a much smaller fall than the dollar price), because the currency has plunged 20% this year. With oil at $80-85 a barrel Russia would probably run a budget deficit of only about 1% of GDP next year. All the same, the country will suffer a slowdown. For years, real incomes rose, thanks to wage increases in the state sector. The increased spending went on imports made cheaper by a strong currency. So the slide in the rouble is cutting living standards by making imports dearer. Western sanctions have closed capital markets to Russian firms, even private ones. Business activity is waning. A senior finance-ministry official says the share of non-oil-and-gas revenues in the budget is shrinking, making Russia more dependent on oil. Some analysts think growth in 2015 will be just 0.5-2%, compared with about 4% a year in 2010-12. Inflation is 8%. Russia, it seems, is headed towards stagflation. For most governments--Venezuela's is a possible exception--cheaper oil is likely to have a modest impact at first. Even Mr Putin may be able to ride out stagflation for a while. But over time, the consequences are likely to grow. The years of $100-a-barrel oil also saw the rise of a "Beijing consensus" towards more economic interventionism. Perhaps a period of $85 oil--if that were to happen--might usher in another shift in attitudes, assumptions and policies. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
IMAGINE that Apple had folded in the mid-1990s, as some predicted at the time. Perhaps music downloads would still be a hassle, smartphones a novelty and tablet computers two inches thick. But one thing would certainly be different: the information-technology industry would now lack a leading light. Thanks to record sales of its recently upgraded iPhones, on October 20th Apple surprised analysts by revealing excellent quarterly results. It was almost alone among the big technology firms in doing so. Most others reporting in recent weeks seem to be in something of a funk: profits have fallen at Google as well as IBM, SAP and VMWare. Does this mark the start of a downturn for the tech industry? In some cases the reasons are specific to the companies. IBM seems to have done more financial engineering than the real kind in recent years. Since 2000 it has spent over $100 billion on buying back its own shares. It has shed less-profitable assets but now lacks a big fast-growing business to drive growth (its bet on artificial intelligence, called Watson, has yet to take off, for instance). The earnings of VMWare, a company that makes corporate software, dropped because of charges related to a recent acquisition. The gloomy economic climate is also playing a role. The strong dollar does not help: it shrinks the foreign revenues of American IT firms. Companies tend to cut spending on IT when times are tough. Ginni Rometty, IBM's chief executive, noted there had been a "marked slowdown in September in client buying behaviour." Some firms are having to grapple with shifts that are affecting the whole industry. One is cloud computing, geek-speak for digital services delivered over the internet. SAP, another corporate-software company, is seeing more of its business moving into the cloud, for instance. That requires big investments in data centres and yields lower margins, at least for the time being. Another trend is that consumers are spending more time on mobile devices. This, among other things, has hit Google, which is selling more advertisements on smaller screens, where rates are lower, whereas growth in more lucrative ones on bigger devices has slowed. For other firms this shift has been good news: Yahoo, a struggling online conglomerate, joined Apple in exceeding analysts' expectations in large part because of a notable increase in mobile-advertising sales, which accounted for 17% of its revenue of $1.1 billion in the past quarter. Agence France Presse More fundamentally, however, the IT industry is rapidly maturing, with overall annual revenue growth reaching only 3%, says Sebastian DiGrande of Boston Consulting Group. Although some parts, such as cloud computing and all things mobile, are expanding rapidly, the biggest sectors, including most hardware, business software and IT services, are growing slowly or even shrinking And these are dominated by big technology firms such as HP and IBM. This "bifurcation", in the words of Mr DiGrande, will lead to a big restructuring of the industry. HP's recent decision to break itself up was merely the opening shot. Like HP, some firms are trying to become more focused. Others will shed businesses that have become commoditised; along with its quarterly results, IBM announced that it will pay Globalfoundries, a contract chipmaker, to take its semiconductor business off its hands. Others will try to buy firms in fast-growing sectors; last month SAP bought Concur, which offers web-based travel and expense-management software, for $8.3 billion. The recent disappointing results are another harbinger of an unbundling and rebuilding of the IT industry. How the sector's new landscape will look at the end of the process is hard to tell. Who would have imagined that Apple and IBM, once bitter enemies, would one day form an alliance, as they did recently to develop mobile applications for Apple's iPhones and iPads? If that pair can work together almost anything seems possible. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesLONDON (Reuters) - Unless it springs a major surprise, the U.S. Federal Reserve will call time this week on its program of government bond purchases, which at one point was pumping $85 billion a month into financial markets and the economy. James Bullard, who heads the St. Louis Fed, has suggested that sticking with bond purchases for a few more months would give policymakers time to assess a deteriorating inflation outlook. That helped markets to calm from a violent sell-off 10 days ago but economists expect the Fed to turn off its money taps on schedule on Wednesday, while giving accompanying assurances that it will respond if a global downturn threatens its economy. "We remain optimistic that the recent upshift from 2 percent to 3 percent growth will be sustained," economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a note. It may well be that the Fed keeps U.S. interest rates virtually at zero for longer given tumbling energy prices and an absence of wage growth. Investors have already pushed expectations for an initial rate rise back several months to late next year. Global concerns are centered on the extent of China's slowdown and the malaise in the euro zone, over which the specter of deflation still hovers. Results of stress tests on European banks, announced on Sunday, showed 25 banks had failed as of the end of 2013 but most have since repaired their finances. The European Central Bank has staked its reputation on this exercise, hoping it will draw a line under years of financial and economic turmoil. But whether it leads to a resurgence of bank lending is uncertain given the euro zone's economic doldrums. "Thinking that lending somehow can lead GDP is an illusion, and I don’t know how that has somehow crept into the policy debate," said Erik Nielsen, chief global economist at Unicredit. "Businesses need to believe in an increase in the demand for their products before asking for credits, and now that external demand growth is no longer there, this is when the euro zone needs demand stimulus." Euro zone inflation data in the week to come will show whether the threat of deflation has eased at all. The consensus is for the headline rate to have edged up to 0.4 percent in October but that will bring little comfort. Germany’s Ifo sentiment survey will give a glimpse of how things are going for Europe’s largest economy in the last three months of the year. It contracted in second quarter and is unlikely to have done a lot better in the third.  The ECB’s three-pronged plan to push money into the faltering economy involves offering banks new cheap long-term money on the condition that they lend it on, coupled with purchases of covered bonds and asset-backed securities. Reuters exclusively reported last week that the ECB may also buy corporate bonds but there is no certainty that the combined effort will do enough to lift growth and inflation. Full-on quantitative easing of the sort the Fed is now winding up remains politically difficult to countenance. On Monday the ECB will announce how many covered bonds, which are backed by high-quality assets so holders may be reluctant to give them up, it bought in its first week in the market. The euro malaise has intensified a debate about debt-cutting over growth-boosting spending. The European Commission has until Wednesday to decide whether to throw back France's draft 2015 budget after Paris said it would not meet EU deficit limits until 2017. Paris has said it will not accept demands for deeper cuts than already planned. Italy is making a similar case. The hope is that a renewed French and Italian commitment to economic reforms will persuade Germany to loosen its purse strings and the ECB to act more forcefully. But Germany continues to rebuff suggestions that it should increase public spending and insists it will balance its budget next year for the first time since 1969 despite the fact it is flirting with recession. People familiar with its deliberations said the Bank of Japan, which has tried for two decades to banish deflation, will resist pressure at this week's policy meeting for more stimulus measures or to accept that its inflation target is unrealistically high. It is preparing to roughly halve its 1 percent economic growth forecast for this fiscal year, but will stick to its prediction that inflation will hit its 2 percent target in the year from next April. Having spent $15 billion of its reserves trying, and largely failing, to underpin the rouble, Russia's central bank faces a difficult policy decision on Friday. There is growing speculation it may soon raise rates to support the rouble, which is being hit by plunging oil prices and Western sanctions imposed over the Ukraine crisis.   (editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA 3-D representation of a 4-D shape called a 24-cell polychoron. And it is a disaster that it isn't taught this way to students. "A Mathematician's Lament" is a classic polemic (later expanded and published as a book) written by math teacher Paul Lockhart. The essay is a devastating and passionate assault on the mechanistic way mathematics is taught in most of our schools. Lockhart begins with a vivid parable in which a musician has a nightmare in which music is taught to children by rote memorization of sheet music and formal rules for manipulating notes. In the nightmare, students never actually listen to music, at least not until advanced college classes or graduate school. The problem is that this abstract memorization and formal-method-based "music" education closely resembles the "math" education that most students receive. Formulas and algorithms are delivered with no context or motivation, with students made to simply memorize and apply them. Part of why many students end up disliking math, or convincing themselves that they are bad at math, comes from this emphasis on formulas and notation and methods at the expense of actually deep understanding of the naturally fascinating things mathematicians explore. It's understandable that many students (and adults) get frustrated at memorizing context-free strings of symbols and methods to manipulate them. This goes against what math is really about. The essence of mathematics is recognizing interesting patterns in interesting abstractions of reality and finding properties of those patterns and abstractions. This is inherently a much more creative field than the dry symbol manipulation taught conventionally. Lockhart uses a geometry problem to illustrate. He draws a triangle inside a rectangle: Paul Lockhart How much of the rectangle does the triangle take up? Lockhart notes that mathematicians are interested in shapes in the abstract: We've come up with this imaginary triangle, and now we want to better understand it. The way to do this is to try different things and see what they tell us about the triangle. Lockhart presents one possibility that turns out to be useful in answering the question: drawing a vertical line from the top of the triangle to the base: Paul Lockhart This answers our question: Drawing a triangle and playing around with it and eventually realizing something about the relationship between the triangle and the rectangle is much closer to the spirit of mathematics than simply being told a formula. In this example, we've actually figured out and proved the triangle area formula written in the front cover of any middle or high school geometry textbook: Area = (1/2) × (length of base) × (height). The length of the base times the height gives us the area of the rectangle, and we just observed that the area of the triangle is half of that. Challenging students to think about shapes, numbers, symmetry, or motion are more fun than the standard practice of memorizing techniques and applying them over and over again. Allowing students to explore these concepts and figure things out for themselves also builds up the critical thinking and reasoning skills that we supposedly want our children to learn rather more effectively than applying a handful of memorized, unmotivated, and unexplained formulas dozens of times. At the heart of mathematics is a need to understand structures, real or imagined. This is a profoundly speculative and creative exercise: a strange type of higher dimensional shape might hint that it has some interesting properties; a data set describing Ebola infection rates could roughly fit the same pattern as uranium atoms undergoing atomic decay. The job of the mathematician is to find and, far more importantly, explain these kinds of properties and relationships. While it is important for students to work through a few basic problems at every level of mathematics they encounter, we live in an era when, once an understanding of the underlying concepts is mastered, one can turn to calculators or computer programs to do the mindless symbolic manipulations needed to get an answer. Pedagogy needs to move away from finding the answer, and toward understanding why this is the answer and why we care about the answer. Mathematics is unique among human endeavors because it combines our most "right brained" creative, abstract, imaginative instincts with our most "left brained" logical, evidence-based, focused instincts. Math is about making a poetry out of pure reason and about abstractions based on seeing patterns in our world, and it is very sad that so few people ever get to experience this. Lockhart's entire essay is a beautifully and passionately written plea for a better way of educating students to truly understand the wonderful world of mathematics. Anyone who has any interest in math and math education should read the whole thing.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerJim Rogers, author, commodities investor and co-founder Quantum FundsBack in 1973, investor Jim Rogers took a 75% pay cut when he left an investment bank to start a hedge fund. Writing in "Street Smarts," he explains how he made this decision and why he thinks everyone should adopt the same philosophy: [T]he money was irrelevant to me. The advice I give everyone, the advice I will give my children, is this: before asking how much you are going to get paid for a job, first decide whether it is the right job, whether it is the right place for you, because if it is the right place and you do the job right, the money will come. The money will find you, I assure you. The money should be the least of your questions. In Rogers' case, the money certainly found him. Quantum Fund, which Rogers founded alongside George Soros, gained 4,200% in the next 10 years by tapping into emerging markets and shorting a lot of popular investments. His advice about following your interests is widely agreed upon. For instance, strategy guru and angel investor Tim Ferriss advises that young people "optimize for learning, not earning," with an eye toward greater earnings in the future. Similarly, Apple founder Steve Jobs famously told college graduates to "find what you love." Read more from Rogers in "Street Smarts: Adventures on the Road and in the Markets." Want your business advice featured in Instant MBA? Submit your tips to tipoftheday@businessinsider.com. Be sure to include your name, your job title, and a photo of yourself in your email. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeStanley Druckenmiller.Back in July, we highlighted comments from hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, who called IBM the "poster child" for what was wrong with modern corporate behavior.  Druckenmiller said IBM's financial-engineering practices, which include tripling its debt to repurchase stock, were exactly what had been wrong with the economic recovery. But there was something else Druckenmiller nailed that is an even bigger problem for Big Blue: revenue is falling. In Druckenmiller's comments back in July, he said that despite a stock price that had, to that point, risen more than 50% since the 2008 stock market bottom, IBM's sales were identical to what they were six years ago.  And on Monday morning, it got worse, as IBM reported earnings that declined 4% year-over-year to $22.4 billion.  In morning trade on Monday, shares of IBM were down about 7%.  According to data from Yahoo Finance, Wall Street expects IBM's annual revenue in its fiscal-year 2014, which ends in December, to decline 2.3% to $97.4 billion. Those expectations are not yet adjusted for Monday's results, which disappointed by about $1 billion, so the Street's annual expectations are likely to be pared further.  And comments from IBM CEO Ginni Rometty certainly didn't do much to engender a great deal of confidence. "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior," Rometty said, "and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry."  Overall, Druckenmiller's comments were in the spirit of highlighting the problems he believed had been created by Fed policy, in particular thwarting capital spending and encouraging companies to engage in financial engineering rather than to invest in their business.  At the end of September, IBM had $1.4 billion remaining on its share-repurchase authorization. The company said it expected to request an additional repurchase program at its October board meeting. FREE AppDownload
AP Images Here are the most interesting things that Andreessen had to say:  The American middle class is a myth Andreessen thinks the American middle class of the mid-20th century is an accident of history, created because much of the industrialized world was bombed out of existence during World War II. "The one major industrial country that wasn’t bombed was the United States. So the United States became the monopoly producer of industrial goods." However, by the late 1960s, Germany and Japan had rebuilt their economies, and it started to fall apart. "It was an accident of history." We need a fairly robust social safety net Capitalism mostly works, he says, but high taxes and a "vigorous safety net" are important, too. "I believe at the individual level, these changes are real and they matter," he says. The new economy — even low-paid jobs — is an improvement "The old farming jobs were f--king terrible jobs. I mean, farmers wake up at 6 in the morning and work 14-hour days. Industrial jobs — people would get killed in these factories all the time. Coal miners — people are trying to protect coal-mining jobs. They’re terrible, terrible jobs ... In developing countries, everybody’s dying to get into modern factory jobs, because the alternative is far worse." Disruption is part of natural economic cycles "We have this new magic machine that cleans hotel rooms, but we’re not going to use it because we want to keep the maids in business. Well, in the old days there used to be a job at the hotel called the guy who lights the coal fire ... If you follow that logic, you would unwind all the way back to where it all started, which was subsistence farming." Silicon Valley disruption is dismantling cartels Speaking specifically about the music and publishing industries, Andreessen says that it's not a bad thing that producers make so much less than they did a generation ago. For example, he says, "... recorded music was an oligopolistic cartel. The only reason why musicians were getting paid what they were getting paid in the 1990s off CDs was because the record labels were price-fixing."  Specifically about the music industry, he notes that live music has become a much bigger industry and has become the main source of revenue for a lot of producers. As for whether musicians should get paid more when people listen to their songs online he says: "That’s when we get down into the sticky situation, which is, is our work actually worth what we think it is?"   Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
MILAN/ROME (Reuters) - - Italy's Monte dei Paschi di Siena faces a 2.1 billion euro ($2.7 billion) funding shortfall that could force it to seek a merger, after a European banking review revealed serious weak points in the Italian financial system. The historic Tuscan lender, which was founded in 1472 and carried out a 5-billion euro capital increase as recently as June, said on Sunday it had hired Citigroup and UBS as advisers to consider strategic options. One source close to the matter said these could include a merger, another cash call and asset sales. The result of the Europe-wide stress tests laid bare the extent of the economic crisis in Italy, where the banking system has been caught in an increasingly dangerous spiral with the country's massive public debt. The European Central Bank found 15 Italian lenders collectively overvalued their loans by 12 billion euros, accounting for a quarter of the overvaluation of loans across the 130 banks the ECB looked at. The Bank of Italy said that the chronic weakness of the economy, which is struggling to emerge from the longest recession since World War Two, had been the main factor behind the stress test result for Italian banks and warned that without improvement, lenders would continue to struggle. "If growth doesn't return, it will be very difficult to have a solid banking system in the long term," Fabio Panetta, a member of the Bank of Italy board, told a news conference. Monte dei Paschi, which has racked up 9.3 billion euros of losses over the past three years, revealed the biggest outstanding capital shortfall of any of the 130 banks in the ECB's stress tests, which were designed to prepare the continent's banks for unexpected systemic shocks. Nine Italian banks in total failed the test, the most of any country, although five of these made up the shortfall through capital increases during 2014 and another two managed to fill the gap with supplementary measures. Alongside Monte dei Paschi, Genoa-based savings bank Carige reported a shortfall of 814 million euros, bringing the total for the Italian banking system to 2.9 billion euros. Italy's two biggest banks, UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, passed comfortably and the central bank said it was reassured about the banking system's overall solidity. It made clear it was keen for a solution, including a merger, to the lingering weakness at Monte dei Paschi, which has been struggling to emerge from the debacle of its costly acquisition of rival lender Antonveneta in 2007, just months before the global financial crisis erupted. "We would be extremely happy with any situation, any outcome which would make the bank stronger," Panetta said. The result of the test could reawaken market concerns about the wider stability of Italian financial markets, which were at the center of the euro zone debt crisis of 2011 until the ECB's pledge of support calmed fears. "The fact that a lot of Italian banks have failed could put the Italian government bond market under renewed pressure on Monday morning," said Richard Edwards, head of trading and research firm HED Capital in London. REUTERS/Stefano RellandiniThe Monte dei Paschi bank headquarters is pictured in Siena August 16, 2013. Panetta said the scenario assumed in the stress test, including three years of serious recession from 2014-2016, would be tantamount to the "collapse of the Italian economy" and that there was "almost zero" chance of it happening. The stress test, which included a "sovereign shock" element to reflect the impact of a weaker economic outlook and market volatility on government bond holdings, hit Monte dei Paschi hard because of its larger-than-average Italian bond portfolio which totaled 24 billion euros at the end of June. But the bank's troubles reflect a wider crisis in the stricken Italian economy, which has left banks struggling with mounting quantities of bad debt. Problematic loans at Monte dei Paschi account for 18 percent of all loans -- the second highest of any Italian bank reviewed by the ECB but only the 13th highest across the euro zone. The ECB also found that Monte dei Paschi had overvalued its assets by 4.246 billion euros. "Monte Paschi came out so bad because they are unable to generate any core earnings," said Alberto Gallo, credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland. "The stressed sovereign portfolio certainly has an impact but if they were profitable they could absorb the losses." Monte dei Paschi was the only Italian bank that had to be bailed out by the government, bagging 4.1 billion euros in state aid in 2013 that it has since mostly paid back. It is not clear that the bank would be an attractive target for a buyer. A senior banker told Reuters earlier this week that Italy would need to pay another bank to take on Monte dei Paschi rather than the other way around. The bank's shareholder structure is fragmented after its former controlling shareholder, the Monte dei Paschibanking foundation, had to cut its stake to 2.5 percent to repay debt. The biggest single investor is now York Capital Management with 5 percent, while Latin American investors Fintechand BTG Pactual, which bought into the June rights issue, have 4.5 percent and 2 percent respectively. French insurer Axa has 3.7 percent. The Italian Economy Ministry said it was confident the shortfalls would be made up through the market. Monte dei Paschi has been selling assets, closing 500 branches and cutting 8,000 jobs to boost its finances, which were drained by the Antonveneta deal, the euro zone's debt crisis and a scandal over loss-making derivatives trades. Two other banks, Banca Popolare di Milano and Banca Popolare di Vicenza have since made up their gaps with additional measures to strengthen their capital base although Banca Popolare di Vicenza was still working on its plan as late as Saturday night. (1 US dollar = 0.7893 euro) (Additional reporting by Alessandra Galloni, Giselda Vagnoni in Rome, Valentina Za in Milan, Sudip Kar-Gupta andAlexander Smith in London and Laura Noonan in Frankfurt. Editing by Mike Peacock and Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVGoldman Sachs' David Kostin.Goldman Sachs thinks US stocks will hit all-time highs again this year. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman Sachs equity chief David Kostin writes that the S&amp;P 500 will hit 2,050 by the end of this year, and will rise 10% to hit 2,150 within a year. On Friday, the S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,964, and the S&amp;P hasn't hit an all-time high since Thursday, September 18, the day before the Alibaba IPO. Kostin writes that, "As investors recognize the durability of US growth despite faltering global activity, we expect S&amp;P 500 will climb to 2050 by year-end and rise by 10% to 2150 in 12 months." So this call comes for higher stock prices comes despite expectations that earnings estimates will continue to be revised downward, with earnings expectations for 2015 falling 2% since mid-September. Goldman Sachs Corporate earnings will likely be dented by falling oil prices, but Kostin writes that analysts and investors seem focused only on the negative effects of lower oil prices while neglecting the beneficiaries. But Kostin says the the fall in oil prices is a net positive for the US economy, specifically consumers. And while investors may still be thinking about the decline in stocks earlier this month, Kostin writes that, "through the rear-view mirror, the recent sell-off looks remarkably like just another average pullback." And so overall, Goldman expects that as the market digests the recent moves in the stock market and oil prices, the S&amp;P 500 will resume its multi-year run higher. Back in early August, we highlighted one of Kostin's big calls on overall positioning, specifically that a "big divergence" was coming to US stocks and bonds. Year-to-date, that strategy of buying stocks and selling US 10-year Treasury bonds is down 1.7%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiThe past two months have been challenging for stock market investors. The S&amp;P 500 quickly tumbled 9.8% from its Sept. 19 all-time high of 2,019 to as low as 1,820 on Oct. 15. Because of the way our brains work, most of us worried about the possibility that this correction was turning into an outright market crash. Our instinct was to dump stocks. Surely, many investors sold and told themselves they would "wait out the volatility" on the sidelines. A confident few likely even shorted the market. However, history shows this is the most classic mistake investors make. So, kudos to those who held on to their long positions. "Corrections are part and parcel of the investment process, they come and go, and it is imperative to take a deep breath and realize that what is most important for building wealth is not 'timing' the market but rather 'time in' the market," David Rosenberg said on Oct. 14. The S&amp;P is up nearly 8% since Rosenberg wrote that. "Time in" the market is crucial, especially when things get scary for investors. There's tons of data on this. We talk about it all of the time. Even the folks who sold the sell-off probably know about it. But let's revisit some of the data anyway. When volatility picks up, it's tempting to trade in and out of the market with the hope you'll protect your wealth. Unfortunately, this increases the risk you'll miss some of the best days in the market. And that can be very costly. JPMorgan Asset Management illustrated how much an investor's returns collapsed when they missed a few of the best days in the market. They found that if an investor stayed fully invested in the S&amp;P 500 from 1993 to 2013, they would've had a 9.2% annualized return. However, if trading resulted in missing just the ten best days during that same period, then those annualized returns would collapse to 5.4%. JP Morgan Asset ManagementMissing these days do so much damage because those missed gains aren't able to compound during the rest of the investment holding period. "Plan to stay invested," they recommend. "Trying to time the market is extremely difficult to do consistently. Market lows often result in emotional decision making. Investing for the long-term while managing volatility can result in a better outcome." Some of the worst days in the market follow down days in the market. That seems to make sense intuitively. However, some of the best single days in the market also follow some of the worst days. Here's a table from Wikipedia putting the S&amp;P 500's 20 worst days next to 20 best days. WikipediaThis is just the nature of how the stock market moves. Bear markets don't go straight down and bull markets don't go straight up. When you look closely, they are marked by good and bad days, good and bad weeks, and so on. During periods of volatility, the magnitude of up-moves are just as big as the magnitude of down-moves. So far, we've been largely talking about hypotheticals. Now, let's take a look at how bad we really are at investing. Last year, investment strategist Gerard Minack studied the timing and volumes mutual fund flows to see how investors' actual returns compared to movements in the market. As expected, he found that inflows became most aggressive as markets peaked and outflows ramped up when markets were near their lows. As a result, the dollar-weighted return of the investors' portfolios lagged the benchmark indexes by extremely wide margins. "As more money went in at high price levels, and money was withdrawn at low price levels, the dollar-weighted return was significantly less than the index return," Minack found. "A $100 lump sum investment made at the start of 1997 – a ‘buy-and-hold’ investment – would [in May 2013] be worth $150 (ignoring dividends). The dollar-weighted returns –which I have calculated assuming that the funds achieved the same return as the NASDAQ – would have lost 75%." Morgan StanleyIn other words, investors were just fantastic at being exposed to the market only when it was sliding. There are countless studies that deliver the same message as Minack. Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors recently shared the results of study comparing the annualized returns of around 20 asset classes over a 20-year period. It included the performance of the typical investor. "The performance of the typical investor over this time period is shockingly poor," Bernstein wrote. "The average investor has underperformed every category except Asian emerging market and Japanese equities. The average investor even underperformed cash (listed here as 3-month t-bills)! The average investor underperformed nearly every asset class." Ironically, this typical investor is actually underperforming the very assets they invest in. Richard Bernstein Advisors"They could have improved performance by simply buying and holding any asset class other than Asian emerging market or Japanese equities," Bernstein added. "Thus, their underperformance suggests investors’ timing of asset allocation decisions must have been particularly poor, i.e., investors consistently bought assets that were overvalued and sold assets that were undervalued." We're not proposing that we won't see the stock market fall again tomorrow or the next day. We certainly can't rule out the ever-present risk that the market could soon crash. But, that's just part of investing in the stock market. If you aren't prepared to lose tremendous amounts of value, you shouldn't be in stocks. And once you're in, you better be prepared for the volatility. Time and time again, investors aren't willing to put their "time in" the market when the market has the most wealth to offer. FREE AppDownload
As A Nightmare on Elm Street heads for its 30th anniversary this fall, midnight screenings and other tributes have revived the 1984 classic once again. In the years since its original release, writer-director Wes Craven has alluded to a real-life inspiration called SUNDS, or “sudden unexpected death syndrome.” Said to be encountered by American doctors in Vietnam refugees, the syndrome sees otherwise healthy people suddenly exhibit irregular cardiac activity and die in their sleep. The video above explores what we know about the illness, which tends to afflict young men only in certain regions. Rachel Stewart is an editor who lives in Philadelphia. Check out her work here. Jeffrey Bloomer is a Slate Video assistant editor. Follow him on Twitter. Follow Slate: On YouTube  
AP Images"One thing she was wrong on — If I didn't drink coffee or smoke cigars like my dad — those would both stunt my growth — I would be 6 feet tall." The 86-year-old told Business Insider it was because his grandmother told him not to drink it. She was actually the source of a lot of valuable advice growing up.  "Everything she told me as far as advice was concerned pretty well played out like she said it would," Pickens told Business Insider. "You know, work hard, you get results. Always, if you tell somebody you're going to do something, always do it. Things like that." In his book "The First Billion Is The Hardest," Pickens details the relationship he had with his grandmother. His grandmother gave him advice that has remained with him throughout his career. "It becomes part of your personality and your life when you're taught early," he told Business Insider.  In his book, Pickens tells a story about how he found a man's wallet while on his paper route as a young boy. He returned the wallet to its rightful owner. The man gave Pickens a dollar as reward. When he got home he told his grandmother, mother, and aunt about the dollar he received.  "[My grandmother] made me return the dollar I got. 'You're not going to be paid to be honest. That ain't the way it's going to work,'" Pickens recalled. "'No, no, he wants me to have it,'" he remembered telling his grandmother. Pickens got on his bicycle and left to return the money to the man. On his way home, he got caught in a downpour.   "I almost drowned coming back," Pickens said. "I wanted her, my aunt and mother to see me pitiful when I came back on my bicycle and feel sorry for me. None of that at all. I came in and said, 'I almost drowned when I crossed Burgess Street.'"  His grandmother told him, "If you had gone when we told you to, you'd have been back before it rained."  His grandmother was right. But Pickens says she got one thing wrong. "One thing she was wrong on — If I didn't drink coffee or smoke cigars like my dad — those would both stunt my growth — I would be 6 feet tall. I never had a cup of coffee to this day. Never tasted coffee. I never smoked a cigar either."  "I went to her when I was 20 and I said, 'I didn't drink coffee and I never smoked a cigar either and I'm not going to be 6 feet tall," he said. "She said, 'Sonny, if you had, you might not be 5 feet tall.'"  Pickens is 5-foot-10 and in good shape. To this day, he continues to work out with his personal trainer every morning at 6:30 a.m.  See, grandmothers really do know best.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/McDonald'sIt is not just the world’s biggest burger chain; it is also a global emblem of American consumer capitalism. But these days the golden arches of McDonald’s are looking a little tarnished. After a decade of relentless expansion, customers around the world don’t seem to be lovin’ it any more. Last week McDonald’s revealed that worldwide sales dropped by 3.3% on last year in a set of results that went beyond Wall Street’s worst nightmares and were swiftly characterised as atrocious. Problems are piling up almost everywhere. In China, sales plunged by 23% after a food scare when local media showed workers apparently caught on camera at a local supplier, Shanghai Husi Food, claiming to use out-of-date beef and chicken in products destined for McDonald’s and KFC. In Europe, sales are down by 4%, mostly because of turmoil in Ukraine and the sour anti-western mood in Russia that has seen US companies caught in the political crossfire. Around 200 of McDonald’s 450 restaurants in Russia are being investigated by health inspectors in apparently politically motivated food-safety checks. Ten have been closed. But it is in the US, where McDonald’s has around 40% of its restaurants, where the crisis runs deepest. Almost 60 years since Ray Kroc opened his first restaurant in Des Plaines, Illinois, consumers are losing their appetite for a Big Mac and fries. The first McDonald’s franchise, which opened on April 15, 1955, and is now a museum in Des Plaines, Illinois. Photograph: Nam Y Huh/AP McDonald’s has chalked up 12 straight months of declining sales in its massive home market, with sales down 4.1% in the latest quarter. Younger diners are deserting the restaurant in droves to eat out at rivals such as Chipotle Mexican Grill – which, just the day before McDonald’s revealed its horrible sales figures, announced 20% growth in revenues. The number of 19-to-21-year-olds visiting McDonald’s once a month has fallen by 13% since 2011, according to food analysts Technomic, while the number of 22-to-37-year-olds visiting has not grown. AP To add to the company’s woes, McDonald’s hamburgers were recently named the worst in America in a poll of more than 32,000 American diners, who said they would rather eat a burger at Five Guys, Smashburger or Fuddruckers. Fast-growing US-only chain Chick-fil-A was deemed to be best for chicken. McDonald’s is also widely perceived as less healthy than most of its rivals, especially Chipotle, which trumpets its antibiotic-free meat and “locally sourced, seasonal produce” – although local for Chipotle can mean 350 miles away. The depth of consumer mistrust of McDonald’s was exposed by a consumer outreach exercise the company launched in the US earlier this month. “Have you ever used pink slime in your burgers?” was one question on the Our Food Your Questions website – referring to the controversial beef filler (gristle and fat) used for dog food that is sprayed down with ammonia to make it “fit” for human consumption. The meat product, banned in Europe since the BSE crisis, was dropped by McDonald’s in 2012 after being exposed by chef Jamie Oliver. But pink slime has left doubts in US consumers’ minds. “Does McDonald’s beef contain worms?” asked another person. (“No. Gross. End of story,” replied the company). Others wanted to know whether it uses real eggs, or whether the McRib is made with the same plastic contained in yoga mats. McDonald’s chief executive Don Thompson acknowledged the company had a job to do in “adjusting misperceptions about the freshness, quality and integrity of our ingredients”. Yet, just as McDonald’s has been losing the customers who will pay a bit more for food perceived as fresher and healthier, it has also lost its edge in fast food essentials: speedy service at low prices. Ever since it introduced $2 items on its dollar menu, it has gained a reputation for being more expensive than its rivals, while many consumers complain that service is slower. The “expensive” tag was unjustified, said Mary Chapman at Technomic. “Prices have indeed gone up, but they haven’t gone up as quickly as the rest of the fast-service chains in the US.” Prices at McDonald’s have increased by 4.8% since 2009, well below the “quick service” sector average (up 19.4%), while the cost of “fast casual” eating, a category that includes the much-hyped Chipotle, is up 16.9% according to Technomic’s menu monitor. US consumer prices rose 11% over the same period. But critics have a point when it comes to longer queues. McDonald’s has a bigger menu than some, with more complicated items – its chicken McWrap takes 60 seconds to make. “I think it is worth [waiting], but the guy behind me who wants his double cheeseburger for a dollar might not,” said Chapman. McDonald’s has been here before. The company was in the doldrums in the late 1990s, beset by similar concerns about quality and service at a time when the golden arches were a lightning rod for anger about western capitalism. The mood was exemplified by demonstrators who trashed a McDonald’s restaurant in Seattle in 1999 to protest against the World Trade Organisation. Andrew Burton/Getty Images “They have a historical record of being able to come back when times get tough,” said Chapman. In the UK, McDonald’s has turned around its business, making Britain a rare bright spot for the company. “People are a bit sniffy about the brand, but it delivers,” said Peter Martin of consultancy CGA Peach, whose figures show that 56% of British adults have visited a McDonald’s restaurant at least once in the last six months. “It is easily the number one choice for couples with kids. It is still working, without a doubt.” The day before McDonald’s unveiled its latest set of poor results, rival food chain Chipotle announced 20% growth in revenues. Photograph: Rick Wilking/Reuters A competitive breakfast menu, improved coffee and free Wi-fi had given McDonald’s a broad appeal in the UK, said Martin. “There is a utilitarianism and functionality about it; it ticks a lot of boxes.” He points out that the UK has been a testbed for the company’s social media campaigns and a brand identity that emphasises quality. In the UK, McDonald’s bases its advertising on provenance – playing up its 100% “British beef” burgers and fish that has a sustainability stamp of approval from the Marine Stewardship Council. Meanwhile in the US, its annual sales still outstrip Chipotle and all similar “fast-casual” dining restaurants put together, according to Technomic. “[McDonald’s] are head and shoulders the leader,” said Chapman. Executives are vowing to tackle “misperceptions” about its food in its home market. Thompson has promised more organic food and custom-made burgers, in an effort to lure back American millennials. But to cut down queues he also wants to introduce simpler menus. Analysts are scratching their heads about how the company can square the circle of pared-down menus and greater choice over fillings. “They want to simplify the menu, but enhance its ability to customise, and that sounds like a very tricky wire act to pull off,” said Mark Kalinowski at Janney Capital Markets. Only four out of McDonald’s 14,000 US restaurants had so far tested “build your own burger”, he said, raising questions about how it could be scaled up. “Right now we are sceptical; we would like to see more detail.” Meanwhile, despite the declining sales, the chain continues to expand globally: by the end of the year it expects to have opened 1,400 new restaurants. Kalinowski expects McDonald’s market share will continue to shrink, but he too warned against writing off the company. “You can never really count McDonald’s out… We think it will be number one in terms of total sales for not just years, but decades to come.” This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
From coffee bean origin to brewing, there are numerous factors that determine that amount of caffeine in coffee.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
  On Sunday morning at 9:15, I met up with investment banker Jeffrey Appel in Manhattan's Upper East Side. It was my second week in a row accompanying Appel for the ritual of Sunday morning tennis on Randall's Island to play with some of Wall Street's biggest names.  The previous week, Appel took two young investment bank analysts — who had both played Division I tennis — on the quick, seven-minute ride out to the courts. Shortly after we arrived at the Sportime club at Randall's Island, Pershing Square Capital CEO Bill Ackman walked in wearing shorts and a fleece with his tennis racket in tow. He immediately began to stretch. Appel is affectionately known as the "Mayor of New York Tennis," bringing together the titans and some of the younger generation on Wall Street. He's also credited for bringing Ackman back into tennis world. Ackman played in high school at Horace Greeley in the 1980s, but he did not play in college at Harvard. Ackman returned to the tennis world after Appel sent him a blind email in 2005 inviting him to play with his Wall Street tennis crew. Within four hours, Ackman responded and joined him the following week. He played with Appel; Kyle Kliegerman, former No. 1 at Princeton and the current head of the equity portfolio at Taconic Capital; and Jeffrey Sloves, former No. 1 at Dartmouth and current managing director of Jones Trading. Horace Greeley High School 1986 yearbookBill Ackman played tennis in high school. Appel and Ackman share a court at the Sportime center on Randall's every Sunday. Ackman was absent last Sunday, though, because he was in Amsterdam for Pershing Square Holdings' initial public offering. "It's a ritual," Ackman told Business Insider. "What I like is it's competitive and [Appel] puts together the best tennis in New York." This week, Appel, who was recently ranked No. 12 in the US for his age group and No. 1 in the east, was recovering from a calf sprain. He had to sit this match out. There never seems to be a shortage of players wanting to join Ackman and Appel's court, though. There was a last-minute substitution of Rob Pohly, the CIO of Samlyn Capital Management, a multibillion-dollar long/short equity hedge fund. Pohly was the 1991 "Rookie of the Year" in Ivy League tennis. He played No. 1 for Yale University, and he's part of Appel's tennis network. A minute later, the former pro tennis player James Blake, who was ranked No. 4 in the world in 2006, walked into the club. Blake and Ackman both headed off to the courts to warm up before the other players arrived.  					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Julia La Roche				Ackman decided to play against Blake in the first match, rather than be his partner as Appel had suggested. A few minutes later professional poker player Stephen Bass arrived. Bass recently joined Larry Penn's hedge fund Ellington Capital.  Bass, who was ranked as high as No. 354 in the world, in 2009, met Penn — Appel's high school tennis teammate — while playing tennis. Penn and Bass have been a top doubles team in the charity circuit on Wall Street.  "Stephen and Larry make a great team because their combined mental game is far superior than their competitors'," Appel said. On Sunday, Bass partnered with Ackman for the first match against Pohly and Blake. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Julia La Roche				Blake and Pohly won the first two sets in a heated battle. Then they switched teams, and Ackman and Blake, the two Harvard alums, won the third set against Bass and Pohly. They were on serve in the fourth set when the two hours were up and it was time to leave the court. Ackman was hungry to play more. "Bill Ackman is the only guy over 40 when playing the young guys that I know that gets better as the hours go on," Appel said. "The guy can never get enough tennis. If he could, he would play five hours a day." On the next court over was billionaire hedge fund manager Marc Lasry, who runs Avenue Capital, and his regular Sunday game crew.   Photo courtesy of Tom Newton Hedge fund manager Marc Lasry is on the court next to Ackman.  He continued: "No, it's actually great tennis. It's phenomenal tennis. They always have different guys who come. It's also a lot of fun to watch everybody play. You see the caliber is actually really good. Sometimes it's James [Blake]. It's always different guys." One of Ackman's usual doubles tennis partners is former No. 1 University of Pennsylvania tennis player Jason Pinsky, who is now an analyst at Wexford Capital. Wexford Capital is a Greenwich, Connecticut, hedge fund/private equity firm run by Charles "Chuck" Davidson. Wexford actually employs a handful of top tennis players. Brandon O'Gara, who played tennis for UPenn with Pinsky, is also a research analyst there. Former NCAA doubles champion/pro player Kaes Van't Hof works there, too. Photo courtesy of Tom Newton Wexford Capital analyst Jason Pinsky plays a lot of doubles with Ackman. According to Appel, Davidson's first words to Van't Hof, jokingly, were, "You're playing with Jeff and you already have a job?" He hired him within five months to work on the private equity side of Wexford Capital. Another member of the Wexford tennis team is Jon Pastel. Pastel, a former professional tennis player, used to practice with Davidson's son Patrick, who is currently playing professional tennis. Pastel and his wife, Marjorie, also host "The Wall Street Challenge" tennis tournament that raises funds for Ovarian Cancer research.  It's clear that there's a strong bond between tennis and finance. Julia La Roche for Business InsiderJeff Appel is nicknamed "The Mayor of New York Tennis."  Just last week, I observed a match taking place on Appel's court. One of the guys was an extremely tall 22-year-old, who was a former top-ranked NCAA doubles player with a 4.0 GPA at a southern university more known for its football. Appel has taken a liking to this young man and has already brought him to play with Howard Lutnick, the CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald, and Ackman. "He's developing a fabulous reputation amongst the business titans," Appel said. "I really like this kid. He's smart and mature beyond his years. I believe he has what it takes to be very successful and I am trying to help him transition into a career on Wall Street." You can see why they call him "The Mayor of New York Tennis."    FREE AppDownload
When it comes to transitional moments, few match the suspended-in-mid-air feeling on a roller coaster at the instant the car has reached the top of the first big hill and perches for a few seconds, hovering over the inevitable. Of course, there’s also investing in 2014. Financial markets have been hovering in a place a lot like that for the better part of a year, as ever-rising stock and bond markets led many to wonder just how long istoo long for a bull market. And then it happened. In a single week – Oct. 8 to Oct. 15 – the S&amp;P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average, and Eurostoxx each fell some 5 percent, while U.S. Treasury bond yields fell from 2.35 percent to 2.15 percent as investors piled in for safety. Most telling though, was what happened to the market’s measure of volatility, the VIX. It more than doubled, rising from 15.11 on Oct. 8 to 31.06 on Oct. 15, before falling back to 25.27. Anything above 30 is considered a sign of panic in the markets, but even the 25.27 level signified that traders believed the S&amp;P could gyrate up to 7.2 percent over the course of the following month alone – up from 4.4 percent just a week earlier. The ride seemed to have begun in earnest. Moves in risky assets have hinted at a broader upheaval for several months. While Credit Suisse’s leveraged loan index dropped 0.43 percent on Oct. 15, leaving it 3 percent off a July peak, it had already fallen 1.2 percent as early as Sept. 15. Similarly, the bank’s index of high-yield bonds, which yielded 4.71 percent in June, hit 5.5 percent in mid-September and 6.45 percent after Oct. 15. The catalyst for the spike in volatility seems to have been a report that U.S. retail sales fell 0.3 percent in September. But as Credit Suisse strategists pointed out, the magnitude of moves across many different asset classes qualifies as a gross overreaction to a relatively minor data point. Put another way, then, the data was merely the icing on an already unappealing cake. The IMF, for example, had loweredits forecast for 2014 global growth to 3.3 percent on Oct. 7 due to weakness in the euro zone, Japan, and China. Markets have been particularly concerned about Europe, where even Germany saw exports and industrial production nosedive in August. And then there’s Ebola. “Compared to other [recent] bouts of serious risk aversion, it is more difficult to point to one factor driving the negative market dynamic,” the strategists wrote. “De-risking seems to be a dominant theme as funds look to… lock in what will likely be a mediocre 2014 for most market participants.” But the markets regained their equanimity just as quickly as they panicked. The S&amp;P has gained 4.6 percent, the Eurostoxx is up 3.4 percent, and U.S. Treasury yields have nudged slightly higher to 2.23 percent. The VIX closed at 17.87 on Oct. 21, a reflection of expectations that the S&amp;P 500 could move 5.15 percent over the next 30 days, as opposed to the 4.25 percent expectation (based on the 2014 VIX average of 14.75) that has been normal for most of this year. In other words, though investors are expecting more turbulence than usual, market fears are still much more subdued than in the midst of the selloff. Still, it’s clear that the highly correlated risk-on, risk-off market environment of the financial crisis years is back. And for the time being, the tone is distinctly risk-off. What’s in store? To answer that question, Credit Suisse Head of Global Macro Product Strategy Research Sean Shepley looked to the recent past, and examined how 10-year Treasury swap rates performed after the 2010 Flash Crash and a mid-2011 selloff linked to the European debt crisis. “In both cases,” he says, “high volatility and heavy losses for risky assets persisted and often extended further over the subsequent month.” Shepley expects a similar and sustained period of risk aversion in which investors favor the relative safety of the yen and the dollar, while fleeing the euro at the first sign of negative economic or inflation news. That explains why Treasury yields, which were expected to rise in 2014 as the Federal Reserve wound down quantitative easing, have been suppressed by fears of a triple-dip recession in Europe. And they could remain suppressed for some time: Credit Suisse lowered its expectations on 10-year yields from 3.2 percent by the end of the first quarter to 2.65 percent. The de-risking sentiment that prompted investors to dump stocks, however, is likely to lose steam sooner, according to Credit Suisse Head of Flow Equity Derivatives Trading Khoa Le. “A lot of people were caught on the wrong side of market volatility, and the majority of flows we saw were essentially closing positions,” he said on a recent conference call. “Effectively, you had the buy-side community saying, ‘We’re out.’” If volatility spikes again soon, they’ll probably stay out. But if it remains subdued, they will likely feel pressure to come back in. Clearly, markets are deeply uneasy. Credit Suisse economists point to weakness in Europe and Asia as areas of major concern – particularly Asia, which comprises 45 percent of the world’s industrial production. Still, Credit Suisse Chief Economist for the Investment Bank James Sweeney remains optimistic that after falling for three straight quarters, global growth will accelerate toward the end of the year, driven primarily by strength in the U.S. economy. Investors would be remiss, though, if they confuse any good news with the end of the roller coaster ride. That was just the first hill. FREE AppDownload
BlackRockMidterm elections are just over a week away. While not teeming with the excitement of a presidential election year, there are a few things worth watching as it relates to the municipal market. Implications of One-Party Dominance in the Senate Come Nov. 4, 36 states will hold gubernatorial elections and 46 states will hold state legislative elections. Midterm elections are unique in that Republicans usually have a greater voter turnout. That’s particularly noteworthy this year, when the odds of the GOP gaining a majority in the Senate seem greater than not. Senate Republicans currently hold 45 seats and need to gain a net six seats to win a majority. This is meaningful to state and local governments, as one-party congressional control could lead to more getting done. That said, we do not believe individual tax reform is likely to be one of those items. Single-party dominance at the federal level would match the trend we’ve seen in state government. The map above shows that, currently, 36 states are controlled by one political party. Ones to Watch: Illinois and Pennsylvania At the gubernatorial level, it’s Illinois and Pennsylvania that matter most. Current polls suggest a party change leading to split control could be in the cards in both cases. Given the fiscal problems and recent ratings downgrades in these two states, their gubernatorial and legislative races are important to municipal investors. In Illinois, the state income tax is a key topic. The temporary increase to 5% is set to expire at year-end, which would move the rate back down to 3.75%. The Democratic incumbent governor favors extending the tax increase, which would help pay state debt. The Republican challenger has other ideas. In Pennsylvania, education funding is the top point of contention between the Republican incumbent governor and his challenger. The Democratic hopeful also has alluded to moving from a flat to a progressive income tax. Both of these states also face pension funding issues, and the winners’ policies around pension reform will be critical to how each state is viewed by the credit ratings agencies and the broader municipal market. Few Bonds on the Ballot Particularly notable about this Election Day is that there will be very few ballot initiatives at the state level. One worth mention, though, is California’s Proposition 2, the Rainy Day Budget Stabilization Act, which has the potential to significantly improve the state’s financial flexibility and credit rating going forward. In addition, just two states, California and New York, are presenting voters with meaningful bond measures for approval. Bond initiatives are also negligible at the local level. This points to continued austerity across state and local governments. And it means municipal bond supply is likely to remain muted. In addition, states are starting to tackle issues that the federal government has been unable to address, mainly increases in the minimum wage and possible solutions for transportation funding. What is the upshot for municipal investors? Constrained supply amid continued strong demand would be a performance positive. We continue to monitor this balance in forming our short- and long-term market outlook. In terms of party control, that tends to be harder to read (politics always is). Overall, we don’t see a great deal of change across the map. While one-party control generally implies quick solutions and less friction, it may be that mixed government, while messy and conflict-driven, produces more “checks and balances” that may lead to long-term fiscal balance between revenues and spending. Peter Hayes, Managing Director, is head of BlackRock’s Municipal Bonds Group and a regular contributor to The Blog. You can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIn this Nov. 3, 2011 file photo, activists of the Occupy Frankfurt movement have set up a fire near the Euro sculpture in front of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, Germany.The European Central Bank said on Sunday that 25 eurozone banks showed a capital shortfall, after a year-long review of finances for 130 of the largest banks in the euro area.  The assessment goes through Dec. 31, 2013. Since then, 12 of the 25 banks have already covered their capital shortfall, which totals €25 billion, the ECB said. That means 13 banks still do not have enough money to weather a financial crisis.  The banks with existing shortfalls, which have not been named, now have two weeks to submit plans to the ECB detailing how the firms plan to raise capital. The banks will have nine months to cover the shortfall, the ECB said. Out of the 25 banks, Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, and Italy have the proportionally highest shortfall, the report said. You can see Italy leads the pack in the pie graphs below.  ECB In a statement, the ECB said, "By identifying problems and risks, [the review] will help repair balance sheets and make the banks more resilient and robust. This should facilitate more lending in Europe, which will help economic growth.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi speaks during a monthly ECB news conference in Frankfurt. In short, 25 banks are short of a total of €25 billion ($31.67 billion), and the overall impact on them runs to €62 billion ($78.55 billion). It's pretty much in line with reports that were leaked to Bloomberg at the end of the week.  But 24 banks failed the European Banking Authority's stress tests, the names of which are below. That's more than was expected earlier this week. 12 of those have already raised the required capital to cover their shortfall, but 13 haven't. Those banks need to raise another €9.5 billion ($12.94 billion) Here's the breakdown from the ECB: So far the reaction seems to be divided. On Twitter, analyst Dan Davies thinks the results are undoubtedly bullish. In comparison, economist Phillipe Legrain says the low level of capital that now needs to be raised means the tests were a whitewash.  Below is a full list of all the banks with a shortfall: ECB The European Banking Authority's Stress tests are worse than some reports suggested. 24 banks failed the "adverse scenario" tests, including nine from Italy alone. Reports Wednesday suggested that only 11 banks would fail. Here's the full list: EBA  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA security guard salutes at the entrance of the Bank of Japan building in TokyoBy Yoshifumi Takemoto TOKYO (Reuters) - A top Japanese government official said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe should delay a planned sales-tax increase, the strongest sign yet that economic weakness is causing concern among those close to the premier ahead of the difficult tax decision. "I think it should be delayed" by a year and a half to April 2017, the prominent official told a small group of people in a recent conversation on condition of anonymity. He expressed concern that raising the national sales tax too soon after a damaging April hike could derail an economic recovery. Powerful interests like the Finance Ministry, the Bank of Japan and major corporations want Abe to raise the tax as planned next year to keep Japan's promise to reduce the biggest debt burden in the industrial world. But the economic and political environment is making it harder for Abe to make unpopular policy choices. Recovery in the world's third-biggest economy is struggling, Abe's popularity has taken a hit with two Cabinet ministers resigning in political scandals, the U.S. Treasury Department is pushing Tokyo not to go too fast on budget-balancing and Abe's party faces tough regional elections next April. An 18-month delay in the tax hike would be in line with recommendations from Etsuro Honda, a University of Shizuoka professor and a prominent outside architect of Abe's policies to revive growth and banish deflation. "There's a great danger from the next sales tax hike given the current situation where the positive effects of 'Abenomics' and the negative impact of April's sales tax hike are offsetting each other," Honda told reporters on Wednesday after meeting a group of more than 40 ruling party lawmakers who are growing wary about the next tax hike. Abe raised the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April, the first of a planned two-stage increase that is the boldest attempt in nearly two decades to curb public debt that is well over twice the size of the economy. That hike walloped personal spending, knocking the economy for an unexpectedly deep 7.1 percent annualized contraction in the second quarter, the worst fall since the global financial crisis in early 2009. Abe has said he is "neutral" over his December decision whether to proceed with the plan to raise the tax to 10 percent in October 2015 - doubling the tax rate over just 18 months. He has stressed the need for both fiscal reform and continued recovery. The prime minister this month told the Financial Times that while it is necessary to raise the tax for the benefit of future generations, it would be “meaningless” if this inflicted too much damage on the country's economy. This was largely a repetition of Abe's position. The two-step tax increase was decided by major parties and written into law before Abe came to power in 2012, but it requires the prime minister to certify that the economy is strong enough to withstand a further hike. "What country has ever raised tax by 2 percentage points just a year and a half after a tax hike?" the senior official said. "The logic that (the government must proceed) because the law was already decided doesn't hold up." Respondents in a Reuters poll last week largely expect Abe to proceed with the tax hike as scheduled, though not all think it's a good idea. "Given the prospects of a slower global growth, it would be difficult for the prime minister to risk another tax-hike slump on the economy," said economist Stefan Grosse at NORD/LB. Abe's government last week cut its economic assessment for a second straight month and lowered its assessment of industrial output for the first time in five months as weak consumption following April's tax hike causes companies to cut production. The BOJ's closely watched tankan survey this month showed that sentiment in the services sector worsened in the third quarter as the economy struggled to shake off the tax hike. And as the recovery falters, Abe finds himself in an unaccustomed political pinch. His government's approval rating has slumped to 53 percent, still solid for a Japanese leader, but down 9 points in less than a month, according to an opinion poll on Sunday in the Yomiuri newspaper, Japan's largest. The survey found 71 percent against raising the sales tax on schedule, versus 26 percent in favor. Proponents of the tax hike - including BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, whose central bank buys some 70 percent of new Japanese government bond issuance - fear that a delay could shake investor confidence in Japan's fiscal reform, causing a dangerous spike in Japanese government bond (JGB) yields. But Tokyo University economist Shin-ichi Fukuda said, "As long as the BOJ is buying large amounts of JGBs, a short-term rise in yields isn't a big concern." The 10-year JGB yields less than 0.5 percent.  (Additional reporting by Izumi Nakagawa; Writing by William Mallard; Editing by Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
