REUTERS/Lucas Jackson(Reuters) - U.S. regulators are investigating a Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; internship for the brother of a former official at Libya's sovereign wealth fund and perks allegedly offered by the bank to the fund, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing people familiar with the matter. As part of an ongoing investigation into Goldman's ties to Libya's sovereign wealth fund, the Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing the company's decision in June 2008 to hire the brother of Mustafa Zarti, then deputy chief of the Libyan Investment Authority, as an intern, the WSJ report said. The report comes in the wake of allegations by Libya's sovereign wealth fund that the Wall Street bank exploited a position of trust by encouraging the fund to invest more than $1 billion in trades that ended up worthless. The SEC opened its inquiry in 2011, the same year Col. Muammar Gaddafi was toppled by Libyan revolutionaries after 42 years ruling the country, the WSJ said. The investigators are also examining why the brother, Haitem Zarti, was permitted to remain employed by the firm for almost a year, longer than most internships, according to the report. The SEC's investigation could lead to enforcement actions as soon as early next year, the paper cited one of its sources as saying. A spokesman at Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the reported SEC investigation but confirmed that Zarti was an intern at the time.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson(Reuters) - U.S. regulators are investigating a Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; internship for the brother of a former official at Libya's sovereign wealth fund and perks allegedly offered by the bank to the fund, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing people familiar with the matter. As part of an ongoing investigation into Goldman's ties to Libya's sovereign wealth fund, the Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing the company's decision in June 2008 to hire the brother of Mustafa Zarti, then deputy chief of the Libyan Investment Authority, as an intern, the WSJ report said. The report comes in the wake of allegations by Libya's sovereign wealth fund that the Wall Street bank exploited a position of trust by encouraging the fund to invest more than $1 billion in trades that ended up worthless. The SEC opened its inquiry in 2011, the same year Col. Muammar Gaddafi was toppled by Libyan revolutionaries after 42 years ruling the country, the WSJ said. The investigators are also examining why the brother, Haitem Zarti, was permitted to remain employed by the firm for almost a year, longer than most internships, according to the report. The SEC's investigation could lead to enforcement actions as soon as early next year, the paper cited one of its sources as saying. A spokesman at Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the reported SEC investigation but confirmed that Zarti was an intern at the time.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman rummages through her purse in front of a vegetable store in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's government cut its overall economic assessment for the first time in five months as private consumption is struggling to recover from the slump caused by April's sales tax hike, clouding the outlook for a sustained recovery. The government on Friday cut its view on private consumption, which accounts for about 60 percent of the economy, saying that consumer spending is seen pausing although a pick-up trend remains intact. The assessment followed a run of weak indicators, including falling household spending, which raised doubt about the strength of an expected bounce in the current quarter - a crucial factor for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's decision in December on whether to proceed with a second tax rise next year. On Thursday, Japan reported exports declined in August while a survey showed confidence among manufacturers fell the most in nearly two years this month. "The Japanese economy is on a moderate recovery, while weakness can be seen in some areas," the Cabinet Office said in its monthly economic report for September. That compared with the prior month's assessment that the economy was on a moderate recovery and that a decline in demand  - rooted in the sales-tax hike - was easing. It was the first downgrade since April in the government's economic assessment, which had been raised in July. In contrast, the Bank of Japan has maintained its economic view this month, saying the economy continues a moderate recovery despite a decline in demand after the sales-tax hike. "There's no gap in view between the government and the BOJ as we both see a moderate recovery continuing," said a Cabinet Office official, who is in charge of compiling the report. The government flagged the risk of a prolonged impact of the tax hike, as well as weaker overseas economies, hurting the Japanese economy in future. The Cabinet Office official blamed adverse weather this summer as well as lingering impact from the tax hike for dampening private consumption. Sales of durable goods such as cars and household appliances are languishing, while restaurants and department stores are struggling to lure customers, the official said. Still, steady improvement in the job market and rising wages are expected to underpin private consumption and the broader economy from now on, the official added. In its monthly economic report for September, the government left its cautious assessment unchanged for other key components such as capital spending, exports and industrial output.  (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
BOOM. The British Pound is surging to its highest level of the day. All the evidence so far says that NO is going to win, and indeed the first Council that reported was supposed to lean YES, but no won. FinViz For the very latest on Scotland, see here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Tonight is Scottish referendum night, and we'll be covering it wall to wall with both our London- and New York-based teams. If you want to play at home you should see this table below. The first column is the election-night schedule, so you can see what each region will report their vote (note the time is local time). The second column gives a sense of how significant each region is, and the third column shows how likely each council is to vote yes.  Specifically, according to Credit Suisse: As investors may be unfamiliar with the relative population size and political bias of East Dunbartonshire, for example, we provide estimates of relative electorate size and likely tendency towards a "Yes" vote, derived from support for the Scottish National Party in the 2012 local elections. We have excluded and show a range from 0 (the lowest local vote for SNP in 2012, excluding Orkney and Shetland where the vote was negligible) to 10 (highest local vote share for SNP). So as numbers roll in tonight (or Friday morning, depending on where you are), you can use this table to see whether "yes" is performing strong in the places that matter. Credit Suisse   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogo of German company SAP is pictured at the CeBit computer fair in HanoverFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German business software maker SAP &lt;sapg.de&gt; said on Thursday it has agreed to acquire U.S.-based expense management software maker Concur Technologies Inc &lt;cnqr.o&gt; in all-share deal valued at $7.3 billion. SAP said in a statement it would offer $129 per share, a 20 percent premium over the Sept. 17 closing price. Based on 57 million outstanding shares, the offer for Bellevue, Washington-based Concur is valued at $7.3 billion. Including debt, the offer represents an enterprise value of about $8.3 billion, SAP said. The Concur board of directors has unanimously approved the transaction, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2014 or the first quarter 2015, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals, SAP said.   (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Actual votes have not been reported yet in the referendum on Scottish independence, and won't be for several hours, but the head of polling company YouGov is ready to call it. There's a 99% chance that NO will win, says the president of the polling firm. The call is informed by the firm's final poll, which has NO leading 54-46%, a healthy margin of victory. The good forecasts for the NO side are causing a surge in the pound. FinViz Follow all the latest details on the vote here.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba founder Jack Ma.Alibaba just priced its IPO at $68 per share. At this price, Alibaba is raising just less than $21.8 billion, making it the largest IPO in the history of the US stock market. This sets the company's value at $167.8 billion.  The company was expected to price its IPO between $66 and $68 per share, an increase from the originally announced range of $60 to $66. Shares of Alibaba were expected to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday morning.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beck DiefenbachA Home Depot checkout lane.Home Depot announced an update on its data breach first announced September 2. The results of Home Depot's investigation include: The company added that, "To protect customer data until the malware was eliminated, any terminals identified with malware were taken out of service, and the company quickly put in place other security enhancements. The hackers’ method of entry has been closed off, the malware has been eliminated from the company's systems, and the company has rolled out enhanced encryption of payment data to all U.S. stores. There is no evidence that debit PIN numbers were compromised or that the breach has impacted stores in Mexico or customers who shopped online at HomeDepot.com or HomeDepot.ca." The announcement from Home Depot follows a report by Brian Krebs of Krebs on Security earlier on Thursday that said the company's card data breach could be limited to the home improvement store's self-checkout lane. Krebs reported: "Sources now tell KrebsOnSecurity that in a conference call with financial institutions today, officials at MasterCard shared several updates from the ongoing forensic investigation into the breach at the nationwide home improvement store chain. The card brand reportedly told banks that at this time it is believed that only self-checkout terminals were impacted in the breach, but stressed that the investigation is far from complete." Krebs also says sources said Visa and MasterCard have been reporting fewer compromised cards than expected. Earlier reports regarding Home Depot's breach, which was first made public on September 2, indicated that the breach impacted all 2,200 of the company's US stores. Read the full report over at Krebs on Security.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Osama FaisalTime to go.JetBlue CEO David Barger will step down in February 2015. He will be replaced by current President Robin Hayes, who has been at JetBlue since 2008.  Prior to that, Hayes spent almost two decades at British Airways. In recent months, reports had emerged of Barger being out of step with trends in the airline industry.  Fortune's Cyrus Sanati wrote that JetBlue's investors considered Barger to "overly concerned" with passenger comfort. Following its founding in 1998 by David Neeleman (who moved on in 2008 and started an airline, Azul, in his native Brazil), JetBlue established itself as a sort of low-cost boutique alternative to the major carriers, providing passengers with comfortable leather seats and individual TV monitors.  As Sanati noted, however, competitors such as Spirit Airlines have boosted investor returns in recent years by cutting back on types of perks that were JetBlue's calling card. Nonetheless, JetBlue's stock is up almost 50% this year. In June, the airline introduced Mint, a first-class option on flights between New York's JFK and Los Angeles' LAX, going counter to its longtime one-class-only ticketing. Expanded first- and business-class service has become increasingly attractive to airlines as they seek to earn higher profits. In after hours trading on Thursday, Jet Blue's stock was up 5%. Here's JetBlue's official statement about Barger's departure: NEW YORK, NY -- (Marketwired) -- 09/18/14 -- JetBlue Airways (NASDAQ: JBLU) today announced that Robin Hayes, the company's current President, will succeed Dave Barger as Chief Executive Officer, effective February 16, 2015. Barger will serve on the JetBlue Board of Directors until February 15, 2015, and Hayes is expected to join the Board on February 16, 2015. Joel Peterson, JetBlue's Chairman, said, "On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to congratulate Robin on this appointment and thank Dave for his extraordinary contributions toJetBlue for more than 16 years. Dave's talent, intellect, and inspired leadership helped makeJetBlue what it is today -- one of the world's great brands and a leader in its industry. Robin is a highly talented and experienced airline executive who understands JetBlue's culture and strategy. During his time as Chief Commercial Officer and President, Robin proved he is the right leader to take JetBlue into the future." Barger said, "Helping to found and lead JetBlue has been the experience of a lifetime. We set out to create a better airline, and through our commitment to that simple goal, the people of JetBluesucceeded in establishing a new standard for value and customer service in our industry. I have been looking for the right time to take the next step in my life for a while, and my decision was ultimately determined by the strong state of the company and my absolute confidence in Robin's leadership. I want to thank Robin and all of our crewmembers. With their incredible passion and dedication, I know that JetBlue's best days are ahead." Hayes said, "It is a tremendous honor to succeed Dave as CEO of JetBlue. I continue to believe in our mission to inspire humanity, and as CEO I will be a faithful steward of the culture that has madeJetBlue so successful. The airline industry has never been more competitive, but I believe we can continue to grow profitably. As we maintain our operational focus on safety and efficiency, we will continue to expand our network in underserved markets and roll out new products that enhance the JetBlue Experience and create value for our shareholders. Our commitments to our customers, crewmembers, and investors are all integrally connected and critically important to the long-term future of this great company." Hayes was named President of JetBlue in 2013. He is responsible for the airline's operations and commercial activities, including Airport Operations, Customer Experience, Customer Support/Reservations, Flight Operations, Inflight Experience, System Operations, Technical Operations, as well as Communications, Marketing, Network Planning and Sales. From 2008 to 2013, he served as JetBlue's Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. Prior to joining JetBlue, Hayes was British Airways' Executive Vice President for The Americas. Over the span of a 19-year career with British Airways, he also served as Area General Manager for Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. Hayes is a graduate in electrical and electronic engineering from the University of Bath in the United Kingdom. He received a BSc and a master's in engineering from the university.   FREE AppDownload
Getty / Scott Olson Seth Klarman.The market is making Seth Klarman nervous. On Wednesday night, Zero Hedge posted an excerpt from Klarman's latest letter to investors. Klarman said, among other things, that we are marching towards a re-creation of the 2007 market. Klarman writes: "It’s not hard to reach the conclusion that so many investors feel good not because things are good but because investors have been seduced into feeling good—otherwise known as 'the wealth effect.' We really are far along in re-creating the markets of 2007, which felt great but were deeply unstable when shocks started to pile up." And Klarman doesn't think the Fed is doing enough to keep markets in check. "Even Janet Yellen sees 'pockets of increasing risk-taking' in the markets, yet she has made clear that she won’t raise rates to fight incipient bubbles. For all of our sakes, we really wish she would." Klarman also notes that in the current low-rate environment, investors have increased risk taking as the need for greater returns requires greater risk-taking with a shrinking potential payoff: "The pressure to reach for return virtually ensures that many investors will take greater and greater risk for less and less potential reward at market peaks... A recent brokerage report excitedly touted the new HoldCo PIK Toggle notes of a Croatian consumer goods retailer. Nearly every word of that description is a flashing red light to seasoned investors."  On Wednesday, Bill Fleckenstein of Fleckenstein Capital got into a shouting match on CNBC while defending his stand against the Fed's monetary policy.  And recently we've seen noted bears, like Gina Martin Adams and Bob Janjuah turn less-bearish, and Klarman says that, "Investors have clearly grown weary of worrying about risky scenarios that never seem to materialize or, when they do, don’t seem to matter to anyone else."  On Wednesday the Fed released its latest monetary policy decision, which indicated little change in the Fed's language. On Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average hit new all-time highs.  You can read the full excerpt from Klarman's letter at Zero Hedge here.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/ LaphroaigScotland votes on its independence today, and regardless of where you stand, when all is said and done you may want to raise a glass. If that's the case, your drink has to be scotch whisky — the native spirit of the country itself. To help you with that process, Business Insider put together a list of award winning whiskys from the International Wine and Spirit Compeition. Distillers and winemakers have been holding that competition since 1969, so you're sure to learn a thing or two.     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTransCanada President and Chief Executive Officer Russ Girling addresses the media after the Annual General Meeting in Calgary, AlbertaBy Nadia Damouni, Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Euan Rocha NEW YORK/TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada, which has seen a fair share of U.S. activist investors cross the border in the last years, may soon have more of them knocking on its door. Calgary-based TransCanada Corp  is emerging as a  possible target, with several U.S. activist hedge funds reviewing the nearly $38 billion pipeline operator as a break-up candidate, people close to the matter said. Discussions about a potential campaign are still in the early stages, but some of TransCanada's largest shareholders have been contacted by hedge funds interested in shaking up one of North America's biggest pipeline companies, the people said. These actions have also led to discussions by the TransCanada board surrounding the company's strategic direction, the people said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. TransCanada, citing a company policy not to comment on rumors, said only that it is committed to acting in the best interests of shareholders. "The enhancement of shareholder value is discussed at every meeting of TransCanada's board of directors," spokesman Shawn Howard said, adding "TransCanada has a well-defined strategic plan in place to increase long-term shareholder value and we are focused on continuing to deliver on this plan successfully." In June, Citigroup analyst Faisel Khan laid out the case for a break-up, saying that measures including spinning off TransCanada's power business and placement of the remainder of its U.S. natural gas assets into a master limited partnership (MLP). That could boost TransCanada's share price to C$76, Khan said. The company's shares were up C$1.20 at C$60.06 in afternoon trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. That scenario triggered investor interest and several large U.S. hedge funds that pursue activist investing strategies, including Daniel Loeb's Third Point, have looked at the company, two people familiar with the matter said. The people familiar with Loeb's New York based firm said he has amassed a position over the last few months. Third Point declined to comment. It remains unclear which investor, if any, will ultimately lead the charge to shake up the company. Many activist hedge funds buy passive stakes and choose not to launch any campaign at all. Canada has been both a productive and difficult place for U.S. hedge funds to practice their craft. With its corporate landscape often described as clubby, Canadian investors seldom want to be known as the agitators and prefer to let their U.S. rivals take the lead and pile on when they see success. A campaign at TransCanada would follow on the heels of several U.S. activist campaigns in Canada in recent years, such as William Ackman's move on Canadian Pacific Railway , Barry Rosenstein's battle with Agrium Inc  and Carl Icahn's settlement with Talisman Energy .  UNLOCKING VALUE Over the last year, at least a dozen developers in North America and Europe including NRG Energy Inc , NextEra Energy Inc  and Abengoa SA  have considered or formed so-called yield vehicles that own and operate power plants. Spinning off TransCanada's power assets or forming a "yieldco" could help unlock value for investors, analysts and bankers have said. They say that assets that may not fit in a "yieldco" could also be sold at favorable prices to power producers such as Calpine Corp , Dynegy Inc  and NRG. Analysts have said TransCanada's diverse asset base has caused its midstream assets to underperform those of its U.S. and Canadian peers, including Kinder Morgan Inc  and Enbridge Inc . Some investors have been critical of  TransCanada's pace of dropping assets into an MLP it operates in North America. The company has said it has a superior growth portfolio that will see it invest approximately $22 billion in a number of energy infrastructure projects throughout North America. The majority of these projects are under construction and are expected to be completed over the next three years. The $5.4 billion Keystone XL pipeline is the company's most controversial project. Bitterly opposed by environmentalists, the 830,000 barrel-per-day line has awaited approval from the Obama administration for six years. Another major project is its C$12 billion Energy East line, which could carry 1.1 million bpd 4,600 kilometers (2,850 miles) from Alberta to Saint John, New Brunswick, on the Atlantic coast.   (Reporting By Nadia Damouni in New York, Svea Herbst-Bayliss in Boston, Euan Rocha in Toronto with additional reporting by Scott Haggett in Calgary and Mike Stone in New York, Editing by Soyoung Kim and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
David McNew/Getty ImagesThe world famous Hollywood sign California Governor Jerry Brown just signed a bill on Thursday tripling the state's tax breaks for entertainment companies doing business in Hollywood's home state.  The move is meant to combat California's economy has taken a $2 billion hit from runaway production in the past four years as producers sought cheaper places to do business, according to the California Film Commission. Back in June, the research division at FilmL.A., a not-for-profit film office specializing in coordinating permits for on-location shooting in Los Angeles, released a report detailing L.A.'s struggle to hold onto TV projects. The study stated that the “2013/2014 development cycle saw New York (with 24 drama projects retained) dethrone Los Angeles (with 19 drama projects retained) to become North America’s most attractive location for one-hour TV pilot production.” While the particular report focuses solely on the loss of television pilots, it indicated the troubles facing the entire Hollywood film industry. David McNew/Getty ImagesLos Angeles is hoping to see more of this on city streets.The new bill, signed at a famed movie house from Hollywood's heyday, won approval just days after Nevada persuaded electric car maker Tesla Motors to build a massive battery factory near Reno with $1.3 billion in tax credits and other incentives. "This legislation targets the heart and soul of this industry and our middle class – people who swing hammers, run cable and serve food on set so they can pay the bills and spend money in our economy," said Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti in a news release after the signing at the TCL Chinese Theater on Hollywood Boulevard. With thousands of jobs dependent on film and television production in Southern California, Garcetti said the tax breaks would allow the state to fight back against incentives offered by other states. The new legislation increases the amount of money available for tax credits for film and television production to $330 million per year from about $100 million. Under the measure, the tax credits will be awarded through a lottery system, with preference given to companies that create the most jobs and do the most to help the state's economy, Brown's office said. California has been battling for years to keep its storied film industry, a source of thousands of jobs and millions in tax revenues, at home, even as producers have sought cheaper places to film than heavily unionized Los Angeles. The number of productions fleeing California has increased in recent years despite a state program meant to offer tax incentives to keep them in the most populous U.S. state. In June, FilmL.A. President Paul Audley stated: “Losing television pilots – and then series – to other North American competitors leads to the destruction of steady, well-paying California jobs.”  In total, there were 91 drama pilots produced outside of Los Angeles, which is a record number.  (Reuters reporting by Sharon Bernstein) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/OracleLarry Ellison is stepping down as CEO of Oracle.  In honor of his long career, let's take a look back at his life.  Ellison is a true rags-to-riches story. After growing up in a poor neighborhood in Chicago, he decided to drop out of college and drive across the country to California, where he would found Oracle.  He now has a net worth of $51.3 billion and the fabulous lifestyle to go along with it. He's been called "the nation's most avid trophy-home buyer" and has all but taken over entire neighborhoods in Malibu and the Lake Tahoe area. He even purchased the entire Hawaiian island of Lanai for an estimated $300 million in 2012. He also has an amazing collection of supercars, planes, and yachts. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/GettyLarry Ellison.Shares of Oracle were down as much as 3% in after-hours trade on Thursday after the company announced the CEO Larry Ellison would be stepping down.  Ellison will be taking a role as executive chairman and CTO. Oracle also announced that both Safra Catz and Mark Hurd would serve as CEO of the company.  The company also reported earnings and revenue that missed expectations. Oracle reported earnings per share of $0.62 against expectations for $0.64, according to data from Thomson Reuters. Revenue in the quarter also came in light at $8.6 billion against expectations for $8.78 billion.  Here's the full release from Oracle regarding its executive moves.  REDWOOD SHORES, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 09/18/14 -- The Oracle (NYSE: ORCL) Board of Directors today announced that it has elected Larry Ellison to the position of Executive Chairman of Oracle's Board and appointed him the company's Chief Technology Officer. Jeff Henley, who has served as Oracle's Chairman for the last 10 years, was appointed Oracle's Vice Chairman of the Board. The Oracle Board also promoted both Safra Catz and Mark Hurd to the position of CEO, Oracle Corporation. All manufacturing, finance, and legal functions will continue to report to Oracle CEO, Safra Catz. All sales, service and vertical industry global business units will continue to report to Oracle CEO, Mark Hurd. All software and hardware engineering functions will continue to report to Oracle Chairman and CTO, Larry Ellison. "Safra and Mark will now report to the Oracle Board rather than to me," said Larry Ellison. "All the other reporting relationships will remain unchanged. The three of us have been working well together for the last several years, and we plan to continue working together for the foreseeable future. Keeping this management team in place has always been a top priority of mine." "Larry has made it very clear that he wants to keep working full time and focus his energy on product engineering, technology development and strategy," said the Oracle Board's Presiding Director, Dr. Michael Boskin. "Safra and Mark are exceptional executives who have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to lead, manage and grow the company. The Directors are thrilled that the best senior executive team in the industry will continue to move the company forward into a bright future." FREE AppDownload
Revenue of $8.06 billion versus expectations of $8.77 billion. And it just shocked to the world by reporting that co-founder Larry Ellison is stepping down as CEO. He was the longest sitting CEO in Silicon Valley and gave no indications that he had planned to retire anytime soon. Oracle will hand the role over to a pair of executives: Safra Catz, formerly a president and CFO will be co-CEO. Mark Hurd, also a president, is now the co-CEO. Ellison will be on the board as executive chairman and he's taking on the title of CTO. Analysts were expecting a modest increase in both revenue and profit. Their expectations of $8.77 billion in revenue and $.64 earnings per share profit compares to $8.38 billion in revenue and $.59 EPS for the year ago quarter. In its last fiscal year, Oracle steadily grew revenues and profits, but mostly disappointed Wall Street by not growing as them as much as Street wanted. The last time it reported earnings was for its fourth quarter, 2014, usually its best quarter as salespeople push to close deals to make their annual quotas. But for the second year in a row, it missed expectations. A fourth quarter miss would have unheard of just a few years ago. However, Oracle says that, like it's competitors, it is overhauling itself to sell more of its software as a cloud service, on a subscription basis. When its customers buy software through the cloud, instead of license it and install it on their own computers, they pay less up front and more over time. Oracle told analysts that this will affect its revenue in the short term. Therefore, Wall Street is looking for a progress report on Oracle's cloud sales. It's also looking for solid sales of Oracle's bread-and-butter product, the database, as well as good news from Oracle's hardware business, which, after a long, harsh decline, recently started growing again. Here's the press release: REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., September 18, 2014 -- Oracle Corporation (NYSE: ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2015 Q1 total revenues were up 3% to $8.6 billion. Total Software plus Cloud revenue was up 6% to $6.6 billion. Software-as-a-service (SaaS) and Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) cloud revenue was up 32% to $337 million. Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) cloud revenue was up 26% to $138 million. Hardware systems revenue was down 8% to $1.2 billion. GAAP operating income was up 3% to $3.0 billion, and the GAAP operating margin was 34%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 2% to $3.8 billion, and the non-GAAP operating margin was 44%. GAAP net income was unchanged at $2.2 billion while non-GAAP net income was up 2% at $2.8 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.48, up 2% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.62, up 4%. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $15.4 billion. “We are increasing our cloud services growth rate while simultaneously delivering record levels of cash flow,” said Oracle CEO, Safra Catz. “In Q1, our overall cloud services business grew more than 30% to $475 million in revenue. At the same time, we delivered an all-time record operating cash flow up 7% to $6.7 billion. We are laser focused on two goals: growing our cloud business and growing our cash flow. We’re off to a good start in FY15.” “Our internally developed Fusion cloud applications business grew at a rate of nearly 200% in the quarter,” said Oracle CEO, Mark Hurd. “As our hyper-growth Fusion applications become a larger and larger portion of our total SaaS sales, that will drive up our overall cloud services growth rate. Our cloud business is already three times the size of Workday, but we won’t be satisfied until we’re number one in the cloud.” “Next week at Oracle Open World, we will be rolling out our database cloud service,” said Oracle Executive Chairman and Chief Technology Officer, Larry Ellison. “Database is our largest software business, and database will be our largest cloud service. With our new multitenant Database as a Service offering, our customers and ISV’s can move any of their existing Oracle databases and applications to the Oracle Cloud with the push of a button.” The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 8, 2014, with a payment date of October 29, 2014. Oracle also announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $13.0 billion of common stock under its existing share repurchase program in future quarters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneGreg Walker throws the hammer at the Birnam Highland Games. Scotland will hold a referendum on independence on September 18The Dow and S&amp;P 500 hit new all-time highs on Thursday, as housing data came in worse than expected while initial jobless claims data beat expectations. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The weekly report on initial jobless claims fell to 280,000, less than the 305,000 that was expected by economists and down from last week's 316,000. Following the report Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "With the exception of the week of July 19, when claims were distorted by the automakers' shutdowns, this is the lowest reading since May 2000." 2. Housing starts plummeted in August, falling at 14.4% to an annualized rate of 956,000 in the biggest monthly drop since April 2013. Economists were expected the pace of housing starts to fall 5.25 to 1.04 million. Following the report, Dean Maki at Barclays said, "Because the housing starts data are volatile on a monthly basis, these data do not change our view that a moderate housing recovery remains on track." 3. The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report fell to 22.5 from 28.0, also missing expectations for a reading of 23.0. The report's employment subindex, however, rose to its best level since May 2011.  4. The latest Z.1 Flow of Funds report from the Federal Reserve showed that household net worth grew by $1.4 trillion in the second quarter to $81.5 trillion. During the quarter, the value of stocks rose $1 trillion and the value of real estate increased by $230 billion. Household debt increased by 3.6%.  5. Shares of Rite Aid were among the biggest losers on Thursday, falling more than 18% after the pharmacy chain cut its fiscal-year earnings and sales outlook, citing reduced margin in its generic drug business.  6. Microsoft laid off 2,100 employees, and a source close to the company told Business Insider's Julie Bort that cuts were happening in "many different team, functions and countries." Microsoft still plans to lay off 2,900 or so employees over the next few months. 7. Shares of pharmaceutical company VIVUS gained more than 12% after the FDA approved updated labeling for the company's erectile dysfunction treatment. 8. On Thursday, Scotland went to the polls to vote on a referendum to leave UK. Recent polls indicated that "No" votes were leading "Yes" votes by a margin of about 52-48, and on the belief that Scots will vote to stay in the UK, the British pound rallied. Conventional wisdom this week has pointed towards Scots voting to stay in the UK, but Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal reported that, according to a top analyst following the vote, a huge turnout could render recent polls useless.  9. Business Insider's Jim Edwards will be live in London all night updating results of the Scottish vote as results roll in. Business Insider's Tomas Hirst will be be live in Edinburgh, Scotland documenting the scene as results come in.  Don't Miss: BANK OF AMERICA: The 'Great Rotation' Is Going To Make A Big Comeback » FREE AppDownload
APThe complete iPhone line. In the past, buying an iPhone was as easy as walking into the store, grabbing the newest model, and going on your way. Not this year. For the first time in Apple's history, it has a genuinely diverse iPhone line. It is selling an iPhone 5C, 5S, 6, and 6 Plus. And all four phones are very good. This means consumers in the market for an iPhone have a tough decision to make when it comes to which phone to purchase. Since preorders start Friday, I decided to put together this guide to help anyone in the market for a new phone.  Before digging into the current phones, let's talk about you. How rich are you? If money is no object, then you can skip the following section and just read about the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. If money is an object, then read on. Flickr/MSVGIf your phone looks like this, then upgrade. Do you have an iPhone 4S or earlier? If the answer is yes, then you should definitely get a new iPhone. If you have an iPhone 5 or iPhone 5S, and the phone is in good condition, you may not need to upgrade. The iPhone 5S is an excellent phone. The only drawback is that it has a smaller screen. If a bigger screen is really important to you, then you should upgrade. But if you're happy with the 5S, then you should hold out for another year. Next year's iPhone 6S will be better than the iPhone 6. If you have an iPhone 5 and you're on a contract and you're eligible for an upgrade, then you should probably get a new phone. You can sell your iPhone 5 on Craigslist, or eBay, for ~$200, which effectively makes the cost of upgrading $0. If you're not on a contract, then it's a bit more complicated. The iPhone 5 is a good phone that should still be working fine. If you don't yearn for a bigger screen, then you can probably squeeze another year out of the phone. (And, again, next year's iPhone is going to be better.)  What if you — gasp — have an Android phone? Apple CEO Tim Cook says you'll have "a better life" if you get an iPhone. That's a bit strong, but you will get a better selection of apps. A friend of mine who owns an Android phone was pestering me over Labor Day to write a story about how Android owners don't get new features for apps until long after iPhone owners.  I like the iPhone and iOS better than Android. But, it's a matter of taste. If you're happy with Android, then stick with it. If you hate Android, then now is a good time to bail since Apple has bigger phones with better features. With that out of the way, let's explore the iPhone options. One thing to note: I have not used these phones. I have used every iPhone design since it was released and they've all been pretty good. I have tested all sorts of Android phones at various screen sizes, so I have a good idea about what you'll be getting from Apple. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 6 Plus is the most expensive phone in the lineup. The entry level model is $299 on a two-year contract. It's also the biggest with a 5.5-inch screen. It has the highest-resolution screen too. Apple is using the large screen to offer unique software options, like a keyboard that has dedicated keys for copy and paste and new display options for content. It also has a bigger battery and slightly longer battery life than other iPhones. The iPhone 6 Plus is the phone I plan to buy. A few years ago I got a Samsung Note II at a Samsung event. It has a 5.5-inch screen. At first, I was inclined to dismiss the phone as too big and goofy. But the more I used it, the more I fell in love with the big screen. If you're the sort of person who lives on your phone, then you should get the iPhone 6 Plus. I use my phone from the time I get up to the time I go to bed. I check email and Twitter on it constantly. I do a lot of reading on my phone. My iPhone is a minicomputer and so I want a big screen. I have an iPad Mini, and I think I'm going to sell the iPad Mini and go all in on the big iPhone. When you hold the phone to your head to make a call you might look funny, but so what? How many calls do you really make? I use headphones half the time I make calls, so this isn't that big of a deal. Two other concerns people have about the big phone: Is it too big for my hands, and is too big for my pockets? Let's tackle those in reverse order. The phone fits in your pocket, no problem. Because this is Apple, the phone is thinner than thin, so it won't be too bulky. However, it is going to be a bit large. Personally, my phone is often out of my pockets. If I'm at work, I have it on my desk. If I am on the train, I am holding it and using it. If I am in a car, I use it for maps and directions. If I am at home on the couch, I usually have it out to surf the web while watching TV. If this sounds like you, then it's no biggie. But if you keep your phone in your pocket all the time, it might be a problem. My colleague Steve Kovach tested the iPhone 6 Plus at the Apple event on Tuesday and said it fit in his jeans pocket perfectly. As for hand size ... that could be a problem! There is no question that a bigger phone is going to be harder to maneuver. If you're really worried about this, go to the Apple Store when the phones are out and try picking up the 6 Plus. If it's too much it's too much. I'm over 6 feet tall, and, I guess, have hands that correspond with that size. I don't think the bigger phone is much of a problem. Sometimes it will be clunky, but life is a series of trade-offs, I think it's the bigger screen is worth it.  Both new iPhones also have a special one-handed mode that pops the top portion of the screen down so you can reach it with your thumb. You just lightly tap the home button twice to do it:  Bottom line: Buy the iPhone 6 Plus if you live on your phone. It's a great size, and it's better than owning a tablet. Don't buy it if you have small hands, and you don't live and die with your iPhone. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen, which is probably the best screen size for most people. It's not too big and it's not too small. The entry-level iPhone 6 costs $199 with a two-year contract. If you're due for an upgrade and you want the next model iPhone, this is probably the phone you should buy.  The iPhone 6 has a new A8 chip, which Apple says is faster than last year's A7 chip. It has an M8 chip, which tracks your motion to keep track of steps. It also has a barometer, so it can tell how high you've gone, counting the stairs you've climbed. The camera is also upgraded, likely making it the best smartphone camera on the market. (Of course, all of this is on the iPhone 6 Plus, too.) There are two reasons to go with the iPhone 6 over the 6 Plus — price and screen size. If you want to save a little money and you don't want the bigger screen, then this is the phone for you.  The only other difference between the 6 or 6 Plus besides screen size is the camera. The iPhone 6 Plus camera has better video stabilization than the iPhone 6. It's a minor feature that most people won't really notice or care about, but probably something you should know if you plan to shoot a lot of video. Bottom line: The iPhone 6 is the replacement for the iPhone 5S. If you just want the latest greatest iPhone with no compromises, this is the phone for you. Don't buy it if you want a giant screen or if you like the current size of the iPhone. Soldier Knows Best What if you don't want a really big screen? What if you like the current 4-inch screen? You're in luck. Apple will be selling the iPhone 5S for $99 with a two-year contract. The iPhone 5S is a great phone. Unlike in year's past, it doesn't feel like the 5S is significantly worse than the phone that's replacing it. The 5S has a fingerprint scanner and a motion tracker, just like the iPhone 6. The iPhone 6 is slightly faster, and its motion tracker is slightly better, but it doesn't seem like it's that big of a deal. The camera on the iPhone 6 is slightly better, but not significantly so. If you don't want a big screen and you'd like to save some money, the iPhone 5S is the phone for you. It's a really good phone, and if you use a 5S for the next two to three years, you won't be let down. Bottom line: Buy the iPhone 5S if you don't want a big screen. Don't buy it if you do want the big screen. Steve Kovach/Business Insider The iPhone 5C is a very good entry-level phone. It has a 4-inch screen. It doesn't have any of the bells and whistles of the other models. If you are on a limited budget, you want a small screen, and you like colors, this is the phone for you. It's $0 with a two-year contract, and it works pretty well. The risk is that it's going to be obsolete in a few years. If you plan to have the phone for the next two to three years, then it's worth paying $100 to $200 for a better phone. If you don't use your phone much, or your just want a hold over for a year or two, then get the 5C. In yellow. Be bold! Bottom line: If you don't have much money, or don't care about screen sizes, or you don't care about the latest features, get this one. Apple/Screenshot What color should you get? It's up to you really. But if you want me to make a decision for you, here's my advice: As for storage, I recommend getting the midtier, which is 64 GB for the 6 and 6 Plus. If you're getting a 5S, then that's 32 GB. These things are great for taking photos and video. Unfortunately, that stuff takes up a lot of storage space, so it's worth paying the extra $100 to get the space. If you have questions, ask in the comments and I'll do my best to answer them.    FREE AppDownload
It's the dreaded sign of aging, gray locks of hair that you can't shake. But why does it happen? We took a look at the science and figured it out.
Mehmet Cetin/ShutterstockFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Don't Let Your Risk Tolerance Drive Your Portfolio Mix (Morningstar) One of the major problems that investors have is that they let their risk tolerance (or the ability to withstand short-term losses) drive their portfolio mix.  Behavioral finance research shows that "investors can undermine their portfolio's performance when they're stressed out." In other words, no matter how good a portfolio your portfolio is, if you switching things up too much during "stormy" markets, it won't be successful. However, risk capacity is something that should drive market tolerance. Risk capacity is the investor's ability to withstand losses with having to change their goals or their standard of living if they're retired. However, older clients typically have lower risk capacity because they have shorter time horizons. Commodity Wealth Is Not The Most Important Driver Of Emerging Markets' Performance (The AllianceBernstein Blog) Fixed-income investors tend to split emerging markets into commodity exporters and commodity imports. But that's a big problem because commodity wealth is not the only (and not even the most important) driver of EM performance, according to AllianceBernstein's Fernando J. Losada. Research from AllianceBerstein shows that "being a commodity producer didn't guarantee improved credit fundamentals or stronger growth during that time. In fact, some of the commodity 'winners' are actually worse off today. Many commodity importers, on the other hand, weathered the storm and saw their economies strengthen." And there's a simple reason why this happened. Not many commodity-heavy countries took advantage "of the windfall and fiscal flexibility" of the unprecedented commodity boom. Instead, most countries focused on social programs that would gain political favor, like public sector wage increases. Morgan Stanley Just Snagged A $4.5 Billion Advisor Team From Merrill Lynch (Financial Advisor Magazine) On Wednesday Morgan Stanley announced that it has acquired a $4.5 billion advisor team from Merrill Lynch. Managing directors Brian and Tim Brice, and their team, will be moving to the Birmingham, Michigan branch, and will work under Morgan Stanley's Graystone Consulting unit. "The team handles corporate accounts, endowments and foundations, health-care organizations, insurance companies, state and local governments, Taft-Hartley funds, family offices and high-net worth individuals, Morgan Stanley said." According to the recruiter Mindy Diamond (who placed the team with Morgan Stanley), the Brices felt that they would have more influence over client experience at Morgan Stanley. US Wealth Is At A Record High And Clients Are More Trusting Of Advisers (Financial Planning) High-net-worth-individuals (or "HNWIs") who have investable assets of more than $1 million grew by 17% in the last year, according to the 2014 US Wealth Report. Their wealth rose by 18% — up to $14 trillion. And on top of that, these individuals are more trusting of wealth managers and wealth management firms. Both saw 12% increases in trust, up to 84% for managers, and 87% for firms. New York is still the top wealth market by a long shot (with 894,000 HNWIs), followed by Los Angeles (with 333,000 HNWIs). However, New York also had the second slowest growing rate  at 12%, slightly better than that of Detroit (11%). The fastest growing markets for HNWIs were in Dallas, Houston, and San Jose, where there are focuses on technology and energy. Nontraded REITs Have Produced Some Solid Results (Investment News) Even though they're not quite as great as publicly traded REITs, nontraded REITs that have had liquidity events have produced some solid results. The average annualized, dollar-weighted returns for the nontraded REITs with liquidity events was 10.9%, according to the report from Green Street Advisors. By comparison, it was 14.% for listed REITs. "Since 1990, 34 nontraded REITs have experienced liquidity events, with those REITs raising $54 billion in equity, which is about half the total capital raised by all nontraded REITs, the report said." The nontraded REIT industry has grown incredibly in the last five years. They're even on track for a second consecutive year of raising $20 billion in equity. Comparatively, they only raised $8 billion from 2003 to 2012.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba CEO Jack Ma(Reuters) - Big institutional investors like Blackrock will likely get the bulk of roughly $22 billion worth of Alibaba Group Holdings shares being sold in an initial public offering set to price later on Thursday, people familiar with the situation said. By restricting the allocation so narrowly to large institutions, the underwriters on the IPO hope to prevent volatile trading of the Chinese e-commerce company's shares after expected trading begins Friday and in the weeks to come, the sources said. Alibaba, which handles more transactions than Amazon.com Inc and eBay Inc combined, is expected to price within the $66 to $68 per American depository share range, mutual fund company Fidelity said on its website. The final price has not yet been determined. The sources said banks managing the offering plan to allocate the bulk of the heavily anticipated offering - expected to be one of the world's largest-ever - to a group of 25 to 50 large institutions. The IPO represents a milestone for the company founded 15 years ago in former English teacher Jack Ma's one bedroom apartment and which has drawn a plethora of investors lured by its surging revenue growth and solid profit margins. Alibaba is responsible for 80 percent of online sales in the world's second-largest economy, and works with a number of businesses there including consumer online marketplace Taobao and payment service Alipay. An Ipsos poll conducted for Thomson Reuters found that 88 percent of Americans had never heard of the Chinese e-commerce company. But that hasn't sapped enthusiasm among multiple large institutions, including Blackrock, which are angling for allocations of at least $1 billion in shares, according to the sources. RAPID GROWTH "For this kind of large deal it’s very common to allocate the bulk of shares to the large institutionals who will hold it for the long run," said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which helps create index funds for IPOs. Investors, keen to buy into China's rapid growth and evolving Internet sector, have been clamoring to get shares since top executives at Alibaba, including Ma, kicked off the road show last week. “It was one of the more impressive IPO presentations,” said Jerry Jordan, manager of the $48 million Jordan Opportunity Fund. “I didn’t realize just quite how successful they are." Alibaba's revenue surged 46 percent in the April to June quarter on strong gains in its mobile business, with net income attributable to its shareholders nearly tripling to $1.99 billion, or 84 cents a share. At the top end of its range, the IPO would raise almost $22 billion, but if underwriters exercise an option to sell more shares, Alibaba's market debut will top Agricultural Bank of China Ltd's record $22.1 billion listing in 2010. Given the size of the offering and the interest it has attracted, the company, even after allocating most of the offering to big fund companies and other institutions, may not be able to avoid volatile trading of its shares. Concerns that an opaque corporate governance structure and Ma's outside investments will stymie minority investors' rights could also end up capping short-term gains. ROOM FOR A FIRST-DAY 'POP'? “Rarely in history has there been an IPO of this size for a company that we know less about,” Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said in a statement on Wednesday. “I continue to be concerned about the level of transparency from Chinese firms listing in our markets." In addition, a Reuters analysis found that IPO mega-deals have tended to suffer weak performance after their customary first-day price rallies. Despite the possibility for longer-term turbulence, investors and analysts are betting that there is still room for a substantial first-day jump in the shares. One investor said that the IPO's underwriters, who include Credit Suisse Group AG, Citigroup Inc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc, were hoping for a first day "pop" of 10 to 15 percent. In a note Thursday, analysts at Morningstar said the shares are more fairly valued at $90 each. Other underwriters include Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, with Rothschild, which does not have underwriting operations, advising Alibaba on the deal.   (Reporting by Liana Baker, Jessica Toonkel and Deepa Seetharaman; Writing by David Gaffen and Christian Plumb; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citi sign is seen at the Citigroup stall on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Citigroup argued before a U.S. appeals court on Thursday it faces "a serious and imminent hazard" if it cannot process another interest payment by Argentina on $8.4 billion in bonds the country issued under local laws following its 2002 default. The three-judge panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York is weighing an appeal by the bank to reverse a lower court's injunction. That ruling bars payment to creditors who participated in two prior debt exchanges stemming from the default unless holdout creditors are paid at the same time. Citigroup's lawyer, Karen Wagner, said the bank will   "undoubtedly" get another transfer of money from Argentina by Sept. 30 and that local law requires it to make payments that are currently blocked by a lower court injunction. She later added the bank would "obey the order" of the appellate court if it upholds the injunction. One judge, Barrington Parker, voiced skepticism over Citigroup's argument, saying: "I don't know how you can seriously argue the Argentine law bonds aren't covered by the injunction." Roy Englert, a lawyer representing holdout creditors, argued that the injunction's definition of the bonds exchanged in 2005 and 2010 does not differentiate based upon on denomination or the law under which they were issued.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond and Joseph Ax in New York; Writing by Daniel Bases and Noeleen Walder; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul Hackett Ryan Randall plays the bagpipes outside a polling station in Edinburgh, Scotland on Sept. 18, 2014.  Scotland is voting on its own independence Thursday, and the conventional wisdom holds that it will ultimately vote NO — meaning the Scots will stay with Great Britain. Polls show the NO side holding a slim, but consistent lead. (Click here to see our live blog of the voting.) And the British Pound has been surging, which is the opposite of what it would do if the UK were about to be thrown into political chaos. And betting markets have been giving long odds to the YES side. So does YES have any hope? One of the smartest analysts we know — who chooses to remain nameless — explained how it could happen via an IM conversation earlier. The theory is that it's possible the polls are under-estimating the pool of voters, and looking at past turnout models which won't apply this time if the young people (who are pro-independence, largely) turn out in droves. Here's what he said: The polls are good at catching the people that normally vote. This thing looks like everyone is going to vote Polls haven't the first clue how to poll this Honestly, I have no idea how the average 17 yr old is going to vote, but I know the average Celtic supporting Gorbels resident is going to vote Yes those people normally don;t vote, and certainly aren't getting polled. All that matters is that they turn up So, IF the polls are wrong. and even by polling the people that normally vote they are getting close to 50:50, I think the YES side have it. There's some further evidence for this theory courtesy of political science researcher Diarmuid Scully, who tweets:  So there you have it. If turnout is massive, and if polls aren't picking that up, watch out! FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMorning commuters walk on Wall Street in New York's financial districtBy Jonathan Spicer NEW YORK (Reuters) - No sooner did the Federal Reserve reveal its plan for eventually tightening U.S. monetary policy than many on Wall Street flagged problems with the mechanics of the strategy, and said more adjustments would have to come. Some market participants worried that a new limit on the Fed's reverse repurchase facility would hurt efforts to raise interest rates as quarters draw to an end when investors typically hunt for collateral. Others predicted the controversial tool would ultimately play a bigger role than the U.S. central bank let on. In reverse repos, the Fed offers Treasury securities as collateral in exchange for cash from banks, large money market mutual funds and others, temporarily draining cash from the financial system. On Wednesday, the Fed surprised many by updating its policy "normalization" plan, meant to help the public understand exactly how it will raise rates from near zero when the time comes. The process will be unusually tricky given the tremendous amount of liquidity the central bank has pumped into financial markets to try to spur a stronger economic recovery. The Fed also issued a policy statement at the close of a two-day meeting that suggested the first rate hike wasn't due until around the middle of next year. According to the plan, the overnight repo facility, or RRP, would only be "supplementary," used "as needed" to serve as an effective floor under the main federal funds rate, and later shuttered. At the same time, the Fed tripled the amount that each bank or fund could lend into the facility during its current testing and applied an overall $300-billion cap, less than the $340 billion in demand RRP faced at the quarter-end on June 30. The new cap on what had been an unlimited facility raised fears that once the tightening cycle begins, and demand rises, financial markets could face unusual volatility on days that firms scramble for short-term collateral. The Fed's policy-setting committee "will ultimately hold its nose and expand its RRP operations ... to a trillion dollars or more if that proves to be necessary to maintain a firm floor under rates," predicted Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC. The central bank seems to be "downplaying the idea that the RRP facility might someday become the centerpiece of the Fed's operating procedures," he said. The new limits are effective Sept. 22, and analysts said volatility could erupt eight days later when the quarter draws to a close. Some noted that the Fed aims to gather information on how participants will react on Sept. 30. For a year, the central bank has been testing the facility  as a way to control short-term rates by draining the trillions of dollars in reserves it has created fighting the deep recession. It has seen strong demand from bidders. But Fed policymakers grew concerned that over-reliance on repos could encourage runs on some funds deemed risky in times of market stress, and wanted to limit use of the facility. "The new operating system has sacrificed control in favor of minimizing the Fed's presence in the repo market for fear a large presence may cause distortions," said William Lee, head of North America economics at Citigroup, adding the decision "may be a mistake." The Fed, however, left itself much wiggle room. The new repo limits can be changed or dropped; no date was set for termination of the facility; and the central bank said it is "prepared to adjust the details" of its normalization plan based on economic or financial developments. The Fed aims to use the repo rate as a floor when it raises the overnight federal funds rate to a higher target range, say between 0.25 and 0.50 percent. A rate the Fed pays banks on their excess reserves would serve as the ceiling and, according to the plan, be the primary tool to tighten policy. Given the desire to limit use of repos, Fed Chair Janet Yellen acknowledged on Wednesday that the key fed funds rate "may vary within the target range and could even move outside of that range on occasion, but such movements should have no material effect on financial conditions or the broader economy." Once demand at the facility exceeds $300 billion, an auction will determine the repo rate, not the central bank. In this case, investors would look beyond the Fed to other sources for funding, and the market-based rate would decline. "In effect, this could mean a soggy or softer floor for the (fed funds) corridor," Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research at TD Securities, wrote in a client note. "When the Fed goes live next year they are almost certainly expected to revert back to setting the price, and having the market determine the quantity of excess reserves drained," he wrote. "Otherwise it will work against the purpose of tightening."  (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Here's some stock trader buzz for you. AOL shares just went vertical. Initially, we just knew traders were buzzing about an analyst note going around detailing how Yahoo could possibly buy AOL. We weren't initially sure of the nature of it, though. Now we've seen the note. It's not a prediction. It's from Richard Anthony, a derivatives analyst at BGC, who speculates on what Yahoo might do with its cash after Alibaba goes public. He writes: Investors may seek to have upside exposure to shares of AOL for two reasons, 1) the company is heading into the seasonally stronger December quarter and 2) post the Alibaba IPO, there is a possibility that Yahoo may seek to deploy its cash by pursuing AOL as an acquisition target. While AOL may not seem like a flashy target, there is considerable overlap between the two businesses that may make a tie-up compelling. Using Bloomberg consensus 2015 revenue estimates of $4.4B for Yahoo and $2.8B for AOL, acquiring AOL could accelerate Yahoo’s revenue by over 60%. With a market capitalization of $3.3B, AOL may prove to be a tempting target. So there you go. It's just an analyst positing an options trade. Yahoo   FREE AppDownload
As expected, more Microsoft employees lost their jobs today. Microsoft handed out pink slips to 2,100 employees on Thursday, part of the 18,000-employee layoff it announced in July. Here's what we know from sources close to the company: Cuts are happening across the board in "many different teams, functions and countries," our source said. All employees are getting a severance package. Many of today's cuts were in the Seattle area: 747 employees in the Puget Sound area were let go. That means Microsoft still intends to cut another 2,900 or so employees over the coming months. Microsoft will wrap up the majority of the layoff by December, it promised employees. It might make the final cuts throughout the fiscal year, which ends in June. Most employees affected were let go last July, when Microsoft first announced these cuts. CEO Satya Nadella said the company cut 13,000 employees that day, mostly from Nokia. All told, 12,500 Nokia employees were dismissed. Another 5,500 will come from Microsoft. Sources told us cuts were deep at Microsoft because the company was shedding Nokia's feature phone business. Nokia is now focused on smartphones and tablets. In those first round of cuts, test engineers across the company were the hardest hit, sources told Business Insider. That's because CEO Satya Nadella is changing the organizational structure of how Microsoft builds products. Testing will no longer be done by a totally dedicated team, but will be rolled into the developer team. Nadella believes this will reduce bureaucracy and let Microsoft deliver products faster. Now, however, cuts are happening company wide. FREE AppDownload
The New York Times' Josh Barro and the author Nassim Taleb got into a Twitter spat on Thursday. The topic: GMOs. And like too many fights on Twitter, things took an ugly personal turn. Strong correlation between people who think vaccines are bad, think GMOs are bad, think gluten is bad. Journalists should stay away from risk statements focus on harmless stances. https://t.co/egg8XLQWU3 @hopps3 @HuntsmanAbby @jbarro Your area of expertise is Bullshit @jbarro   @nntaleb I'm not the one urging policies to starve people.    Ignorant man you didn't read the paper you just made 2 fallacies. @jbarro    @nntaleb yes, your area of expertise is probability, and you're asking me to listen to your concerns about whether GMOs are neurotoxic.    Mr Barro we are NOT arguing for "neurotoxic"/not even local harm. Only Systemic. Silly to make such mistakes publicly @JamesNamor @jbarro   The paper Taleb tweeted at Barro is called "The Precaution Principle (with Application to the Genetic Modification of Organisms)," and argues that the precaution principle should be used to "prescribe severe limits on GMOs." Taleb has a propensity for being quite combative on Twitter, on topics ranging from bonds to GMOs, and Taleb will fight with just about anybody.  Last year, Taleb said he would take a fight to Twitter if one of the following conditions were in place: "...his critics 1) use "straw man arguments" (misrepresenting my ideas to critique them), 2) transform low probability bets into deterministic predictions, 3) mistake P/L (profit/loss) for prediction." Our guess is Barro violated nos. 1 and 2. FREE AppDownload
Reuters The above photo was taken yesterday, but it's not in Scotland Instead it's Barcelona, where pro-Catalonia campaigners are hoping that Scotland sets off a cascade of independence movements across Europe. Catalonia is set for its own independence referendum on November 9, except it's not legally sanctioned by the government in Madrid, and affect Spain's Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has threatened to stop it. Regardless of what happens, these burgeoning independence movements, combined with the rise of anti-EU/Eurozone parties in France, Germany, and the UK are Europe's worst nightmare. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamad TorokmanInvestors should get ready for more talk of the "Great Rotation."The "Great Rotation" is going to make a comeback.  Specifically, Bank of America's Chief Equity Strategist Michael Hartnett sees money rotating out of bonds and into stocks. Following Wednesday's latest monetary policy announcement from the Federal Reserve, Hartnett identified a few themes coming back to the market. With the Fed no longer injecting liquidity into the market with a quantitative easing program, and interest rates eventually rising, Hartnett sees a transition to an environment of "Higher Growth and Less Liquidity" in 2015.  One these themes? The Great Rotation.  The "Great Rotation" is a market meme that really took hold in 2013, and the central idea is that that money was going to rotate out of bonds and into stocks.  Hartnett says that the "push" from bonds and the "pull" from stocks will become stronger in 2015, as markets adjust to an environment of higher rates and lower liquidity.  Some other trends Hartnett sees emerging are: Hartnett also wrote that following the Fed's latest monetary policy announcement and Fed Chair Janet Yellen's press conference on Wednesday,"We believe the interest rates genie is out of the bottle. Put simply: 2015 will be the first year since 2006 that the US central bank hikes rates." And while there was an outflow from bonds during the "taper tantrum" in the spring of 2013 — when bond yields spikes after then-Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke hinted that the Fed could reduce its QE program — bonds have resumed their rally this year. Hartnett was the first strategist on Wall Street to popularize the idea of the "Great Rotation," which has disappeared from Wall Street's lexicon in 2014. So keep an eye out for this trade — or at least this idea — to make a comeback. FREE AppDownload
ReutersHigh net worth individuals have more wealth, but also higher expectations of their wealth managers.Technology consulting firm Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management have been issuing global wealth reports for nearly two decades, but this year, they released their first ever US Wealth Report. The report details the situation of high net worth individuals (HNWI), defined as those with $1 million or more in assets. Bill Sullivan, head of global financial services market intelligence at Capgemini, explains that the report saw record wealth growth to $13.9 trillion in 2013, a 17.7% increase from the previous year. "This is the largest increase we've seen since we started tracking the US in 1997," he says.  Sullivan also mentions that US trust and confidence levels among HNWI — in wealth managers, firms, the market, and regulatory bodies — are the highest in the world. Interestingly, these individuals rated their wealth managers and firms lower in the first quarter of 2014 than previous years, which Sullivan believes is a product of increased expectations, not diminished performance. "High net worth individuals consider their needs more complex," he says, "and they're looking for digital interaction. Probably the biggest finding was that if they aren't given a great experience with their wealth management, 78% of those under 40 would consider leaving their firms." The digital interaction, he specifies, isn't necessarily something that will be satisfied by the online, automated investment platforms known as robo-advisors. Instead, these clients are looking for a combination of digital and direct access. "If you think about the effect companies like Google and Apple have had on how people interact in their daily lives, clients ask, 'How come my firm can't interact with me the same way?'" Below, take a look at where wealth is concentrated in the US, and where HNWIs are putting their money:  WorldWealthReport.com Download the entire report at WorldWealthReport.com. This post has been updated to include the latest version of the infographic. FREE AppDownload
Bayskes via FlickrHousehold net worth climbed by $1.4 trillion in Q2 to $81.5 trillion. This is according to the Federal Reserve's newly released Z.1 Flow of Funds report. This comes as the job market improves, home prices climb, and stock prices rise. During the period, the value of stocks climbed by $1.0 trillion and the value of real estate rose by $230 billion. Household debt increased by 3.6%. Here's a summary of the Fed's historical numbers: Federal Reserve   FREE AppDownload
Average US fixed mortgage rates saw their biggest weekly jump of the year, hitting their highest level since the week ending May 1. This is according to new survey data from Freddie Mac. During the week ending September 18, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 4.23%, up from 4.12% a week ago. The 15-year rate averaged 3.37%, up from 3.26% last week. "Fixed-rate mortgage rates rose this week following the increase in 10-year Treasury yields being partially fueled by market speculation the Federal Reserve might change its interest rate guidance," Freddie Mac chief economist Frank Nothaft said. According to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association, mortgage applications for home purchases are down 10% from a year ago. A jump in rates could have to effect of spurring prospective homebuyers on the sideline to make a move, boosting the housing market in the short-run. But should rates trend higher, the housing market could decelerate further and even decline.Freddie Mac FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogDespite all the liquidity provided by the major central banks since 2008, inflation remains remarkably subdued around the world. On September 2, I wrote: “If we knew six years ago about the extraordinary rounds of ultra-easy monetary policy that the major central banks were about to pursue, most of us would have predicted hyperinflation. Instead, the widespread worry is about deflation. Over the past five years, Milton Friedman’s dictum that ‘inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon’ hasn’t played out.” I also observed that in the US there is clearly less slack in the labor market and in the overall economy than a year ago. Yet both wage inflation and price inflation remain remarkably low. I noted that there are lots of reasons why this is happening and may continue to do so. Globalization continues to keep a lid on wages. Easy money has financed excess capacity around the world, which is keeping a lid on prices. There have been lots of technological innovations, which tend to be deflationary. Low price inflation is keeping a lid on wage inflation. So inflation isn’t always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon. Furthermore, deflation may be a monetary phenomenon if ultra-easy monetary policy boosts production capacity more than it does demand. According to the IMF, the world CPI down-ticked to 3.2% during July. The inflation rate for advanced economies was just 1.6% y/y. That’s the 27th consecutive month of readings under 2%. The inflation rate for emerging economies fell to 5.3%, the lowest since October 2009. Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersThe renewable energy revolution is happening faster than many expected. According to recent report from Citi Research, renewables will continue their market share grabs from coal and gas for two reasons. First, renewables are rapidly becoming cost-effective, and second, environmental restrictions are becoming an increasingly high hurdle. Thanks to tech advances, the cost of renewables is finally dropping to affordable levels, which is allowing them to proliferate, according to Citi. "Costs for solar and wind energy are falling rapidly, with learning rates of around 30% for solar and 7.4% for wind," the report states. Wind power has already achieved cost parity with the most expensive coal power plants in Europe (slightly above $80/MWh), and by the end of the decade it's expected to reach cost parity with the majority of plants (around $70/MWh). Solar is still the most expensive major electricity source at the moment (around $160/MWh), but Citi is projecting that by 2020 solar will drop to wind's current prices (slightly above $80/MWh). "Natural gas has already eroded coal's cost competitiveness in the US, with decreasing costs for wind, solar and ex-US natural gas to follow," according to Citi. Below is the global electricity cost curve. Citi Research Historically there has been a correlation between economic growth and electricity demand growth. But right now we're seeing the opposite: during a period of economic growth, electricity demand growth has been relatively flat or declined for some regions. Some of this can be explained by the need for cleaner energy. "Environmental pressures on coal consumption are rising not only in Europe and North America, but also in China and other emerging markets," according to the Citi analyst's note. "The most significant change has been in China, where increasing regulations and the establishment of carbon markets should limit the attractiveness of coal power. Moreover, the country is aggressively pursuing an 'everything but coal' development plan for the power sector, with rapid growth in capacity for alternative energy sources." Coal power plants are increasingly being pushed into "retirement." Most people have been expecting natural gas to be coal's major substitute. However, Citi's forecast suggests that growth in natgas demand is going to be way less than previously anticipated. Renewables should take ever-increasing amounts of market share in an environment like this, according to the report. Citi Research In the figure above, you can see that coal's utilized capacity (measured in GW) is projected drop from 198 GW in 2011 down to 181 GW by 2020. Natural gas slightly increases from 115 GW in 2011 to 132 GW by 2020, although that number is less than previously expected (and you can see there's a dip from 2012 to 2014). Nuclear sees no major change in either direction, starting at 90 GW and ending at 92 GW.  On the flip side, renewables in 2011 were at 50 GW and are expected to rise to 68 GW by 2020. FREE AppDownload
Hi Gents, Beau from Siblings With Style is back with another Five Ways post, one of our most popular series on EG. Admittedly, some of these suggestions are most applicable in warm weather, they also carry over nicely in this transitional period we’re in (in the northern hemisphere, particularly here in the US). Enjoy this one! — Building a new wardrobe (or refreshing an old one) can get pretty difficult with the array of options out there, especially when it comes to pants in seasonal fabrics. Between lighter-weight chinos for spring and summer, and heavier wool fabrics for other parts of the year, you could find yourself with a closet jammed full of various varieties of pants. That’s why it makes things that much easier to have a go-to, any-season pant in a neutral shade. While most of us associate khakis with a baggy fit and pleats, the new khaki has undergone, at least by most measures, an update for the 21st-century man. And the starting barometer for your new khaki pant involves two keys, things worth always remembering: color and fit. While the khaki of yesteryear might feature a washed-out, light color, a dark tan khaki—like these from Dockers—works with darker fall and winter hues and sits somewhere in the middle of the spectrum during spring and summer. Another great example of nailing that in-between color is last year’s Newport Chino from Frank &amp; Oak, reviewed here by yours truly. As with any item, fit is also a huge essential. Since it’s a piece that can work casually and in dressier situations, look for a trim fit that’s not rock-star denim tight. Think something like a slim-straight Levi’s 513 or a 514 jean, yet in chino form. Again, the F&amp;O chino is a nice example of a pair with some taper from the thigh to the ankle. And a pair with either a minimal break (or maybe some extra length to allow a cuff or roll) keeps things sleek and not ultra-baggy. Caring for chinos is something to pay close attention to, as well. Since chino fabric is different than denim (not anywhere close to as stiff, more susceptible to visible stains and made with more stretch) washing more frequently than your jeans is definitely advised. Washing with dark colors in cold water and hang-drying is definitely the simplest option (and they could also be pressed to avoid wrinkling). Throwing them in the dryer might shrink them, making it tough to put them back on again… not something you want in the slightest. It’s worth noting that if the fabric isn’t up to par (if it’s a cheaper pair from, sayH&amp;M), the color could fade much more quickly through washing. Now, onto the outfits!   Effortless Gent Dark tan khaki chinosBlue OCBDNavy jacketBrown leather beltBrown chukka bootsClassic dive watch At first glance, this outfit might be easy to miss. It’s definitely not flashy or crazily fashion-forward, but that gives it lots of utility across any season, and pretty much any type of weather. It’s the well-dressed man’s version of standing out quietly, and there’s certainly nothing wrong with that. In fact, it takes the best of so many men’s style essentials (a classic shirt, updated pants, a sharp dive watch and timeless shoes) and combines them, ensuring that this entire ensemble could work in the office or out to dinner, on the weekends or running errands on a weeknight. That’s also why it’s worth investing slightly in some of these pieces. The jacket is a bit pricier but works in at least three seasons as outerwear, and with J. Crew, the quality of the leather speaks for itself (personally, a belt from them has held up great for over a year with frequent wear). The blue OCBD, as long as it fits well, can function as a casual, comfortable piece when the sleeves are rolled, and when paired with the chinos and a classic desert boot with a slight sheen, it’s definitely work-ready. And in the event it rains or gets chilly, the navy jacket protects you from the elements while playing nicely off the blue top. If it gets too hot, on the other hand, the jacket can easily be taken off without losing any of the outfit’s versatility. On your wrist, a low-shine, stainless steel dive watch is another classic that can be worn with everything from shorts to a suit, and there’s no need to worry about matching leathers, either. Effortless GentDark tan chinos‘Non-traditional’ blue blazerGingham buttondown shirtNeutral knit tieCrisp pocket squareBrown leather beltDark grey socksBrown wingtips This outfit is another version of incorporating traditional menswear elements, but doing so with slightly different stylistic touches. Using the clean, simple base of dark tan chinos gives you some liberty to experiment with other, more unique pieces in this outfit. Take, for example, the patterned button-down shirt. Although the red is perhaps more appropriate for fall, a deep color like that would be a nice change of pace to the washed-out shades we typically see in spring and summer. The blazer also echoes that same sentiment. It’s cut from a rougher chambray (not plain navy), another fabric which works well in both warm and cold temperatures thanks to the rougher, yet casual and washed, texture. And instead of a shiny regular silk tie, a textured knit tie in a neutral shade deviates from normal neckwear choices. The silver tie also plays well off the darker chambray pocket square. In a deeper color like that, the chambray is perhaps the second-most versatile pocket square out there, besides a white cotton option, as it goes with a variety of colors regardless of season. Socks with some pattern, but in a quieter color, keep the focus on the rest of the outfit by not clashing tremendously, while dark brown wingtips exude sharp (yet still slightly casual) style on your feet. And the watch from the first outfit could also work equally well in this outfit because of the stainless steel band. Effortless Gent Dark tan chinosShort-sleeve chambray shirtStriped ribbon beltGrey suede captoesTimex Weekender with patterned strap This outfit takes a summer staple, the short-sleeve chambray shirt, and ties everything together with a snappy-casual, yet still playful vibe. The dark tan chinos, as long as they fit trim, can be cuffed or rolled here for a breeze around your ankles, and as much as it’s a trend right now, this isn’t a bad outfit to try sockless. Just make sure you follow these tips here. Keep the fit of the chambray shirt slim through the waist, snug at the shoulders, and fitted at the biceps to avoid extra fabric blowing in the summer breeze. Consider swapping out a dark brown leather belt for a lighter ribbon belt with subtle stripes and lighter color, a solid warm-weather move. And on that note, this outfit also swaps out a plain canvas watch strap on a more traditional Timex Weekender for something with more color, while pairing nicely with the blue touches on the belt and watch strap. Effortless Gent   Dark tan chinosBraided leather beltNavy striped T-shirtCrisp white sneakersTimex Weekender with patterned strap Even in the dead heat of summer, these chinos can still work in a crisp, yet casual way. Pairing a classic tan chino with a T-shirt is a nice high-low combination with some continental touches, thanks to the nautical-inspired stripes on that T-shirt. And the chinos themselves work just as well as jeans or tan shorts might. They’re a neutral basic that coordinates with most other colors, particularly the navy of the T-shirt and the red of the watch strap. Those Tretorn sneakers are an extremely solid shoe; crisp and streamlined, yet still durable and exceptionally comfortable. They’re the perfect summer shoe, in that they can be worn sockless with the chinos cuffed or rolled. And whereas a shiny leather dress belt (like in the business casual outfit) might look out of place, a braided leather belt brings some casual texture to the look. Effortless Gent Dark tan chinosWhite henleyRoyal v-neck sweaterDark denim jacketBraided leather beltBrown boots This last ensemble proves that dark tan chinos really do have utility across all four seasons. The dark tan shade means they fit right into the deeper color hues we see in fall and winter, while holding their own stylistically against a thicker pair of work-inspired boots. The rest of this outfit makes use of layering rugged essentials, like a white henley, with dressier (yet equally versatile) pieces, and a royal v-neck sweater. For those times when there’s a chill in the air but it’s not Polar Vortex cold, a denim jacket helps the blue of the sweater pop nicely against that neutral outer layer, while also providing an extra layer against the cold. With some character, a denim jacket can go just about anywhere, and look pretty cool while doing it. Texturally, that same braided leather belt fits in during the fall and winter months because of the rougher feel it has when compared to a dress belt. Reach for some thicker, marled socks and this outfit’s complete. When taking an all-season item like dark tan chinos, the most important thing to keep in mind (after fit) is the versatility they instantly lend any outfit. They function just like dark denim, but can be more easily dressed-up — and just as easily dressed-down when paired with crisp basics, like white sneakers, a striped T-shirt or a rugged henley. FREE AppDownload
Obviously currency traders are betting on a NO vote today on whether Scotland will become independent from the UK.  The pound is on a damn tear. FinViz Click here to follow our live blog on the vote.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe S&amp;P 500 is at a new all-time high. In morning trade on Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 was trading above 2,011. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was also at a new all-time high, trading above 17,245.  The new highs in the S&amp;P 500 and Dow come a day after the Federal Reserve announced its latest monetary policy decision, keeping interest rates low and taking another $10 billion off its QE program. In her press conference following the announcement, Fed Chair Janet Yellen declined to give any color on when the Fed might begin raising interest rates, though the Fed kept the language "considerable time" to describe how long might elapse between the end of QE and the first rate hike. On Thursday morning, we also got a few pieces of conflicting economic data, with initial jobless claims falling to a 14-year low at 280,000, while housing starts widely missed expectations. Housing starts fell 14.4% on an annualized basis, the biggest drop since April and larger than the 5.2% decline that was expected.  The latest manufacturing report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve showed that the diffusion index fell to 22.5 from 28.0, also missing expectations for 23.0. The report's employment subindex, however, rose to its best level since May 2011.  In stock news, pharmacy chain Rite Aid was one of the biggest losers on Thursday, falling more than 12% after cutting its fiscal-year earnings and sales outlook.  Shares of pharmaceutical company VIVUS were up more than 14% after the company received approval for a new drug to treat erectile dysfunction.  More to come ... FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciDemonstrators look up next to an image of Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner during a demonstration in support of Argentina's government outside Buenos Aires' Historical Cabildo, July 30, 2014. Argentina was in a race against time on Wednesday to cut a deal by the end of the day with holdout investors suing it and avert a default, as a surge in the country's bond prices fed optimism that an agreement was possible. The exchange rate for Argentina's black market dollar, the 'dolar blue', has hit its highest rate in history at 15.10 dolar blue to one U.S. dollar. The official rate, fixed by the government, has been set at 12 pesos to the U.S. dollar since the country devalued its currency in January. Axel Kicillof, the country's Economy Minister, responded to the rate on an Argentine radio program. He blamed a group of hedge fund holdout creditors suing the country for over $1.3 billion of sovereign debt. He said the rate was all part of their plan to speculate the country into ruin, and dismissed the size of the underground market. "This attack on our money was all a part of the vultures' plan," said Kicillof. "The United States representative spoke of default, and that wasn't casual... The dolar blue is a small market that is illegal... It's easy for it move quickly... There are no economic reasons for the dollar to equal 15 pesos [15 dolar blue]. This is simply an attempt to generate panic. Do not be alarmed..." Argentina was ruled in default of its debt in July after it defied a U.S. court order and refused to pay a group of hedge fund creditors.  That, however, is only a small part of Argentina's problems. The "economic reasons" for the underground peso's historic jump that Kicillof dismissed are very, very real. And the dolar blue market rate is no tiny market in the country. Regular Argentines use it every day, underground blue dolar exchanges aren't hard to find, and it's estimated that $10 million U.S. dollars are exchanged on the black market daily. In a country where memories of hoarding dollars during the 2001 economic crash are vivid and horrifying; Where there are tough restrictions on hoarding U.S. dollars for fear of capital fight; this is a sign that things are falling apart. "I would say by the end of the year, or the beginning of next year — that's the most they can have in terms of margin," said Dr. Claudio Loser, a former International Monetary Fund economist and founding member of Centennial Group Latin America.  "Maybe sooner." The list of economic problems with Argentina is long. Economic activity is in recession, the inflation rate is at almost 40%, and the country's Central Bank dollar levels are at a 4 and a half month low of $28.2 billion.  Additionally, the prices of Argentina's commodity exports, like the soy bean, have gone down this year resulting in a balance of payments issue. Swiss bank UBS expects GDP growth to come in completely flat for 2014. "All these things are together with a fiscal policy that is very irresponsible," said Loser. "All the signals... are wrong, in my view, in therms of trying to draw foreign investment." Of those policies Loser said simply: "I won't give it the honor of calling it Marxist because that's too sophisticated," he mused. Kicillof also said in his radio appearance that the holdouts are waiting for the country's Presidential election at the end of 2015. It is likely that a new, more market friendly government would be more willing to pay them back.  If that's the case, then they're not the only ones. Ordinary Argentines are bracing themselves for a lost year as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner finishes out her term. "I do not know whats gonna happen," said Federico Zaldua an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk. He spoke with Business Insider shortly before the country defaulted. "We are all looking into 2015 already," he said. But a new administration is not the cure for what ails Argentina. It's just a teeny tiny step on the way to a recovery. Unfortunately, paying the holdouts wouldn't immediately help the country either. "[If they pay the holdouts] they will still have pneumonia but at least the fat man sitting on their toes will get off," Loser said.  What he means is that this isn't even close to over, especially since economists believe that another currency devaluation is on the way, given the country's economic malaise. This is going to get worse before it gets better. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA woman walks into a Rite Aid store in New York.Rite Aid shares were down more than 12% on Thursday after the company cut its fiscal-year outlook due to lower than expected profitability from generic drugs. Rite Aid said it expects fiscal-year earnings per share of $0.22-$0.33 against previous expectations for $0.30-$0.40. The company also slashed its fiscal-year revenue outlook to $26-$26.3 billion, down from $26-$26.5 billion, and narrowed its same-store sales view to an increase of 3%-4% from a previous outlook for same-store sales growth of 2.5%-4.5%.  In a statement, Rite Aid Chairman and CEO John Standley, said:  "Heading forward, while we believe that our key initiatives will continue to drive top-line growth, we are revising our guidance based on lower than anticipated pharmacy margin in the second half of Fiscal 2015. As we navigate these headwinds, we will remain focused on growing our business, generating continued operational efficiencies and positioning our associates to deliver a consistently outstanding experience for our customers."   For the second quarter, Rite Aid reported earnings per share of $0.13 on revenue that rose 3.9% over the prior year to $6.5 billion. Following Rite Aid's announcement, its larger rivals CVS and Walgreen were down about 0.5% and 0.8%, respectively.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne Stunning developments in recent weeks have made Scottish independence — which is set for a Sept. 18 vote — a very real possibility. The Scots will vote Thursday on whether they will seek independence from England, Wales, and Northern Ireland. New polls showing a recent shift in public opinion has suddenly made independence much more plausible.  And if Scotland does vote for independence, it could be the start of a domino effect for similar situations throughout Europe, analysts say.  Other areas have been seeking to hold independence referendums — Spain, for example, is worried that Scotland's situation could embolden separatists in the Catalonia region, though a  tentatively scheduled referendum set for Nov. 9 in Catalonia has been ruled unconstitutional by Spanish courts. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, said Monday he doesn't expect Scots to end up voting for independence. But if they pull off a shocker, there could be many reverberating effects from the vote — one being that other separatist-fueled areas will be encouraged. "If it does happen, this European ‘contagion’ risk that you mention is very real," Bremmer, told Business Insider on Monday.  "Other countries will look very closely at how European institutions and member states would manage it. In Spain, Prime Minister Rajoy and the Constitutional Court have both ruled out a similar referendum for Catalonia. But a ‘yes’ in Scotland would make for a much noisier situation in Spain. After a ‘yes’ vote, Scotland would effectively become the pioneer, carving a path forward that Catalonia would try and follow." In addition to Catalonia, the Basque region of Spain also is home to a budding legion of separatists who want to vote for independence. Other, less mature independence movements that could grow include the Dutch-speaking Flanders region of Belgium, as well as Venice and other areas in northern Italy.  A "yes" vote in Scotland would likely lead to a tenuous, uncertain situation as it tries to regain membership into the European Union by the time it would become fully independent in March 2016. To get back into the EU would require a unanimous vote by current members, which may be impossible as countries like Spain and Belgium would want to use the situation as a deterrent to separatist movements in their own countries. "That would be incredibly messy, precisely because countries like Spain and Belgium would have an incentive to bar Scottish membership given their own situations," Bremmer said.  "We saw the same thing when Greece was on the ropes a few years ago: if Athens had moved for the Eurozone exit, members had strong incentives to make that a scorched path, an economically violent process that would keep others from following in Greece’s footsteps. Some EU members would surely make an example out of Scotland." Jim Edwards / BI Scottish independence would also lead to a host of other questions: Would it be able to still use the British pound, which fell to its lowest level in 10 months on news of the polls? Would it be able to stay a member of NATO?  All of those questions would have to be sorted out. But the biggest effect of Scottish independence, Bremmer said, could be the ultimate change of Britain's political landscape. Currently, 40 of Scotland's 59 members parliament come from the Labour party compared to just one from the conservative-leaning Tories.  As Bremmer explained, Scottish independence would "tilt the entire U.K. political spectrum to the right." That would boost the odds of a conservative majority winning in 2015.  Ultimately, he said, it could be a "game-changer" for the chances of a referendum on an "in-or-out" referendum on the U.K.'s place in the E.U. Prime Minister David Cameron has proposed a referendum in 2017 if the conservative party wins an outright majority next year. "If Scotland votes ‘yes,’ down the road would come the ultimate irony," Bremmer said. "The U.K. would be more likely to pull out of the E.U., while Scotland clamors to get in." FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyPeter Thiel: Startups' obsession with disruption means they are not focused on creating something new.It's hard to find a hotter business buzzword than disruption.  The theory, made popular by Harvard Business School professor Clayton Christensen, refers to a strategy that scrappy, young companies use to topple giant firms, like Netflix did to Blockbuster or Microsoft did to IBM back in the day. It's now bandied about so often by aspiring entrepreneurs that it's become a cliche used to describe almost any effort to alter or improve a business. And it's not a very helpful one, says PayPal founder-turned-mega-VC Peter Thiel. In his new book "Zero to One," he explains why fixating on disruption dupes entrepreneurs:  The concept [of disruption] was coined to describe threats to incumbent companies, so startups' obsession with disruption means they see themselves through older firms' eyes... But if you truly want to make something new, the act of creation is far more important than the old industries that might not like what you create. Indeed, if your company can be summed up by its opposition to already existing firms, it can't be completely new and it's probably not going to become a monopoly. Crown BusinessWhy is this important? Because for Thiel, the only way a startup can be sustainably successful is if it totally owns a category, like Google did with search (and continues to do so, with a full 67% of the global search market).  "Monopolists can afford to think about things other than making money," he says. "Non-monopolists can't." Since Google dominates search — with competitors Microsoft and Yahoo lagging at 18% and 11% marketshare in the space — it can afford to actually take care of its people, Thiel says. To Thiel's point, Larry Page and Sergey Brin didn't set out to "disrupt" the Yellow Pages; they just made the best search engine the world's ever seen, arguably establishing a monopoly in search.  "Monopoly is the condition of every successful business," Thiel writes. Not disruption. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan Martinez Scotland is voting Thursday on whether to become independent from the UK, and it's expected to be a VERY late night. Final results in the big cities of Glasgow and Edinburgh won't be reported until about 5 a.m. Friday local time (or midnight ET). (You can read our live blog of the election here.) But we might know earlier than that.  According to The Political Bookie, a blog of the gambling site Ladbrokes, you should watch the voting in the council of North Lanarkshire, which will announce its results at 2 a.m. local time Friday morning (or 9 p.m. ET Thursday). The Ladbrokes odds for North Lanarkshire are very evenly split. Here's what they say: North Lanarkshire on the other hand could set the tone early on. This is one of the most populous regions and at the moment, we can’t split YES and NO: Ladbrokes If NO wins here, then I’d be fairly certain that Scotland is staying in the UK. A YES win with over 53% or so would indicate that the nationalists are on course to go very close. Clackmannanshire at 2.30 could also be interesting — we rate this as the second most likely area to go YES after Dundee, so if they can’t win here, that will be a very poor showing. So we'll be watching North Lanarkshire through the night to see if we can get an early sense of which way Scotland is going. Meanwhile, for your reference, here's a table (from Credit Suisse) of what counties are reporting at one time. Credit Suisse (Via @lorcanrk)    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneScotland's First Minister Alex Salmond (front C) poses with supporters of the 'Yes Campaign', in Edinburgh, Scotland September 9, 2014. The Scottish independence referendum is one of the more puzzling political episodes of recent decades. As the Financial Times noted in an editorial opposing Scottish secession, "there is little precedent for a hitherto stable modern democracy splitting apart in peacetime, in the middle of an economic recovery."  The vote creates issues were none existed before: there'd be no question of where the British nuclear arsenal would be located past 2016 if Scotland weren't voting on Independence on September 18th. Neither would there be the specter of a deep Scottish recession, the looming possibility of economic crisis in another peripheral and economically vulnerable European country. The EU wouldn't be faced with the question of admitting a separatist entity to its ranks — if this vote weren't taking place, no one would have to wonder whether Spain and Belgium, EU members with their deep regional and national fissures of their own, would allow an independent Scotland into the club. Even if the Scottish electorate delivers a "No" on September 19th — a likelihood, based on the latest polls — the United Kingdom is risking the loss of nearly a third of its territory, while raising economic and national security-related quandaries that are largely the creation of the Independence vote. So why did the United Kingdom's political leadership, and in particular Conservative party Prime Minister David Cameron, allow the vote to happen in the first place? As Patrick Wintour explained in a September 9th column in The Guardian, Cameron let the referendum to proceed in order to both acknowledge and circumvent an increase in Scottish nationalism after the country got its own parliament in 1998. ReutersThe Scottish National Party (SNP) has been the major political beneficiary of this "devolution" of power from London to the UK's constituent entities: when the SNP won a stunning parliamentary majority in 2011, "Cameron felt he had to respect that result and give the Scots a chance to vote on their future."  The SNP's victory was overwhelming enough, British journalist Liam Hoare told Business Insider, "to shock Westminster and in effect place the question of a referendum on independence on the table." In signing the 2012 Edinburgh Agreement allowing for an Independence vote, Cameron was "responsible for the referendum's date and terms," Wintour writes, including "the lack of a turnout threshold, 16-year-olds being allowed to vote – and Scots living outside Scotland not getting a vote." He also opted against presenting other possibilities on the ballot, including "devo-max," a framework for increased autonomy whose inclusion on the ballot some in the SNP actually supported. Cameron's stance was a "calculated gamble," writes Wintour, an attempt to permanently settle the Independence question at a time when nationalist sentiments appeared to be at their height. In Wintour's view, Cameron made "a firm commitment not to discuss any further constitutional change ahead of the referendum, because that would only cloud the issue of separation."  Cameron was confident that any burgeoning Scottish desire for Independence would wilt in the face of an actual choice: "It was all or nothing." But framing the vote solely around Independence, and not around other, non-Independence possibilities, is proving to be a fateful miscalculation. There are numerous historical precedents for failed secession efforts permanently settling similarly long-standing political and national disputes. The closely-fought Quebec Independence referendum of 1995 helped settle one of Canada's defining political issues by precluding its most extreme possible solution. Independence racked up slightly more than 5% in a 2012 vote in Puerto Rico, ensuring the Caribbean island would remain a part of the U.S. Even Staten Island's failed attempt to leave New York City in 1993 forced the Five Boroughs to come to grips with life together (Staten Island actaully voted to secede that year, but the State Assembly determined the vote was nonbinding. Separatist sentiments dissipated over the next decade, and the Island has made no other serious subsequent attempt to leave New York City). Cameron thought something similar would happen in Scotland. "Westminster believed that a strong 'no' vote would take the question of independence off the table for a generation and undercut the authority of the SNP in Scotland," Hoare told Business Insider. Cameron figured that the UK and Scotland were better off figuring out a constitutional fix to their relationship after independence had been dismissed as a possibility. This blunder, a product of the vagaries of British politics and the hubris of the country's top leadership, has created needless uncertainty on matters ranging from the nuclear arms to the future of the British pound to the integrity of several countries in mainland Europe.  Even with a "no" vote, Europe and the broader world are now dealing with the consequences of a small and essentially local political mistake. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; will recall about 3,200 vans powered by natural gas because of the possibility of a gas leak that increases the risk of a fire, the automaker said on Thursday. GM said it knows of no fires, crashes or injuries related to this issue. The alternative to conventional gasoline vans is the 2011 to 2014 model year Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana. There are 3,196 of the vans registered in the United States and another 13 in Canada, GM said. Gas may leak to the atmosphere from a high-pressure regulator, GM and safety regulators with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said. GM dealers will fix the vans at no charge, but the parts are not yet available at dealership service departments, GM said. The company said it will notify owners when the vans can be repaired.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / vic15Philly Fed's latest manufacturing report came in light. The report's diffusion index came in at 22.5, just below expectations. Expectations were for the report's general activity index to fall to 23.0 from 28.0 August. August's report soundly beat expectations, coming at 28.0 against expectations for 19.7.  Thursday's report showed that most of the survey's indicators of future growth, including new orders and general activity, decreased from multi-decade highs reach last month.  However, the report's indicators for labor market conditions suggest notable improvement this month, with the employment index increasing 12 points to its highest reading since May 2011.  August's report also showed that indicators of future growth were at their highest level since June 1992.  This chart from the Philly Fed shows the current and future activity indexes. Philly Fed FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsShares of the pharmaceutical company VIVUS were up as much as 15% on Thursday after the company announced FDA approval for an update its erectile dysfunction treatment.  The company's drug, STENDRA, is now "the only FDA-approved erectile dysfunction (ED) medication indicated to be taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity," according to a statement from the company. VIVUS has a market cap of around $450 million. Auxilium Pharmaceuticals has marketing rights to STENDRA in the US and Canada. Auxilium shares, which earlier this week gained 42% after the company received a takeover offer from the Irish drug company Endo Pharmaceuticals, were down about 1.5% on Thursday. Here's the full release from VIVUS: VIVUS, Inc.(NASDAQ: VVUS) and Auxilium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.(NASDAQ: AUXL) today announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved a supplemental new drug application (sNDA) for STENDRA® (avanafil). STENDRA is now the only FDA-approved erectile dysfunction (ED) medication indicated to be taken as early as approximately 15 minutes before sexual activity. STENDRA is a prescription medication in a class of drugs known as phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors approved for the treatment of ED in men 18 years or older. STENDRA is available in multiple dosage strengths (50, 100 and 200 mg tablets) and may be taken with or without food and moderate alcohol consumption (up to three drinks). In clinical studies, when compared to placebo, STENDRA helped more men achieve an erection in as early as approximately 15 minutes that lasted long enough to successfully complete sexual intercourse. "ED patients in my practice are looking for a safe and effective treatment option that also works fast," said Wayne JG Hellstrom, M.D., FACS, Professor of Urology at Tulane University School of Medicine in New Orleans and primary investigator for the clinical trial. "In my opinion, STENDRA can be an appropriate and important treatment option because the clinical trial demonstrated that it provides a rapid onset of action in many men in as early as approximately 15 minutes." "STENDRA is the first FDA-approved ED drug in nearly a decade and offers men and their partners an exciting new option," said Adrian Adams, Chief Executive Officer and President of Auxilium Pharmaceuticals. "We believe this label expansion helps position STENDRA as an exciting 'on demand' ED treatment and assists with the very important aspect of spontaneity for men and their partners in real world use. We believe this provides a meaningful benefit for men with ED and further underscores Auxilium's commitment to being an innovative leader in men's healthcare." "We are pleased with the approval of the sNDA for STENDRA," said Seth H. Z. Fischer, Chief Executive Officer of VIVUS. "The positive clinical study results, now part of the label, demonstrate STENDRA's rapid onset of action. We believe this is good news for men suffering from ED and for the healthcare providers who treat them." ED is the inability to attain or maintain a penile erection for sufficient sexual performance. Men may experience ED differently. Many men with ED experience one or more of the following: trouble achieving an erection; difficulty achieving an erection firm enough for penetration; or erections not lasting long enough to have successful intercourse. In the Massachusetts Male Aging Study, it is estimated that 52% of men over 40 years of age experience some degree of ED. In addition to advanced age, recognized risk factors for erectile dysfunction include cardiovascular disease (hypertension, atherosclerosis, and hyperlipidemia), diabetes, depression, alcohol use, smoking, pelvic/perineal surgery or trauma, neurologic disease, obesity, pelvic radiation, and Peyronie's disease. The sNDA filed by VIVUS was based on results from Study TA-501 entitled, "A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Evaluation of Avanafil for On-Demand Treatment of Men with Erectile Dysfunction." The study was designed to assess the efficacy of two dosage strengths of STENDRA as early as approximately 15 minutes after dosing. In this 440-patient study conducted at 30 sites in the U.S., patients treated with STENDRA had a significantly higher proportion of attempts that enabled an erection sufficient for successful sexual intercourse as early as approximately 15 minutes following administration compared to placebo. The previously approved prescribing information recommended administration approximately 30 minutes before sexual activity. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVWarren Buffett.In an interview on Bloomberg TV, Warren Buffett made clear he doesn't really want to leave his post at Berkshire Hathaway. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker asked Buffett about his future at Berkshire Hathaway, and Buffett — who turned 84 on Aug. 30 — said, "I'm having more fun at my job at 84 than I've ever had." Buffett appeared on Bloomberg alongside Michael Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein, and Michigan governor Rick Snyder in Detroit for the graduation of small-business owners from the first class of Goldman Sachs' "10,000 Small Businesses" program to spur small-business growth in Michigan. Regarding the health and strength of the US economy, Buffett said the US had "probably done better than it could've expected back in 2009." "We are on the cusp of continuous growth," Buffett said, "but we've also been there for five years." And speaking in Detroit, Buffett noted the recent strength in auto sales, with the US on pace to see about 17 million car sales this year, as a big part of the economic recovery.  Regarding the health of Detroit, which is currently working its way through bankruptcy proceedings, Buffett said: "Detroit needed a clean financial slate ... and it's getting it. Detroit is going to do fine." FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersA man looks at the Pudong financial district of Shanghai November 20, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - An official in eastern China hanged himself on Thursday after being sacked following a corruption probe into his presence at an extravagant banquet, state media said on Thursday, offering a rare explanation following a spate of suicides by bureaucrats. Lou Xuequan, 50, had been Communist Party chief of a district in Nanjing city, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported, citing a government statement. He was fired in June after provincial anti-graft investigators found he had accepted an invitation to an expensive dinner while visiting an industrial park, Xinhua added. "The authorities made an example of Lou's dismissal to warn officials not to break the frugality rules set by the central leadership," the report said. Such dinners are frequently associated in China with shady deals and the high living some officials enjoy despite only modest formal incomes, and have been a particular focus of the party's anti-corruption drive. The party has been eager to project a frugal image since Xi Jinping became president last year, renewing efforts to stamp out corruption and win back public confidence after an endless series of scandals involving officials. State media have reported on a series of officials and executives who have killed themselves in recent months, apparently after falling victim to corruption probes. But there have been almost no cases where the government has provided a formal explanation for the suicides. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/SupriMichael Bloomberg, MBA '66.If you want to be an executive, billionaire, or US president, it's a good idea to graduate from Harvard Business School. Founded in 1908, HBS was the first institution in the world to grant a Masters in Business Administration. The Harvard MBA has since been a hallmark of the elite, with George W. Bush, Mitt Romney, and Michael Bloomberg all earning the degree. We sifted through HBS's sterling history to find the most powerful, prominent, and financially successful grads that came out of Cambridge. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/William WestFed Chair Janet YellenWe know the Fed meeting results; the coverage has been exhaustive. Note that the new “dots” analysis of the median dot now points to an expected 1.375% Fed Funds target rate by the end of 2015. (See  Craig Torres’ report on the FOMC.) That is higher than the June median, which was higher than March. Some analysts concluded that the first rate hike may come sooner than midyear. Maybe it will and maybe it won’t. We note that six of the FOMC members have the rate below 1% at yearend 2015.  And also note that only 12 members of the FOMC vote.  We do not know who the six “doves” are unless they voluntarily reveal themselves since the identity of “each dot” is not revealed.  Thus drawing inferences of the path of future Fed Funds rate from the dots is a problematic and risky affair. Let’s get to markets. The day of the meeting was really uneventful. The fireworks preceded the meeting. A flurry of market activity occurred after Jon Hilsenrath of the Wall Street Journal articulated his views in a  webcast and on his  blog. Jon’s journalistic beat includes following the Federal Reserve (Fed) in its activities. Other notable journalists who follow the Fed include Greg Ip with The Economist, Michael McKee with Bloomberg, and Steve Liesman with CNBC. I am not intentionally forgetting the others. There are many. Some journalists report results. Many of them, including Jon Hilsenrath, are regulars at press conferences after Fed quarterly meetings. A good example was yesterday’s September 17, 2014, press conference that followed the two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. Some journalists create surveys asking financial analysts, economists, money managers, and other professionals to offer their views as to what Fed policy will be and what it should be. My colleagues and I participate in some of those surveys. There is a controversial issue regarding media coverage prior to the release of Fed minutes and policy statements. Prior to this last meeting and after the Hilsenrath column, there was an attribution in a widely followed morning newsletter that characterized Hilsenrath as a “Delphic Oracle.” (For elder readers: is he the successor oracle to John Barry, or is he the designated leakee?) We find such characterizations troubling for several reasons. If someone inside the Fed is whispering policy into a favored journalist’s ear, based upon FOMC materials or discussions in advance of policy decisions, a possible violation of law and FOMC rules may rise to the level of criminality. However, if nothing is being whispered, the characterization that Hilsenrath has been a “receiver of information from highly placed and well-informed sources within the Fed” was inaccurate and the language used was very strong.  If Hilsenrath was simply expressing his personal view, then he has every right to do so; but the appearance that he may have access that violates rules (and influences markets) is dangerous. Either way, the discussion is distorting policy, increasing volatility, and therefore raising risk premia. Those are the exact outcomes that the Fed does not seek. If the Fed is as closed with regard to its public pronouncements and policy directives as we believe is the case, then the Fed is complying with the letter of the law and with sound principles of policymaking. Policymakers fare best when they do not favor anyone in the media. They make policy. Media commentators can guess all they want, but as a practical matter, they do not have any “inside information.” My colleague Bob Eisenbeis was formerly the director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. He participated in many Fed activities, including FOMC meetings. He has a long and distinguished history with the Fed. He never violated the principle that inside information should not be intentionally leaked to journalists. I asked Bob if he saw any leaks during his tenure at the Fed.  His answer was “yes.” Bob recalls that there were two leaks and that Chairman Greenspan sought an investigation of each leak, once by the FBI and another by the Inspector General.  The outcome of these investigations was not revealed to the FOMC when Bob was present. My personal activity includes chairing the central banking series at the Global Interdependence Center (GIC). In the course of a dozen years, I can say that not once was any Fed official asked by anyone at the GIC to break the rules and disclose something that they could not legally discuss. In my experience, no one ever breached the rules. The same is true for central bankers I have met and worked with all over the world. Another Cumberland colleague, Bill Witherell, spent years at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in Paris, France. He headed the directorate that deals with governance.  He joined many conversations and meetings on global economics, finance, and policy issues. Bill has affirmed how scrupulously cautious and careful the participants were when it came to media contacts and journalists. Those conversations that took place among policymakers as they wrestled with issues were kept in confidence. Now, it is possible that someone at the Fed is talking to a journalist off the record. There is no way for anyone to know. But it is potentially against the law and entails a risk to that person that there could be an FBI investigation and possible criminal penalties. Note that Hilsenrath never says he was “told” something that he should not have heard. His column offers his opinion. Therefore, the issue lies with market interpretations of people’s opinions. Market agents and newsletter writers are fully entitled to interpret anything they want in any way they see fit. Market agents are making real-money bets. If they want to do so based on an opinion articulated by a journalist, that is up to them. But the allegation that the journalist had received information from a source high inside the Fed is very strong language. We believe that the Fed cannot do anything about this. It can only follow the rules it sets for its own communication policy. The Fed has introduced several changes in recent years, including press conferences, as a way to clarify that policy. Nothing in those rules permits the Fed or encourages Fed insiders to leak policy to anyone. The Greenspan model of investigation allows Chair Yellen a precedent if she believes there is a leak from inside the Fed.  We, on the outside, will probably never know the outcome unless there is a prosecution. When it comes to elevating a journalist to “Delphic Oracle” status, we’re opposed. The same is true for economists and analysts.  We may have opinions on policy and how it is made but we do not legally “know” in advance. In this morning’s newsletter, the author reversed his strong language but did so with only modest apology.  He opined that he is “certain” Hilsenrath’s views were not “vetted” inside the Fed. So his very strong language of yesterday has been reversed. We will leave it to him to determine if the original allegation was warranted with the language he selected. We will leave it to readers to compare Hilsenrath’s pre-meeting opinion with the outcome. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Board chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen did not comment on the central bank's most recent policy decisions or the U.S. economy in pre-recorded remarks to a conference on savings among low-income families on Thursday. Yellen's remarks were delivered to a meeting of the Corporation for Enterprise Development a day after the Fed's main policy committee decided to keep its current interest rate guidance intact. The short statement by the Fed chair noted that the financial position of many low and middle income families remained below where it was before the 2007 to 2009 financial crisis as a result of depressed housing values and a drop in income.    (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
AP/Charles Dharapak Barack Obama visits Stonehenge.US President Barack Obama reiterated his stance on the Scottish independence referendum being held Thursday, tweeting Wednesday afternoon that the United States preferred a "strong" and "robust" United Kingdom. "The UK is an extraordinary partner for America and a force for good in an unstable world. I hope it remains strong, robust, and united," Obama tweeted from the official White House account. Voters in Scotland are heading to the polls Thursday to decide the fate of their nation. The latest polls taken in the days before the vote suggested the "No" campaign had a slight 52-48 lead over voters who want Scotland to gain independence from the UK. The US has long publicly supported Scotland remaining a part of the UK. During a joint news conference with UK Prime Minister David Cameron in June, Obama first came out against Scottish independence. "I would say that the United Kingdom has been an extraordinary partner to us," Obama said then. "From the outside, at least, it looks like things have worked pretty well. And we obviously have a deep interest in making sure that one of the closest allies that we will ever have remains strong, robust, united, and an effective partner. But ultimately these are decisions that are to be made by the folks there." On Monday, White House press secretary Josh Earnest also reiterated Obama's stance. "The United States has a deep interest in ensuring that one of the closest allies that we’ll ever have remains strong, robust, united, and an effective partner with the United States," Earnest said. "So this is a decision for the people of Scotland to make. We certainly respect the right of individual Scots to make a decision along these lines. But as the President himself said, we have an interest in seeing the United Kingdom remain strong, robust, united and an effective partner." The UK is an extraordinary partner for America and a force for good in an unstable world. I hope it remains strong, robust and united. -bo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNew An unemployment line.Initial jobless claims fell to 280,000. Expectations were for claims to come in at 305,000, down from last week's revised reading of 316,000.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "With the exception of the week of July 19, when claims were distorted by the automakers' shutdowns, this is the lowest reading since May 2000." Shepherdson noted, however, that seasonal problems likely accounted for a "good part" of this week's decline. The four-week moving average of initial jobless claims fell back below 300,000 to 299,500, down 4,750 from last week's average. Continuing claims also fell to 2,429,000, down 63,000 from last week's revised level and the lowest level for continuing claims since May 19, 2007.   FREE AppDownload
FlickrHousing starts plummeted in August. Starts fell 14.4% to an annualized rate of 956,000. This is the biggest drop since April 2013. Economists were expecting the pace of starts to decline 5.2% to 1.04 milion. Building permits dropped 5.6% to an annualized rate of 998,000, which was worse than the 1.04 million rate expected. Economists warn we shouldn't freak out about this report. "In one line: Less bad than the grim headlines, but still soft," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "The trend, as far as we can tell, is about flat following the winter plunge and spring rebound." "Because the housing starts data are volatile on a monthly basis, these data do not change our view that a moderate housing recovery remains on track," Barclays' Dean Maki said. "One way to see this is by looking at y/y changes; single-family starts rose 4.2% y/y in August, while multifamily starts rose 16.8%." Here's the Census: BUILDING PERMITSPrivately-owned housing units authorized by building permits in August were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 998,000. This is 5.6 percent (±1.4%) below the revised July rate of 1,057,000, but is 5.3 percent (±1.7%) above the August 2013 estimate of 948,000. Single-family authorizations in August were at a rate of 626,000; this is 0.8 percent (±1.5%)* below the revised July figure of 631,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 343,000 in August. HOUSING STARTSPrivately-owned housing starts in August were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 956,000. This is 14.4 percent (±7.9%) below the revised July estimate of 1,117,000, but is 8.0 percent (±11.2%)* above the August 2013 rate of 885,000. Single-family housing starts in August were at a rate of 643,000; this is 2.4 percent (±9.7%)* below the revised July figure of 659,000. The August rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 304,000. Here's a break down of starts by size and region. Census FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Vadim GhirdaAn armed man looks at charred debris at the crash site of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 near the village of Hrabove, eastern Ukraine, Sunday, July 20, 2014. Armed rebels forced emergency workers to hand over all 196 bodies recovered from the Malaysia Airlines crash site and had them loaded Sunday onto refrigerated train cars bound for a rebel-held city, Ukrainian officials and monitors said.An anonymous benefactor has given German fraud investigation company Wifka $32 million dollars as bait in their bid to find out who was responsible for downing Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 in Ukraine on July 17. Wifka says it doesn’t know exactly who the benefactor is, but the offer is genuine because it has already received a fee of $57,000 to begin its investigation. Wifka boss Josef Resch told NBC News he would receive another $720,000 if the investigation was successful. The bounty, which some media are saying is the largest ever, will be paid to the person or organisation which can identify: Who shot down MH17 on July 17? Who gave the order? Who covered up the shoot down? (Also, if it was by accident and not out of political, economic or military motivation) Who can provide details on the circumstances that led to the shoot down? Who was directly involved with the shoot down? What happened to the people that were involved with the shoot down? What happened to the weapon used? Who can name the people that cleared the shoot down? “The money is securely deposited in Zurich, Switzerland,” Wifka said. “It will be paid there or in a different neutral place of the whistle-blower’s choice.” All 298 passengers and crew onboard MH17 were killed in the crash, which the Dutch Safety Board last week confirmed was hit by a “large number of high-energy impacts”. More than two-thirds of the victims were from the Netherlands, another 38 were Australians. Wikimedia CommonsAlmez-Antey produces the Buk M1-2, the missile launcher that allegedly shot down MH17. Revenue Growth from 2012-2013: 44.7 percent. Rank: 12/100.The overwhelming suspicion in regard to who shot the plane down is on pro-Russian rebels using a BUK missile system supplied from Russia. The separatists have mostly denied ever possessing such missiles, although one separatist leader told Reuters in July that they did in fact have one on the day the plane was shot down. Moscow denies supplying the rebels with weapons. Resch said he had been briefed in several different meetings in various countries about the reward, and claimed one of the middlemen had a Swiss accent. He said there was a possibility the reward was being offered by powerful Russian businessmen trying to hurt President Vladimir Putin’s reputation. The Wifka statement advises anyone with information to “take great care; e.g. to contact them through a lawyer”. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were higher in light volume on Thursday, setting up the S&amp;P 500 to test resistance at its record high, a day after the Federal Reserve said interest rates would remain low for a considerable while. * The Fed renewed on Wednesday its pledge to keep interest rates near zero for a "considerable time," a language supportive of equities and other risky assets. It also indicated it could raise borrowing costs faster than previously forecast when it starts moving, boosting the U.S. dollar. * Data on monthly housing starts and building permits, as well as weekly applications for unemployment insurance, is due at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The Philly Fed business index is due at 10:00 a.m. * Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group’s upcoming public offering will give Yahoo billions of dollars for a potential shopping spree that investors hope will jumpstart its comeback. The company will sell some $22 billion of shares in New York, with pricing expected after markets close on Thursday. * Rite Aid shares were falling 7.8 percent in trading before the opening bell after it lowered its guidance for fiscal 2015. * Shares of Pier 1 Imports were sliding 10.6 percent in premarket trading a day after the company slashed its full-year earnings forecast. Futures snapshot at 7:20 a.m. EDT: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were up 8.75 points, or 0.44 percent, with 43,783 contracts changing hands. They came within 0.25 point of the record high set earlier this month. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were gaining 17 points, or 0.42 percent, in volume of 2,528 contracts. * Dow e-minis were up 62 points, or 0.36 percent, with 4,897 contracts changing hands.     (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezTraders in the city conduct business at the London International Financial Futures and Options exchange (LIFFE) trading floor in the city, August 17, 1994.Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the roundup of what traders are buzzing about right now: Good Morning!   Animal spirits are en fuego, with the Russell Minis marked up 70bp, almost a double from S&amp;P and NDX futures.   A slew of factors:  Hedges coming off against Fed and Scotland (Still too close to call, but “no” camp strengthened in final polls) / China makes a 2nd easing move this week, cutting Repo rates – WSJ says similar moves in the past have indicating broader easing / Kuroda said BOJ will continue to ease until 2% inflation stable, Yen breaking down / SNB slashes Swiss growth outlook / demand for the first ECB TLTRO was only €82.6B vs. expectations of ~ €135-150B – sparking QE hopes / Grey Market has BABA trading 30% above high end of range.  Overseas, the FTSE remains cautious heading into the Scotland Results (due 3amET Friday, but Nomura says prepare for a delay) – Sterling is up, but implied volatility on that British Pound is off the rails.  Most of Europe is rallying 1% in very decent volume, the DAX trading 1.5x normal.  No angst in French equities or Credit, despite chatter Moody’s to downgrade tomorrow.   Russia’s MICEX is trying to bounce from yesterday’s smackdown.  In Asia, The Nikkei was focused on Yen and not Sony – Closed up 1%.  China gained 30bp, but Hang Seng gave up most of yesterday’s gains as the Chinese liquidity injection into the Banks is viewed as temporary for upcoming holiday-cash needs.    Down in Aussie, the Miners weighed as the A$ fell and commodity prices are dropping overnight.  The US 10YY is nearing unchanged, after being off 2bp early, while that “policy-sensitive” 2YY is ticking near 3Y highs.    Asians had the $ much stronger overnight, but we are watching it drift back as US and EU players emerge.   Commodities are not enjoying the headwind – with Gold and Silver off 1%, and despite bullish headlines on supply cuts, the Oil complex remains in the red.     Scheduled Catalysts today include Weekly Claims at 8:30, Fed's Yellen Speaks on Consumer Finance at 8:45, Philadelphia Fed at 10, a tiny POMO at 11, and a TIPs re-opening auction at 1.   BABA prices tonight, trading ~30% higher in the gray market ($88/share) – and we should have results from Scotland starting around 7pmET.  Tomorrow brings a wild day of volume – We have a “Quad Witch” expiry (Futures and Index Options expire on Open, Single Stocks on the close) / We have a S&amp;P and EuroStoxx rebalance / The Alerian MLP Indicies rebalance, along with the ARCA Gold Miners / Finally the S&amp;P trades ex-dividend (SPY)…. FREE AppDownload
Kham/ReutersA woman packs rice into bags at a factory in Tri Thuy village, outside Hanoi December 26, 2012.After announcing it would scrap rice import caps from next year, the South Korean government proposed on Thursday an initial 513-percent tariff to soften the impact on a crucial domestic market. For the past two decades, Seoul has maintained quotas on foreign rice imports under a deal it secured with the World Trade Organisation (WTO). But with the deal set to expire at the end of this year, the government announced in July that it would open the market, while promising angry farmers that it would set the highest permissible tariffs. ReutersCharts show South Korea's rice imports by volume and monetary value since 2005."We will propose (to the WTO) a tariff of 513 percent ... to protect the local rice market," Agriculture Minister Lee Dong-Phil told a parliamentary agriculture committee meeting on Thursday. The rate will have to be verified and confirmed by the WTO -- a process that could take months. Rice imports are an extremely sensitive political issue among rural voters who fear they would eventually be pushed out of the market by cheap foreign imports. Rice farmers warn the tariffs will swiftly be cut back as the result of free-trade deals with rice-exporting nations. The current agreement with the WTO provides for mandatory rice imports, which this year will amount to nearly 410,000 tonnes -- or around 10 percent of consumption. Farmers' organisations have always met any slight policy change with angry protests, and a small group of activists picketed Thursday's meeting. Holding banners saying "No to opening of the rice market!" they threw eggs and pepper powder at the members of the parliamentary agriculture committee. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
iPhone 6 or 6 Plus? 16, 64 or 128 Gigabytes? Once you've decided to get the new iPhone, you still have a few decisions to make.  Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersAn employee walks past a wall painted with logo of Alibaba (China) Technology Co. Ltd at its headquarters office on the outskirts of HangzhouSAN FRANCISCO/BOSTON (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s upcoming public offering will give Yahoo Inc billions of dollars for a potential shopping spree that investors hope will jumpstart its comeback. But with numerous holes to fill and soaring tech company valuations, Yahoo will have to make tough choices with any acquisitions. Yahoo is expected to sell about $9.5 billion in stock of the Chinese e-commerce company. After giving at least half back to investors and paying taxes, Yahoo's cash stockpile, currently $4.2 billion, may swell by $3.1 billion. That is not a lot in Silicon Valley these days. “They are not in a position to make huge acquisitions,” said Jean Yu, assistant portfolio manager of the $2.8 billion ClearBridge Value Trust fund, which owns Yahoo shares. Yu expects the new proceeds to be used for deals around several hundred million dollars each. Yahoo’s revenue growth has stalled in recent years as its once-hot Web portal and email service have lagged rivals. Key areas in need of repair include Yahoo's mobile offerings and an advertising system that doesn't deliver the precise targeting available from rivals like Google Inc and Facebook Inc, investors say. Yahoo is not one of the first three or four places that consumers go to on their mobile phone, said Bill Tai, partner emeritus at venture capital firm CRV. “All the momentum right now is shifting rapidly to mobile," said Tai. Chief Executive Marissa Mayer has more than doubled monthly mobile users to 450 million since taking the helm two years ago. She revamped the line-up of mobile apps by making small acquisitions that brought in teams of mobile engineers. That may be the path forward, too, since many of the best-known mobile properties are out of Yahoo's financial reach. Messaging service Snapchat, for instance, was recently valued at close to $10 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal. Online review site Yelp Inc is a long-rumored Yahoo acquisition target that could help Yahoo expand into new "transactional" businesses, such as restaurant food deliveries from which Yahoo would receive fees. But with a $5.5 billion market cap, Yelp would represent a huge acquisition for Yahoo that might not go over well with investors. Yahoo was not immediately available for comment. Some argue that Yahoo could get more bang for its buck by focusing its acquisitions on advertising technology, a sector where prices are not as rich. Publicly-listed ad tech companies such as The Rubicon Project Inc, YuMe Inc and Tubemogul Inc all have market values of roughly $400 million or less, while the privately-owned AppNexus was valued at $1.2 billion in its most recent funding round. Advertising also could deliver an immediate jolt of revenue, said Pivotal Research Group's Brian Wieser. "The good news about ad tech is there are a lot of real businesses."   (Reporting by Alexei Oreskovic; editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezScottish voters are already at the polls.Morning! Here are the big news stories that will set Thursday's agenda.  Scotland Is Voting In Its Independence Referendum. The polls are already open, and they close at 5 p.m. ET.  Results will trickle in throughout the evening, and there should be a declaration in the early hours Friday morning.  The European Central Bank’s Latest Policy Is A Big Disappointment. The targeted long-term refinancing operations garnered a lot less interest than analysts had hoped, and most think an €82.6 billion take-up won’t be enough. Yellen’s Dovish Tones Drove The Dollar To A 6-Year High. The greenback hit its highest level since September 2008 against the yen Wednesday night, following Fed Chair Janet Yellen’s repeated assurances of easy policy from the Federal Reserve. Meanwhile, Markets Are In The Green. Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.1%, European stocks were up with the EURO STOXX 50 up 0.8%, and US futures were higher with Dow futures up 60 points. The Alibaba Float Pricing Is Coming Up. The massive Chinese e-commerce firm is selling more than $20 billion in shares in New York, and Alibaba stocks will be available for retail investors Friday. Apple’s iPhone 6 Has Regulatory Approval To Be Used On Chinese Frequencies. It’s a key aspect of accessing the country’s rapidly growing market. But the company still has more hurdles to jump through before it’s allowed to sell the phone there. Japan’s Brief Export Boost Looks As If It’s Already Slowing Down. The country saw a rise in outward trade immediately after a recent sales tax hike, but figures out overnight showed exports down 1.3% in the year to August. And two major Japanese firms had negative announcements overnight. Suzuki will recall 453,000 vehicles because of a defective fan in the air conditioning unit. Toshiba also announced that it would be laying off 900 staff members in a restructuring that will see it retreat from some markets.  Chinese Home Prices Are Still Falling. House prices fell for the fourth straight month, adding to concerns about the strength of the massive developing economy. Earlier this week, the People's Bank of China organized an unannounced stimulus for the country's banking sector in an attempt to offset the slowdown.   The IMF And World Bank Are Stepping Into The Fight Against Ebola. The two institutions pledged $300 million to the worst-hit countries in West Africa. Some of the nations are struggling to finance the expensive quarantine and medical programs needed to fight the disease. Get Ready For A Lot Of US Economic Data. Later in the day, we'll get US weekly initial jobless claims (305,000 estimated), August housing starts (1.037 million estimated), and the Philly Fed Business Outlook Index (23.0 estimated.). FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe August Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (CPI-U) released this morning puts the August year-over-year inflation rate at 1.70%, off the May 19-month high of 2.13%. It is well below the 3.87% average since the end of the Second World War and 28 percent below its 10-year moving average. For a comparison of headline inflation with core inflation, which is based on the CPI excluding food and energy, see this monthly feature. For better understanding of how CPI is measured and how it impacts your household, see my Inside Look at CPI components. For an even closer look at how the components are behaving, see this X-Ray View of the data for the past six months. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) has compiled CPI data since 1913, and numbers are conveniently available from the FRED repository (here). My long-term inflation charts reach back to 1872 by adding Warren and Pearson's price index for the earlier years. The spliced series is available at Yale Professor (and Nobel laureate) Robert Shiller's website. This look further back into the past dramatically illustrates the extreme oscillation between inflation and deflation during the first 70 years of our timeline. Click here for additional perspectives on inflation and the shrinking value of the dollar.  Click for a larger image Alternate Inflation Data The chart below (click here for a larger version) includes an alternate look at inflation *without* the calculation modifications the 1980s and 1990s (Data from www.shadowstats.com).  Click for a larger image On a personal note, I believe the current BLS method of calculating inflation is reasonably sound. As a first-wave Boomer who raised a family during the double-digit inflation years of the 1970s and early 1980s, I see nothing today that is remotely like the inflation we endured at that time. Moreover, government policy, the Federal Funds Rate, interest rates in general and decades of major business decisions have been fundamentally driven by the official BLS inflation data, not the alternate CPI. For this reason I view the alternate inflation data as an interesting but ultimately useless statistical series. That said, I think that economist John Williams, the founder of Shadow Government Statistics, to which I subscribe, offers provocative analysis on a range of government statistics. While I do not share his hyperinflationary expectations, at least not based on current economic conditions, I find his skeptical view of government data to be filled with thoughtful insights. For independent evidence that the Consumer Price Index is a reasonably accurate representation of the prices we pay, see the MIT Billion Prices Project US Daily Index.  For a more detailed independent analysis of US inflation and the official Consumer Price index, visit PriceStats.com. For a long-term look at the impact of inflation on the purchasing power of the dollar, check out this log-scale snapshot of fourteen-plus decades.  Click for a larger image FREE AppDownload
ReutersMany investors are worried about the future path of the Chinese currency after its sharp depreciation earlier this year. Based on fundamentals and the expectation that China will stick to its foreign-exchange policy, we think the currency has reached a fork in the road and is likely to rally. The decision by the People’s Bank of China (PBC) early this year to weaken the renminbi (RMB) came as a shock to many investors who expected the currency to maintain a long-term path of appreciation. After all, the RMB had been strengthening against the US dollar for nine years, and its trajectory was consistent with the government’s stated aim of internationalizing the currency. For close observers, the move wasn’t unprecedented—or necessarily at odds with Chinese policy. The PBC made a similar move in mid-2012, lowering the rate at which the RMB was fixed daily against the US dollar. A six-month period of slight weakening followed; during that time, the PBC widened the RMB’s trading band against the rate fix. Eventually, the RMB resumed its upward climb. This year’s episode appears to have followed a similar script. After moving to weaken the RMB after January by lowering the daily fix versus the US dollar, the PBC announced in mid-March that the trading band would widen from +/– 1% to +/– 2%. This guided weakening helped defuse market speculation that the RMB was a one-way bet, and the wider trading band, in our view, was in line with the policy aim of moving to a more market-driven exchange rate. In the same way that the PBC’s actions don’t necessarily point to an end of the policy of managed RMB appreciation, the currency’s fundamentals don’t make a case for it being overvalued—or even fairly valued, in our opinion. China’s trade balance—the main driver of its balance of payments surplus—hit a record high of US$47 billion in July and again in August at US$49 billion. The country’s accumulated foreign-exchange reserves are about to top US$4 trillion, having risen by more than 500% since 2005; during that time, the RMB has appreciated by only 30% or so. This mismatch helps the PBC contain the risk of cheap money and credit bubbles in the domestic economy, but it also suggests the RMB is undervalued. The expansion of China’s foreign-exchange reserves and balance-of-payments surpluses over time has put the country under pressure from the international community to strengthen the currency more quickly. China’s response has been to drive the RMB higher each year—in such a way that no depreciation is evident based on daily levels over any rolling 12-month period. Presumably, this is because it’s easier for China to engage with its international counterparts if it can honestly point out that currency policy is still on a path of appreciation at all times throughout the year. In this context, we think the RMB’s depreciation so far this year (Display) is finite, and implies a likely recovery rather than further weakness. If investors believe (as the evidence suggests, in our view) that China hasn’t changed its stance on the currency, then the RMB’s performance should be flat to positive on a rolling 12-month daily basis. Alliance Bernstein If that’s the case, this year’s depreciation has reached a point relative to last year’s performance (the blue line in the Display) where the daily fix may strengthen and indeed reverse. This would enable the currency to resume its steady appreciation on a rolling 12-month daily basis and keep the positive currency policy intact. In other words: the PBC’s policy desire to maintain an appreciating currency is likely to result in an end-of-year rally in the RMB, from our perspective. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCollardi, Chief Executive of Swiss private bank Julius Baer, addresses a news conference to present the bank's half-year results in ZurichZURICH (Reuters) - The head of Julius Baer, a rumored takeover target for larger rival Credit Suisse, said any purchase of the Swiss private bank was unlikely for the foreseeable future, Bloomberg News reported. A Swiss finance blog reported last month that Zurich-based Baer could eventually become a takeover target for Credit Suisse. But Chief Executive Boris Collardi said any move on the bank was far off and a deal would be "very expensive". "It's hard to imagine an acquisition of Julius Baer this year, or for the foreseeable future," he told Bloomberg at a conference in Geneva on Wednesday. Collardi said there had been no formal discussions or approaches regarding a takeover. A spokeswoman for Julius Baer confirmed his remarks. Analysts have questioned the logic of a takeover from Credit Suisse's point of view. It only recently agreed to pay $2.6 billion to settle a tax probe with the United States, giving it fewer resources for acquisitions. Julius Baer is in the midst of its own U.S. criminal investigation for aiding tax evasion. Collardi is quoted by Bloomberg as saying the bank would not be sold while it was still under investigation. A source familiar with the matter had told Reuters a few weeks ago that the case for a deal between the two banks was weak for now and that any possible merger would be at least two to five years away.  (Reporting by Joshua Franklin; editing by Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman rides past the headquarters of the People's Bank of China in BeijingBEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Worries that China's economy may be slowing further intensified on Thursday as data showed home prices fell for the fourth straight month, adding to expectations that Beijing will need to do more to stimulate activity. For now, policy easing is likely to come in the form of help to the most vulnerable sectors, rather than more aggressive steps such as cutting interest rates, but authorities are ready to step in with bolder measures if unemployment rises, policy insiders told Reuters. China's central bank reportedly stepped in this week to avert any further shocks to the world's second-largest economy. The People's Bank of China offered to lend $81 billion to big banks to reduce the risk of a credit crunch and a jump in interest rates heading into the long "Golden Week" holidays in early October, when demand for cash typically soars. Despite the move, short-term lending rates dipped only briefly on Thursday, and traders said borrowing costs will start to rise again soon unless the PBOC continues to pump money into the system, highlighting growing nervousness in the market. "Chinese authorities will likely introduce more supportive policies, including favorable tax and mortgage policies, before the end of this year to ease the downward pressures on the property market," ANZ economists Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao said. "We thus expect more monetary policy easing in the remainder of this year, if the upcoming data continue to remain lukewarm. We cannot discount the possibility of an outright 50 basis point RRR cut (in bank reserve levels) for the whole banking system, or even a policy rate cut." Analysts at Barclays were even more certain that policymakers will have to administer stronger medicine soon. "Interest rate cuts are inevitable," they said in a note to clients, adding that the central bank's decision to lower the yield for its 14-day repos by 20 basis points on Thursday was a sign of the times. "Today's move sends a clear and strong signal, in our view, that the People's Bank of China is more convinced that it needs to make more effort to guide interest rates lower," Barclays said. It predicted two interest rate cuts of 25 basis points each between October and March 2015. Lower rates could arrest the cooldown in China's once red-hot property market, where fizzling growth is increasingly dragging on the broader economy, sapping demand for housing-related products from appliances and furniture to cement and steel. Average new home prices across China fell 1.1 percent in August from July, accelerating from last month's 0.9 percent drop, according to a Reuters weighted home price index calculated from official figures. Price falls spread to a record number of cities, and further declines are expected as cash-hungry developers cut asking prices and offer bigger discounts to attract buyers. Some economists think the slide will persist well into next year, citing huge inventories of unsold homes. Four consecutive months of declines in home prices has left China's housing market close to wiping out its gains over the last year, a trend that could further hurt consumer confidence. The property market accounts for roughly 15 percent of the economy. "The softness in real estate investment will remain one of the major drags on economic growth," said Zhu Haibin, an economist at JPMorgan. China's economy has had a bumpy ride this year. A bounce in growth in the second quarter was cut short in July, and data suggest the cooldown may have deepened since. Stimulus measures announced earlier in the year already appear to be losing their punch. Growth in factory output slid to a six-year low in August and import demand fell unexpectedly for the second month. "SO MUCH MONEY" In addition to government moves to accelerate spending, the PBOC has taken several steps this year to ensure ample liquidity and encourage increasingly risk-averse banks to continue lending at reasonable rates. Many banks still prefer to lend to state-owned firms, starving private companies of capital. The central bank has declined to comment on the move to inject liquidity into the country's top five banks, via a policy tool known as the Standing Lending Facility, or SLF. As the SLF is only valid for three months and requires commercial banks to pay for its use, analysts are divided about its impact on the real economy, while acknowledging it gave at least a short-term psychological boost to money markets, where banks lend to each other. "Our bank is busy this morning lending with so much money in the market now," said one trader at a Chinese commercial bank in Shanghai, following reports that the central bank was offering to inject more money into the system. Some argue that the extra funds were intended to help banks meet higher demand for cash at the end of each quarter, especially ahead of the long holiday. A flurry of stock market initial public offerings (IPOs) in coming weeks had been expected to amplify those seasonal stresses this year. Short-term rates stabilized on Thursday, with the seven-day repurchase agreement rate little changed on the day. For the year, the rate has dropped 155 basis points since Dec. 30, though many economists are doubtful that longer-term borrowers are seeing any relief. Publicly, central bank officials and advisers said China is not poised to unveil any dramatic stimulus to boost its economy. "The central bank is erring on the side of caution by offering more than it usually would," said the analysts at Capital Economics, in reference to the latest liquidity move. "Many have been forecasting a turn to broad stimulus in China for some time. The central bank’s injection of liquidity has not changed our view that this remains wishful thinking," they said. The government's bottom line is stable employment and no widespread debt defaults. Under that scenario, growth of 7.3-7.4 percent this year is seen as acceptable, sources said. Beijing's official target is around 7.5 percent.     (Reporting by Shao Xiaoyi in BEIJING and Lu Jianxin in SHANGHAI; Writing by Koh Gui Qing in BEIJING) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA cleaner waters the flowers below a logo of Alibaba (China) Technology Co. Ltd at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou(Reuters) - Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd is set to sell some $22 billion of shares on Thursday, capping a two-week road show that drew frenzied interest from investors worldwide and may be the world's largest ever initial public offering. The shares are expected to be priced after the markets close at 4 p.m. Thursday and start trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday under the ticker "BABA." Investors, keen to buy into China's rapid growth and evolving Internet sector, have been clamoring to get shares since top executives at Alibaba, including co-founder and executive chairman Jack Ma, kicked off the road show last week. Alibaba, which handles more transactions than Amazon.com Inc and eBay Inc combined, boosted the IPO price range to between $66 and $68 a share due to the strong demand. At the top end of that range, the IPO would raise almost $22 billion, but if underwriters exercise an option to sell more shares, Alibaba's market debut will top Agricultural Bank of China Ltd's record $22.1 billion listing in 2010. "We believe that the current pricing range of $66-$68 significantly undervalues the long-term growth potential of the company," CRT Capital analyst Neil Doshi said in a research note that initiated coverage of the stock with a "buy" rating. In the 15 years since Ma founded the company in his one-bedroom apartment, Alibaba has come to power four-fifths of all online commerce conducted in China, the world's second-largest economy. It has also branched out into areas such as e-payments and financial investment. Alibaba's complex governance structure and Ma's outside investments have raised questions about potential conflicts of interest and investors' ability to sway Alibaba's strategy. The company decided to list its shares in New York after Hong Kong stock exchange officials rejected its request to allow a small group of company insiders to nominate the majority of the board. Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd, which operates the exchange, has a policy against companies having multiple classes of shares with different voting rights, but is now considering loosening those rules. The IPO caps a lengthy listing process that saw Alibaba take the rare step of not appointing a single bank to take charge of the IPO process. Instead, it tapped all its major bookrunners for advice, and divided tasks among them. Alibaba plans to expand its business in the United States and Europe after the deal. But in the United States at least, it is not widely known: an Ipsos poll found that 88 percent of Americans had not heard of the company.   (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA businessman sits near a cargo area at a port in Tokyo July 30, 2014TOKYO (Reuters) - Confidence at Japanese manufacturers fell the most in nearly two years in September as a tax increase hit the economy harder than expected, while exports slid in August in a further sign that conditions have deteriorated in the crucial third quarter. This frailty in the monthly Reuters Tankan business confidence, and the shaky outlook, could raise in coming months the pressure on the BOJ to ease policy further and complicate Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's decision on whether to raise the national sales tax again. The first phase of the tax hike in April triggered a 7.1 percent slump in the economy in the second quarter - the worst contraction since the global financial crisis. The third quarter data will be crucial for Abe's second-stage tax-rise decision, due by year-end, but some analysts say the Reuters survey suggests that the expected recovery is not taking hold. "Both external and domestic demand are weak, and things in the summer are clearly undershooting forecasts by the government and the BOJ, eroding business confidence," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. In fact, the worsening sentiment in Reuters Tankan, with only a feeble improvement forecast for December, bodes ill for the Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey, due Oct. 1, which had been forecast to rebound in the third quarter.   HURDLE FOR SECOND TAX HIKE 'BIT HIGH' "Even though Prime Minister Abe says he stands 'neutral' on the tax decision, I don't think we are in a situation where the tax can be raised soon. The hurdle is getting a bit high," Norinchukin Research Institutes' Minami said. With the recovery sputtering and inflation appearing stalled well below the BOJ's target of 2 percent, market speculation is growing that Abe may order a burst of government spending and the BOJ may oblige with further monetary stimulus to bolster the economy enough to allow the tax hike to go ahead. The Reuters Tankan, which is strongly correlated with the central bank's closely watched poll, surveyed 486 big Japanese companies, of which 285 replied, between Aug. 29-Sept. 12. "The effects of the decline in demand have proved larger than expected" after the April tax hike, said an executive at a machinery maker. A transport equipment producer blamed the higher tax for cooling demand and worsening business conditions. The managers, who responded anonymously to the Reuters survey, also complained about weak external demand, notably in Asia and Europe, and uncertainty over geopolitical risks that weigh on the outlook. The sentiment index for manufacturers fell to 10 in September from 20 in August and down from 19 in June. It is forecast to rise to 16 in December. It was the first decline in four months and the biggest since October 2012. At that time, business sentiment was plunging amid Chinese boycotts of Japanese products and violent protests after Japan nationalized islets in the East China Sea that are also claimed by Beijing. Service-sector sentiment edged up but was forecast to decline again. This time, the loss of confidence comes after a slew of downbeat data, including soft factory output and falling household spending, and has cast doubt over the recovery of the world's third-biggest economy.   WEAK EXPORTS Ministry of Finance data showed on Thursday Japan's exports declined in August as U.S.-bound shipments contracted by the most in three years, another sign the economy is struggling to rev up after the deep slump in April-June. Exports, a weak link in Japan's economy, fell 1.3 percent in August from a year ago - less than the median estimate for a 2.6 percent annual decline. That followed a 3.9 percent annual gain in the previous month after having fallen in June and May. The last BOJ tankan found the mood among big manufacturers had worsened in the three months to June but was expected to improve in July-September. The survey indices subtract the percentage of companies saying conditions are improving from that of companies saying conditions are worsening. A positive number means optimists outnumber pessimists. Abe raised the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent in April in a bid to curb Japan's runaway government debt, knocking the economy hard in the process. Around December he is to decide whether to proceed with a plan to raise the tax to 10 percent next year. Abe said on Sunday he remained "neutral" on whether to raise the tax, adding that decision would hinge on the strength of economic indicators, including for the July-September quarter. The yen has fallen to a six-year low against the dollar in recent days, but it has not yet given much of a boost to exporters, while importers, such as materials firms, are struggling to pass on rising import costs.   (Editing by William Mallard &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirECB President Mario Draghi is unlikely to be happy.The latest funding scheme designed to offer a boost to the eurozone’s banks is looking like a flop, after the release of initial figures on the take-up from the banks it's intended for. The European Central Bank calls its latest wheeze "targeted long-term refinancing operations," or TLTROs. Banks can access cheap credit from Frankfurt and are allowed to take up to 7% of their total loans in the eurozone. There’s a longer explanation from Danske Bank here. Figures out Thursday morning show that the bloc’s banks snagged €82.6 billion ($106.5 billion) in the long-term loans, less than basically anyone was expecting. Analysts are united, for once, in the view that the take-up of the scheme is a massive disappointment. Kit Juckes, of Societe Generale, said in a research note Thursday morning that even a take-up of €100bn to €120bn would be “a small enough figure to leave many fearing that the ECB is still doing too little, too late." Emily Nicol of Daiwa Capital Markets had similar sentiments, saying that any less than €100bn to €150bn “would cast some doubt on whether the TLTRO programme constitutes a fitting solution to the euro area’s economic challenges.” BNP Paribas economists twisted the knife, saying that ECB actions so far would be insufficient to raise the ECB’s balance sheet. The size of a central bank’s balance sheet is often used as a measure of how much monetary policymakers have eased policy for the economy. The ECB’s has been shrinking for some time. If its policies had been successful, the balance sheet would have grown — indicating it was successfully making new loans to banks that want them. Haver Analytics/Oxford EconomicsThe European Central Bank's balance sheet is shrinking. There will be another round of funding in December, but Jennifer McKeown of Capital Economics offered more pessimism in a note: “We can’t see why banks would borrow a lot more money then … We maintain our view that a broader programme of asset purchases, or quantitative easing, will be needed to get the economy going and avert the risk of deflation.” FREE AppDownload
© AFP Lesley MartinA couple pose with their voting slips outside a polling station in the south of Edinburgh on September 18, 2014, as voting opens in during the Scottish independence referendumLondon (AFP) - Europe's stock markets edged higher at the start of trading on Thursday, with all eyes on Scotland's independence referendum, and after Fed-inspired gains overnight on Wall Street. In opening deals, London's benchmark FTSE 100 benchmark index gained just 0.01 percent at 6,781.84 points, around one hour after Scots began voting. Frankfurt's DAX 30 added 0.43 percent to 9,703.10 points and the Paris CAC 40 index won 0.20 percent to stand at 4,440.33 points compared with Wednesday's close. Wall Street had rallied to a fresh record on Wednesday after the US Federal reserve stuck to its slow-but-steady plans to tighten monetary policy. "Markets have opened tentatively higher this morning following gains in the US as the Federal Reserve pledge to keep interest rates near zero for what they term a considerable time," said Andy McLevey, head of dealing at broker Interactive Investor. "Any gains are likely to be muted though as the people of Scotland go to the polls to determine whether they go it alone and vote for independence or remain part of the UK. "Until the results are known early tomorrow morning many investors will be sitting on the sidelines."   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersApple CEO Tim Cook speaks on stage during event at the Flint Center in CupertinoBEIJING (Reuters) - Apple Inc's  iPhone 6 received regulatory approval for use on domestic frequencies but still requires one more critical licence before it may be sold in the country, the official Xinhua news agency reported on Thursday. Apple has not yet issued an iPhone 6 release date for China, one of its most important markets, leading to widespread speculation that it has encountered difficulty obtaining the requisite licences from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), which tests new phones before they may enter national telecom networks. Apple still needs to obtain a critical network access licence for the iPhone, after which sales may begin, Xinhua said. It remains unclear when the new iPhone will receive full clearance, although the report Thursday signals the process has not completely stalled. Apple has not issued any comment about the iPhone's China launch aside from saying it is working to bring the device to the market as soon as possible.  (Reporting by Gerry Shih) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer Joey Chestnut celebrates after winning at the annual Nathan's Famous Fourth of July Hot Dog Eating Contest at Coney Island in the Brooklyn borough of New York July 4, 2014.One of the primary drivers of the ever higher stock market has been the boom in stock buybacks.  A recent report from FactSet shows that Q2 buybacks are down -1.1% on a year over year basis and down -23% on a quarter-over-quarter basis: “Quarterly Buybacks Declined Year-over-Year: Dollar-value share repurchases amounted to $123.7 billion over the second quarter and $539.3 billion for the trailing twelve months. Quarterly buybacks declined year-over-year (-1.1%) for the first time since Q3 2012. And, due to record post-recession activity last quarter, Q2 showed the most severe quarter-over-quarter decline (-22.9%) since Q4 2011.” FactSetDoes it matter?   It could matter a good deal.  If buybacks are bolstering stock prices in addition to helping companies bolster EPS then maybe it’s time to temper expectations about future returns. FREE AppDownload
