Thomson ReutersA man shows the way for Wang Jianlin in ShenzhenBy Matthew Miller and Clare Jim BEIJING/HONG KONG (Reuters) - Wang Jianlin plans to raise as much as $6 billion from selling shares in Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties Co Ltd , to help fund the expansion of an empire built at speed using cheap government land. China's fourth-richest man with a net worth of $13.2 billion, according to Forbes, has opened 100 Wanda Plaza mixed-use developments from 21 just four years ago. Wang is aided, he has said, by land bought at half the price others would have paid, from authorities betting on his ability to boost local economies. Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties is now China's largest in the sector with 178 projects in 112 cities across 29 provinces, many anchored by malls and hotels alongside office and residential towers. On Monday, it won approval in Hong Kong to conduct the biggest initial public offering (IPO) in Asia Ex-Japan in four years. But the approval comes at a time when an industry slump is pulling down earnings, and while eight so-called Wanda Cities - massive multi-projects - exacerbate its debt burden. "Dalian Wanda has a lot of projects and they all need money," said a person familiar with the listing plan, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter so declined to be identified. "After the IPO, it can also issue bonds which will help lower funding costs." Wang has tried to list Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties before. Regulatory reasons scuppered a Hong Kong IPO in 2005, and its application in Shanghai lapsed earlier this year with the bourse saying submitted documents were out of date. Wang, a former member of the People's Liberation Army, now plans to take the developer into the world's 10 largest cities over the next decade, beginning last year with Los Angeles, Chicago, London, Madrid and Gold Coast. "China's outbound investment is an inevitable trend," Wang told the APEC CEO Summit in November.  PROFIT DROP Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties, in a filing to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, said net profit fell 47 percent in January-June to 4.97 billion yuan ($807.93 million) due to a decline in the fair value gain of its properties. Revenue fell 27 percent in the same period after rising 70 percent over 2012 and 2013, when it peaked at 86.8 billion yuan. It said the fall came as it completed fewer residential projects and because selling prices declined following a years-long government campaign to stop prices spiraling. Current liabilities rose 21.7 percent in January-June alone to 219.36 billion yuan. Its gearing ratio - or debt compared with owners' equity - reached 87.8 percent from 53 percent at the end of 2013, though its debt-to-asset ratio was 51.6 percent. Credit-ratings firm Fitch Ratings in November pointed to Wanda Cities being a "cash drain" but said they were "positive to Wanda" in the longer term. "There is a good potential for Wanda City projects to become famous tourist spots and this can enhance Wanda's brand image," Fitch said. Wang, 60, will remain controlling shareholder after the IPO. He also heads Dalian Wanda Group, the developer's parent, which wants to raise overseas sales to 20 percent by 2020, while increasing revenue to $100 billion from $30 billion. "We take the initiative and have bargaining power," Wang told students at Harvard University in 2012. "Our cost of land acquisition is much cheaper than other companies." Dalian Wanda Group includes Wanda Cinema Line Co Ltd, which on Friday won approval to raise up to 2 billion yuan ($325.41 million) in a domestic IPO. It also includes Hong Kong-listed Wanda Hotel Development Co Ltd , which changed its name from Wanda Commercial Properties Group Co Ltd in October.  (Additional reporting by Beijing Newsroom and Fiona Lau of IFR in HONG KONG; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Ralph D. FresoNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. online sales grew a smaller than expected 8 percent on Cyber Monday after web promotions before and during the Thanksgiving weekend robbed business from what has traditionally been the busiest day of the year for Internet shopping. As of 6 p.m. EST, data from IBM Digital Analytics Benchmark showed Cyber Monday sales grew sharply slower than comScore data over the weekend which showed a 32 percent rise in online orders on Thanksgiving and 26 percent on Black Friday. Cyber Monday sales were projected to rise between 13-15 percent. The results highlight the waning importance of traditional shopping days like Cyber Monday and Black Friday, which until a few years ago kicked off the holiday shopping season. To compete with each other and Amazon, most U.S. retailers like Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy began offering some of the season's best online deals, which were traditionally reserved for the Monday after Thanksgiving, several weeks in advance. "Consumers are not holding back their purchases for deals on certain days anymore and that trend is becoming increasingly clear," said Jay Henderson, strategy program director at IBM. Early discounts also hurt in-store sales during the Thanksgiving weekend which fell 11 percent, according to the National Retail Federation. Cyber Monday sales continued to be driven by mobile traffic which grew 38.3 percent this year, even as the average order value remained flat at $131.66, IBM said.   (Reporting by Nandita Bose in New York; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Cyber Monday sales have shattered records this year as shoppers seek out deals online.  Total sales were up 8.7% over 2013, according to the IBM Digital Analytics Benchmark.  Mobile sales increased by a whopping 29.3% and accounted for one in five transactions, according to IBM.  Strong Cyber Monday results could help offset plummeting sales on Black Friday.  While more shoppers turned out for Cyber Monday, the average transaction price remained flat at $133.07.  "This trend may indicate that shoppers are becoming more comfortable and digitally savvy in how they use online coupons and rebates to secure the best bargains," according to IBM.  The name "Cyber Monday" started in 2005 by the National Retail Federation's online arm, Shop.org, to spur online shopping, the Associated Press writes. It's been the busiest online shopping day since 2010.  Total Thanksgiving weekend spending declined 11% to $50.9 billion this year, according to the National Retail Federation (NRF). Stores saw about 6 million fewer shoppers than expected.   The National Retail Federation blamed the decline on earlier promotions from retailers like Wal-Mart.  FREE AppDownload
Whether it's rain, snow, or ice, winter weather can really wreak havoc on your dress shoes.  Jack Erwin is a startup that makes a high-quality, classic shoe that won't go out of style or break the bank. The shoes are all made out of Italian leather and priced between $95 and $220. We asked Jack Erwin cofounders Lane Gerson and Ariel Nelson to share their tips for protecting your shoes during the bleak winter months. Though it may be tempting to stick the soaked shoes in front of a direct heat source, like a radiator or fireplace, Nelson and Gerson advise against doing so. "Stuff your shoes with newspaper to absorb the moisture, then replace with cedar shoe trees," they said. "If you have leather soles, let them dry too."  Funky-smelling shoes are usually caused by bacterial or fungal build-up.  "There are a variety of fixes, including applying antibacterial sprays or a light layer of baking soda," they said. You could also try inserting an odor-controlling insole or even dryer sheets. First, Nelson and Gerson recommend using saddle soap or a specialty salt stain remover to get rid of the stain itself. Then, stuff the shoes with newspaper and leave them out to dry, away from a direct heat source.  "Last, apply leather conditioner or natural oils to replenish the leather and return it to its original luster," they said. "Synthetic materials created specifically for inclement weather such as Gore Tex and rubber are fitting materials for the worst of the winter," they said. "When cared for and treated properly, full-grain leather is a naturally resilient material that can also withstand the elements."  They recommend using natural oils, like mink oil, to make leather even stronger in the winter.  "The Chelsea boot continues to be a winter staple," they said. "This season the combat boot and dress chukka, both classic styles, are seeing a variety of new interpretations." Jack Erwin's Carter boot, a twist on the combat boot, continues to be one of the brand's bestselling styles.  Madeline Stone / Business Insider "Shoe horns are always recommended as they help to preserve the back counter and overall structure of your shoe," they said.  You should also be conditioning and polishing your shoes on a regular basis, which will keep the leather supple and moisturized.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew BurtonOn Monday, crude oil prices bounced back in a big way. And after seemingly any stock in the oil and gas sector took a bath on Friday, many of the oil majors held up just fine in a market that sold off modestly.  But smaller oil &amp; gas companies with operations more closely tied to US shale plays saw their stocks get clobbered again. Among the big losers on Monday were: And most all of these stocks also sold off hard on Friday, and over the last five trading days, BreitBurn and Mid-Con are down more than 30%, while only Vanguard hasn't dropped more than 20% over that period. Vanguard is down 19% since last Monday. And over the last month, the damage for some of these companies is deeper. Exchange-traded funds — which are baskets of stocks in a certain sector — representing oil &amp; gas exploration and oil &amp; gas services companies are down nearly 20% in just the last month. Crude prices bounced back on Monday, and while selling may or may not be over for crude, the pain is still being felt by plenty of companies in the energy space. Here are the ugly charts. Google FinanceA terrible week for small oil & gas companies.Google FinanceAnd an awful month for small oil & gas companies.Google FinanceAnd a brutal month for the sector. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Anton FerreiraFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers. Two-Thirds Of Millennials Think They're Not Investing Enough For Retirement (Financial Advisor Magazine) 68% of millennials believe that they are not investing enough for retirement — even though 64% of them have a financial plan, according to a survey by the Nationwide Retirement Institute. "...the survey found 36% of millennial investors (aged 18 to 35) only guess at how much they need to fund their retirement, and nearly one in four do not know if they have a 401 (k) plan," reports Kathy Lynch. The Slow US Economy Has Been Going On For Really Long (Morningstar)  "Despite the slowness of the recovery, it has been relatively long-lived, especially compared with recoveries of the '50s and early '60s. Furthermore, the United States has been struck in a very narrow 2%-2.5% growth for at least the past three years...," writes Robert Johnson. "The depths of that financial adjustment and deleveraging in general have contributed to the slowness of this recovery," he adds. And on top of that, last week's data wasn't ideal: the second quarter's wage data was revised, manufacturing slowed, and initial unemployment claims went up. On the positive note, third quarter GDP was revised higher following of higher-than-estimated consumer spending growth. An Ex-Broker Has To Pay A Former NBA Player $2 Million (The Wall Street Journal)  The former NBA player Sam Young lost $600,000 "on unregistered promissory notes that broker Jinesh 'Hodge' Brahmbhatt had recommended but which turned out to be worthless, according to his arbitration claim," reports Matthias Rieker. Young's lawyer, Jeffrey Sonn, pointed out that advisers sometimes take advantage of athletes — and that this case is important in sending a message to others considering doing the same thing. "When you scam victims like that you will be punished," he said. Cheaper Oil Is A Huge Boost For India (Advisor Perspective)  "India uses a lot of oil, but it has very limited oil resources. The country depends on oil imports for more than 70% of its oil needs. We believe that, as the price of oil falls, India's economic growth prospects — and by extension, equity market performance — may improve," writes Christopher Gannatti. The dropping oil prices will help India manage its two main deficits: the current account deficit and the fiscal deficit. Right now, India's huge current account deficit is mainly attributed to the fact that the country needs to import oil. So if oil is cheaper, the country has to either pay less, or can import more for the same price. Secondly, India has a fiscal deficit, "which stems largely from its need to subsidize fuel prices for its citizens," writes Gannatti. Again, lower oil prices will help alleviate some of the pressure here. The Department Of Labor Is Releasing Its Fiduciary Redraft In January (Think Advisor) The Department of Labor is expected to release its fiduciary redraft in January, according to an updated regulatory notice. "Since the reg hasn't been submitted to OMB, it is odd that they stuck with the January projected release date," Nevin Adams, the communications chief of American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries said.   "Brian Graff, CEO of the American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries, said on an early November webcast that ASPAA believes 'there will be a set of [DOL fiduciary] proposals in early spring next year' and that the proposal will be 'highly controversial,'" reports Melanie Waddell. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA new oil well head waits to be fracked at a Hess site near in WillistonBy Barani Krishnan NEW YORK (Reuters) - Crude oil markets jumped as much as 5 percent on Monday, rebounding from five-year lows with their biggest daily gain since 2012, on fears that the high U.S. shale output blamed for the global oil glut may be shrinking. A weaker dollar , which makes commodities denominated in the greenback more affordable to holders of other currencies, also fueled buying in oil and other natural resource markets, traders said. [FRX/] Benchmark Brent crude oil  settled up $2.39 at $72.54 a barrel, after a session peak at $72.73. It fell as much as $2.62 earlier to $67.53, a low since July 2009. The 3 percent gain on the day was Brent's largest since October 2012. U.S. crude  finished up $2.85 at $69 a barrel, after initially plumbing a five-year bottom at $63.72. The 4 percent rise was the largest one-day move up in U.S. crude since August 2012. U.S. crude continued to surge post-settlement, gaining almost 5 percent to $69.34 by 2015 GMT. "The market clearly got a little overdone to the downside and now it's coming back up, proof that there will be a response from the shale patch to these low prices," said John Kilduff, partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital in New York. "Several shale companies are already reporting capital expenditure reductions next year as their profit margins get thinned out." On Wall Street, shares of shale energy companies such as Denbury Resources  and Newfield Exploration  took a beating for a second straight session, down about 5 percent each in late afternoon trade. Data reviewed by Reuters on Monday showed the new low-price environment for oil might have started affecting U.S. shale production, with a 15 percent drop in permits issued for new shale wells in October. "The market is still looking for a new equilibrium below $70, which is a little surprising given that with the current prices, much of the shale oil production in the U.S., or part of it, will be unprofitable," Commerzbank analyst Eugen Weinberg said. A Reuters Breakingviews column noted that shale output may not fall as quickly as thought as producers "have ways to keep the oil flowing, including diverting investment to more productive fields and stepping up efforts to cut already rapidly falling costs". Brent and U.S. crude prices have fallen for five months in a row, the longest losing streak in oil since the 2008 financial crisis. Despite Monday's rebound, they are still down about 10 percent from the start of last week, before producer group OPEC decided on Thursday not to cut output despite oversupply worries. Saudi Arabia, the most influential member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, blocked moves by some smaller producers to curb output, arguing that low prices would ultimately hurt U.S. shale oil.  (Additional reporting by Ron Bousso and Ahmed Aboulene in London and Florence Tan in Singapore; Editing by Chris Reese, Jessica Resnick-Ault, Meredith Mazzilli, David Goodman, William Hardy and David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
Phil Noble/ReutersThis year could be the worst for hedge fund closures since the financial crisis, Bloomberg reported. In first half of the year, 461 funds shut their doors, the report said, citing research from Hedge Fund Research Inc.  If liquidations continue at that rate, they'll outpace the 1,023-closure record from 2009, the report said. Even big firms are closing down funds. Brevan Howard, for example, just shut down a $630 million commodities fund. Part of the problem is the low return rate for hedge funds across the board - just 2 percent on average in 2014, according to Bloomberg data. But smaller funds are getting hit even harder as investors gravitate toward bigger, better-known names. Macro funds have it bad too, returning on average less than 1 percent this year, Bloomberg reported. No wonder everybody's jumping ship. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasStanley FischerNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is welcoming the sharp drop in global energy prices, with two influential policymakers on Monday cheering the boost it should provide American pocketbooks and shrugging off any pressure on already low inflation. Soft oil prices in particular, which hit a five-year low on Friday, will only temporarily dampen overall U.S. prices, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer and New York Fed President William Dudley said at separate events. The pair painted a mostly rosy outlook for the world's largest economy, suggesting the central bank is not letting energy markets distract it from lifting rates some time next year. "The lower inflation that we'll get from the lower price of oil is going to be temporary," Fischer said at the Council on Foreign Relations. "I wouldn't worry about that very much because that period of negative, low inflation is actually happening as a result of a phenomenon that's making everyone better off, and furthermore likely to increase GDP rather than reduce it." Dudley, who like Fischer is a close ally of Fed Chair Janet Yellen, said the oil rout was a positive for the economy because much of the extra money will be "spent, not saved" by Americans. The global price drop will also encourage more monetary easing by other central banks, spurring global growth, he said. REUTERS/David StubbsWilliam DudleyIf the oil price drop were to "intensify and persist, this would have negative implications for oil and gas investment" in the United States, he added. "Nevertheless, there are several reasons why I don't think this risk should be overstated, especially if oil prices stabilize around current levels." Crude markets rebounded on Monday but have fallen the last five straight months, the longest losing streak since the crisis that brought on the deep recession. Measures of inflation, which have lingered below the Fed's 2 percent target for more than three years, have recently softened, raising questions over the timing of policy tightening. "I remain confident, despite the recent softening, that inflation will begin to move up towards our 2 percent objective next year," Dudley said at Baruch College. In a television interview later, he downplayed worries over leverage in oil and gas exploration. Elsewhere in New York, Fischer said the United States may be on the verge of a long-awaited jump in wages that could signal the labor market has begun to heal more fully. "I think that has a significant chance of being about to happen," he said. U.S. wages have stagnated despite falling unemployment and decent gross domestic product (GDP) growth, so the Fed is only cautiously preparing to raise rates. It halted a bond-buying program in October. Dudley, who repeated it is reasonable to expect a rate hike in mid-2015, said the Fed will not just tighten policy based on how the economy is faring but also on how well financial markets respond to the eventual hikes. More aggressive rate rises will be needed if financial markets do not react as expected, and vice versa, he said. Elsewhere, the dovish head of the Minneapolis Fed, Narayana Kocherlakota, in a paper called on the central bank to rewrite its 2 percent inflation goal to reflect the view that below-target inflation is just as costly as above-target inflation. Asked about raising that target, Fischer rejected the idea.   (Additional reporting by Howard Schneider, Jason Lange and Ann Saphir; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Heinz-Peter Bader/ReutersLibya's Deputy Premier Abdelrahman al-Taher, who was the lead delegate at November's OPEC meeting in Vienna.The story of last week was that OPEC, at its annual meeting in Vienna on Thursday, decided not to cut oil production despite the recent price freefalls in the energy market.  But there was something else going on at the meeting, which didn't get as much attention: who represented Libya.  The North African country is an OPEC member, but currently has two goverments, which both believed they should be entitled to send delegates to the meeting. Here's the story, from Reuters:  Libya has two cabinets and parliaments vying for legitimacy since a rival group took control of the capital Tripoli in August, installing its own prime minister and assembly and forcing the country's internationally recognized prime minister, Abdullah al-Thinni, to move his operations to the east of the country. The United Nations and world powers have not recognized rival Prime Minister Omar al-Hassi, but his political alliance controls major ministries in Tripoli. Ismail Zitouny/ReutersMashallah Zwai, Oil Minister in rival Prime Minister Omar al-Hassi's government While some people expected that OPEC wouldn't take sides, in the end, OPEC followed the lead of the United Nations and extended an invitation to the delegates of al-Thinni, further legitimizing his government, according to Steve Fox at Middle East Eye. Libya's actual role in the meeting was relatively small, since it was one of three countries that OPEC exempted from any production cut decision prior to the meeting on November 27th. Production is already down more than 70% from its average rate before Muammar Qaddafi was overthrown. This year Libya is producing about 437,000 barrels a day— down from 1.55 million a day in 2010, according to Bloomberg. Libya's oil industry is screwed. And its oil industry is its economy. According to OPEC's own data, oil is 95% of total exports. OPEC In part because of dramatic production cuts, Libya doesn't have a hope for making any money on oil this year, anyway. According to Reuters, oil revenues in Libya will fall to "15 billion Libyan dinars ($12 billion) this year, down from 40 billion dinars in 2013."  Oil would have to be six times higher than it is for the country to be in the black. Check out that breakeven price:  Citi Research     FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; will recall 316,357 SUVs and sedans, mainly in North America, because the low-beam headlights can stop working, the company said on Monday. Affected vehicles are the model years 2006-2009 Buick LaCrosse sedans; 2006-2007 Chevrolet Trailblazer, GMC Envoy and Buick Rainier SUVs; and 2006-2008 Saab 9-7X and Isuzu Ascender SUVs. GM said it has not been able to confirm whether the loss of lights has caused any accidents. "If the headlamp driver module is not operating correctly, the low-beam headlamps and daytime running lamps could intermittently or permanently fail to illuminate. This condition does not affect the high-beam headlamps, marker lamps, turn signals, or fog lamps," GM said in an emailed statement. GM said it has informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the recall. The newest recall brings to 30.4 million vehicles worldwide and 26.85 million vehicles in the United States that GM has recalled this year. Of the 317,357 vehicles in the latest recall, 273,182 are registered in the United States, with most of the rest in Canada and Mexico, GM said.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Kaufman PhotographyAfter five years on and off the market, former Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis has finally sold a beach house he owns in a private community in Spring Island, South Carolina, the Wall Street Journal reports. The home sold at a loss: Lewis had purchased it in 2002 for $3 million, and wound up selling for "close to" its current asking price of $2.495 million, the listing agent told the Journal. Lewis, who left the bank at the end of 2009, had slashed the price on the vacation home several times. He co-owned the home along with Dennis Thompson, the founder and CEO of Charlotte, N.C.-based restaurant operator Firebirds International. The pad has three bedrooms, marsh views, and was once featured in Architectural Digest.
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinStocks started December with losses, as the tech-heavy Nasdaq paced losses with a 1.3% drop, while the price of gold and crude oil spiked dramatically higher after falling sharply into the weekend and overnight on Sunday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. We got two pieces of economic data on the US manufacturing sector on Monday, with the Institute of Supply Management's November PMI reading coming in at 58.7, topping expectations for a reading of 58.0. This was, however, below October's 59.0. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that report was, "Unbelievable. Literally," saying that seasonal adjustments continue to skew the index higher than it ought to be. Shepherdson believes the trend warrants a reading of around 55.0. Any reading above 50 represents expansion in the manufacturing sector. 2. Markit economics also released its latest manufacturing PMI came in at 54.8, better than November's "flash" reading of 54.7, but below expectations for a 55.0. Markit's release said that, "Business conditions continued to improve across the US manufacturing sector in November, but the pace of recovery eased to its weakest since the start of 2014." 3. Crude oil prices rallied on Monday, with West Texas Intermediate crude futures rising more than 4% to above $69 as the commodity continues to pare the losses suffered at the end of last week after OPEC announced it would not curb production. And while Monday's rally was a bit of relief to some oil investors, in a not to clients on Monday, Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid noted that both WTI and Brent crude oil have been the world's worst performing assets this year. 4. Gold prices also rallied hard on Monday, gaining more than 3% to climb back above $1,200 an ounce. Overnight the precious metal took it on the chin, falling to as low as $1,143 an ounce after voters in Switzerland rejected a measure that would have required the Swiss National Bank to hold 20% of their assets in gold. Currently, the SNB has an 8% gold position.  5. Apple shares had a wild day, with the stock suffering something like a "flash crash" after the market open on Monday, falling as much as 6% before stabilizing down about 3%.  6. Amazon got some bad news from Moody's rating agency today, as Moody's took its outlook for the online retailer to "Negative" from "Stable" after Amazon disclosed plans on Monday to issue senior unsecured notes. Moody's noted that Amazon's debt will be used for general corporate purposes, and added that, "it is Moody's expectation that the funds will not be utilized for any form of shareholder returns." Amazon shares fell more than 3% on Monday.  7. Also in the tech space, ride-sharing service Uber is reportedly raising money from Goldman Sachs' high-net-worth clients, according to Fortune's Dan Primack.  Don't Miss: Blaming The Crash In Oil Prices On Shale Leaves One Question Unanswered » FREE AppDownload
Australian franchise Pie Face is in voluntary administration, just weeks after the company suddenly closed a number of outlets in the US. Franchisees received notification on Nov. 21 that the company had appointed Jirsch Sutherland to advise the business as it sought to restructure and refinance. The company was founded in 2003 by former Wall Street banker Wayne Homschek and by 2012 was valued at nearly $60 million amid talk of an IPO. Homschek talked of 500 stores across Australia. At its peak, the company had nearly 80 franchises across Australia as well as more than a dozen company-owned stores, but over the last few years, a number have closed and a disgruntled Brisbane franchisee launched an $800,000 legal action against Pie Face claiming they were misled over profit projections, which Homschek denied. But last year the Australian Financial Review obtained leaked documents which showed Pie Face was posting losses on nearly all its company-owned stores in the first quarter of 2012, including $20,000 a month on its George Street outlet in central Sydney, and wanted to sell loss-making stores. At the time a company spokesperson dismissed it as “incomplete, inaccurate and out of date” information. On Nov. 24, Homschek told Fairfax Media that parts of the company were still profitable and he was still looking at an IPO in 2015. He blamed the cost of leases on three factories after consolidating production to a single site in Sydney’s west for the problems, while a spokesperson for the administrators said the company-owned stores needed restructuring and that Pie Face’s US partner had caused problems. Pie Face said it was “business as usual” during the review and that the international operations were unaffected. “The move comes as part of a wider company review, which will see the company focus on supporting the growth of its franchise-operated stores as well as the wholesale business,” Pie Face said in a statement. Last month the company suddenly closed six of its seven New York outlets, three years after they first opened, despite Homschek announcing plans for 150 stores worldwide by 2015. AP Photo/Richard DrewDelicious but not profitable. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BTIG's Dan Greenhaus borrows from Britney Spears' 2001 song "I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman" to express his feelings for the stock market. "With apologies to Britney Spears; Not a bull, not yet a bear," writes Greenhaus in his new 2015 Investment Outlook note. In all seriousness, that line perfectly captures how much of Wall Street feels about the stock market right now. The consensus sees modest gains coming, and little risk of a major downturn. Greenhaus' 2015 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500: 2,200. Like Savita Subramanian at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Tobias Levkovich at Citigroup, Greenhaus sees the S&amp;P 500 rising by a modest 6% from current levels, an increase that is expected to be in-line with earnings growth with no help from multiple expansion. "We believe the bias for stock prices in general remains to the upside, underpinned by a growing economy, low interest rates and increasingly, cheaper oil," Greenhaus writes. "With operating margins at elevated levels, top line growth is poised to more quickly bleed through to the bottom line, thus supporting earnings." Greenhaus says that the strength of the dollar, however, should weigh on international earnings, while the decline in oil prices will weigh on energy stocks. Greenhaus also notes that the market will likely have to contend with the Federal Reserve's first interest rate hike in 2015, and historically, the stock market has not performed well after the Fed raises rates. Following rate hikes in 1999 and 2004, the S&amp;P 500 fell 12% and 7%, respectively, within the next five months.  And so although Greenhaus sees S&amp;P 500 earnings growing by 6.7% to $126 in 2015 with GDP growth coming in closer to 3% — up from 2014's 2% rate — another huge year of gains for the stock market will be hard to come by. Here's what other top Wall Street strategists are expecting for next year: FREE AppDownload
Stack CommerceThis year is going to be dominated by personal drones. Why? Because they’re incredibly fun to fly, and becoming increasingly affordable.  We're bringing prices down even further — here’s a roundup of deals not to miss. We and our friends at Stack Commerce put together the ultimate guide for getting a drone, and we've got one for every budget.  Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. Despite weighing just over an ounce, the Extreme Micro Drone 2.0 (46% off) is impressively equipped with gyro-based stabilization and a camera — in fact, this is the only micro drone in the world with a swiveling lens.  Being so compact means it can fly indoors and out, and it can pull 360º flips. A really nice all-rounder that is forgiving on newbies and ships globally for free. Get 46% off the Extreme Micro Drone 2.0 ($74.99 incl. global shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  The Code Black (55% off pre-orders) looks like it emerged from the Batcave, and it has the kind of features the Dark Knight would demand. It is a great out-of-the-box flyer, with a HD camera on board, and it is small enough to fly anywhere.  Plus, it can perform the all-important flips. If you order by Dec. 1, the Code Black will ship in time for Christmas, but the price will rise come mid December. Get 55% off the Limited Edition Code Black drone + HD Camera ($89 incl. shipping; pre-order) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  At the other end of the scale is the giant Panther Spy drone (55% off), which uses its size for durability. The rotors are surrounded by protective foam, but given that it has gyro stabilization, those guards shouldn’t be needed all that often. It also has a 720p camera, 2.4GHz transmission for good range, and 360º flips in its tricks locker.  Get 55% off the Panther Spy drone with HD camera ($110 incl. shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  DJI is always a safe bet, and the Phantom FC40 (23% off) is one of the most popular drones on the market. It offers on-board GPS, a gimbal-mounted HD camera (720p/30fps), live video streaming via Wi-Fi, a range of 1640 feet, and a fail-safe autopilot in case of emergency.  The other great thing is that it requires virtually no setup, and it is ridiculously easy to fly. Pro tip: use code phantom35 at the checkout for an extra $35 discount. Get 23% off the DJI Phantom FC40 ($499 incl. shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  There’s a reason why Richard Branson backed the 3DRobotics IRIS+ (3% off) — it is an incredible machine. Along with nice manual controls, this thing has a GPS to pilot itself along any flight paths you designate, and it can even intelligently track objects.  With a GoPro mounting, that means the IRIS+ is ideal for capturing your sporting exploits hands free, and a flight range of 16-22 minutes is unusually long. Get 3% off the 3DRobotics IRIS+ ($750 incl. shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersPetrobras president Maria das Gracas Silva Foster. Petrobras stock fell 7% on Monday, continuing its 14% decline since last week, when OPEC decided not to decrease oil production. For the year, the stock is down 34%. The company's debt, however, is on the rise and now hovering around $95 billion — the company's market cap is about $59 billion. That means it's absolutely imperative that Petrobras live up to its promises in terms of development and production. A continued decline in oil prices could put a serious damper on that, sucking cash out of a company already grappling with rising costs from capital expenditures. Yahoo Finance The problem is that while Petrobras' capital expenditure costs have increased steadily — from 3% in 2012 to 6% in 2013 and 2014 — domestic production growth has not. Production growth actually went negative from 2011 to 2013, and it is crossing into positive territory only this year. Meanwhile, the company is in the midst of a big pre-salt oil field development project that was supposed to increase production by 30% this year. So far, no dice there. Now, one thing the government could do is raise domestic oil prices. For years Brazilians have been enjoying a discount on oil and gas thanks to Petrobras' largess. As one economist put it, the Rousseff regime "is doing fiscal policy through Petrobras." For the government, this oil subsidy is an attempt to give ordinary Brazilians a break as the economy slows and the country battles with rising inflation. But it seems the country can no longer afford it. And with a new economic team in place, the subsidy might just end. The team is helmed by Finance Minister Joaquin Levy, whose nickname is "Scissorhands" for his willingness to slash budgets. Hiking oil prices for Brazilians while the rest of the world is getting a break, however, could aggravate Brazilians already angry at their government for corruption and mismanagement at Petrobras. The company is in the midst of corruption scandal that has Brazilians watching on the edge of their seats. The SEC is looking into the matter as well.  President Dilma Rousseff, once a board chair of the company, said the scandal could "change Brazil forever" if heads roll. And they very well may — officials have raided offices and taken dozens of wealthy, powerful Brazilians into custody for various transgressions from taking kickbacks to siphoning money away from the company for political donations (to Rousseff's party, one should note). If the company raises prices at this delicate time, Brazilians could take to the streets the way they did before the World Cup — by the thousands. This is the last thing Brazil needs. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRussia's President Putin attends a news conference in Ankara SINGAPORE/LONDON (Reuters) - Russia's $40 billion South Stream gas pipeline project has fallen victim to plunging energy prices, stalling European demand and the political standoff between the European Union and Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine. Russia on Monday said it had scrapped the project to supply gas to Europe without crossing Ukraine, citing EU objections, and named Turkey as its preferred partner. South Stream planned to supply 63 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas a year, equivalent to more than 10 percent of European demand, from Russia via the Black Sea into the EU toward the end of this decade, cementing Russia's role as the region's dominant supplier. But it came under increasing fire this year. The crisis over Ukraine led to Brussels freezing its approval process, and the pipeline also hit trouble over weak European gas demand and energy prices, undermining its economics. "I think the likelihood of South Stream being built is now is close to zero," said Pierre Noel, senior fellow for economic and energy security for International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS). South Stream would need to be marketed at an equivalent of $9.50-$11.50 per million British thermal unit (mmBtu), including a 30 percent export duty, estimates have shown. The average European spot gas prices have ranged between $6-$9 per mmBtu this year. "Decreasing oil-indexed prices for gas and lower sales are likely to drive Gazprom to the red this year," said Mikhail Korchemkin of East European Gas Analysis, forcing the firm to reduce its investment program. Russian state-controlled Gazprom sells most of its gas under oil-linked contracts. With oil prices tumbling 40 percent since June and European gas demand down 10 percent since 2010, Gazprom's gas revenues have plunged. "Cancellation of the project can reduce Gazprom's negative cash flow in 2014-2017", Korchemkin added. Gazprom meets almost a third of Europe's demand, which in turn makes up 80 percent of its revenues. "It (scrapping South Stream) reflects internal Russian pressure on where it is going to invest limited resources at a point in time when sanctions are hitting," said Carlos Pascual, a fellow at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy, referring to Western sanctions over Ukraine. "It's harder, more expensive to access capital and the fastest growing gas markets in the world are in Asia, and Russia has virtually no export capacity to the Asian market," he added. Wikipedia The announcement on scrapping South Stream came during a visit by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Gazprom chief executive, Alexei Miller, to Turkey, during which Putin proposed building it to Turkey instead, offering its gas at a discount. "I don't think Putin is bluffing. I think he's really adapting to a fundamentally new geopolitical situation in Europe," the IISS' Noel said. Yet the notion of running South Stream to non-EU member Turkey is not new and is seen by some as a political ploy by Russia to win the support of those EU members in favor of the pipeline. South Stream exposed cracks in EU strategy as Hungary, Austria, Serbia and Bulgaria among others saw it as a solution to the risk of supply disruptions via Ukraine, which have occurred three times during the last decade. Brussels, on the other hand, saw it as entrenching Moscow's energy stranglehold on Europe. "The alternative to Turkey is even more doubtful than the direct option to Europe," one financial adviser who has dealt with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The gas discount offered to Turkey casts further doubt over a project that was already economically doubtful, and would be far too big for Turkey alone to receive all the gas, supplying four times its annual demand. "Even if it went to Turkey, most of its gas would end up in Europe, so it begs the question why introduce a transit risk instead of attempting to solve Russia-EU differences and run it directly to Europe as initially planned," the adviser added. (Additional reporting by Timothy Gardner in WASHINGTON and Jacob Gronholt-Pedersen in SINGAPORE; Editing by Ed Davies) FREE AppDownload
Gold is exploding higher. In afternoon trade on Monday, gold futures were up better than 3.5% in the last 24 hours to around $1,215 an ounce, moving back above $1,200 for the first time in more than a week. The spike in gold reverses a plunge in gold late last week that was continued on Sunday night as the futures market re-opened after voters in Switzerland rejected a measure that would have required the Swiss National Bank to increase its gold holdings from 8% to 20%. Oil, which also got crushed last week, is also rallying on Monday. And while both commodities have seen huge breakdowns of late, nothing goes down in a straight line. Here's the huge gold rally on Monday. FinViz FREE AppDownload
We are waiting for the Fed's next move. In October, the Fed announced the end of its quantitative easing program. The next Fed meeting is set to kick off on December 16, and on December 17 we will get the Fed's latest monetary policy announcement as well as an updated Summary of Economic Projections followed by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen. No one is expecting the Fed to raise rates this month, but most in the market expect that at some point next year, the Fed will raise interest rates for the first time since the financial crisis. But what the Fed really wants to avoid is having to lower rates after it starts tightening. In his monthly chart book circulated on Monday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok highlighted the following chart, showing how the European Central bank, as well as central banks in New Zealand, Sweden, Norway, and Australia have all been forced to cut rates after raising them prematurely in 2009-2010. In a speech on Monday, New York Fed President Bill Dudley said that, "when lift-off occurs, the pace of monetary policy normalization will depend, in part, on how financial market conditions react to the initial and subsequent tightening moves." Dudley said if markets are sanguine, the Fed could keep increasing rates at a steady pace.  If the markets don't take to rate hikes kindly, the Fed could hold off on additional increases. And so while the Fed may decide to keep rates "lower for longer" depending on how the market takes it, the Fed certainly doesn't want to be forced to lower rates in short order. Last week, DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach said that the Fed might raise rates, "just to see what happens."  The Fed does not want it to be this. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Momentum is building for the European Central Bank to launch a program of sovereign-bond buying to boost the struggling euro zone economy with most signs pointing to March for a decision. With Germany, Europe's economic powerhouse, refusing to unleash fiscal stimulus and other governments taking time to reform their economies, responsibility is falling on the ECB to bolster growth and fend off deflation. It is arguably becoming more urgent. Euro zone inflation slowed to 0.3 percent last month, far below the target of just under 2 percent and in what the ECB sees as a "danger zone". Growth, meanwhile, has stalled, with some of the euro zone in recession and the bloc as a whole just above water. Printing money to buy bonds - known as quantitative easing, or QE - would in theory boost both inflation and add to growth. Reflecting this, ECB President Mario Draghi opened the door in a Nov. 21 speech to stronger stimulus. His deputy, Vitor Constancio, went a step further last week, saying the bank would be better able to gauge in the first quarter whether to buy sovereign bonds. "Now, it's too soon to make that assessment but indeed in early 2015 we have to look and assess if the (existing) programs are having the effect that we are expecting," Constancio told Reuters in a television interview. That has many looking to the ECB's March 5 meeting for a QE launch. The two before then - in December and January - are seen as too soon; afterwards some believe it may be too late. The bank has already begun buying covered bonds and bundled loans known as asset-backed securities (ABS) to try to stimulate those markets and generate new funding options for smaller firms, as well as to also increase the size of its balance sheet, or the amount of money being pushed in to the economy. But these measures may fall short of the bank's goal of expanding its balance sheet back to levels seen in early 2012 - around a trillion euros higher than today. Inside the ECB, the balance sheet size is key to determining whether to launch QE. Draghi's words and updated forecasts from ECB staff will be closely scrutinized when the bank holds its December policy meeting on Thursday, but this week is too early for the ECB to decide on QE. A Reuters poll on Monday show no expectations for action at this week's meeting.[ECB/REFI] Before acting, policymakers first want to assess the impact of their ABS purchases, which they only began last month, and the take-up of new ECB loans to banks on Dec. 11, another project to pump money into the economy. After Thursday, the next chance to pull the trigger on QE would be Jan. 22 - 2015's first monetary policy meeting, but probably too soon to have built consensus. Because the Governing Council will have only eight such meetings next year instead of 12, the meeting after that is March 5. Although the ECB Governing Council could agree on QE without unanimity, Draghi needs to build a strong consensus, particularly given resistance in Germany on both historical and policy grounds. Sabine Lautenschlaeger, a German executive board member, said as recently as Saturday, for example, that the potential benefits of QE did not currently outweigh the costs. Another argument is that interest rates in the euro zone are already so low that QE would have little impact. But Constancio argued last week that QE would free up investors' funds for them to buy other assets, weigh on the euro's exchange rate, and signal the ECB's intent to anchor inflation expectations. ECB staff will update their forecasts again for the March 5 meeting. What they say could be the deciding factor. If it isn't, some in the market argue that by then the economy may have sunk too far.   (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
Ralph D. Freso/ReutersYour Christmas present might be here.As the countdown to Christmas begins, tens of thousands of Amazon workers are getting to work packaging millions of products bought from the giant online retailer.  Sales show no signs of slowing down after last week's Black Friday when the company sold more than 5.5 million goods. 2014 could even top last year's Christmas sales, which reached a record £13 billion.  To handle all of this, Amazon has more than 80 massive distribution centres, which put together, comprise more square footage than 700 Madison Square Gardens and could hold more water than 10,000 Olympic swimming pools. The following pictures show what it's like inside five of Amazon's factories, located in the US, the UK, Germany, and Poland. The figures are compiled from statista.com, DMR, and Michael Hyatt.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
 Uber has hired Goldman Sachs to raise money from the bank's high-net-worth clients, Fortune's Dan Primack reports. Primack reports that Goldman began sending information packets on Uber to its wealth management clients Monday morning and that the bank could raise "hundreds of millions of dollars to support Uber's balance sheet and international expansion efforts." The securities being offered by Goldman to clients are structured as convertible debt, Primack reports. This news follows a report from Bloomberg last week that said Uber was close to raising a new round of funding that would value the company at $35 billion to $40 billion. That raise was reported to include investments from companies including T. Rowe Price. Primack's report also said it wasn't clear what Goldman's clients were being told, given that a convertible debt offering is an odd choice for a company that is neither trading on a secondary market nor promising an IPO.  But regardless of Uber's ambitions with regard to taking its company public, the company's growth trajectory is impressive.  Earlier this month, Business Insider's Henry Blodget, citing a source familiar with the company's financial performance, reported that Uber's revenue was expected to hit an annual run rate of $10 billion next year. In other words, Uber is expected to have a quarter in which it brings in $2.5 billion in revenue by the end of next year. And while reports have circulated in recent months about the company being in talks to raise money, Uber's most recent confirmed capital raise put the company's valuation at $17 billion, about half of the figure being discussed now.   FREE AppDownload
Every so often we get a shock from the oil patch. Sometimes the price spikes (1973-4 saw a quadrupling) and sometimes plummets (a drop from $115 to under $70 in this year of 2014). This downward price shock is large enough to force change. Bullets follow. 1.    Someone’s income is someone else’s expense. Losers are those who were dependent on rising or steady oil prices. Winners are those who benefit from lower oil prices and lower prices for all the things whose cost is driven in part by the cost of oil. 2.    High-yield bonds dependent on higher energy prices are now at greater risk. Therefore bond analysis must separate energy-dependent flows supporting bonds from those that are not tied to the Energy sector. 3.    The composition of the US economic recovery since 2009 has a large growth component sourced in the Energy sector renaissance in our country. Some part of that component is now going to stop growing. Other parts will defer capital expenditures. The falling price of oil in the US has now reached levels where many properties and activities function below the marginal cost of production. Facilities lose money while they try to stay in business. This will assuredly trigger retrenchment in the Energy sector. 4.    Company by company, entity by entity, and trust by trust – all need to be analyzed separately. Their capital structures require examination to determine if they have hedged themselves with futures contracts. How have they protected themselves from oil price volatility? Some are hedged for years. They have a fixed selling price for the next long period of time. Others are unhedged. Investors now must do serious homework and take nothing for granted. 5.    2015 may be an entry point for those who are underweight in Energy. The sector will experience rapid volatility. Some entities will reach washed-out pricing. They may be purchasable at the right (cheap) price under current circumstances. A drop in the oil price from $115 to under $70 is monumental. In the geopolitical arena, the ramifications are also monumental. Budgets of many foreign countries are coming under duress. Civil unrest is likely* to increase in those countries due to their inability to fund subsidies that have acted to bribe the population. We look for more geopolitical turmoil worldwide and regime change in some countries. In others, dictators suppress the population with machine guns, so the unrest is below the surface until it explodes. There is one more dynamic set in motion in circumstances like this. The strongest of the currencies and most durable of the economies get stronger and more durable. We expect a continual increase of capital flows into the US. America is the safest of havens in the world. These flows are bullish for US stocks and high-grade bonds, as global agents from throughout the world safety seek safety. Lastly, US policy could take advantage of these opportunities to strengthen America and make it more independent and self-sufficient. Achieving that goal, however, depends on political agreement. Therein is our country’s weakness. The White House, the Senate, and the House of Representatives, Democrats and Republicans, still have not found a way to set aside partisan poison so that they can act cohesively for the benefit of our country. Our biggest risk comes from the stymied political sector. Meanwhile, Main Street and Wall Street will enjoy the lower gasoline prices and the lower energy price dividend resulting from a global oil glut. We remain bullish on US stocks and constructively barbelled or hedged in the bond market. *Correction: An earlier version of the post said "Civil unrest is unlikely to increase in those countries..." This has been corrected. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The biggest shopping weekend of the year is over. Despite an overall decline in sales, a Deutsche Bank report reveals a few winners in the retail sector.  The stores that did the best on Black Friday are all discounters, revealing that Americans are more concerned about saving money than ever.  Here are the winners, according to Deutsche Bank.  The discount department store lured big crowds with deals on electronics like the Xbox One.   Big sales on towels, men's clothing, small appliances, and toys also contributed to the retailer's success, the analysts write.  The dollar chain was the most surprising winner on Black Friday, according to Deutsche Bank analysts.  Family Dollar's key to success this year was a buy one, get one free toy sale. Last year, the chain offered buy one, get one 70% off on toys.  The deal brought in many budget-conscious consumers, according to the firm. While Wal-Mart's results weren't as impressive as Kohl's or Family Dollar, the analysts still believe it deserves a shout-out.  The mega-retailer "performed very well in-store and impressed us with substantial sell-through on Black  Friday deals in electronics," the analysts wrote.  Wal-Mart's aggressive discounting in stores and online made it a winner for Black Friday. FREE AppDownload
At the end of the day, success in the legal industry still depends heavily on where you go to law school. SurveyMonkey helped us survey more than 300 American legal professionals to determine the best law school, and this year Yale University replaced Harvard as the No. 1 school. Click here to read our methodology. For more on each school, read the full feature of the 50 Best Law Schools In America » Skye Gould/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Whole Foods is growing like crazy. And with the chain planning to open 100 new stores by 2017, we'll be seeing more and more about the organic grocer in the near future.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Research by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Wikimedia CommonsI’m always on the hunt for interesting investment theses that bubble up far from the Wall Street commentariat mainstream. A trader / blogger named James Farro at Signalinea laid out the following premise, wherein the high yield debt market gets slammed because of oil’s slide, which then spreads a contagion of risk-off behavior around the entire marketplace (emphasis his): Energy companies are the 2nd largest issuer of HY debt. With the ongoing massacre in crude oil my thought has been that the highly leveraged players would have debt issues which would just facilitate industry consolidation. But with the state of the credit market excluding sovereigns, we could have something else entirely. The energy sector makes up a large segment of the HY bond market and it’s about to take a big hit. Sooner or later it’s coming. If the high-yield market in it’s fragile state is given a push we could see a real route in the markets. It’s starting to look like energy debt could go bidless for a time and take HY with it if action isn’t taken soon. And that action, in part should be for the orgy of debt issuance that is being used for buy-backs to stop asap. But wait.. The stock buy-backs have been a major enabler of higher equity prices.  Yep. Why is no one talking about potential consequences from this ocean of unproductive debt issuance that’s not used for expansion/capex but merely multiple expansion? Farro points to this chart from October that Charles Schwab put out which illustrates the growing participation of oil &amp; gas issuers in the junk bond market: Barclays Josh here – As you can see, energy high-yields have tripled as a percentage of the market in the last decade. They are the second largest sector in the junk market after telecom companies – which are businesses with no commodity exposure and much more stable cash flows. It is well-known that: a) investors chasing yield have plowed into junk bonds in recent years, with many credit market neophytes accessing the sector using ETFs with a limited operating history and an unknown liquidity profile – they’ve never really been tested before in a bond bear market. b) this chasing of yield has occurred on an institutional level as well, and the end result has been an ocean of liquidity for any issuer who showed up wearing a clean suit. So-called “covenant-light” deals – which give issuers even more latitude with their balance sheets – have become the rage recently as the desperation for income stretched into a seventh year. c) all of this high yield liquidity – aided and abetted by the Fed – has engendered an almost consequence-free environment for all participants: Defaults are at generational lows and everything is being priced off the Treasury yield, which never goes up. d) refinancing and buyback activity have created a massive wave of multiple expansion – some estimate that almost all of the market’s recent gains can be chalked up to shrinking share counts and the earnings-per-share growth they create. The question now is whether or not the slide in crude can do enough damage in the high yield market to set off a chain reaction of de-risking, default and outflows. It’s an interesting connection made at Farro’s blog, I recommend you read the whole thing. Source: Why a credit crisis in the energy sector may be coming at the worst time FREE AppDownload
Stocks are falling to start the week, but crude oil is rallying. In morning trade in New York, West Texas Intermediate crude futures were up more than 4% to above $69 a barrel. Now, crude is still below where it was on Thursday ahead of OPEC's announcement that it would not move to curb production in the face of declining oil prices, but Monday's rebound has recovered nearly all of Friday's losses. Year-to-date, WTI crude prices are down 32% while Brent crude prices are down 36%. And while many have said that oil prices can go lower, much lower, some bounces would be expected for oil prices. Because while the price of oil went straight down over the last two days, it isn't going to straight down over a period of weeks or months.  So, some bounces are to be expected, even if oil remains in the huge bear market it has been in over the last few months.  On Monday, here is one of those bounces. FinViz FREE AppDownload
 Crude oil prices have been crashing in recent days and weeks. Brent and WTI crude prices are trading near their five-year lows. Much of the tumble has been attributed to a glut in supply, fueled largely by the boom in shale production in the US. However, Deutsche Bank's Gaël Gunubu notes that an oversupply of oil doesn't sufficiently explain the fact that numerous other commodities have been tumbling. Here's more from Gunubu: Traders were too busy selling to ask questions after the OPEC meeting yesterday. But the obvious one to ask is why are oil prices falling? If a shale driven supply glut is to blame then other commodities should be unaffected. However, oil's four-year low is mirrored by iron ore, cotton, gold and copper's monthly average price. Lower demand from weak economies could explain this pervasive slump across different commodities ... Indeed, deteriorating demand can't be ignored. Back in October, the International Energy Agency said that in 2015 global oil demand growth would be weaker than previously forecast. "Crude oil production has increased by only about 1 million barrels/day from 2012/10 level to today," tweeted Westwood Capital's Dan Alpert regarding US production. "The increased quantities presently at issue are not material enough to crash oil if global demand was healthy." Below are charts for oil, iron ore, cotton, gold, and copper. Finviz Iron ore, which is usually in huge demand from China, has tanked because of a slowdown in Chinese production. Index Mundi Finviz Finviz Finviz   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThe many faces of Merkel. The eurozone crisis is without question one of the most critical events to happen in the 21st century so far.  But it can be hard to navigate. To begin with, there's no clear start date. Some people go with early 2010, when the scale of Greece's public finance disaster became obvious, while others start in 2008, when the financial crisis kicked off.  There's also some dispute over the end date. To some, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi's "whatever it takes speech" marks a rough ending to the crisis. For others, it concludes with the end of the bloc's second recession in 2013. A few think it's still going on. But one thing is certain: Veteran German Chancellor Angela Merkel has the range of facial expressions to accurately guide anyone through the ups and downs of the past six years. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Fredrik LingeThings aren’t looking good for the world’s largest bond manager.Half of this year's 10 worst-performing funds are PIMCO funds, the Financial Times reported, citing data from research group Morningstar. Together, they’ve bled more than $100 billion so far this year.Bill Gross, PIMCO’s former chief investment officer, managed four of those funds before he unexpectedly resigned in September. Since then, clients have shown signs of losing trust in the California firm. Instead, Vanguard, MetWest, and Goldman Sachs have become favorites for investors.Gross’ Total Return fund reportedly lost $75 billion in client redemptions between January and October. But PIMCO claims the initial panic from Gross' departure has subsided, and the funds are starting to recover now.The most popular actively-managed funds in the US this year have been bond funds, contrary to expectations that investors would return to equities this year, according to the FT. FREE AppDownload
Daniel L Smith / Shutterstock.com Turning 40 is a major milestone.  You're getting older, but you're still young enough to do something crazy, like bungee jump or take a trip on a whim. There's a good chance that you probably have more money to spend, too. We've come up with a bucket list of 40 things everyone should do before they turn 40.
ReutersMarijuana businesses are hot right now in the United States, but they date back to colonial times, when it was mandated by British law to grow hemp.  In the last few years, the pot industry has been jump-started by the loosening of laws in several states. The highly profitable crop is now giving life to a host of ancillary businesses from tech to event planning.  Here's what some of the creative pot-loving entrepreneurs have come up with. eazeup.com Eaze is a new delivery service for cannabis card-holding San Franciscans. You just open the app, choose a dispensary, pick out your bud and quantity, and make the order. Within 20 minutes, a delivery person will arrive with whatever kind of sticky icky you ordered. One hitch is that it's cash only, because no bank will accept loot from marijuana sales. medmen.commedmen.comMedMen is a marijuana-focused consulting company that assists dispensaries with licensing and management. Starting out in California, MedMen is currently helping businesses in Nevada and Illinois set up shop. The company recently partnered with G FarmaLabs, a Cannabis Cup-winning maker of edibles and oils. REUTERS/Lucas JacksonLike many B&amp;Bs, Get High Getawayis run by a husband-and-wife duo. Except in this Denver spot, weed smoking (and getting naked) is encouraged. Along with your room. you can get a personal driver who's available 24/7.  Flickr/*christopher*Buds and Blossoms in Alma, Colorado is your wedding weed florist. What bride and groom would be complete without bouquets and "bud-tonnieres" featuring some beautiful and smokable nugs? Owner Bec Koop recently merged her traditional wedding floral arrangement business with her passion for marijuana, and now helps couples select weed arrangements for their special day. Fox31 DenverJane West lost her day job after vaping on a CNBC pot documentary, but bounced back by opening her own business. West's Edible Events hosts bring-your-own-cannabis events throughout Colorado. One of West's biggest events was a concert series fundraiser for the Colorado Symphony called "Classically Cannibis: The High Note Series." She has also started a weed networking company called Women Grow.  stinksack.comIn the heavily regulated marijuana industry, everything down to the plastic storage bags needs to meet government standards. Stink Sack makes no-smell, childproof opaque bags that conform to state regulations so you can walk out of dispensaries with a locked plastic bag in accordance to the law. With pre-printed warnings, and a tamper-proof slider lock, you may not even be able to open it if you smoke too much of the purple stuff. cannabuild.meHailed as the "Tinder for marijuana," the CannaBuild app allows users to order weed from any Colorado dispensary for pickup. The app includes information about different strains, potency, and other characteristics to help patients pick the perfect bud. Users also can have one-on-one sessions with "budtenders" to answer questions within the app. massroots.comAlthough pot is legal in some places, it's still unwise to post your pot-related activities on Facebook, Twitter, and most other social networks. If you want show yourself smoking the ganja but do not want family or employers to find out, MassRoots provides a platform where you don't have to use your real name. The Instagram for tokers currently has more than 100,000 users. Leafly.comLeafly, a Seattle-based company owned by Privateer Holdings, is an online community for cannabis enthusiasts. You can explore and rate strains, review dispensaries, and keep up with news about the industry on the company's website or through its app.   FREE AppDownload
Credit rating service Moody's has taken its outlook for Amazon to "Negative" from "Stable." Moody's vice president Charlie O'Shea said that the action was taken in response to Amazon's disclosure Monday morning that it would be offering senior unsecured notes.  Following Moody's release, Amazon shares were down more than 2.6%.  "The change in outlook to negative results from Amazon's announcement this morning that it was issuing a sizeable, though amount to be determined, level of new senior unsecured notes," O'Shea wrote. "Proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes in support of Amazon's myriad growth initiatives, and it is Moody's expectation that the funds will not be utilized for any form of shareholder returns." Moody's reaffirmed its 'Baa1' senior unsecured rating for Amazon. Following Amazon's latest quarterly report, in which the company reported a quarter that saw the company miss on margins, revenue, and loss per share. As Reuters reported after Amazon's report, at least 20 Wall Street brokerages cut their price target on the company's stock, which is down about 17% this year. Back in October, Matthew Benkendorf, portfolio manager at Vontobel Asset Management, told Reuters that, "[Amazon is] becoming much too distracted in all these other efforts... They are their own worst enemy to success. They really need to do some soul searching and get focused." Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn also disclosed in his third quarter letter to investors that he added Amazon as a short position in his "bubble basket."  As Business Insider's Julia La Roche reported, Einhorn wrote: "We added to our exposure of 'Bubble Basket' shorts, AMZN's recent disappointment is notable in that for years, the story has been that AMZN isn't profitable because it is growing so fast. Now growth is slowing, but rather than unleashing higher profits, the slower growth is leading to even greater losses. One of the principal bullish assumptions supporting many bubble stocks is, 'the company is growing too fast to be very profitable.' We think AMZN is just one of many stocks for which this narrative will ultimately prove false." Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
 Black Friday sales plummeted this year.  Total Thanksgiving weekend spending declined 11% to $50.9 billion, according to the National Retail Federation (NRF). Stores saw about 6 million fewer shoppers than expected.   The decline was especially disappointing because analysts had predicted the biggest holiday shopping season of all time. Sluggish sales could indicate that despite lower gas prices, middle-class Americans are continuing to struggle.  The NRF provided a more optimistic explanation for why sales were down: Many stores started promotions early in the week to gain an advantage over the competition.  Retail giant Wal-Mart was the most notable company to jump the gun on Black Friday. The company discounted 20,000 items in the weeks leading up to the holiday, twice as many as the year before.  Wal-Mart also increased the number of items available online from 1 million to 7 million and offered more shipping options.  The efforts paid off — Wal-Mart reported record online sales for Thanksgiving.  NRF CEO Matt Shay told Fortune that early deals from Wal-Mart and others could have affected traditional Black Friday weekend numbers.  Shoppers might have seen a great deal from Wal-Mart earlier in the week and decided they were not going to go out to stores later. "Every day is going to be Black Friday, every minute will be Cyber Monday," Shay told Phil Wahba at Fortune.  The NRF predicts holiday sales will rise 4.1% this year.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAlly Financial sign is seen on a building in Charlotte, North CarolinaBy Peter Rudegeair NEW YORK (Reuters) - Ally Financial Inc  became the largest U.S. retail auto lender in the third quarter, displacing Wells Fargo &amp; Co  for the first time since the start of 2013, according to a report from Experian Automotive on Monday. Much of Ally's growth came from financing used car sales, an area where the former in-house finance arm of General Motors Co  has been aggressively expanding. The lender extended a record amount of used car loans in the third quarter. In recent years, banks expanded in the used car market as carmakers' in-house finance arms came to dominate the new car market. In the third quarter, 54.1 percent of used car purchases were financed with a loan, a record high. Banks and other lenders have also been willing to finance larger amounts for used car purchases. The average size of a used car loan in the third quarter was up nearly 4 percent from a year earlier to $18,576, an all-time high, even as used car prices fell in the quarter, according to the Manheim Used Vehicle Value Index. Focusing on consumers buying used cars is riskier for banks because these borrowers tend to have lower credit scores and are more likely to default. The average credit score for a borrower buying a used car in the quarter was 650, compared with 713 for those buying a new car. Credit scores can range from 300 to 850, and scores below 600 are considered subprime by Experian Automotive. Banks are accepting lower compensation for the increased credit risk. Interest rates for used car loans across the industry fell 0.09 percentage points to 8.54 percent, while rates for new car loans rose 0.20 percentage points to 4.47 percent in the third quarter. As a group, banks extended 2.1 percent more auto loans to subprime borrowers in the quarter, the most of any type of lender. Ally, along with Capital One Financial Corp , Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc , GM Financial and other lenders are the targets of investigations into subprime auto lending practices.  (Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
This is weird: Apple suddenly tanked this morning, falling as much as 6.4%. The stock has since bounced back, fluctuating all over the place, but it's currently down ~3%. According to Bloomberg news, this was the biggest intraday fall since Jan. 28. According to Reuters, this was the largest one-minute volume of trading since Oct. 29.  We have no idea what's going on here. There was no major Apple news to swing the stock like this.  Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Sock Fancy/FacebookIt's hard easing into the real world, whether you're working for a big corporation or a small startup. That's why the young men in your life need a bit of guidance, as well as the accessories, gadgets, and tools to help them not only transition, but transition with style. From a keychain breathalyzer (don't get drunk at the office holiday party!) to a deluxe shaving kit, here are 18 gifts every young professional will thank you for. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/RIA Novosti/Kremlin/Alexei Nikolsky Falling energy prices have put pressure on the budgets of the world's major oil-producing nations like Russia. However, Russian President Vladimir Putin doesn't seem too worried. "Winter is coming," he said Friday according Bloomberg News. "I am sure the market will come into balance again in the first quarter or toward the middle of next year." Putin is "sanguine, suggesting falling oil won't force him to meet Western demands that he curb his country's interference in Ukraine," reports Bloomberg News. Putin's favorable view of winter isn't too surprising. Traditionally, the colder it gets around the world, the better it gets for the Russian economy as its trading partners import more oil and natural gas. "It is the power of colder weather that allows Russia, as the key supplier of energy to Europe, to apply leverage. That leverage can take the form of higher prices, restricted volumes, a combination of both, or negotiations that directly or indirectly affect these additional costs," Cumberland Advisors Chair David Kotok wrote earlier. Russia provides one-third of the natural gas that European countries rely on both for heating their homes and running industries. So if there's no natural gas, that's bad news for Europe's economy. One country in particular that Russia really benefits from is Ukraine. In 2013, more than half of the natural gas consumed by Ukraine came from Russia. And with Ukraine's coal mines located exactly where the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict is located, Ukraine will be forced to increasingly rely on Russian gas. But even if it's an extremely cold winter, the dropping oil prices are still ominous for Russia. "Russia in particular seems vulnerable" to the huge drop in oil prices, Allan von Mehren, the chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, told Bloomberg News. "A big decline in the oil price in 1997-98 was one factor causing pressure that eventually led to Russian default in August 1998." And on top of that, the country's economy is not in an ideal situation. Russia is still struggling following the sanctions imposed by the US and the EU. Additionally, Russia's non-gold international reserves have dropped to $370 billion, down from $457 billion in the start of the year. And earlier Monday, the ruble crashed to an all-time low, down as much as 8% earlier in the day. (It has since slightly rebounded.) Google Finance You can read the full Bloomberg story here.   FREE AppDownload
Winston DeLoney/ FlickrNow that the temperatures are dropping, it's time to upgrade your winter wardrobe. We've rounded up some great Cyber Monday deals that will keep you polished without breaking the bank. Sweaters, jackets, shoes, and watches — they're all here. If you're not out skiing, skip the bulky parkas. Instead, look for something that's warm and comes in a neutral color — navy, black, or maybe even gray. Make sure you get something that's not skin-tight so that a sweater will fit underneath. AmazonVince Camuto Men's Quilted Jacket with Plaid YokeVince Camuto Men's Quilted Jacket with Plaid Yoke — 19% OFF Price: $198.00 $159.99  Calvin Klein Men's Zipper Wool Jacket with Scarf — 60% OFFPrice: $275.00 $110.00  Kenneth Cole Men's Classic Barn Coat  — 60% OFF Price: $250.00 $99.50    If you work in a more casual environment, a nice sweater is a good option in the wintertime. These are also a great choice for any lunch or dinner — they'll keep you warm and polished. Wear one over jeans or nice slacks. AmazonOriginal Penguin Men's Crewneck Hector SweaterOriginal Penguin Men's Crewneck Hector Sweater— 40% OFFPrice: $89.00 $53.40  Savane Men's Solid V-Neck Sweater — 48% OFF Price: $58.00 $29.99  Williams Cashmere Men's Color Bloc Crew Neck Sweater  — 65% OFF Price: $275.00 $96.25  Some days, you're feeling a bit more casual. A half zip-up sweater is a great alternative to your old college sweatshirt. AmazonCalvin Klein Men's Half Zip Milano SweaterCalvin Klein Men's Half Zip Milano Sweater — 40% OFFPrice: $118.00 $70.80  Nautica Men's Solid Sweater — 40% OFF Price: $89.50 $53.99  If you're as addicted to your mobile phone as we are, we recommend getting a pair of these gloves. They come with touchscreen technology, which means that you can text or email on your phone, without having to take off your gloves. Score. AmazonTimberland Men's Ribbed Knit Wool Blend Glove with Touchscreen TechnologyTimberland Men's Ribbed Knit Wool Blend Glove with Touchscreen Technology — 20% OFF Price: $50.00 $40.00  Timberland Men's Performance Fleece Glove with Touchscreen Technology — 17% OFFPrice: $275.00 $110.00  Funky winter hats are okay for the weekends, but it's also a good idea to invest in something that's a bit more grown up looking. Get yourself a neutral colored hat that won't look silly at the office. AmazonColumbia Men's Columbia Watch Cap IIColumbia Men's Columbia Watch Cap II — 20% OFF Price: $25.00 $19.99  Jack Spade Men's Gallagher Brushed Hat — 20% OFFPrice: $88.00 $69.99    If you're resisting the smartwatch hype, we've got some great classic watches that are perfect for the winter. A dark strap is the best option as it'll nicely work with your darker winter wardrobe. AmazonStuhrling Prestige Men's "Kingston" Watch Stuhrling Prestige Men's "Kingston" Watch - 60% OFFPrice: $295.00 $118.68 Stuhrling Original Men's 931.03 Aviator Swiss Quartz Watch  — 68% OFF Price: $445.00 $142.10  Citizen Men's Eco-Drive Axiom Watch - 31% OFFPrice: $195.00 $134.55 These are your extras: a nice belt, good winter socks, and sunglasses so that you're not blinded by the snow. AmazonRay Ban New Wayfarer Sunglasses Ray Ban New Wayfarer Sunglasses — 6% OFFPrice: $180.00 $168.46  Kenneth Cole Reaction Men's Dress Reversible Belt — 25% OFF Price: $40.00 $29.99    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
The UK Government announced today that it will invest £15 billion in the next six years to improve and refurbish the road network in England. The Department for Transport released a detailed overview of the plan, including a map below that shows the location of the planned projects.  Department for Transport Below is a summary of the major road investment plan: BI On a final footnote, the Government has also listed further improvements that are not part of the current plan, but will receive attention in the future. Among these, an expressway between Cambridge and Oxford to bypass London, and new roads in the northern Pennines, linking the North East with the Lake District and Lancashire. FREE AppDownload
CNBCJeff Kleintop For 2015, we forecast a year of gains for global stocks, supported primarily by slightly stronger global economic growth. The global economy may be boosted by new stimulus from central banks in Europe and China. It may also get a push from fiscal policy as budgets are loosened. For example, Japan said it would delay its planned 2015 tax increase, China announced new infrastructure projects, and the French and Italian budget battles appear to be over. Some of the largest economies will likely contribute to growth. Japan continues to slowly rebound from recession, and the United States remains a solid source of global demand. In addition, the recent fall in oil prices could have a positive impact on the global economy. If oil prices stay at their current level for the rest of the year, the 25% price decline this year would be equivalent to one percentage point of 2015 global GDP. Stock performance may be accompanied by increased volatility, however, as central bank actions could heighten some market risks. Other possible contributors to volatility include varying levels of growth around the world, flare-ups in geopolitical hot spots, and natural disasters or pandemics that could tip the global economy into a recession. Where will stocks offer investors the best potential return in 2015? While many factors influence the relative performance of U.S. and international stocks, one indicator that has a solid historical track record of signaling when international stocks may outperform U.S. stocks is the "current account." The current account is a measure of trade and investment flows in and out of the U.S. It has typically been in deficit over the past 40 years. That means the U.S. imports more than it exports and that more foreign investment flows into the U.S. than flows out to the rest of the world. The trend in the current account has had significant implications for investors, historically: Importantly, the current account tends to lead relative market performance by about three quarters, providing investors with ample time to adjust their portfolios ahead of any change in the performance trend. While past performance is not a guarantee of future results, the indicator has performed consistently in a variety of economic environments over the past 42 years. The only exception to this was the period in the second half of the 1990s when the U.S. current account deteriorated and yet U.S. stocks—led by technology stocks as the internet bubble inflated—outperformed international stocks. Charles Schwab & Co., Bloomberg data as of 10/24/14. It didn’t pay to invest outside the United States in recent years, as U.S. stocks produced the strongest relative returns while the current account as a percent of GDP improved. What does the current account indicate about relative stock market performance in 2015? The latest data on the U.S. current account shows that it has flattened out after improving sharply in recent years. U.S. petroleum exports are soaring. However, the U.S. trade balance in other goods has been rapidly deteriorating. These two factors have offset each other lately. As a result, the current account could be near a change of direction. The key to that direction in 2015 may be the dollar. The dollar has climbed 10% since the end of the second quarter and rose to a four-year high last week. While oil exports should continue to rise, the key to the direction of the current account is how rapidly the trade deficit in other goods will change. The dollar's recent rise could hurt the non-oil trade balance, since it makes foreign goods cheaper for U.S. buyers and U.S. goods more expensive for foreign buyers. That could pull the current account down, and signal that international stocks may finally begin to outperform U.S. stocks in 2015. The current account data for the third quarter will be released on December 17. I will be watching this closely for signs of a change in direction, but for the time being the current account, relative valuations, and relative growth prospects all suggest U.S. stocks are likely to continue to outperform the broad international benchmarks. I hope this enhanced your understanding of the U.S. current account and what it might mean for international stocks. This article originally appeared at Charles Schwab.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesCarl Icahn.Billionaire investor Carl Icahn's company Icahn Enterprises (IEP) has significant holdings in a bunch of energy companies that have gotten annihilated since Friday.  In the third quarter, IEP announced a $355 million loss on revenues of $4.4 billion for the quarter. At the same time the year before, the firm took in $472 million of net income on revenue of $5.8 billion. In a release discussing the decline, IEP said that its losses were mostly on the investing side. A number of its holdings — mostly the energy companies that are getting pummeled — sucked $270 million out of IEP. And it has gotten worse since Thursday, when OPEC decided not to boost the price of oil by cutting supply. So let's go over the damage as it stands: Talisman Energy In October 2013 Icahn disclosed a 61-million-share position in Talisman Energy. Since then he has doubled down on the stock, increasing his holding to almost 134 million shares, according to the most recent data collected by Bloomberg. In the past year the stock has fallen over 60%. It is priced at $4.75 a share after falling from $6.22 last week. Chesapeake Energy Icahn's second largest of these energy holdings is in Chesapeake Energy. IEP owns over 66.4 million shares of the company. The stock closed down almost 15% last week from the beginning of the week to the short trading day Friday. Yahoo Finance CVR Energy This Icahn subsidiary took a beating in the third quarter after a fire hit one of its refineries. Now it is the least bad of all the stocks on this list, down only a little more than 4% in the past five trading days. Before OPEC's decision, the stock was trading at $48.37; now it's trading at about $46.83. Icahn owns about 71.2 million shares of this stock. The next-largest holder is Goldman Sachs, with a 2-million-share position.  Transocean Icahn holds over 21 million shares of this offshore drilling company. Over the past five trading days it has fallen about 20%, from $25.60 t0 about $20. Seventy Seven Energy Icahn reported a 10% stake in this oil field services company over the summer. In the past five trading days the stock has fallen almost 40%, from $11.55 to about $7.25.  Its Monday morning open was ugly, too. Yahoo Finance For now IEP's stock is off only slightly — down 1.6% Monday morning — but who knows how long this crash in oil prices will last. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonStocks are falling to start December. In late morning trade on Monday, the Dow was down 54 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 15 points, while the Nasdaq was logging the largest losses, falling 60 points, or more than 1.2%. Among the big stocks losers were shares of Apple, which sold off hard right at the open, falling as much as 6% before stabilizing some. Near 11:15 am ET, the stock was down about 3%. Other tech names including Alibaba, down 4%, Yahoo, down 2%, and GoPro, down 5%, were also leading losses. Amazon shares are also down more than 2.5% after credit ratings agency Moody's slashed its outlook for the company's debt to 'Negative' from 'Stable' after the company announced Monday morning it would issue additional senior unsecured debt. Oil stocks, which got absolutely crushed on Friday, were mixed. WTI crude oil prices were also moving up off their overnight lows, trading north of $67 a barrel after falling below $65 after futures opened on Sunday night. On Monday morning, we also got two pieces of manufacturing data, which showed that in November manufacturing activity in the US held steady. Markit's manufacturing PMI came in at 54.8, better than the November flash reading of 54.7 but below expectations for 55.0. In its release, Markit said, "Business conditions continued to improve across the US manufacturing sector in November, but the pace of recovery eased to its weakest since the start of 2014." The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing PMI came in at 58.7, below October's 59.0 reading but better than the 58.0 that was expected by economists.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsUS manufacturing remains solid. ISM's latest manufacturing PMI came in at 58.7, topping expectations. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 58.0, down from last month's 59.0 reading, which blew away expectations. The report's prices paid sub-index, however, fell sharply from the prior month, coming at 44.5 against a 53.5 reading in October. Expectations were for a 52.1 reading. On Twitter, Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna noted that this is the lowest reading for the prices paid index since July 2012. The latest report also comes just after Markit's manufacturing PMI report, so a busy morning for data on the US manufacturing sector. From ISM, here's what the survey's respondents had to say. ISM FREE AppDownload
PNCThe cost of Christmas is up 1%, according to PNC. The bank calculates a Christmas Price Index based on the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas." This year, buying the whole song will set you back $27,673.21. Most of the twelve goods and services that go into the index were unchanged, even the price of swans ($7,000), which has traditionally been the most volatile. The big swing in prices this year came from the geese, which jumped to $360 from $210 last year. Partridges also increased in price, to $20 from $15 (who knew partridges were so cheap?). “While there are exceptions in given years, what’s most interesting about the index’s history is that since the beginning, year-over-year increases have averaged 2.8 percent, which is exactly the same number as the U.S. inflation index,” according to Jim Dunigan, the chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management. Here's the full index: PNC The real lesson here seems to be: don't try to buy your birds online. There's no word yet on how the Fed might take this into account when it comes to rate hikes.   FREE AppDownload
This is weird: Apple suddenly tanked this morning, falling as much as 6.4%. The stock has since bounced back, fluctuating all over the place, but it's currently down ~3%. According to Bloomberg news, this was the biggest intraday fall since Jan. 28. According to Reuters, this was the largest one-minute volume of trading since Oct. 29.  We have no idea what's going on here. There was no major Apple news to swing the stock like this.  Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesMarkit's final reading on US manufacturing activity in November showed that activity held steady. The final reading for November came in at 54.8, better than the 54.7 flash reading but below expectations for a 55.0. The flash reading, however, marked a 10-month low for US manufacturing activity.  According to Markit's release, "Business conditions continued to improve across the US manufacturing sector in November, but the pace of recovery eased to its weakest since the start of 2014." This was the third month that manufacturing output slowed, with the November survey showing the weakest pace of manufacturing expansion since January. In November, new export orders also slowed by the most since June 2013. Commenting on the report, Markit's Chris Williamson said that, "[W]ith inflows of new orders slowing sharply, there's a good chance that production growth will deteriorate further in December. The principal cause of the order book slowdown is a renewed downturn in export orders, which fell for the first time since January." Williamson added that, "Demand from many emerging markets remains well down on pre-crisis levels, and a deteriorating situation in the Eurozone has hit trade flows to Europe. Unless order book growth picks up, factories will inevitably soon turn to cutting jobs in order to bring capacity down in line with weaker demand." Here's the headline chart from Markit.  Markit FREE AppDownload
Economists constantly argue about gold. Some believe that gold doesn't serve any purpose, and therefore doesn't have any intrinsic value. Others claim that hoarding gold is a legitimate way to safely store wealth, and prepare for economic troubles. But, believe it or not, there's a place for gold in the real world, too. Below is the World Gold Council's updated table breaking down how gold has been used through Q3 2014. It has uses in electronics and other industrial applications. It's interesting to note that gold has a significant role in dentistry. Overall, the World Gold Council found the quarter saw a "generally subdued quarter for the gold market" with jewellery demand slightly down year-over-year. However, investment demand in gold increased by 6% and Central Banks added 92.8 tonnes. Check it out. World Gold Council FREE AppDownload
NRF via Jim O'Sullivan Black Friday sales are down this year. Total spending over the Thanksgiving weekend was $50.9 billion, about 12% lower than last year's $57.4 billion, according to the National Retail Federation. At first glance, it would appear to be a troubling indicator of consumer health. But the historical data shows that Black Friday sales actually reveal next to nothing about how well holiday sales are going to do on the whole. The above chart from High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan shows the year-over-year percentage change for the past five years. Black Friday sales have gone up and down, but holiday sales overall have grown at a pretty steady pace of 3% to 5%.  This chart below from Capital Economics, which is a couple of years old, makes the point even more clearly. There just isn't a lot of correlation between Black Friday and holiday sales overall.  Capital Economics / Neil Irwin (via Matt Yglesias and Neil Irwin) FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - Security researchers say they have uncovered a cyber espionage ring focused on stealing corporate secrets for the purpose of gaming the stock market, in an operation that has compromised sensitive data about dozens of publicly held companies. Cybersecurity firm FireEye Inc, which disclosed the operation on Monday, said that since the middle of last year, the group has attacked email accounts at more than 100 firms, most of them pharmaceutical and healthcare companies. Victims also include firms in other sectors, as well as corporate advisors including investment bankers, attorneys and investor relations firms, according to FireEye. The cybersecurity firm declined to identify the victims. It said it did not know whether any trades were actually made based on the stolen data. Still, FireEye Threat Intelligence Manager Jen Weedon said the hackers only targeted people with access to highly insider data that could be used to profit on trades before that data was made public. They sought data that included drafts of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings, documents on merger activity, discussions of legal cases, board planning documents and medical research results, she said. "They are pursuing sensitive information that would give them privileged insight into stock market dynamics," Weedon said. The victims ranged from small to large cap corporations. Most are in the United States and trade on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq, she said. An FBI spokesman declined comment on the group, which FireEye said it reported to the bureau. The security firm designated it as FIN4 because it is number 4 among the large, advanced financially motivated groups tracked by FireEye. The hackers don't infect the PCs of their victims. Instead they steal passwords to email accounts, then use them to access those accounts via the Internet, according to FireEye. They expand their networks by posing as users of compromised accounts, sending phishing emails to associates, Weedon said. FireEye has not identified the hackers or located them because they hide their tracks using Tor, a service for making the location of Internet users anonymous. FireEye said it believes they are most likely based in the United States, or maybe Western Europe, based on the language they use in their phishing emails, Weedon said. She said the firm is confident that FIN4 is not from China, based on the content of their phishing emails and their other techniques. Researchers often look to China when assessing blame for economically motivated cyber espionage. The United States has accused the Chinese government of encouraging hackers to steal corporate secrets, allegations that Beijing has denied, causing tension between the two countries. Weedon suspects the hackers were trained at Western investment banks, giving them the know-how to identify their targets and draft convincing phishing emails. "They are applying their knowledge of how the investment banking community works," Weedon said.   (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
There is just one month left in 2014, and year-to-date, oil is the worst performing asset class. Via Jim Reid at Deutsche Bank, when priced in local currency — for which Reid uses US dollars — WTI and Brent crude oil are the worst performers year-to-date, with WTI down 32% and Brent down 36%. Silver has also had just a disaster of a year, falling 20% year-to-date in dollar terms The world's best performing asset class in 2014? The Shanghai Composite index, which is up 31% in renminbi terms. (Not pictured in Deutsche's chart, however, is India's Nifty stock index, which is up 38% this year when priced in rupees.)  In local currencies, some of the other outperformers this year are Spanish bonds, the S&amp;P 500, and Italian bonds. Priced in dollars, the Shanghai Composite is still the world's best performer, but is followed by the S&amp;P 500 and US corporate bonds. The dollar-based losers? Stocks in Russia, Greece, and Portugal. Here are the tables. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog I calculate that world oil revenues peaked this year at an annualized rate of $3.8 trillion during June. I do so by multiplying monthly global oil demand (in millions of barrels per day) by 365 days and by the price of a barrel of Brent. The 40% drop in the price of Brent since June reduces those revenues by a whopping $1.5 trillion at an annual rate. Those losses are staggering and are bound to depress global capital spending by the oil industry and reduce the availability of cash to finance fracking in the US. In other words, low oil prices will eventually be the cure for low oil prices.  I calculate that OPEC’s revenues peaked this year during June at an annual rate of $1.5 trillion based on the cartel's actual monthly output. Saudi Arabia’s revenues also hit this year’s high during June, at $391 billion. The 40% drop in the price of Brent reduces the revenues of OPEC and Saudi Arabia by $590 billion and $160 billion, respectively, at an annual rate.  For oil users, falling oil prices are a huge windfall, which is equal to the drop in global oil revenues. In the US, I calculate that the current annualized windfall--since June and based on the 40% drop in oil prices--amounts to $291 billion. In Western Europe, it amounts to $221 billion, or €163 billion. In Asia and Latin America, I calculate windfalls of $484 billion and $107 billion, respectively. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Cheap Oil. (1) OPEC agrees to do nothing. (2) 40% discount just in time for the holidays. (3) Winners and losers. (4) Big wipeout for producers equals big windfall for consumers. (5) US drivers could save more than $200 billion. (6) Dow Theory suggests melt-up in Transports could spread to broad market. (7) Big windfall for many EMs. (8) Oil price plunge adding to deflation and prolonging NZIRPs. (9) Bonanza for bond investors. (10) The latest round of central bank puts. (11) Performance since October 15. (12) The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1 (- - -). (More for subscribers.)   FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe worst part of going out to dinner with a group of friends is figuring out who owes what at the end of the night. All too often, once everyone's chipped in, there's either not enough money on the table, or way too much. When trying to plan for retirement, or figure out whether to make an investment, one helpful thing to know is how long it will take to double your initial capital. And when you're considering taking a new job with an annual salary, it might be useful to know how that salary compares with what you'd earn at a job with an hourly pay rate. Some handy math tricks can help you figure out each of these situations quickly — and without having to resort to pulling out the calculator on your phone. We've assembled seven such tricks and talk a little about how they all work. Eric Platt and Walt Hickey contributed to earlier versions of this article. FREE AppDownload
flickr/2day929The Thanksgiving holiday weekend is officially over and the markets are warming back up ahead of Friday's jobs report. Via Dave Lutz at JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are chatting about this morning. Good Morning! US Futures are under pretty good pressure this AM, with Russell and S&amp;P off 40bp+.  This mirrors global weakness, a combination of weak PMIs and collapsing commodity prices. The DAX is off only 20bp, but the FTSE has lost 1% as Europe’s Energy sector is off 2%, while the Miners are off 3% in decent volume. Looking over in Asia, while Russia’s ruble suffered the worst hit in 16years, the MICEX is jumping 3% - Japan gained 1% as falling Oil and Yen benefit their economy, but Moody's downgrades Japan's sovereign debt rating after Nikkei close, hitting futures for 40bp.  Shanghai fell 40bp as China’s manufacturing activity fell to a 6M Low – whacking Aussie for 2% in heavy volume as Aussie’s energy sector fell 6.4%, taking 3day losses to 16%.  Germany’s 10YY hit a fresh record low overnight of 69bp – but profit-taking has yields slightly higher now in the US and Europe – focus shifts to the ECB this week, as Euro zone manufacturing growth stalled in November and new orders fell at the fastest pace in 19 months. "Safe Haven" covering has the yen slightly higher despite the Moody’s downgrade. Brent and WTI were off 3.5% earlier this AM, now both off roughly 1%. Gold dropped sharply overnight as the Swiss rejected the SNB gold plan, but has since clawed back into the green. Copper is off 70bp as China’s Manufacturing sparks further growth concerns, while Natty Gas is off 3% as warmer weather hits the USA. Scheduled Catalysts today include Markit US Manufacturing PMI at 9:45, ECB's Costa Speaks and ISM Manufacturing at 10, Brazil Trade Balance at 12 - Fed's Dudley Speaks on Economic Outlook at 12:15, while Fed's Fischer Speaks on Global Economics at 1 Some trades I’m watching today include Retailers, as Thanksgiving weekend sales were underwhelming – Weak for Bricks and Mortar, while Strong Online. Impact of Oil falling, with Airlines jumping sharply on Friday, while many regional banks in the TX / ND Oil Patch (TCBI, HBHC, IBOC, CFR, VPFG) were all weaker on Friday.    Watch the rate plays, as REITS, Staples and Utilities are all enjoying the tailwinds of collapsing global yields – and finally today is the first trading day of the month, so watch for “Good Harbor” - on Nov15th, the "Good Harbor Tactical Core US portfolio moved to a full equity position going into the back half of the month, with an overall allocation of 50% large cap, 50% mid cap. FREE AppDownload
MILAN (Reuters) - After years of moving production to Asia, some European companies are following the example of their U.S. counterparts and coming home. Decisions by the likes of Italian leather goods brand Piquadro SpA &lt;pq.mi&gt; and battery maker FIAMM SpA to boost production at home do not mark a reversal of the "off-shoring" phenomenon that has shaped global business for two decades. But companies are tiptoeing back to their home regions, driven by rising salaries in China that are eating away at the profit margins that once lured them abroad. They are weighing the still lower but climbing manufacturing costs abroad against the difficulty of overseeing production far from home, plus the cost and time taken to get goods to Western markets. "Reshoring" is being led by clothing, footwear and electronics companies, partly because they are rediscovering the cachet of the "Made in Europe" label. But in Spain, for example, depressed wage levels since the euro zone crisis have also prompted foreign car firms to open production lines there. A PricewaterhouseCoopers survey of 384 euro zone non-financial companies last month found almost 60 percent had reshored some operations, mainly production, over the past year, against 55 percent which had done the opposite. Italy topped the reshoring list with 44 companies, while Ireland, Germany and Spain also featured prominently. Luciano Fratocchi, a professor of management and engineering at Italy's L'Aquila University, said reshoring has become part of companies' survival strategies since the economic crisis. Many Italian firms have reduced or overhauled their production lines because of falling demand, concentrating their remaining manufacturing closer to target markets. Of the around 450 relocations analysed by Fratocchi since 2007, Italy has accounted for roughly a fifth, second only to the United States which had the lion's share with nearly half.  In Spain, trade unions have accepted flexible working practices and salary freezes due to high unemployment, encouraging companies such as Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt; and PSA Peugeot Citroen SA &lt;peup.pa&gt; to open assembly lines. The trend has affected even countries which weathered the crisis relatively well. German mid-sized companies like household goods brand Fackelmann and chainsaw maker Stihl have also reshored production. High-end teddy bear maker Steiff announced in 2008 that it was returning production from China because it had quality problems and transport took too long. Often, however, rising wages in Asia are the main factor. According to consulting firm AlixPartners, official data show China's average wages in manufacturing rose 364 percent between 2004 and 2014, albeit from a far lower base than in Europe. The biggest narrowing of the wage gap is in the United States. Boston Consulting Group (BCG) said manufacturing costs in China are only 4 percent below those in the United States, compared with 14 percent in 2004. Italian wages have risen steadily over the past decade, despite periodic recessions, and overall manufacturing costs remain almost 30 percent higher than in China, according to BCG. Piquadro Chief Executive Marco Palmieri says the average monthly salary of the firm's Italian factory workers is five times the Chinese level. But this gap was around 16 times in 2008, while executive pay is now the same in both countries. Piquadro's Italian production is about a third more costly than at its Chinese factories. But Palmieri says this is partly offset by high transport costs from Asia and import duties. Shipping from China also takes more time, a handicap for fashion companies whose customers want the latest products fast. Piquadro therefore decided 1-1/2 years ago to make its Sartoria line of bags near Pisa, close to its leather suppliers. "Chinese factories are designed to handle large volumes: we increasingly need smaller volumes of a much larger variety of products. And we're also under pressure to reduce the time-to-market of our products," Palmieri says, adding that the "Made in Italy" label is a plus for his higher-end bags. While fashion companies form the bulk of those that have reshored to Italy, other producers are changing strategy too. Car battery maker FIAMM shut one of its two plants in the Czech Republic five years ago and decided to keep open a factory in Avezzano, in Italy's central Abruzzo region hit by an earthquake in 2009, investing 30 million euros to upgrade it. FIAMM Chief Executive Stefano Dolcetta said high staff turnover was a problem in the Czech Republic. Productivity was low and the number of defective items high. In Avezzano, even after a 20 percent cut agreed with trade unions, hourly labor costs are 19 euros ($24), compared with 5 euros in the Czech Republic. Still, Dolcetta says higher productivity and fewer discarded items make up half the gap. "Many have offshored production only to discover how difficult it can be to run a plant that's far away," he said.   (Additional reporting by Maria Sheahan in Frankfurt, Gavin Jones in Rome, Silvia Ognibene in Florence, editing by Alessandra Galloni and David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
YoutubeScreenshotRussell Napier, financial historian and founder of ERIC.Russell Napier is a financial historian and the founder of ERIC, an online research firm that aims at connecting analysts and investors. Here he talks to Merryn Somerset Webb about the next deflationary bust – why it’s coming, what it means for you, and how you can survive it. Merryn Somerset Webb: Let’s start at the beginning. You are a firm believer, as I understand it, in the idea that we live in a deflationary environment and there’s almost nothing that central banks can do to change that. So, maybe talk a little bit about why you think that is. Russell Napier: OK. MSW: First why we’re in a deflationary environment? RN: Sure. There are some very, very big building blocks of this. Just before I go into those, the reason why we in recent times have deflation is not because supply is bigger than demand. That’s not the dangerous deflation. You might actually say that might be a good deflation. It’s because at some stage in that transition process from inflation downwards, we have a credit event which creates a shock for the financial system. Of course, that’s famously what happened in 2008-2009. But that also happened in 1998 with Russia and LTCM [Long Term Capital Management, a hedge fund investment firm that collapsed after the Russian government bond crisis] and it happened in 1982 with Mexico and their banking system. So, when we talk about deflation, people say, “What’s so wrong with falling prices?” The answer is that usually that undermines somebody’s corporate cash flow. Somebody goes bankrupt and we get a credit event. That’s the likely way it goes forward. If it happens to be a big one, a country, a very large financial institution-we could name a few. So, that’s why it’s important. That’s why it’s likely to happen. In terms of the big deflationary forces, there’s a significant overproduction in China. It’s very well-documented. I think potentially the biggest one is the ageing of the Baby Boom generation and their move away from consumption to saving and perhaps even more important, they’re de-gearing and what that means for the efficacy of monetary policy going forward. And just in the short run, a strong dollar has always been bad for people who link to the dollar. It forces them to run a tighter monetary policy. MSW: Let’s go back briefly to demographics. You are partially blaming the deflationary impulse in the global economy on Baby Boomers in America de-gearing. RN: Yes, not just America. The Baby Boomer phenomenon is everywhere. If you look at the balance sheet of the Baby Boomers, something important happens this Christmas. As of the 31st of December at midnight, there will not be a Baby Boomer in the world who is less than 50. The last Baby Boomer turns 50. So, people always think they’re retiring. They’re not retiring. They’re 69-50. They’re preparing to retire. They’re hoping to retire. The simple rule of retirement is retire your debt or don’t retire. Now, it turns out, not only are they a demographic bulge, they are a big dominant customer of the banking system. Now, if we go back to monetary economics 101, money is created by banks extending credit, and in the process they create deposits. And if their biggest customer is de-gearing for structural, demographic reasons, then it’s going to be incredibly difficult for monetary policy to generate all this money that we need to inflate away our debt. So, five or six years ago, the general view was, “Look at this monetary policy that the central banks are running. There will be lots of money.” It hasn’t worked. Why? Because the banks haven’t lent the money. Common diagnosis of that is that the banks don’t want to lend the money. But I think people are forgetting there’s a very strong headwind of that Baby Boomer generation who want to repay their debts. MSW: OK. Now, we’ve been here before with demographics and deflation in Japan. Is this a repeat of that experience? RN: It’s similar. You’ve got to remember that Japan’s got 15 years ahead in terms of the demographics. So, our demographics don’t look dissimilar to Japan in the mid-1990s. So, this could be one of the reasons why monetary policy is not as powerful as it used to be. I think the way you should look at a quantitative easing which is the way it was looked at by the man who invented it, Irving Fisher, is that it’s the oil in the machine, but not the accelerator. So, what Fisher said is that there are sometimes when a society has to de-gear. I would say that’s where we are with the Baby Boomer generation. If you don’t create money as you de-gear, then you get a 1929-1932 experience. Fisher said the central banker has to be in there creating money as the credit comes down. That way we don’t get the high-friction and the high dislocations that we had during the ’29-’32 period. In that extent, I think quantitative easing has succeeded to the extent that some private sectors, not all of them but some, particularly American private sector, has fairly smoothly de-geared as the success of quantitative easing, but it hasn’t forced anybody to re-gear. It hasn’t generated more growth. It’s done what Fisher said it would do, but it hasn’t done what the current Fed said it would do, which pushes back into high levels of nominal GDP growth. Will that GDP ratio start to decline? It certainly hasn’t done it in Europe. MSW: So, in this interpretation, QE can prevent disaster but it can’t improve the underlying economy and it can’t create inflation. RN: It was designed to stop a debt deflation. It seems to have succeeded. Everything else has a new and modern claim for it and it doesn’t seem to be succeeding in that. MSW: Is there anything else that the central banks can do to create inflation or are we at a dead end? RN: If we’re sitting here in ten years, I’m fairly sure we’ll have inflation. I’m fairly sure nominal GDP growth with be above the growth of debt and all the democracies will be getting rid of debt in their tried and traditional methodology and way. I think we’ll attribute it, though, to the People’s Bank of China and not to the Federal Reserve. We need a monetary policy which can generate-well, a central bank policy which can generate money and final demand. It seems to be the obvious place where that can happen is China, where you have a younger generation who are, let’s say, pro-consumption. That’s my euphemism for the younger generation of China. If we can get consumer debt flowing to them in a better way, then I think they would go out and consume a lot. It would be very, very easy for China to have 30-40% money supply growth within a year or year and a half if they chose to do it. I think that’s why China can potentially reflate the world. But here’s the catch: it’s highly unlikely they do that without devaluing the currency in the process. So, that’s something we’re going to have to live through, I believe – a major devaluation of the Chinese currency. But the good news is that can set the field for true independent monetary policy in China, an end to their mercantilist pro-export system, a move towards consumerism. But we can’t get that move until we change the monetary policy, the focus on the dollar. MSW: OK. Back to China, then, when do you think this happens? How does this happen? What makes China decide to reflate and save the world? RN: Well, China has had an incredibly strange financial system in that they have retained the command economy banking system. They’ve changed many things in China but held onto that. They’ve had an economy which has grown where money supply wealth has grown at double nominal GDP. So, it’s an economy with a command economy banking system which has needed a huge amount of money to grow. At this stage, their only supply growth is done at a very low level. Now, that suggests when we’ve seem this historically that the financial system may begin to creak at the edges. It may not be that stable. It may be unstable. Whether it’s the formal system or the informal system, things might start to go wrong. Now, there’s a very simple playbook for that. We’ve seen it in 2008-2009. We’ve seen it over and over again. What do you do when your financial system starts to creak, when it looks like it might crack and capital might decline? You print money. If you’re going to print money and you have an exchange rate target, you’re going to massively increase the supply of currency. It’s most likely, not inevitably, most likely that the exchange rate will come down. So, I think they’ll go to America and they’re probably go directly to Tim Geithner. They’ll probably hire him as an adviser. “What do we do now?” Tim will say, “Well, you can print money.” “OK. Let’s try that.” And then they can go to America and say, “The currency came down. We had to let that happen because if we didn’t let that happen, our financial system would be in trouble and that’s exactly what you did.” That’s the playbook for China when the time is necessary. They’ve undervalued the currency since 1994. Obviously that let it go up a little bit. If it was this easy, we’d all do it, all paying to the currency of the dollar at a lower level and just sit back forever and have high export growth forever and it would be a wonderful policy. But it doesn’t work that way because eventually you get internal inflation which makes you uncompetitive. That’s where China is today. So, it is only a matter of time until the currency has to come down. MSW: OK. When you wrote your book all that time ago, Anatomy of the Bear, you talked about how the next great bear market would play out. How does what we just talked about translate into your view on markets? RN: Well, fortunately in the 2009 edition, I actually put in a bit in the preface saying they’re going to go up a lot first. MSW: Phew. RN: Indeed. So, there were signs that the deflationary expectations were overdone, that inflation was coming back. I said we were in for a huge rally in the bear market. Well, it’s been a bigger rally than I thought for sure. I thought that was probably coming to an end by the middle of 2011. Since the middle of 2011, I’ve been writing about deflation and why that would inevitably bring the market down again. Of course, it hasn’t. But it is worth pointing out what has come down since the middle of 2011. So, emerging market equities peak in April of 2011. Commodity prices peak in September, 2011. So, some things have been in a bear market since 2011, but clearly not developed world equities. So, someone said to me once, “Well, you got everything right except the market”. Well, given that my job is to get the market right, that’s not a great consolation. So, I’ve been wrong on the market for three years. So, what I note from financial history is the thing that can bring markets down quickly is deflation. Runaway inflation tends to bring them down more slowly. I just see so much evidence of the deflation out there that I think that’s what brings them down. I’ve been saying it for three years. So, maybe one day it will be right. MSW: What will be the turning point that makes it right? You say you see deflation all around you. You expect more deflation. So, why haven’t the markets down already? It presumably is down to the constant money printing. RN: The dollar, I think, is key to this. I’ve got a little chart of the dollar in my brain. It’s only in the last three or four months that it’s really become strong and really become a very strong propellant on the upward side. I think that’s the catalyst. I can analyse all these factors. But until the dollar starts to go up, that’s when you say, “Well, this could be the time.” So, people will ask, “Why, what’s so important about the dollar?” There are so many people who link their currencies to the dollar. So, if you link yourself to a strong currency and you have to force your currency up in line with the dollar, that, on the whole, forces you to a tighter monetary policy. But worse than that, it’s highly borrowed cross-border. So, the world is full of people who borrow dollars, take the money and invest it in Chinese yuan, invest it in Indian rupee, invest it in the Brazilian real and they use it to fund assets or purchases in those currencies. When the dollar starts going up, you effectively short the dollar. There’s an old quote in financial history from Daniel Drew, one of the first great speculators. It goes like this. It says, “He who sells what isn’t his’n, buys it back or goes to prison.” If you’ve borrowed dollars, put it in yuan and the dollar starts going up, your board is going to say, “Cover it.” Don’t cover 100% of it because it may not continue, but cover a little bit of it. So, there are these very rare periods of financial history where you get forced buying of the dollar as people seek to cover it. If you look at the chart of the dollar, it looks like we’re there. Forecasting currencies is incredibly difficult until you get forced buyers. It’s beginning to look like that. MSW: So, how do we invest, assuming you’re right, which I’m sure you are at some point, how do we invest to deal with that really extraordinary environment? RN: Well, I believe that the beauty of being a private investor is that you can do nothing. I know people reading this would not agree with that. But believe me, your options to do nothing are significantly stronger than the ability of a professional investor. MSW: But there’s no such thing as nothing. Nothing is holding cash, right? This is not a nothing. RN: That’s what I mean by doing nothing. Unless you think I’m completely wrong and we’re heading to rampant inflation-and of course, I could be and if that’s your view, you don’t own cash-but we’re at least in a period of low inflation. I think most people would agree with that. In a period of low inflation, you’re losing something on cash, but perhaps not a lot on cash. I’ve often tried to find where I read this by Adam Smith, but he once said that, “The greatest of cause of distress amongst men of wealth is feeling that they have to do something.” Apparently Winnie the Pooh said something very similar. So, if Adam Smith and Winnie the Pooh thought it was good advice, I think it remains good advice. You have to wait for the right opportunity. If I look back in financial history, certainly before World War II, the great financial success stories, the great wealth accumulators were people that had cash at the bottom to buy, whether it was Rockefeller, JP Morgan, Mellon. That all ended post-World War II because we never had deflation. Having all that money to buy assets, cheap assets from distressed sellers hasn’t really been much of a policy in the post-World War II era but we’ve never lived through a period of deflation. So, if you’re like me and you genuinely believe that that deflation is coming, then you take from the playbook of Mellon, Rockefeller, Morgan, Carnegie and you’re ready to buy. So, it’s not doing nothing, as you say, being in cash. But in a period of low inflation, it’s as close as you get. You wait for what Buffett calls the fat pitch. There are very, very few fat pitches out there. In the world of deflation, there will be quite a few. MSW: Is your own money in cash, Russell? RN: It is, largely. It has some Japanese equities hedged back into the dollar. Apart from that, it’s pretty much cash. MSW: Is there any market at all that you would dabble in apart from Japan? RN: No. MSW: No. OK. RN: People should know that I still have money in all equity markets, because I might be wrong. It’s a very low weighting, but I won’t say what it is. It’s not a huge percentage. But it’s public knowledge because I’m on the board of two investment trusts and they are global investment trusts. Because I’m a director, my shareholding is disclosed. So, I have money invested across the global stock market, but it’s not a high percentage. I think even the most bearish person in the world would probably have 20-30% of their money in equities because you might be wrong. MSW: What about gold? Are you looking at gold just in case? RN: Just a little bit but not very much. As a deflationist for three years, I have not been that keen on gold, but – and it’s a very big but – at some stage, if monetary policy doesn’t work, we get something else. That’s going to be government activism of some form. That’s what we discussed. We discussed it in context of forgiveness of student debt, but it could be something else. It could be exchange controls. It’s very hard to know what it could be. Now, when you move from monetary policy to government activism, then I think there’s a chance that reinvigorates gold because it’s a confiscatory issue. If people believe that the state is in the business of confiscating their assets – I meet people every day who believe that already. They don’t have to see it in action for them to believe it. But if that becomes a prevalent view, then even in the world of deflation, it’s likely that the gold price would go up. People would legitimately say, “Are you a bull or a bear? What are you actually saying?” What I’m saying is this – as a deflationist, you should have known it. If it starts to trade up on bad news, then it’s in a very prolonged bull market. The tinkering that the government does is bullish for it. When the government finally gets us back to a world flowing with milk and inflation, that’s very good for it. So, I think as someone who’s seeing a very long-term historical view, watch it trade. If it trades up on bad news, then that’s the time. But it doesn’t look like it’s doing that at the moment. MSW: Thank you, Russell. I think we can summarise that by saying there is deflation. There will be more deflation. Hold lots of cash. Have some equities in case you’re wrong and never take your eye off gold. RN: Yeah. And there’s nothing wrong in doing nothing. MSW: Thank you. FREE AppDownload
Usually success and diligence go hand in hand. Undoubtedly is the case with T. Boone Pickens' strict morning routine.  Produced by: Justin Gmoser. Reporter: Julia La Roche Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
(Reuters) - Early holiday promotions and rising online shopping took a toll on in-store U.S. sales during the Thanksgiving weekend as shoppers on average spent 6.4 percent less than they did a year earlier, according to data released Sunday by an industry group. The National Retail Federation estimated shoppers on average spent $380.95 at stores this holiday weekend, which began on Thursday, compared with $407.02 a year ago, and total spending fell about 11 percent to $50.9 billion over the weekend. NRF President and Chief Executive Matthew Shay said there is an "evolutionary change" in holiday shopping among both consumers and retailers, and this trend is likely to continue. The data highlights the growing importance of online sales and the waning importance of Black Friday, which until a few years ago traditionally kicked off the holiday shopping season in the United States, as more retailers open their doors on Thanksgiving Day and start discounting merchandise earlier in November. comScore, a retail analytics firm, said U.S. online sales rose 32 percent to $766 million on Thanksgiving and 26 percent to $1.2 billion on Black Friday, driven by stronger deals online. The Thanksgiving weekend is an early gauge of consumer mood in a season that generates about 30 percent of sales and nearly 40 percent of profit for retailers. Discounted high-end apparel, televisions and toys were the most popular this year followed by items including video games, home furnishings and jewelry, according to the NRF survey of 4,631 consumers. Department stores like Macy's &lt;M.N&gt; were the most visited followed by discount retailers like Wal-Mart &lt;WMT.N&gt;, Target &lt;TGT.N&gt; and electronic chains like Best Buy &lt;BBY.N&gt;. NRF said nearly two in five consumers shopped online or plan to shop online by the weekend's end. On Saturday, research firm ShopperTrack said sales at retail stores fell 0.5 percent. RetailNext, another analytics firm, on Sunday said it found overall shopper traffic on Black Friday fell 14 percent, but on average shopper spending rose 1.9 percent, as conversion rates were higher, with shoppers spending more once in the store. "Sales on Black Friday were very disappointing but retailers managed to drive a lot of people to their websites early on which helps us remain optimistic about the overall holiday season," said Shelley Kohan, vice president, retail consulting, at RetailNext. The NRF stuck to its forecast for retail sales to rise 4.1 percent this holiday season. (Reporting by Nandita Bose in Chicago; Editing by Jilian Mincer and Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
SCHILTACH/BERLIN (Reuters) - German bathroom fittings maker Hansgrohe is a successful firm with a track record of global exports and an attractive profit-sharing scheme. But it's struggling to hire highly-qualified engineers - and many more "Mittelstand" companies are too. The raft of firms named after their small-to-medium size kept Germany afloat throughout a global economic downturn and still have healthy order books. But now they must brace for a blow to their business from a demographic time bomb. The working-age population of Germany - Europe's biggest economy - is expected to shrink by 6.3 million by 2030 as the country's overall population dwindles from 82 million to 65-70 million by 2060. Policymakers are warning of a looming shortage of skills that the Cologne-based IW institute has estimated is already costing 22 billion euros ($27 billion) a year. There is a particular deficit of workers with adequate qualifications in maths, computing, science and technology. And there is little slack in the form of unemployed people or part-timers willing to work more: Unemployment is at a record low 6.6 percent and the underutilized labor rate of 9.3 percent is the lowest in the euro zone, according to Eurostat. For now, German multinationals can compensate by luring talent from abroad and adjusting working conditions to retain older staff. But the millions of "Mittelstand" companies who employ six out of 10 German workers and often have their headquarters in rural settings are finding it hard to compete. "Twenty years ago, an employee had to apply to a company, but today I have to compete for potential staff and show them what I can offer," said Hansgrohe's human resources chief Thomas Egenter. At its headquarters in the quiet Black Forest town of Schiltach the firm - owned by U.S. company Masco and a branch of the Grohe family - offers perks like childcare, a share in profits and free transport to work from towns around the region. "You have to turn a lot of screws to be able to deal with this demographic change," Egenter said. "We're not waiting until it becomes a problem." The population shift will be a major problem by 2060, when there will only be 1.3 workers per retiree, against 2.3 now. Meanwhile, the country's birth rate is the lowest in Europe. "The political response to the demographic challenge will... be decisive in determining whether the German economy can retain its leading position in many areas," Jens Weidmann, president of the Bundesbank (central bank), said recently. ReutersBut politicians can't openly urge Germans to increase the birth rate - it's taboo because of sensitivity about the Nazis' "Mutterkreuz" medal for women who had four babies or more. Instead, Angela Merkel, Germany's conservative chancellor since 2005, has offered benefits for parents and stay-at-home mothers - which critics say keeps more women out of the workforce - and increased kindergarten places. To offset the burden on the pension system of an aging populace, Merkel also introduced a phased increase in the retirement age to 67 in her first term - but then brought it back down to 63 for some workers, under pressure from her center-left coalition partners. Companies remain deeply concerned. An international PwC survey of 2,400 family-owned firms found German companies were more worried about attracting and retaining talent than their foreign peers. Without heavy immigration, "the German labor market will overheat and labor supply will soon start to constrain overall German growth," wrote David Mackie, an economist at JP Morgan.  Some German firms are finding imaginative solutions. Car maker BMW is retaining more workers aged 50 or over - it expects them to make up more than 35 percent of its workforce by 2020, from 25 percent at present - and says they are "at least as productive" as younger workers. It has also introduced practices in consideration of their health: Wooden floors soften the impact on workers' knees and staff rotate jobs during shifts to avoid too many repetitive movements. SAP, the biggest software player in Europe, is hiring people with autism from around the world, believing that their unique talents can give it a competitive edge. And chemical giant BASF plans to hire its second round of trainees in Tarragona, Spain. But Germany's population problem will still have to be confronted, says SAP board member Stefan Ries. "It is indisputable that this problem lies ahead," said Ries. "We see it with our industrial customers, in our ecosystem. You see it much more clearly in the Mittelstand." Keeping the working-age population steady would need annual net immigration of at least 300,000 until 2050,Stephan Sievert of the Berlin Institute for Population and Development said. It was 460,000 last year and could hit 500,000 this year, he said. Like much of Europe, Germany is debating tougher controls on immigration, though even the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD), poaching votes from Merkel, values qualified immigrants. However, initiatives like a "Blue Card" scheme for highly-skilled workers and academics have a limited impact: only 18,000 have been granted since its introduction in 2012 and most of the recipients were already living or studying inGermany. Back in the Black Forest, Hansgrohe hired a young man from Portugal last year and offered his fiance a trainee engineer post too. But settling them in and helping with red tape was a "massive effort" for the firm. "They're doing a super job, no question, but it's a lot of work," Egenter said. "It's not a cure-all."  (Additional reporting by Stephen Brown, Harro Ten Wolde, Andreas Cremer and Ludwig Burger; Writing by Georgina Prodhan and Stephen Brown; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA street sign is seen in front of the New York Stock Exchange on Wall Street in New YorkBy Rodrigo Campos NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures fell on Monday as manufacturing growth across Asia and Europe eased in November, with demand waning even in the face of sharp price cuts. Sliding oil and metals prices are seen dragging on energy and mining stocks. The Select Sector SPDR Energy exchange traded fund  fell 1 percent in light premarket trading. U.S. crude futures  fell 1 percent to $65.52 a barrel and Brent  dropped 0.7 percent to $69.68. Markit's final November manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index for the euro zone was 50.1, its lowest reading since June 2013 and down from a flash reading in mid-November of 50.4, despite price cuts made possible by tumbling input costs. New orders declined for a third month. U.S. manufacturing data is due later in the day, with Markit's gauge out at 9:45 a.m. (1445 GMT), followed soon after by the Institute for Supply Management's report. Early holiday promotions and rising online shopping took a toll on in-store U.S. sales during the Thanksgiving weekend as shoppers on average spent 6.4 percent less than they did a year earlier, according to data released Sunday by an industry group. Futures snapshot at 7:11 a.m. EST (1212 GMT): S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were down 6.25 points, or 0.3 percent, with 173,462 contracts changing hands. Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were down 4.25 points, or 0.1 percent, in volume of 27,342 contracts. Dow e-minis  were down 38 points, or 0.21 percent, with 31,548 contracts changing hands.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren Staples A competitor during the UK Christmas Tree Throwing Championships in Keele, central England, on Sunday.Good morning! Here are the major stories you need to know about before markets open in the US. Oil Keeps Plunging. WTI crude fell to as low as $63.72 a barrel, the lowest level since July 2009. Brent crude touched a low of $67.53, the lowest level since October 2009. This follows Thursday's decision by OPEC not to cut production. Switzerland's Referendum Sends Gold Prices Tumbling. On Sunday night, gold was down more than 4% to as low as $1,143 an ounce after voters in Switzerland rejected a measure that would have required the Swiss National Bank to increase its gold reserves to 20% of its holdings from 8%. Stocks Are In The Red. US futures are sinking, with Dow futures down 39 points and S&amp;P futures down 6.7 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.8%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.2%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.1%. In Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 2.5%, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.7%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed down 1.9%. Black Friday Stunk. "The National Retail Federation estimated on Sunday that retail sales over the full Thanksgiving weekend will show a decline of 11.3% from a year earlier, to $50.9 billion," Reuters' Nandita Bose reported. Keep in mind this is just a very narrow window, so it reveals very little about the health of the American consumer. Chinese Manufacturing Is Teetering. Chinese manufacturing disappointed again in November. The country's manufacturing PMI missed expectations, coming in at 50.3; analysts expected 50.5. Any number under 50 indicates a contraction in the country's manufacturing sector. Chinese House Prices Slumped For The 7th Month Running. China's housing prices in November fell on a monthly basis for the seventh straight month, a survey showed Sunday, with the market yet to feel the full impact of a cut in interest rates. Japanese Capital Spending Jumped. Business investment rose 5.5% in the third quarter compared with the same period last year, despite the country officially falling into a recession during the three months to October. The Eurozone Is Stagnating. The eurozone manufacturing PMI fell to 50.1 in November from 50.6 in October. Germany's PMI declined to a 17-month low of 49.5, and France's PMI hit a three-month low of 48.4. "Not only is the performance of the sector the worst seen since mid-2013, there is a risk that renewed rot is spreading across the region from the core," Markit's Chris Williamson said. "The sector has more or less stagnated since August, but we are now seeing, for the first time in nearly one-and-a-half years, the three largest economies all suffering manufacturing downturns." US Manufacturing Data Coming. We'll get the Markit US manufacturing PMI report at 9:45 a.m. ET and the ISM manufacturing index at 10 a.m. ET. "Early reads on November manufacturing have suggested continued growth momentum but little price gain," UBS' Sam Coffin said. "The export orders index could gain attention if it corroborates (or contradicts) recent signs of softening global demand." Strikes Just Pushed Germany's Biggest Airline To Cancel Half Its Flights. The German flagship carrier Lufthansa said it had canceled 1,350 flights, or 48% of scheduled services, for Monday and Tuesday as its pilots prepared to go on strike. FREE AppDownload
The Russian rouble is collapsing (again), falling over 8% in Monday trading before staging a modest rebound. And this is terrible news for Russian companies, which are due to make $35 billion of debt repayments in December. The more the rouble falls, the harder it is for Russian businesses to pay their loans back. At the time of writing, the currency had fallen to over 53 roubles to the dollar: BloombergDollar vs the rouble. Below is Morgan Stanley's chart of the debt repayment schedule. As you can see, falls in the rouble over recent months have not been too much of a problem for Russian companies as debt repayments have been relatively modest. That is now about to be tested as a $35 billion bill comes due this month. That's the equivalent of 1.9 trillion roubles: Morgan Stanley Timothy Ash of Standard Bank says Russian corporates will be feeling the pinch: "I guess the CBR thinks that with USD420bn in FX reserves, it has plenty of ammo still to deal with those after the event. FX debt liabilities are around USD680bn gross, of which around USD130-150bn fall due over the next year. I would think that many entities will be struggling with debt service costs on FX loans at these levels for the rouble." Compounding the problem, the Russian central bank has limited currency "repo" operations — whereby Russian banks can access the central banks dollar reserves in exchange for collateral. This is widely seen as a response to the events of 2008, when Russian banks used cheap dollar liquidity provided by the central bank to short the rouble, compounding the currency's problems. However, companies still have to find the money to fund the almost 1.9 trillion rouble bill (up from 1.6 trillion only a month ago) even with limited access to central bank funding. Perhaps this helps explain the announcement on Monday that the Russian government has decided to sell a 19.5% stake in the country's largest oil company, Rosneft. The question now is at what price investors will be willing to take a risk on Russian firms — and how low the rouble can go.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos JassoNothing to see here. Just Ironman, checking out some Cyber Monday deals.We're entering the final month of 2015. This week begins with the monthly manufacturing purchasing manager reports from around the world, and it'll end with the November jobs report. In short, economists expect more confirmation that the global economy is diverging. Europe is slowing, China is decelerating, and Japan is stumbling as the US economy continues to pick up steam. The US seems to be recognizing a net benefit from crashing oil prices. However, it's also important not to ignore the many risks associated with the new oil order. "While lower oil prices would historically have been seen as a clear positive for the economy, the growing role of US energy production suggests at least a partial offset," Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey writes. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's top equity strategists have been unveiling their forecasts for the stock market in 2015. And overall, the tone is somewhere between cautiously optimistic and bullish because there are no better alternatives. "With the normalization of S&amp;P 500 valuations from cheap to near fair value, we find it difficult to sustain as much conviction in equities as had supported our bullish outlooks for 2013 and 2014," Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Savita Subramanian said. "Our slate of signals now implies the lowest forecasted S&amp;P returns since we took on this role in 2011. And while stocks certainly look more attractive than bonds, the case for stocks versus other asset classes is less clear." Subramanian expects the S&amp;P 500 to close 2015 at 2,200, which implies a modest 6% gain from current levels. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNewly introduced 10 Euro banknote are pictured under ultraviolet light during news conference at the headquarters of Bundesbank in FrankfurtBy Jonathan Gould FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Union's insurance watchdog said on Monday it expected rapid action from insurers and supervisors to address weaknesses in capital and business models it had identified in a series of stress tests. In findings released on Sunday, the independent body said nearly one in four European insurers could have trouble meeting obligations to policyholders in coming years if the era of wafer-thin interest rates continues. "From now until the end of next year, we are going to see a flow of actions - possibly capital in some situations - but also other types of balance sheet management," Gabriel Bernardino, chairman of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), told a news conference. Unlike the European Central Bank's stress tests for the banking sector, completed in October and prompting capital raisings by lenders, EIOPA did not release the names of individual companies that fell short in its tests. Bernardino also played down prospects that financial markets would try to pressure insurers to raise capital. "We don't have the expectation that the market will want to close the gap immediately," Bernardino said. National insurance supervisors would use the stress test results to home in on weaker insurers, seeking to correct mismatches in their assets and liabilities, reviewing their product mixes and risk management and encouraging changes to their business models, he said. In its report, EIOPA said 24 percent of insurers would not meet its solvency capital requirement (SCR), a key regulatory threshold, in a "Japanese-like" scenario of prolonged low interest rates. "A continuation of the current low yield conditions could see some insurers having problems in fulfilling their promises to policy holders in 8-11 years' time," the watchdog said. ECB interest rates are effectively at zero, with further easing of credit conditions under preparation. Low yields on relatively safe government and covered bonds hurt insurers' investment income, making it increasingly difficult to meet future obligations to policy holders. The companies most at risk were those with a mismatch in the maturity of their assets and liabilities and life insurers that had given long-term guaranteed interest rates on savings policies, it said, pointing to insurers in Austria, Germany, Malta and Sweden as showing the biggest vulnerability.  DOUBLE-HIT SCENARIO EIOPA calculated a baseline for its tests using insurance capital safety rules known as Solvency II, which take effect in January 2016. That baseline showed the sector was generally well capitalised, though some firms came up short even before the stress test scenarios. "Nevertheless, 14 percent of the companies, representing 3 percent of total assets, had an SCR (solvency capital requirement) ratio below 100 percent," EIOPA said. Industry observers say big diversified insurers such as Allianz , Axa  and Generali  are well prepared for Solvency II rules. Smaller firms appeared more at risk in its most severe "double-hit" stress scenario, involving a drop in asset values combined with a rise in the value of future obligations. EIOPA said 60 insurance groups and 107 individual companies took part in its core stress test, representing 55 percent of premiums at the EU level. Companies from all 28 EU member states, plus Norway, Switzerland and Iceland were involved.  (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicPrime Minister Shinzo Abe.Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Japan sovereign debt rating by one notch from Aa3 to A1 on concerns that Abenomics will fail to put government finances onto a sustainable path. Below are the three key reasons given for the downgrade: 1. Heightened uncertainty over the achievability of fiscal deficit reduction goals; 2. Uncertainty over the timing and effectiveness of growth enhancing policy measures, against a background of deflationary pressures; and 3. In consequence, increased risk of rising JGB yields and reduced debt affordability over the medium term. The ratings agency's review of the country paints a worrying picture for those who are currently bullish on the prospects for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's reform programme. In particular, the delay of the second sales tax hike following the collapse in domestic demand and inflation after its first increase has put the government's budget consolidation efforts under threat. As the ratings agency puts it, the indefinite delay in the sales tax rise "resulted in the delay of the 2015 budget, and a concrete plan to meet fiscal targets is not likely to emerge until the second half of 2015". With government debt projected to be 245% by the end of 2014 such delays could knock investor confidence in the country. However, the country also faces pressure to increase growth and push inflation back towards the Bank of Japan's 2% target. Growth has contracted sharply after the sales tax increase in April and policymakers are now under pressure to improve the country's performance. In particular, the government faces a huge challenge in shifting the expectations of domestic investors that it can break with over a decade of deflation — something that it has so far struggled to achieve. What this means is that the Japanese government is now stuck between a rock and a hard place. If Abe's reforms are seen as working to raise inflation, but without improving the government's finances, it could make paying for the state's huge debt burden much more difficult. However, if it fails then Japan will still be left with the problem of how to pay for an ageing society without economic growth to help support its rising welfare bills. This could also cause investors to doubt the government's fiscal sustainability and increase its borrowing costs. Either way, Moody's is saying that the success of Abenomics is far from assured. FREE AppDownload
Oil prices are tumbling to new lows again Monday.  Brent crude is down another 0.98%, to just $69.46 per barrel. During trading, the price fell as low as $68, highlighting the amazing drop in prices: Brent crude was trading for more than $100 per barrel as recently as the end of August.  West Texas Intermediate, the other major oil price benchmark, is down 0.56% to just $65.78. Here's what the WTI price looks like in historical context: FinViz The price is now under lows recorded in 2012, 2011, and 2010, to a level most recently seen in mid-2009, five and a half years ago.  There's no end in sight to the drop after the OPEC cartel of oil-producing nations failed to agree a production cut last week.  If prices stay depressed, that's likely too boost consumption: Money people don't spend on petrol and energy bills will be spent elsewhere. According to Oxford Economics, if oil prices stayed near $60 per barrel until 2016, it would hike US and Chinese GDP growth by 0.4 percentage points, with a 0.2 percentage point rise for Japan and the eurozone.  One Canadian oil magnate thinks that estimate is actually too conservative: Murray Edwards is suggesting that oil could go back to about $30 per barrel.  This piece was last updated at 1:40 p.m. GMT.  FREE AppDownload
 TRACY, Calif (Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc has installed more than 15,000 robots across 10 U.S. warehouses, a move that promises to cut operating costs by one-fifth and get packages out the door more quickly in the run-up to Christmas. The orange 320-pound (145 kg) robots, which scoot around the floor on wheels, show how Amazon has adopted technology developed by Kiva Systems, a robotics company it bought for $775 million in 2012. Amazon showcased to media on Sunday ahead of Cyber Monday, the biggest online shopping day of the year. The robots are designed to help the leading U.S. online retailer speed the time it takes to deliver items to customers and better compete with brick-and-mortar stores, where the bulk of Americans still do their shopping. The robots also may help Amazon avoid the mishaps of last year's holiday season, when a surge of packages overwhelmed shipping and logistics company UPS and delayed the arrival of Christmas presents around the globe. Amazon offered shipping refunds and $20 gift cards to compensate customers. Amazon deployed the robots this summer, ahead of the key holiday quarter, when the company typically books about one-third of its annual revenue. The updated warehouses are in five states -- California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Washington. The move comes at a cost. Amazon estimated in June 2013 that it would spend about $46 million to install Kiva robots at its warehouse in Ruskin, Florida, including $26.1 million for the equipment, according to company filings to local government. The Kiva robots have allowed Amazon to hold about 50 percent more items and shorten the time it takes to offer same-day delivery in several areas, said Dave Clark, senior vice president of worldwide operations and customer services. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						YouTube/ForaTV				At Amazon's warehouse in Tracy, California, workers stack goods in shelves carried by more than 1,500 Kiva robots, which use markings on the floor to navigate and form a "big block of inventory," Clark said. Squeezing the racks of items closely together eliminates the need for workers to navigate aisles to collect items ordered by consumers. Now, a worker calls for specific items and the robot steers itself to their particular work station. Each robot can carry as much as 720 pounds. In some cases, the robots have allowed Amazon to get packages out the door in as little as 13 minutes from the pick stations, compared to about an hour and a half on average in older centers. "It's certainly proving out that it's justified itself," Clark said of the Kiva acquisition. "We're happy with the economics of it." (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; editing by Keith Weir) Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDetail from the front of the United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown in WashingtonNEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - With the U.S. economy humming along at its fastest clip in more than a decade, the Federal Reserve should be confident about its ability to weather a global slowdown and start lifting interest rates around the middle of next year. But then there is inflation. Interviews with Fed officials and those familiar with its thinking show the mood inside is more somber than the central bank's reassuring statements and evidence of robust economic health would suggest. The reason is the central bank's failure to nudge price growth up to its 2 percent target and, more importantly, signs that investors and consumers are losing faith it can get there any time soon. Despite undershooting the goal for three years, the Fed has long succeeded in convincing markets that the target was within reach. However, inflation expectations have begun slipping in recent weeks, threatening to amplify downward momentum from plunging energy prices and stuttering global growth. Barring a turnaround, Fed officials would hesitate to raise interest rates as soon as mid-2015 even as gradually as their forecasts now suggest. On Friday, prices of short-term interest rate futures showed traders pushed back their expectations for a "lift-off" in rates from near zero until October 2015, later than most Fed officials have signaled so far. "The primary concern at the moment is whether you can get back to 2 percent in a way that keeps expectations anchored, and maintains the credibility of the Fed as an institution that can achieve its goal," said Jeffrey Fuhrer, the Boston Fed's senior policy advisor. At first sight, a combination of economic growth of nearly 4 percent, falling unemployment and price increases of around 1.6 percent looks good. Central bankers worry, though, that inflation, instead of picking up further, could head the other way. REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen gathers her notes at the inaugural Michel Camdessus Central Banking Lecture at the International Monetary Fund in Washington July 2, 2014.  For the Fed, 2 percent inflation provides a necessary buffer against deflation, and sufficient leeway to leave crisis era "zero lower bound" on interest rates behind and start using them as the main policy lever again. "We're below the Fed's 2-percent target now, but what if we get to 1 percent? And then 0.5? You need to cut that off," said former Fed Vice Chairman Alan Blinder, who teaches at Princeton University. One Fed official, who declined to be named, told Reuters policymakers must resist the urge to lift rates at the first opportunity because they might be forced to backtrack if inflation failed to pick up. Narayana Kocherlakota, who has been a dissenting voice and voted against ending the Fed's bond buying program in October, says time is ripe for the Fed to come clean on inflation and act. "A key for us would be to be communicating effectively and then taking actions to live up to that communication that we are trying to get inflation back to 2 percent as rapidly as possible," the Minneapolis Fed president said last in November. Other officials, who declined to be named, were not ready to sound alarm yet but said that if inflation continued to disappoint the Fed would have to admit it did not know how long it could last, or how it might shape longer-term expectations. They also flagged a growing concern that oil prices, which hit a four-year low below $70 a barrel on Friday, will depress the "core" price measures the Fed uses to steer its policy. For now, however, most policymakers opt to stick with the tried-and-tested theory that monetary stimulus and accelerating growth will eventually lift inflation and fear that airing their doubts could make the Fed's target even harder to accomplish. Reflecting such fears, the Fed's Oct. 29 policy statement left out references to recent market turmoil and economic weakness in Europe, Japan and China, while downplaying a drop in market-based inflation gauges. The meeting's minutes, released later, showed policymakers raised those concerns but decided not to air them to avoid undermining investors' confidence in the U.S. recovery. "I think deep down they are worried about un-anchoring inflation expectations," said Vincent Reinhart, chief U.S. economist for Morgan Stanley. Reinhart, who led the Fed's monetary affairs division in the early 2000s, described recent Fed statements as "tone deaf" on downward price pressures. Primary dealers surveyed by the Fed still expect inflation to reach 2 percent by 2016, roughly matching central bankers' forecasts. Other measures, however, have slipped. Prices of inflation-protected bonds show inflation expectations near three-year lows and a survey by the University of Michigan showed consumer expectations hit the lowest level since 1992. Furthermore, economists surveyed by the Philadelphia Fed now see inflation averaging below 2 percent at least until 2017 whereas only three months ago they expected the Fed to hit its target by the first quarter of 2015. William Dudley, the influential New York Fed president, hinted at the possible response to a further cooling in prices, saying last month the central bank could run the economy "hot," keeping rates low longer than what growth and jobs data would have suggested. (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Petar KujundzicPrime Minister Shinzo Abe.Ratings agency Moody's downgraded Japan sovereign debt rating by one notch from Aa3 to A1 on concerns that Abenomics will fail to put government finances onto a sustainable path. Below are the three key reasons given for the downgrade: 1. Heightened uncertainty over the achievability of fiscal deficit reduction goals; 2. Uncertainty over the timing and effectiveness of growth enhancing policy measures, against a background of deflationary pressures; and 3. In consequence, increased risk of rising JGB yields and reduced debt affordability over the medium term. The ratings agency's review of the country paints a worrying picture for those who are currently bullish on the prospects for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's reform programme. In particular, the delay of the second sales tax hike following the collapse in domestic demand and inflation after its first increase has put the government's budget consolidation efforts under threat. As the ratings agency puts it, the indefinite delay in the sales tax rise "resulted in the delay of the 2015 budget, and a concrete plan to meet fiscal targets is not likely to emerge until the second half of 2015". With government debt projected to be 245% by the end of 2014 such delays could knock investor confidence in the country. However, the country also faces pressure to increase growth and push inflation back towards the Bank of Japan's 2% target. Growth has contracted sharply after the sales tax increase in April and policymakers are now under pressure to improve the country's performance. In particular, the government faces a huge challenge in shifting the expectations of domestic investors that it can break with over a decade of deflation — something that it has so far struggled to achieve. What this means is that the Japanese government is now stuck between a rock and a hard place. If Abe's reforms are seen as working to raise inflation, but without improving the government's finances, it could make paying for the state's huge debt burden much more difficult. However, if it fails then Japan will still be left with the problem of how to pay for an ageing society without economic growth to help support its rising welfare bills. This could also cause investors to doubt the government's fiscal sustainability and increase its borrowing costs. Either way, Moody's is saying that the success of Abenomics is far from assured. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren StaplesEuropean stock indexes are down Monday morning, following some more dismal economic data suggesting the eurozone's industry was on the brink of a recession. Here's the scorecard. France's CAC 40: -0.64% Germany's DAX: -0.23% UK's FTSE 100: -0.74% Spain's IBEX: -0.45% Italy's FTSE MIB: -1.25% Asian markets closed mixed. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 2.58%, a major drop, after pro-democracy protests flared up in the city over the weekend. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.75%. US futures are down, too. The S&amp;P 500 is down by 10 points, and the Dow is down 78 points.  Later Monday, US manufacturing PMIs are out. At 2:45 and 3 p.m. GMT respectively, Markit and ISM purchasing managers' indexes are out. Analysts are expecting a slight cooling in US industrial growth, but figures are still likely to show strong growth. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Oil has crashed close to 20% in the past month as OPEC’s aggressive attempt to drive the US Shale Oil industry into the ground has continued apace. Whether it has other implications for the global economy as a whole is open for debate. It’s a question occupying the mind of Ivan Colhoun, NAB’s Chief Economist Markets, who wrote in a note to clients this morning that: There is likely to remain considerable discussion about just what the continuing sharp decline in oil prices means – is it a signal of much slower global economic growth or greater energy supply? Depending on the answer, we either have a significant pressure for lower interest rates or an effective tax cut for global consumers. Whichever way the discussion goes there is a chart of the relationship between Oil prices and the S&amp;P which should scare the heck out of global stock traders: FX Hedgers Twitter Account Stocks tend totrack the price of oil. The last time they diverged like this was in 2007/2008 — and the market crashed shortly after. For the moment, it seems S&amp;P traders are voting this move is a tax cut for global consumers and will aid continuing accomodative monetary policy. But it’s one scary chart.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Chris Vellacott LONDON (Reuters) - (This version of the Nov. 28 story has been correct to amend quote attribution in third paragraph to contributor's current name following rebrand) World investors eased back on their exposure to risk assets such as stocks as they grappled with divergent monetary policies and multi-speed growth paths among major world economies, a global poll shows. A monthly survey of 47 senior investors in the United States, Europe, Britain and Japan found the average recommended exposure to stocks in global balanced portfolios eased for a second consecutive month to 49.1 percent in November from 49.5 percent. "The greatest risk remains disappointment on global growth level ... Markets remain vulnerable to any negative newsflow on macroeconomic indicators, be it in the Euro zone, in the US or even in China," Candriam Investors Group said in comment sent to Reuters for the poll. An end to monetary stimulus, in place since the financial crisis, in the United States and Britain as their economies gather momentum stands in marked contrast to policies elsewhere. Japan, the Eurozone and China are moving toward boosting money supply to counter sluggish or falling economic growth, leaving investors with an uncertain environment to grapple with. Many still feel global growth is shaky - as evidenced in recent falls in global oil prices prompted by worries energy demand will be weak. Global investors' cash allocations - used as a safe haven in times of volatile markets - eased back to 6.2 percent in November, the poll showed, but remained close to the year's high of 6.7 percent reached in October. Allocations to bonds - also seen as a safe haven relative to equities - rose to 36.8 percent from 36.4 percent. The poll was taken from Nov. 14-27, when world stocks recovered more of the poise lost during the volatility seen in mid-October and gained close to 2 percent. The U.S. S&amp;P 500 index set a record high during the survey period, climbing more than 1.5 percent. Emerging-market stocks also posted a more than 1.5 percent gain during the survey period. They remain more than 7 percent off a September peak for the year, battered by a strong U.S. dollar luring investment away, fears of China slowing down and fallout from the standoff with Russia over its role in Ukraine. U.S. fund managers cut their recommended equity allocation in model portfolios for a sixth consecutive month and increased their bond holdings. Recommended stock holdings for U.S investors fell to 54.4 percent in November from 55.0 percent in the previous month. European investors built up holdings of safe-haven cash by 60 basis points to 8.6 percent. Exposure to stocks was cut to 47.1 percent on average from 47.7 percent a month earlier. Japanese fund managers' allocations to equities inched down to 43.2 percent in November from 43.6 percent in October and allocations to bonds was little changed at 51.8 percent from 52.0 percent the previous month. British investment managers kept equity allocations at a two-year low this month at 51.7 percent, and property holdings at multi-year highs of 4.7 percent. They reduced their cash holdings to an average of 8.3 percent, down from last month's multi-year highs of 11.2 percent but still higher than at any other time in the past year.  (Additional reporting by Sam Wilkin, Rahul Karunakar, Deepti Govind and Shinichi Saoshiro) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steffen Kugler/ BundesregierungThe eurozone's manufacturing PMI fell to just 50.1 in November. Anything over 50 signals growth, and anything below signals contraction, so the currency union's industry is back within a hair of recession. The three biggest economies in the bloc, however, all have PMI readings below 50, with only Spain holding the region's manufacturing in growth territory. Here's how it breaks down by country: Spain's PMI for manufacturing surged to a seven-year high at 54.7. That's up from last month's 52.6 and is the best since July 2007. Italy's manufacturing PMI sits unchanged at 49. No movement in November for Italy, which is still in recession. October's figure was also 49, signaling a contraction. French manufacturers are signaling shrinkage, too, with a PMI at 48.4. That's down from October's 48.5 but slightly better than analysts expected. French industry hasn't reported growth since April. Germany's industry is back in recession territory with a PMI reading of 49.5. That's the lowest since summer 2013.  That means Europe's three biggest economies are all signaling a downturn. Here's a chart from Markit, which produces the PMI figures, on how the readings usually match up with industrial output:  Markit FREE AppDownload
The Russian ruble just sank to the lowest point in its history, above 50 to the US dollar.  It's down 5.27% against the US currency Monday alone. The dollar is about 50% stronger against the ruble than it was at the start of 2014. This follows the crumbling price of oil. Here's what the US dollar-Russian ruble exchange rate looks like over the past five years: Bloomberg, Business Insider The fall in oil prices has dramatically weakened the Russian currency, which had been much more stable in the previous three years.  Brent crude is down to just $68, and the other major benchmark of oil prices, West Texas Intermediate (WTI), is down to just $65, a five-and-a-half-year low.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuPolice use pepper spray during clashes with pro-democracy protesters close to the chief executive office in Hong Kong, November 30, 2014. Student activist groups have called for an escalation of the protests in Admiralty. Thousands of police are on standby, according to the South China Morning Post. Good morning! It's Cyber Monday! Here is everything you need to know before your first meeting of the day. 1. Police and pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong have clashed again. Police used pepper spray on the crowd. Thousands of activists forced the temporary closure of Hong Kong's government building. 40 arrested, Reuters reports. 2. Black Friday shopping appears to have declined 11% in the US. The Washington Post says: "The National Retail Federation reported that 55.1 percent of consumers shopped between Thursday and Sunday, according to a survey it conducted over the weekend. That is down from 58.7 percent the previous year. The NRF said total spending was $50.9 billion, an 11 percent decline from an estimated $57.4 billion in 2013." One theory: Shoppers no longer believe that deals will only be available on the Friday and are instead spreading their buying across the weeks leading up to Christmas. 3. UK manufacturers are moderating their growth expectations. A survey of manufacturers by EEF and BDO says companies predict growth of 3.5 per cent this year for the sector but that will slow to 2 per cent in 2015, the Financial Times says. 4. Chinese manufacturing looks weak. Business Insider's Linette Lopez reported: "Chinese manufacturing disappointed again in November. The country's manufacturing PMI missed expectations coming in at 50.3, analysts expected 50.5." It's the second straight month where PMI has been near 50. Any measure under 50 indicates the sector is contracting. 5. The Swiss have rejected the gold standard. In a national referendum on Sunday that was closely watched by gold bugs — people who believe that currency should be tied to the actual value of gold — Switzerland rejected a proposal to link the Swiss franc to gold reserves held by the country's central bank. 6. An American couple cleared of killing their daughter has nonetheless been barred from leaving Qatar. It's an unusual case: Prosecutors in the Muslim country accused the pair of starving to death their adopted daughter. The 8-year-old girl alternately starved and binged on food, a behaviour the couple was trying to correct. The Huangs are Asian and their adopted daughter was black — a situation prosecutors appeared not to understand. The couple spent a year in a Qatari jail before they were cleared by a court. Their passports were taken at the airport even though they were being escorted by the US ambassador. 7. Samsung is planning another new metal phone. The next iteration of its A series will have a screen bigger than 5 inches, Business Insider noted. 8. Samsung's mobile division chief kept his job! The company had been expected to axe Shin Jong-kyun because the company's phone sales have declined. But they left him in place in the annual reshuffle. 9. Michael O’Leary, the chief executive of Ryanair, has been told to tone it down. O'Leary is known for his media-friendly statements about charging passengers to use the toilet and turning up to press conferences in bizarre costumes. Now the company wants him to become a bit more "presidential" in his behaviour. 10. United Nations diplomats will gather in Lima to again attempt to persuade governments to restrict their emission of greenhouse gases. The problem is that we may have already passed the point of no return, and that the planet faces a future of "drought, food and water shortages, melting ice sheets, shrinking glaciers, rising sea levels and widespread flooding," according to The New York Times. And finally ... The organisers of an art project during which actor Shia Labeouf claims he was raped have spoken out against the woman who allegedly assaulted him. “Nowhere did we state that people could do whatever they wanted to Shia during #IAMSORRY", one of them tweeted. The Guardian reports: "#IAMSORRY involved LaBeouf sitting silently behind a desk in a room in LA’s Cohen gallery with a paper bag bearing the legend 'I am not famous anymore' over his head. For five days, members of the public queued to be able to sit alone with him in the room with a prop of their choice." One woman whipped him and took his clothes off, The Guardian says. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe new European Central Bank (ECB) headquarters are pictured behind partially dismantled Sudfass brothel club in FrankfurtBy Marius Zaharia LONDON (Reuters) - As the European Central Bank comes closer to buying sovereign bonds, one London-based think tank says an opportunity has arisen to fix one of the euro zone's birth defects -- the absence of a credible "risk-free" asset. Regulators deem domestic sovereign bonds risk-free -- so-called although no asset is entirely without risk -- and push financial firms to buy them as a safety buffer, exempting them from a rule that requires setting aside capital for holding other assets. However, when they assess how strong a bank needs to be, regulators consider both German bonds -- the only state debt in the bloc rated triple-A by all three major agencies -- and bonds issued by Greece, which defaulted two years ago, risk-free. As a result, euro zone banks are loaded with low-rated government debt, creating a potential "doom loop", in which troubles at a bank can drag in governments and vice-versa. The most commonly discussed proposal for a new risk-free asset is a joint euro bond that transfers debt risk from weaker countries to stronger ones. However, that idea has faced resistance from the latter who fear they could end up on the hook for less prudent borrowers' profligacy. Luis Garicano and Lucrezia Reichlin at the Centre for Economic Policy Research have come up with an idea that they say counters that objection and breaks the toxic link between banks and sovereigns. The two professors say the need for the ECB to pump money into the euro zone economy could be an opportunity for the market itself to create a euro bond -- which the ECB would then buy -- that does not lead to debt mutualization. "The ECB would merely announce the features of the synthetic bonds it will purchase," they write in a policy proposal. Regulations would have to be changed to turn the special bond into a zero-risk asset by forcing banks to set aside cash for holding bonds as currently issued by individual countries, while not requiring any provision for holding the new product. The new bond would include debt issued by euro zone members in proportion to the size of their economies and the ECB would buy only its senior tranches. The ECB has looked at similar instruments before and they could still feature in future policy, sources with knowledge of ECB thinking said.  MARKET VIEW Steven Major, global head of fixed income research at HSBC, says the proposal has "potential", especially as he sees legal and practical issues with the ECB buying government bonds. But he says it could hurt banks in southern Europe, which own large amounts of their own countries' high-yielding debt. The creation of the new product would require them to buy expensive top-rated bonds while setting aside cash for their current debt holdings. "If the proposal only works for core banks it would defeat the purpose," Major said, referring to lenders in northern Europe. "To get the benefit across the euro zone you need participation from the peripheral banks." Large holders of bonds issued by weaker, peripheral euro zone states warn that changing the regulatory treatment of existing government debt could destabilize those markets. "Next day everyone will be selling Italian bonds and you end up with potential self-fulfilling processes in the market where there's no buyers and only sellers and it becomes very disorderly," said Myles Bradshaw, European strategist at PIMCO, the world's biggest bond investor. Garicano, who calls the bank-sovereign symbiosis "diabolic", countered this by pointing to the ECB's promise to do "whatever it takes to save the euro". "I don't think it would happen for the same reason it doesn't happen now -- the ECB," the professor of economics and strategy at the London School of Economics told Reuters.  LIQUIDITY Philip Brown, a Citi banker who organizes debt sales for governments, said the low liquidity of the instrument would make it "somewhat impractical". Wrapping bits of highly liquid government bond markets into a hybrid bond in which initial trading volumes would be tiny means any buyer would demand a liquidity premium. Investors like liquid products because they can buy and sell them without significantly altering the market price. Therefore for this particular bond the buyer is likely to offer the seller a lower price than what was spent to create the product to compensate for the low liquidity, some in the market say. Garicano is not worried. "Given the large demand for safe assets, the exclusive use of these euro safe assets for liquidity purposes at banks ... and their role as the main instrument of monetary policy, this will be a highly liquid market," he said, adding that the ECB could help out in the early stages with a special facility to finance creation of the product.  (Additional reporting by John Geddie and Emelia Sithole-Matarise; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorker uses the tapping process to separate nickel ore from other elements at the nickel processing plant owned by  PT Vale Indonesia,Tbk in Sorowako of Indonesia's South Sulawesi ProvinceSYDNEY (Reuters) - Asia's factories appeared to have stepped down a gear last month as a glut of supply met a dearth of global demand, piling pressure on prices of manufactured goods and the commodities used to make them. Oil sank to its lowest in over five years on Monday, with the industrial bellwether copper not far behind. The rout spread to gold and silver while the U.S. dollar cleared seven-year peaks on the Japanese yen . Both U.S. crude  and Brent  have now fallen for five straight months, the longest losing streak since the 2008 financial crisis. With domestic and export demand softening and production growth weak, many Asian manufacturers were more reluctant to stock up on raw materials, activity surveys on Monday. While lower commodity prices are a boon to consumer spending power, they have damaging side effects in a world where official interest rates are already at historic lows in many countries. Slowing inflation acts as an unwanted tightening of policy as it pushes up real interest rates, one reason China and Japan surprised with new stimulus measures in recent weeks. It was clear in HSBC's survey of Chinese businesses which found input costs fell for a fourth straight month in November while its overall index of activity touched a six-month trough of 50.0. China's official Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) was scarcely better, slipping to 50.3 in November from October's 50.8. "Domestic demand expanded at a sluggish pace while new export order growth eased to a five-month low. Disinflationary pressures remain strong while the labor market weakened further," said Hongbin Qu, chief economist for China and co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC. "We continue to expect further monetary and fiscal easing measures to offset downside risks to growth.” After saying for months that China does not need any big economic stimulus, the central bank wrong footed markets by lowering rates in late November. China's troubles were felt broadly across the region, with South Korea reporting exports to the Asian giant fell for the first time in three months, while its measure of manufacturing activity stayed stuck in contractionary territory. In Indonesia, the HSBC Markit PMI reached the unwelcome milestone of the lowest since the survey began in April 2011 at 48.0. That was down from 49.2 in October. In Japan, the Markit/JMMA version of the PMI eased to 52.0 in November, from 52.4 the month before. The economy slipped into recession in the third quarter as the baleful impact of a hike in sales taxes lingered longer than anyone expected. Still, the extent of the contraction may have been overstated, given figures out Monday showed business investment was stronger than thought. India was a rare bright spot, as it has been for a few months now, with its PMI climbing to a 21-month high of 53.3 last month. A host of European and U.S. surveys are yet to come on Monday. The euro zone measure is expected to be barely positive at 50.4, woefully short of the U.S. ISM which is forecast to come in at 58.0.  The European Central Bank releases its latest economic estimates this week when inflation is back at a five-year low, adding to the case for more aggressive stimulus in the bloc.  (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing; Judy Hua, Stanley White; Writing by Wayne Cole; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
