SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's central bank is looking into allegations by a central government television broadcaster that Bank of China, one of the country's "big four" state-owned commercial banks, has been laundering money offshore for clients, the official Xinhua news service said on Friday. "We have noticed the media report about a commercial bank's cross-border renminbi business, and are verifying related facts," the report quoted an unidentified spokesman of the People's Bank of China. The PBOC statement quoted by Xinhua did not name the Bank of China specifically, referring instead to "a commercial bank," and it did not use the term "investigation," which often implies a degree of formality. The report in question, aired by China Central Television (CCTV), was an undercover investigation that focused on a program offered by BOC to help Chinese individuals taking part in investment emigration programs in other countries to move cash offshore. Bank of China has denied the allegations, saying the program is legal. (Reporting by Pete Sweeney; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
The Defense Department paid $8,123.50 for helicopter gears that should have cost $445.06, according to a report released by the Office of the Inspector General (IG). The charges come from a contract between the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) and Bell Helicopter Textron. The ridiculous markup was over 18 times what the military should have paid for the gears, with DLA overpaying to the tune of $9 million, the IG claims. Under the current contract, the Pentagon would overpay another $2.6 million this year.  The Inspector General recommended pursuing voluntary recovery for the overpayments, but for now, Bell isn't going along.  Bell Helicopter "does not agree with the findings or recommendations," Andy Woodward, a spokesman for Textron, told Bloomberg in a statement. There's plenty more waste where to be found, of course. The Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction has uncovered much more, like $3 million worth of boats that were bought and never used sitting idle in a Virginia warehouse and $6.3 million on vehicles that don't exist. The Defense Department also recently settled a case where Boeing overcharged to the alleged tune of $13.7 million. The charges included a $10 aluminum pin, which the Pentagon paid $2,286, according to Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn said on Thursday that it is time for investors to tread carefully after the run-up in U.S. stock markets. "In my mind, it is time to be cautious about the U.S. stock markets," Icahn said in a telephone interview. "While we are having a great year, I am being very selective about the companies I purchase." Icahn also said Family Dollar Stores Inc should think about a possible sale to Dollar General Corp. "The leadership, to say the least, is questionable at Family Dollar and it's been that way for many years," Icahn said. "Howard (Levine) might be a nice guy but he is far from the right leader for Family Dollar." Icahn added: "We believe Family Dollar and Dollar General should merge as they would make for perfect partners. It is obvious that Family Dollar, especially in light of its record and the looming competition on the horizon, could use a partner. However, unfortunately, the announcement of Dollar General Chief Executive Rick Dreiling's retirement is a setback to an activist player like us that would like to accelerate this process but it doesn't mean it is insurmountable on a long-term basis" with regards to a possible merger between Dollar General and Family Dollar. FREE AppDownload
Europe is now the fastest-growing region for venture capital investment in Bitcoin, according to CoinDesk. In its quarterly State of Bitcoin report, released Thursday, CoinDesk shows Bitcoin VC funding in Europe nearly doubled in Q2, to $30.9 million from $15.6 million in Q1. Investment in North America climbed 21% to $186.3 million. Asian funding fell 18% to $20.8 million. Here's CoinDesk's chart: CoinDesk Within Europe, Netherlands-based Bitfury, a mining hardware developer, captured the greatest share, raising $20 million. That funding round alone made the Netherlands the second-largest recipient of VC funds in the world.  We recently showed that European countries hold the top-5 positions for downloads per capita of Bitcoin's core protocol. We got further evidence of the surge in Europe today, as Barry Silbert's Bitcoin Opportunity Corp. venture capital fund announced a $250,000 investment in Stockholm-based Bitcoin service provider Safello. "In a very short period of time, the Safello team has created a leading European platform for buying, storing and selling bitcoin," Silbert said in a statement. "Their user and transaction growth is accelerating and I’m thrilled to join a group of fantastic investors to help support Safello’s rapid growth and ambitious product plans." Silbert said the opportunity in Europe is strong, though is still unlikely to match America's anytime soon. "While there is a growing number of bitcoin investment opportunities in Europe, the companies are much earlier stage and funding rounds much smaller than in the U.S.," he said in an email. "I expect that the U.S. will continue to lead the world in terms of the number of bitcoin startups and fundraising for the foreseeable future." Bitcoin prices were at $616 Thursday evening according to CoinDesk. Click here to read their full report on the state of Bitcoin »  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via AmazonCYNK Technology was the biggest story of the day. Shares of the company, which was worth more than $5 billion at one point, closed at $13.90, about 5% below where they closed yesterday to give the company of a market cap of just over $4 billion. A number of media outlets reported on CYNK during the day, but when it was all over, there were still a number of huge questions surrounding the company. Namely, who is in charge. According to CYNK's last filing with the SEC, which also said the company would no longer be filing financial reports with the SEC, the company's CEO is listed as Miguel Luis Sanchez. Attempts by Business Insider to contact Sanchez by phone were unsuccessful. The Wall Street Journal, however, reported that it reached Sanchez via email, Sanchez told the paper, "I am no longer associated with [CYNK Technology] in any way shape or form." In filings made with the OTC Market, the company lists Javier Romero as its CEO, saying that Sanchez resigned as CEO of the company on February 20 of this year. The aforementioned SEC filing was filed April 10. The OTC filings also indicate that Romero owns 210 million shares of the company, or 72% of the outstanding shares. Here's what we know about Romero, per the company's filing with the OTC Market. CYNK Technology Filings It seems Romero, like Sanchez before him, serves as not only the company's CEO, but also its president, secretary, treasurer, director.  Calls by Business Insider to the law firm representing CYNK Technology, as well as to a number listed with the company's office in Belize were not returned. But CEO change at the company is not a new phenomenon. Sanchez stepping away from CYNK makes him the third CEO, who also served as the company's only employee, to walk away. Kenneth Carter, who goes by "Kenny Blaque," was formerly the CEO and sole employee of CYNK Technology, then known as Introbuzz, when the company filed an S-1 with the SEC announcing its intent to go public.  And screenshots from Carter's Facebook page — obtained by BI's Julia LaRoche — dated February 12, 2013, or about a year after the company filed an S-1 with the SEC announcing its intent to go public, suggest Carter was excited about the debut.  Facebook BuzzFeed's Matt Zeitlin spoke to Carter, who suggested that he was involved with taking the company public, but told Zeitlin that he hasn't received any money from his affiliation with the company.  Bloomberg's Julie Hyman, however, reported on Bloomberg TV that Carter said he wasn't associated with the company when it went public. Hyman added that Carter  "professed surprise" that his name was on the documents detailing the company's intent to go public.  Hyman added that Carter told her he hasn't met Sanchez, or John Kueber, the first CEO of the company, according to OTC Market filings.  According to a summary of the stock's ownership from the company's filing with the OTC Market, it appears that Carter's 6 million shares were cancelled after he resigned on April 17, 2013.  Google Finance In a separate interview with CNBC, Carter said he, "resigned from the company because of the players." The company's S-1, however, clearly indicates that Carter was the company's CEO, CFO, accounting officer, secretary, treasurer and director at the time of the filing.  SEC Beyond the corporate control questions, however, there is still the pesky question of just who is buying and selling the stock.  Despite considerable media buzz today, the stock still traded just 386,000 of its 291 million outstanding shares. And even if one assumes that Romero isn't trading at all, there are still 81 million shares outstanding. And again, let's not forget, the company has no revenue and no assets. Late in the day StreetInsider, citing sources, said regulators were looking at trading activity in CYNK, adding that a trading halt "could be imminent." So far, nothing has happened from a regulatory standpoint. It seems that after a 25,000% gain, regulators might wonder what is going on. But CYNK Technology trades over the counter, or on an unregulated market where companies aren't held to same reporting standards as those that list on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq.  Naturally, the massive rise of CYNK in both investor awareness and its share price, had many on Twitter talking about CYNK and if it possibly signals another bubble. Probably not, but how this story unfolds, and what happens to the stock now that it has the markets attention, bears watching no matter what happens next.  FREE AppDownload
Jamesy Pena via Flickr creative commons In 1990, U.S. homelessness was most common among people in their 30s. In 2000, it was most common among people in their 40s. In 2010, it was most common among people in their 50s. Every decade, the group facing the highest risk of homelessness was born between 1954 and 1963. Problems facing this cohort of late Baby Boomers were discussed in a 2013 study published in the "Analyses of Social Issues and Public Policy." In short, they came of age in the late 70s and early 80s in a period of depressed wages for unskilled workers, higher youth and young adult unemployment, and rising rental housing costs. At the same time, they faced a proliferation of crack cocaine, leading to social problems and incarceration. "These conditions could have created an underlying vulnerability that resulted in a sustained risk for housing instability over the ensuing decades," the study concluded. Here's a chart adapted from the study showing this disturbing trend: The Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues / Business Insider A large population of aging homeless people is a worrying prospect. So is the idea that a similar cycle could be happening again. Millennials are also facing high unemployment and a steep rental housing market, while heroin and prescription drugs are becoming increasingly prevalent. Dennis P. Culhane, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania who worked on the homelessness study, told Business Insider via email that millennials in their 20s "are not yet appearing as homeless at rates greater than we would expect based on their representation in the population" but that a similar lost cohort could emerge. "All of the risk factors do seem to be present for another wave of adult homelessness," Culhane said. "And, indeed, while we don't see rates exceeding expectations yet, we do see that the proportion of homeless in their 20s is growing every year for the last five years, and that they now account for 25% of the adult homeless population." Homelessness has been declining since 2007, but it remains a significant problem — on a single January night in 2013, 610,000 people were homeless in the U.S. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of One57New York's most hotly anticipated hotel opens at the end of the summer, in the city's most buzzworthy condo building, on one of the most exclusive blocks in Manhattan. It's kind of a big deal. Park Hyatt New York aims to be the city's first new five-star hotel in more than a decade, according to Bloomberg. The 25-floor property sits at the base of the ultra-luxury condominium tower, One57, located on West 57th Street (a.k.a. "billionaires' row"). New York City currently has eight 5-star hotels — the 11-year-old Mandarin Oriental being the most recently anointed. Should Park Hyatt qualify for the Forbes Travel Guide's top rating, it has to go above and beyond, providing "room amenities including fresh flowers and wine by the glass presented in the bottle and poured by room-service staff." Upon opening, Park Hyatt will be visited by an inspector from the Forbes Travel Guide, and a second anonymous inspector, to be sure it meets the impeccable standards. A night of hospitality-bliss doesn't come cheap. Booking one of Park Hyatt's 210 guest rooms starts at $795 a night. Let's see what all the buzz is about. Welcome to One57, the second-tallest residential building in Manhattan, standing at 90 stories. It sits at the base of Central Park, and offers sweeping views of the skyline.Courtesy of ExtellThe guest rooms will be luxuriously outfitted. Hyatt and building majority owner Extell Development Co. spent an average of $1.8 million on the construction of each room. The design is clean and modern, and imitates the interior of high-end apartments.Courtesy of Park Hyatt New YorkThe rooms range from 475 to 2,239 square feet. Floor-to-ceiling windows offer plenty of natural light, and wood flooring make the upscale setting feel like home.Courtesy of Park Hyatt New YorkGuests will feel like royalty in the plush bathrooms, stocked with products by boutique perfumery Le Labo and mirrors with built-in TV screens.Courtesy of Park Hyatt New YorkThe hotel features some pretty sweet amenities, too. Here's a rendering of the spa, which has treatment suites attached to private balconies.Courtesy of Extell Development Co.The indoor pool contains underwater speakers that pipe in music from neighboring Carnegie Hall.Courtesy of Extell Development Co.Park Hyatt New York opens later this summer. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. One-Third Of Advisors Want To Buy Another Practice In The Next Five Years (Wealth Management) In the next five years, there will be plenty of buyers for financial advisor practices. According to a Financial Services Institute survey, 29% of advisors are looking to buy in the next few years, compared to 15% who are looking to sell. In the six to ten years, those numbers change to 24% and 29%, respectively. "David Grau Sr., founder of FP Transitions and author of 'Succession Planning for Financial Advisors: Building an Enduring Business', suggests there are probably even more buyers to sellers out there than the survey shows. For example, a fee-based practice in Boston bringing in $250,000 in income and 70 percent recurring revenue would get between 50 to 70 interested buyers in less than a week," Diana Britton wrote in Wealth Management. "Despite the high ratio of buyers to sellers, practices are not going to go to the highest bidder, Grau said. Instead, sellers look for buyers who are as good or better than they are but are twice the size. They then look at best geography and lastly, price and terms of the deal." How To Use Dynasty Trusts To Protect Your Assets (Wall Street Journal) Dynasty trusts were once used to ensure estate-tax exemption in case of a client's passing, but they have lost favor more recently, writes Scott Leonard founder of Navigoe LLC in a WSJ column. Dynasty trusts are also very useful in asset protection. "If a client dies, and their children who are the beneficiaries of the trust lose a lawsuit, the trust cannot be forced to pay. If a surviving spouse remarries and tries to disinherit the beneficiaries, the trust prevents that, too," Leonard said.  He said dynasty trusts also protect against legal loopholes and changes made to the estate-tax exemption. "It's an emotional, time consuming process," he writes. "A lot of times, clients don't want to set up the trust in a way that makes it seem like they are ruling from the grave. However, dynasty trusts can be written with a great deal of flexibility to ensure that future beneficiaries have substantial control over the trust provisions." SEC Will Vote On Requirements For Prime Money Funds To Float Share Price Value (Bloomberg) The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is planning to impose new requirements for money-market mutual funds. These new rules are to prevent runs similar to those in during the 2008 financial crisis. The SEC is expected to vote on July 23. "The plan would require prime institutional funds to float the value of their share price, traditionally set at a stable $1, which makes them a popular place to park cash. It also would require funds to impose a 1 percent fee on redemptions and permit them to temporarily suspend withdrawals when liquidity drops below required levels," Dave Michaels from Bloomberg reported. "The plan is intended to make money funds, which manage $2.5 trillion in assets for retail investors and corporations, less vulnerable to investors fleeing funds during a crisis. The rule wouldn’t apply to retail funds or those that predominantly invest in U.S. government and municipal securities." Schwab Study Finds RIA Firms Are Growing In Revenue And Strategy (Financial Planning) According to the Schwab Advisor Services' annual RIA Benchmarking Study, median RIA firms' assets under management are growing at an annual rate of 12.8%. Firm revenues are growing at 13.6%. The study showed that RIAs are also focused on strategic management. "On one critical front, succession planning, it found that 49% of RIA firms have a formal plan in place in 2013 -- up from 44% the previous year. And 61% firms have executed a strategic plan last year, compared with 52% of firms in 2012*. Many owners of larger RIA firms are also hiring professional management to run the day-to-day operations of the firm. According to the study, 47% of firms with over $1 billion in AUM have a chief operating officer," according to Andrew Pavia at Financial Planning. "The most popular growth strategy, cited by 80% of RIA firms in the study, is using referrals -- with 41% of firms relying on client referrals and 39% turning to business referrals." The Two Problems With Trying to "Fed-Proof" Your Portfolio (BlackRock) Investors have been preparing their portfolios for rising interest rates since the Federal Reserve's tapering announcement in May 2013, BlackRock's Del Stafford said. However, this "Fed-Proof"ing approach is leading to some unaccounted risks. "There are two main problems with the new allocation," Stafford said. 1. "It increases correlation to stocks. One of the most important aspects of fixed-income investing is that it helps diversify the portfolio from the behavior of equities. But this is not true for all bonds. The returns of a high yield index, such as the Markit iBoxx USD Liquid High Yield Index, have a correlation of 0.74 when compared to the Russell 3000 Index—even a 15% percent high-yield allocation will increase the original portfolio’s correlation to 0.42. This is a considerable jump from where it was before—zero on a historical basis." 2. "It increases sensitivity to credit spreads. Investors adding high-yield bonds expose themselves to greater credit risk—that is, the chance that spreads will change between securities and their reference points (like Treasuries). The 15% addition of high yield to the portfolio leads to almost a four-fold increase, from -0.41 to -1.60, in sensitivity to credit spreads, increasing the risk that the investor could lose money." Note: The Schwab study was updated to reflect the timing of succession planning increases.  FREE AppDownload
A few days ago we finally closed the door on any argument who the marginal buyer in the US luxury housing segment was - the answer: Chinese oligarchs, scrambling to launder their "hot" domestic money abroad (as we predicted first two years ago) and now that Switzerland is no longer a safe offshore venue where one can park cash, they picked US luxury housing as the best money laundering alternative.   This means that far from indicating a recovery, as the recent surge in the high end of the US housing segment had long been touted, all the relentless move higher in ultraluxury properties prices was simply a recycling of China's hot money, which unlike in the US, never made its way into the Chinese stock market (explaining why the Shanghai Composite has barely budged in years) and merely ended up in US real estate. If anything, this is simply another confirmation of the epic capital misallocation, and the complete lack of "trickle down" resulting from failed global central banking policies. So now that the "who" has been answered, just one question remained: "how?" How did millions of Chinese "buyers" manage to get tens of billions of yuan or dollars out of the mainland - a country which as is well-known has strict capital controls when it comes to individual and corporate offshore outflows? Under Chinese law, citizens are allowed take only the equivalent of US$50,000 out of the country each year: hardly enough to buy a storage closet in any of New York City's Central Park West duplexes. Today we learn the answer and it has to do with officially sanctioned "money laundering" services by not one but two of China's largest banks: Bank of China and also Citic. As Hong Kong's SCMP reports, A day after Bank of China (BOC) was accused by China's state broadcaster of breaking foreign exchange rules by helping people take money out of the country, it has emerged a second state bank has also been offering the service. And the biggest irony is that Citic is ultimately controlled by none other than the "State Council" or China itself. In other words, while China was prohibiting the outflow of hot money with one hand, with the other it was providing the very services it had previously forbidden!. Industry sources told the South China Morning Post yesterday that China Citic Bank - controlled by the Citic Group, which in turn is directly controlled by the State Council, China's cabinet - also facilitated the movement of currency overseas, including Hong Knog. "It is definitely not an illegal business," said one source. "Both BOC and Citic Bank have been able to do this business only after they got approval from the Guangzhou branch of the People's Bank of China. So the PBOC definitely knows what the business is about," said the source, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. "If there is any problem, it should not be a problem about whether this business is legal or illegal but more about how exactly the business is done, especially about internal risk controls and customer background checks at those banks." On Wednesday, CCTV aired footage showing an employee of a BOC branch in Guangdong coaching an undercover journalist on how to channel large sums of money overseas.  CCTV accused the bank of "blatantly offering money laundering services" and fabricating information through its money transfer platform Youhuitong. BOC said the Youhuitong service was part of a legal pilot scheme launched in 2011. It said the CCTV report "deviated from the facts" and had a "biased understanding" of Youhuitong. What is disturbing is the implication that the PBOC not only was aware of these secretive and law-breaking deals, but was effectively encouraging them: On the sidelines of the Sino-US Strategic and Economic Dialogue in Beijing yesterday, PBOC Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the central bank would need more time to investigate the situation. Analysts cast doubt on whether such a scheme that allowed for free currency exchange could exist. "The government is very concerned about hot money flows," said Teo Weechoon, a forex analyst at Nomura in Singapore. "If there was a pilot programme like this, I don't think the limit would be much higher than it already is." Industry sources said BOC and Citic Bank were chosen by the Guangzhou branch of the central bank in late 2011 and late 2012 respectively to join the pioneer programme, which was part of Beijing's efforts to better manage its huge foreign exchange reserves - the world's largest at over US$4 trillion. And sure enough, where two of the largest Chinese banks were involved, many other were sure to follow: "a report by the official Shanghai Securities News yesterday said China Construction Bank offered similar services." We expect to learn soon that virtually every domestic bank was breaking regulations, with the PBOC's blessing of course, and allowing residents to quietly transfer their funds from China to the US, London, Zurich and any other venue where Chinese oligarchs wanted to park their cash. Finally, "why"? Well, from the individual's standpoint taking money away from China's corrupt system and "investing" it in the US housing market certainly seems like far more safe proposition. But why would the PBOC agree to quietly bless this activity which it has, at least openly, blasted vocally in the past? Simple - to keep inflation in check. Recall that China is a country which creates nearly $4 trillion in bank deposits every year. Also recall that back in 2011 China nearly chocked when inflation briefly soared out of control, leading to sporadic "Arab Spring" type riots in various cities. And since China simply can not reduce the pace of its loan creation at the macro level without crushing the economy, what it needs is to find outlets - legal or otherwise - that permit the outflow of funds. Which is why it is not at all surprising that as SCMP reports, the scheme was launched in 2011, just as China's scary encounter with soaring inflation was unfolding and Beijing needed a fast way to solve the overabundance of domestic liquidity. Basically at that point the central bank agreed to keep its eyes shut as wealthy oligarchs transferred funds to developed world nations, something the US government and NAR were delighted by as it kept real estate prices (if only at the very top) soaring, dragging the entire housing market higher with them. Furthermore recall: the one thing the Fed has wanted more than anything for the past several years is inflation. And since the US economy is nowhere near strong enough to create the kind of inflation needed, with the bulk of the Fed's reserves ending up in the capital markets and the latest and greatest credit bubble, the Fed would be more than happy to import some of China's inflation from it, even if that means a housing market which at the upper end is no longer accessible to anyone but the 0.0001%. Indeed, this summary explains everyone's intentions to keep the scheme afloat for as long as possible, at least until CCTV busted it and laid it out for all 1+ billion Chinese, most of whom are not oligarchs and can't take advantage of the PBOC-sanctioned loophole. So what happens next? Assuming there is the anticipated resulting backlash and crackdown on Chinese banks, which will finally enforce the $50K/year outflow limitation, this could well be the worst possible news not only for Chinese inflation, which suddenly - no longer having a convenient outlet for the unprecedented liquidity formed in the country every month - is set to soar, but also for the ultra-luxury housing in the US. Because without the Chinese bid in a market in which the Chinese are the biggest marginal buyer scooping up real estate across the land, sight unseen, and paid for in laundered cash (which the NAR blissfully does not need to know about due to its AML exemptions), watch as suddenly the 4th dead cat bounce in US housing since the Lehman failure rediscovers just how painful gravity really is. FREE AppDownload
 There's been a virtual civil war happening in the battle to create the next generation of motor vehicles. The battle is between plug-ins and fuel cells. You may have heard more about about plug-ins thanks to Tesla, which has single handedly revived the market for a technology that was otherwise going nowhere. Tesla's foe — and indeed, that is how Elon Musk regards the technology — is fuel-cell vehicles, which run on hydrogen.  Fuel-cell vehicles have seen their own recent jolt thanks to more established automakers like Toyota, which just got a major boost from the Japanese government in the form of fuel-cell vehicle subsidies. At least three other major automakers plan to release FCVs in the near future.  Tesla is enjoying lots of momentum — its shares are up about 50% this year — and the company has embarked on an unprecedented capex odyssey to double the world's supply of lithium ion batteries and expand its charging networks. Can they really be derailed by fuel cells? Or could the two technologies even learn to get along someday?  Let's back up for a moment. Fuel cells take hydrogen and turn it into electricity. The most common way of doing this involves charging a special material, called a proton exchange membrane, to separate out the proton and electron from a hydrogen atom. The electron gets captured as electricity, then recombines with the proton and a supply of oxygen and comes out as water.   UAF If you stack a bunch of these guys together, you get a fuel cell. Here's what it looks like in the inside of a car. There's only a motor in the front; the fuel cell is in the middle of the car.   The principal advantage of fuel-cell vehicles is that you don't have to plug them in. Instead, you simply go to a fuel station and refill your car with hydrogen. Battery electrics, on the other hand, require you to leave your car at a charging station for hours (or a little more than an hour in the case of a Tesla). Environmentally, while neither generate direct emissions, creating the hydrogen, and the raw electricity for batteries, requires burning fossil fuels upstream at a power plant. So, neither is truly emission free. However, there remain huge gaps in fuel cells' charging networks, while those for battery electric are much more widespread. Here's the map for fuel cells: Netinform.net And for battery-electric charging stations: PlugShare Despite its Fremont digs, Tesla does not rule the California roost. The state plans to have 25 hydrogen fueling stations operating by fall of next year capable of handling 4,000 new vehicles. A new study says existing gasoline stations can safely store and dispense hydrogen, which could allow that figure to jump. In fact, many hydrogen vehicles start out being only available in California. And because of how the state's complex emissions credit rules are calculated, hydrogen-powered vehicles earn more points for range and speed of refueling than do battery-electric cars, according to GreenCarReports. Indeed, the California Air Resources Board projected in 2012 that there would eventually be more fuel cells on the road than battery electrics: CARB Governor Jerry Brown recently signed an executive order calling for 1.5 million zero-emission vehicles on California roadways by 2025. The state is actually one of eight states that together hope to put 3.3 million zero-emission. The program's incentives are fuel source-agnostic.   Getting cheaper ... at least automakers hope so To date, most fuel-cell infrastructure has been directed toward power plants that run on hydrogen. A recent note from Navigant Research indicates more sectors are looking to fuel cells to provide sources of power independent of the grid in case of natural disasters. Fuel cells have also found their way into warehouses — Wal-Mart has been using fuel cells as cost- and labor-saving devices for its forklifts; they allow for lower refueling times. Fuel cell automakers are hoping all this capacity spills over — Toyota, Ford, GM, and Hyundai all plan to roll out new FCVs. Adam Jonas says they don't have much choice: He sees their push as the result of failing to make a good enough plug-in electric. "We are not aware of any recent breakthrough in the field of hydrogen fuel cells," he wrote in a recent note. "What we are aware of, however, is a failure of most EVs to achieve their stated volume targets." He calls their doubling down on fuel cells, "a diversionary tactic to slow down, if not completely reset, a regulatory framework scripted to support mass adoption of EVs that don’t appear ready for prime time."   FREE AppDownload
Christian Charisius/ReutersTwenty years ago, one bond-trading hedge fund grew from launch to over $100 billion in assets in less than three years. It saw yearly returns of over 40 percent. It was run by finance veterans, PhDs, professors, and two Nobel Prize winners. Everyone on Wall Street wanted a piece of their profits. But by 1998, that firm was primed to expose America's largest banks to more than $1 trillion in default risks. The demise of the firm, Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM), was swift and sudden. In less than one year, LTCM had lost $4.4 billion of its $4.7 billion in capital. The entire story is recounted in Roger Lowenstein's book, 'When Genius Failed', with details on the specific strategies and financial theories employed by Long-Term. It's an absolute must-read for anyone working on Wall Street, so we've summarized the basics for you in ten slides. This story has all the players — the Federal Reserve, which finally stepped in and organized a bailout, and all the major banks that did the heavy lifting: Bear Stearns, Salomon Smith Barney, Bankers Trust, J.P. Morgan, Lehman Brothers, Chase Manhattan, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, and Goldman Sachs.  In desperate need of a $4 billion bailout, the crumbling firm was at the mercy of the banks it had once snubbed and manipulated. Consider this a history lesson. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinPeople surround a clergyman reading a prayer at a temporary tent camp set up for Ukrainian refugees in the town of Novoshakhtinsk in Rostov region near the Ukrainian-Russian border, southern Russia, July 9, 2014. Stocks fell, but recovered some losses after opening deep in the red on uncertainty out of Europe. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) This morning, weekly initial jobless claims fell to 304,000 from 315,000 a week ago. The report was also better than the 315,000 initial claims that was expected by economists. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Looks great, but expect volatility over the next four weeks... Sooner or later — presumably next week — the auto shutdowns will hit the claims data, so we have to expect substantial neat-term volatility, though today's report likely is reasonable reflection of the favorable underlying trend." 2) The top stock story of the day was CYNK Technology, a $5 billion social networking company that has no revenue, no assets, and just one employee. Shares of CYNK Technology, which trade over the counter, were up better than 25,000% since June 17, and after trading up as much as 30% today, closed down 5%, giving the company an end of day market cap of just over $4 billion. The company operates a social networking site, IntroBiz.com, which connects members to celebrities, among other people, for free. Though seeing as the company has no revenue, it is unclear what the status of the business is.  3) This morning, stocks in Europe fell, bringing U.S. stock futures down with them, after the parent company of the second-largest bank in Portugal, Banco Espirito Santo, missed debt payments to "a few clients." Following the news, Bloomberg economists David Powell and Maxime Sbaihi said, "Problems in Portugal's banking sector appear to have worried investors over the solvency of the country." Powell and Sbaihi also noted that the public finances of Portugal are among the most fragile in the eurozone. Additionally, both Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal reported that Spanish bank Banco Popular Espanol postponed a planned debt sale citing, "adverse market conditions." 4) Also in Europe, industrial production in France fell 3.7% year-over-year, a steeper decline than the 1% drop that was expected by economists. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Claus Vistesen said, "We are running out of downbeat adjectives to describe the data in France, with the headline numbers from the French industrial production report truly appalling." Inflation data in France also disappointed, showing prices increased just 0.5% in June, less than the 0.7% increase in May and the 0.7% increase expected by economists. 5) Italy reported industrial production that fell 1.2% month-over-month in May, putting its economic recovery in doubt. Along with discouraging news out of the Spanish and Portuguese financial sectors, Italy's poor results put renewed focus on the European periphery, which has seen a tepid recovery since the Eurozone crisis.  5) In U.S. corporate news, CNBC reported that Marcus Lemonis, the host of CNBC's "The Profit," is nearing a deal, along with a group of investors, to buy Crumbs Bake Shop. Shares of Crumbs, which shut its doors Monday, went absolutely bonkers following the news, gaining more than 1,100%.  6) Lumber Liquidators stock got crushed, falling 21% after the flooring company last night said customer traffic was weaker than expected. Lumber Liquidators became the latest in a series of U.S. corporations to report disappointing results, joining The Container Store and Family Dollar.  Don't Miss: A 'Social Networking' Stock Has Exploded 25,000% In A Few Days, And It's Not Even Clear If The Company Exists » FREE AppDownload
FlickrIt's time to look under the hood of this clunker and see what we're driving around here. On Friday morning, Wall Street's biggest banks kicked off earnings with Wells Fargo, but the real action starts Monday when Citigroup reports. Why? Because what everyone will be looking at is investment-bank trading revenue — or the lack thereof — and how it affected Wall Street's bottom line in the second quarter. The warnings have been coming since this spring when JPMorgan forecast a 20% quarter-over-quarter decline in trading revenue. Citigroup CFO John Gerspach said much of the same at a separate conference. Day after day, traders have watched in horror as volume and volatility withered across asset classes and just dried up. Goldman SachsInterest rates and volatility have remained low, and heads are rolling at fixed-income desks up and down the Street. The carnage already started at Morgan Stanley, and there are reports that the fixed-income trading staff at Goldman Sachs will see the layoffs soon as well. Since no one needs to execute trades, brokers are suffering too, as you can see from the chart below from BTIG's chief global strategist, Dan Greenhaus. Dan Greenhaus, BTIGThis is just how diseases spread on Wall Street. Last month, JPMorgan CFO Marianne Lake said "too much capacity" in bond and currency trading could lead to revenue so anemic that layoffs and compensation cuts may have to be made throughout JPM's investment bank — the biggest investment bank in the world. That means sectors outside the land of trading doldrums may have to take a hit if the ratio between revenue and compensation reached unsavory levels — those levels being something like 35%. Lake said this was a "cyclical" issue, problem is that no one knows when the cycle will end. So what we're about to see is how bad "bad" really is. Here's what analysts are estimating, according to Bloomberg: • Citigroup (reporting Monday): Q2 revenue of $18.9 billion expected, down from $20.5 billion in Q2 2013. • Goldman Sachs (reporting Tuesday): Q2 revenue of $8.0 billion expected, down from $8.6 billion in Q2 2013. • JPMorgan (reporting Tuesday): Q2 revenue of $23.8 billion expected, down from $25.2 billion in Q2 2013. • Bank of America (reporting Wednesday): Q2 revenue of $21.8 billion expected, down from $22.9 billion in Q2 2013. • Morgan Stanley (reporting Thursday): Q2 revenue of $8.4 billion expected, down from $8.5 billion in Q2 2013. Strap in, people — this could get bumpy. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderBusiness Insider is looking for paid interns to join our editorial team this fall! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) if their schedule allows. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks and drinks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too.Verticals looking for help this fall include:Main PageLifeListsRetailMilitaryFinanceSportsEducationYour Money Apply here with a resume and cover letter if interested. Please also briefly describe which one or two BI section(s) interest you most and why. And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs for approximately six months, with some flexibility on start and end dates. FREE AppDownload
Many Americans hope to earn and save enough money to afford a home. However in certain parts of the country, home prices are booming while wages are barely inching up and in some instances are contracting. "Average wages per worker rose less than 1% in 2013 in all but one of the 10 metros with the largest price increases," writes Jed Kolko at Trulia. "Nationally, asking prices (year-over-year in June 2014) rose faster than wages per worker (year-over-year in 2013) in 95 of the 100 largest metros." Interestingly the biggest home price gains are no longer in the west, but in the South and Midwest. TruliaNote: Wage data is derived from the BLS' quarterly census of employment and wages (QCEW). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Svitzer/HandoutThe 47,230 tonne Liberian-flagged Rena lists, about 12 nautical miles (22 km) from Tauranga, on the east coast of New Zealand's North Island October 15, 2011, more than a week after it struck the Astrolabe Reef. Shares of CYNK Technology, a $5 billion company that has no revenue and one employee, have gone negative and are down 16%. Earlier in the day, the stock was up as much as 30%. And over the last month, the stock rose more than 25,000%, going from $0.10 to more than $21 earlier today in just a handful of trading days.  And according to a Tweet from StreetInsider, regulators are looking into shares of CNYK. Sources inform StreetInsider that regulators are activity looking at $CYNK. A trading halt could be imminent $$ http://t.co/VXWiK2qIxz Here's a chart of the last three days of trading in CYNK. Google Finance Despite the company's meteoric rise over the last few days, there haven't been a ton of shares changing hands.  According to Google Finance, just 245,000 of the 291 million outstanding shares have traded hands today, so it remains to be seen how traders who bid the stock up will get out of their positions as the price falls. FREE AppDownload
Although jobs in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) are often viewed as important for America's future, it turns out that only about 37% of college graduates with degrees in STEM fields actually end up in STEM or STEM-related jobs. The U.S. Census Bureau just released an analysis of relationships between college majors and occupations, based on data from the 2012 American Community Survey, and the results are very interesting. This chart from the Census Bureau shows the proportions of male and female college graduates with degrees in various majors that end up working in a STEM occupation. For most majors, even STEM majors, only a small number of graduates go on to work in STEM jobs: US Census BureauProbably the most striking result is that, while about half of math, computer, statistics, and engineering majors end up in STEM jobs, only a quarter or fewer of other STEM majors actually go into jobs in their fields. About 26% of physical science majors work in STEM jobs, and just over 7% of social science majors go into the STEM field. Meanwhile, only a tiny fraction of people with degrees outside of STEM fields go on to work jobs in those fields. There are about 9.1 million college graduates with business degrees — the single most common major in the U.S. — but only about 600,000, or 6.5% of the total group, are in STEM fields. A tiny 1.8% of education majors go on to work in STEM occupations. The Census also has a cool interactive graphic that shows what jobs people from different STEM majors actually end up in.  This chart shows where people majoring in math, computers, or statistics end up. On the left are the different STEM major groups, and on the right are different occupations. The thickness of each line connecting majors on the left to occupations on the right is proportional to the number of people with degrees in the major who have jobs in each occupation. Orange lines are for STEM jobs; grey lines are for non-STEM jobs: US Census BureauA huge number of math, computer, and statistics majors end up working in computer jobs. About half of these majors end up scattered among non-STEM fields. Similarly, about half of engineering majors go into STEM jobs, with the bulk of those naturally being engineers: US Census BureauMeanwhile, only about a quarter of physical science majors go into STEM fields, with the rest taking a variety of jobs in other fields: US Census BureauOnly about 15% of biological, environmental, and agricultural science majors go into STEM jobs, although many go into the STEM-related field of health care: US Census Bureau FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jordan JohnsonChanging your financial state  requires a kind of time travel to commune with your future self.  Where do you want to be in 10, 20 years? Are you on the right path, or heading in the wrong direction? The time value of money—that is, how savings, investments and debt levels compound with the passing of years—means that money habits, good or bad, created when we start to earn cash echo into the decades that follow. And a whispered bit of wisdom up front can keep you from howling over your mistakes later in life. We polled our NerdWallet network of Ask an Advisor certified financial planners about the greatest regrets and lessons you should learn in your 20s, 30s and 40s. (Click here for our post about your 20s.) Taken together, these could be considered 12 steps toward securing your financial future. And they all hinge on two keys skills we must learn—and often relearn—in our money lives: prepare and stick to a budget, and establish good savings habits. Regret is a great fulcrum for change. By the time you reach your 30s, your attitudes toward cash (hopefully) have matured, tempered by past mistakes and informed by new responsibilities. “People in their 30s are approaching that time in their life where they will have many life milestones: marriage, children and a new home,” says Jeremy S. Office, principal of Maclendon Wealth Management in Delray Beach, Florida. “By this time, you should have paid down (or paid off) student debts, settled into your career, and are probably thinking about starting a family. Hopefully the financial habits you set in your 20s will provide you with the knowledge of what you can save and afford to do.” Still, the lure of easy credit that an established career brings can set up pitfalls, especially if you judge yourself against more-well-heeled friends and family. “Perception is not necessarily reality. Nice clothes, expensive cars and homes are not what they are cracked up to be, and are more of a liability than an asset,” says Anika Hedstrom, senior financial analyst and advisor for SkyOak Financial in Medford, Oregon. “Avoid the ‘gotta’s—I gotta have this, I gotta have that, I gotta have it now,” adds Michael Keeler, president of GFS &amp; Association in Las Vegas. “Credit is easy to get and easy to abuse. Live within your means.” The bigger problem in marriages is not incompatibility or infidelity, but rather mismatched ideas about money. Know your partner’s money personality and find the middle ground—fast. The good news: A recent study found that millennials are better at having “the money talk” than older couples. “Discover your partner’s money personality before you get married, and go through counseling if necessary. This alone can help minimize arguments of money, establish mutual expectations for using your money and create a shared vision or purpose for the future,” William Pitney, a financial advisor with Focus YOU in Foster City, California, says. “Once married, have a monthly big-picture review of your finances so you can monitor your progress toward your goals and make adjustments as necessary.” There’s no greater joy than having a child—and no greater challenge to your finances. “Child care expenses alone could add over $10,000 a year on average to your expenses for the first few years,” says Shannon L. McLay of Next-Gen Financial. If budgeting and savings haven’t been a part of your life, having a kid will kick-start that habit (and leave you kicking yourself for not starting sooner). Child care is costly, and college bills are not so far away. “If not by now, the habit of saving can be expanded to include other priorities you may have,”Larry R. Frank Sr. of Better Financial Education says. “That emergency fund from your 20s? Keep it full, too.” The largest purchase most people make is of a home. Although down payments may vary, advisors suggest having at least 20% saved for a down payment to determine “how much home” you can afford. But should you buy? The lure of building equity versus the expediency of renting comes down to one thing, really: How long do you think you’ll stay put? “If your job has you moving or changing income a lot, best rent,” Frank says. “Buying high and selling before you can profit is how you lose your shirt.” If you do decide to buy, “negotiate hard to get a great mortgage,” says Bonnie Sewell, a certified financial planner based in Leesburg, Virginia. If your career has you moving before you planned, “you could keep [the house] and rent [it] out, creating an investment asset.” But that can be a slippery slope if you’re not prepared for the added responsibilities of managing two homes in two locations. Be it your 401(k) retirement account, 529 accounts for your child’s education, life insurance or other investments, compound interest is a magical thing. This is the time to sprinkle that fairy dust in your financial life. “As we all know, compounding is the eighth wonder of the world,” Seasholtz says. “Time and even a small amount of money adds up over the years; I still have my investment I began when I was 26 years old.” “If your employer offers a retirement plan, participate, even if it just seems like a drop in the bucket,” Houchins-Witt adds. “The drops will eventually fill the bucket.” If you were careless with your cash but didn’t have any regrets before, you certainly do now. That’s OK. “Life happens,” Pitney says. Don’t go into greater debt as a way to jumpstart investing. “For 40s, realize that debt service depletes usable money in a family’s after-tax, lifetime income pool,” says J Kevin Stophel,principal at KumQuat Wealth in Chattanooga, Tennessee. “Don’t think investments will necessarily outperform debt service, particularly unsecured credit.” “Realize that the science of happiness informs us that it isn’t about things but is about relationships and experiences,” he adds. “Focus on these instead of bigger, better, more.” As about half of marriages end in divorce, it’s important to protect your financial independence. Some couples are able to amicably separate their assets, agree on alimony and leave each person’s credit rating in tact. For others, that is easier said than done. “Divorce is not fun. Its not going to be an easy thing, so don’t kid yourself,” Hedstrom says. “It can get nasty. Protect yourself, use experts and make sure you always maintain your independence.” This includes knowing all of your and your spouse’s outstanding debts, account balances, and bills and due dates. Ultimately, Sewell advises, “both spouses should understand the money!” Put your 401(k) into overdrive. If you aren’t already doing full employer contributions, do it. It might also be time to tip the savings balance from your kid’s education to your retirement. Your kids can get low-interest loans for college; there’s no low-interest loan for retirement. “If you are behind on your retirement planning because of your [own] student loans, then your 40s are the perfect time to kick-start the retirement plan rather than boosting the education fund [for your child],” McLay says. Adds Houchins-Witt: “As your income increases, increase your retirement savings. You won’t notice it as much if you increase your contributions each time you get a raise.” And continue to build upon the foundation you set in your 20s. “That emergency fund? Keep it still—you’ll have to have that until you retire—and yup, it will become the first dollars you can spend once you retire,” Frank says. “Retirement sounds like a long ways away, right? Graduating high school or college was just yesterday, wasn’t it?! In the blink of an eye, here’s the grandkids!” Now that you have people counting on you, it’s time to plan for the worst. Life insurance matters. There are two major types: term life insurance, which covers a specific length of time (say, 10 or 20 years), and permanent (or whole) life insurance, which continues for as long as you live. Premiums for term policies are cheaper because the insurance lasts only a limited time, whereas those for permanent policies are more expensive largely because they provide guaranteed cash value for your beneficiaries. “Term insurance is pure insurance, while permanent insurance is part insurance and part investment (with many moving parts, and a much higher cost),” says Jarrett Topel, owner of Topel &amp; DiStasi Wealth Management in Berkley, California. “Term life insurance is like renting, and permanent life insurance is like owning. And, while we would all love to be owners versus renters, until you have significant assets and incomes, renting often makes the most sense.” Len Cohen, owner of CF Services Group in Gaithersburg, Maryland, notes: “Some term insurance policies are convertible. This means that they can be exchanged for permanent policies during the initial term period in the same underwriting class, with no medical questions. Since you cannot be certain that your health will still be good in 10 or 20 years when you are more financially solvent, this is a very important feature.” So maybe you’re deep in credit card debt, you have no life insurance and saving for retirement feels like a fantasy. Here’s the thing: You still have two or three decades of working life ahead. It’s never too late to start. “Meeting with a professional planner is perhaps the most important thing you can do to begin preparing yourself for life’s largest expenses: 20 to 30 years or more of retirement and paying for a college education,” Pitney says. “Many life events seem to derail plans, but minor changes in your 40s can have significant payoffs down the road.” FREE AppDownload
Six Flags in New Jersey has built something really scary. But we like adventure, so we put a GoPro on and went along for the ride. Watch to see what it feels like to drop more than 400-feet in under ten seconds. Produced by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AP Photo/Alex BrandonHome sales in the U.S. has rallied recently as job creation accelerated, the weather improved, and mortgage rates eased. However, prices have been cooling off. The latest Case-Shiller data showed that the national average home price growth decelerated to just 0.2% month-over-month in April, while CoreLogic's data showed prices inched up by just 0.1%. We've previously pointed out that the decline in distressed properties, has actually skewed national average home prices upward in the Case-Shiller data. "Measures which exclude distressed sales from the calculation of house prices are rising at a slower pace than those which include this in-demand segment of homes," writes Diggle. This slowdown in home price growth seems to be "here to stay," writes Paul Diggle at Capital Economics.  "The primary reason that house price gains are set to slow further is the loosening in housing supply conditions," writes Diggle. The U.S. housing market has been dealing with tight supply, with a key issue being housing obsolescence — "properties that are no longer desirable because their characteristics do not match what buyers are looking for in a home," Mark Fleming at CoreLogic wrote earlier this year.  This includes homes that are in locations which are no longer popular or in neighborhoods that lack the amenities people want. "Admittedly, the decline in the months’ supply of unsold stock on the market in May is consistent with house price inflation flattening off at its current level," according to Diggle. "But if supply conditions loosen further as we expect, house price inflation will continue to moderate." Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
The South China Sea is a powder keg of territorial claims mixed with oil and gas resources. Almost every country in the area has a longstanding animus toward at least one of its neighbors. China claims 90% of the Sea, and Beijing is viewed with fear and suspicion throughout the region. The U.S. and Chinese militaries are both entrenched there — Japan is slowly building its military capabilities in the face of a perceived Chinese threat while Vietnam and the Philippines are emerging as regional players.   The South China sea is where the world’s next major interstate power struggle will play out. Any blowup there will almost necessarily involve China and the U.S., which have the two largest economies on earth. But the confrontation has already begun, with China claiming everything within its now-infamous "nine-dash line," and nearly all of its neighbors involved in disputes along the line's edges. Between April and June of 2014, Japan scrambled its fighter jets 340 times "in response to feared incursions on its airspace." What's still unclear is just how bad things could plausibly get there.  Here are the South China Sea’s major flash points: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
ReutersCNBC host Marcus Lemonis and a group of investors are nearing a deal to buy Crumbs Bake Shop, CNBC is reporting. News of the potential deal sent the stock soaring more than 1600% to 52 cents per share on Thursday afternoon. “The company has limited cash, and we are trying to come up with a situation that allows the company to remain viable,” Lemonis told the Los Angeles Times. “We are in the final stages of working on a plan to get the stores reopened and people rehired.” Crumbs closed all of its stores Monday after years of sales declines. The closures came one week after the company's shares were delisted from the Nasdaq stock exchange. Lemonis is the chairman and CEO of Camping World and Good Sam Enterprises and star of CNBC's "The Profit," in which he provides financing to struggling businesses to help them execute a turnaround. The group of investors also includes the Fischer family, who own Dippin' Dots.  Crumbs CEO and General Counsel Edward Slezak confirmed to the Wall Street Journal that the company was considering restructuring options. "We know that everyone has an emotional connection to the Crumbs brand and its products, and we're pleased to be in talks with various interested parties that are allowing us to pursue all of our options for the business, which includes consideration of restructuring alternatives," Slezak told the Journal. Crumbs was founded in 2003 with a single bakery in Manhattan's Upper West Side and eventually expanded to 79 stores across the country. Roughly 800 full- and part-time workers were laid off as a result of the store closures. FREE AppDownload
It's tough on Wall Street right now, especially for the men and women who've built their careers in the bond market. Trading volumes and volatility are very low, and heads are already rolling.  But there are some safe places to land. Mid-sized firms, less encumbered by post-financial crisis regulation, are taking this opportunity to take on the big banks in specific sectors where they see weakness. That's why Oppenheimer has been snapping up bond traders, salespeople, and researchers left and right. "As money center banks continue to have conflicts, we continue to benefit across the firm," said Rob Lowenthal, a senior managing director and head of fixed income for Oppenheimer. "We have no plans of how big we want to get but, we can continue growing." This is what that growth has looked like so far: trading desks in London, New York City, Tel Aviv, and Hong Kong; a quintupling of revenue from the fixed-income sector; high net worth, middle market, and tier one institutional clients; and (this is key) monthly "transparent" pay. And of course, on Wall Street "transparent" means competitive enough to make it worth a top employee's while. Right now, word  is that — if the pay is right — a research role in this sector could get you a base salary of $125,000-$150,000 with a nice bonus upside. A research sales or sales trader could see a $200,000 base plus a bonus and stock options.  Not that anyone on Wall Street likes to talk specifics about things like that. "Those at large banks don't necessarily know how they're going to get paid and it usually only happens once a year," said Lowenthal. "Our model is strictly commission based ... paid out monthly, and paid in cash — not in stock. The frequency and the form of the payment makes for a very transparent compensation discussion." And so the bond vets have gone over — from MetLife, from Fitch, from Jefferies, and from Citigroup to name a few. They picked up a bunch of taxable fixed-income hired from Merrill Lynch, too. Hires tend to come from referrals. In other words, it seems like if you're on the life raft, you can pull some of your best colleagues up with you.  FREE AppDownload
Yesterday we wrote about the strange case of CYNK Technology. The company's stock gained nearly 25,000% in 16 trading days, giving it a market cap of over $5 billion. But, as we noted, it's not clear if the company really exists, as financial statements indicate that it has no revenue, assets, or full-time employees. But there is a website, IntroBiz.com, that the company operates, not that this makes the picture much clearer. CYNK Technology appears to operate the website IntroBiz.com, a social network (the site calls it a "social marketplace"), where users pay to be introduced to business professionals or celebrities. Or at least, this is what it seems like the site does. Here's the homepage. introbiz.com Here's what you find under the "entertainment" tab on IntroBiz. IntroBiz.com Chances seem low that you'd be able to get connected with Emma Watson, or Charlize Theron, or Leonardo DiCaprio for $50, via IntroBiz or otherwise. The ability to connect with these celebrities is marketed by artistblackbook, one of two "top socialites" on IntroBiz.com. IntroBiz.com artistblackbook and worldtalent appear to be the only two "socialites" on IntroBiz. But the numbers don't make a ton of sense. We're not exactly sure what the difference between an "introduction" and a "sale" is, but since the company hasn't reported any revenue apparently neither makes the company any money. But neither artistblackbook nor worldtalent has any followers. IntroBiz.com Under the "business professionals" tab, you can buy connections to professionals in different areas, like consulting, motivational speaking, and fitness. IntroBiz.com And the individual pages for some of these people are quite interesting. "Harvey Bird: The Fitness Guru," for example, says to prospective customers: "I am experienced in sculpting the body." Harvey Bird's offer, which seems basically like some health and fitness consulting (though only a diet plan, not a fitness one, is marketed) also has a great deal for members who pay from their IntroBiz account: $5 off a $1,500 offer. IntroBiz.com The most expensive service on the site appears to be storytelling. For $5000, John Sterd offers to help clients tell their "story" (quotes his) and "engage people." This package has apparently been purchase 23 times, and after 11 votes has a five-star rating. It is also a worldtalent product. IntroBiz.com As of 10:30 a.m. ET, shares of CYNK Technology were trading at nearly $16, up nearly 8% from yesterday. It remains to be seen how the stock story — which at this point is certainly divorced from any business plans the company has — plays out. IntroBiz indicates that there has some buying and selling going on, but it appears this hasn't resulted in any revenues for CYNK Technology. Eventually, something's got to give.   FREE AppDownload
The Indian rupee tumbled against the U.S. dollar after finance minister Arun Jaitley unveiled the country's latest budget. The budget maintained a fiscal deficit target of 4.1% of GDP. Analysts had widely expected that target to be revised up to 4.5%. Moreover, the target for 2016-2017 was lowered to 3% of GDP. Many were disappointed by the budget's failure to clarify how it would arrive at its goals.  Ahead of the budget, Kunal Kumar Kundu at Societe Generale wrote that markets would not be disappointed if the deficit was higher "as long as there is a clear roadmap toward fiscal consolidation in the near future." India's high fiscal deficit has posed a risk to its credit rating and limits government expenditure and investment. It also risks deterring investors foreign investment. "All in all, we suspect Mr Jaitley may come to regret adopting his predecessor’s target as his own," wrote Mark Williams at Capital Economics. "Meeting the target would cause an unwelcome drag on the economy - particularly if asset sales fall short and spending has to be cut – when confidence is only slowly starting to return. But missing it or employing more creative accounting to ensure it is met would do nothing for investor confidence either." Narendra Modi came to power in May in the world's largest democratic election. And pressure is mounting on the new prime minister to help revive the Indian economy. The rupee tumbled 0.7% against the greenback to 60.2050 per dollar. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesAs the average cost of higher education in America continues to rise, at least 50 American colleges and universities are now charging students more than $60,000 per year. We found these numbers by examining the average cost of tuition, fees, room, and board that an incoming student would face over the 2014-15 academic year. Check out a more in-depth breakdown of the 20 most expensive colleges here &gt;&gt; While these direct costs are a significant portion of the total cost of college, they alone do not reveal the true financial burden of higher education — students are also responsible for paying for textbooks, travel costs, and, of course, any social expenses. These "indirect costs" can often add up to an extra $2,000. The most expensive school in the country for the upcoming school year is Harvey Mudd College, charging $64,527 — $48,694 in tuition and fees, and $15,833 for room and board. Last year, only nine colleges charged more than $60,000. New York University — then the most expensive school — cost $61,977. Here are the 50 colleges and university that now charge more than $60,000 a year: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Jill Comoletti contributed research to this article.
Thomson ReutersTailwing of a model Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft is pictured at the Boeing booth at the Singapore AirshowNEW YORK (Reuters) - Boeing Co made its most bullish 20-year forecast for jetliner demand since 2011, saying on Thursday the world will need 36,770 new planes worth $5.2 trillion by 2033. The company's annual projection is up 4.2 percent from its 2013 forecast, and it predicted beating rival Airbus Group NV in the lucrative market for twin-aisle planes as the planes are built and delivered over the next two decades. "If Airbus doesn't do something with their product strategy, they're headed to 30-35 percent market share" in deliveries of next-generation twin-aisle aircraft, Randy Tinseth, Boeing's vice president of marketing, told reporters in a briefing. Boeing's 787 and 777X jets already make up 65 percent of all current orders, with the Airbus A350 accounting for the rest, and that gap will widen unless Airbus develops another jet as a competitor, he said. Planes are delivered years after orders are placed, so the final numbers may change as airlines change their plans. Airbus has disputed Boeing's numbers, saying it is already winning most orders in twin-aisle aircraft when looking at recent years. Airbus is considering embarking on development of such a jet, and may launch the project at the Farnborough Airshow next week. The jet, dubbed the A330neo, would be a revamped version of Airbus' twin-aisle A330 jetliner with new efficient engines made by Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC. Boeing's annual forecast, released in conjunction with the airshow, said single-aisle airplanes such as the 737 and A320 will garner the most orders, reflecting booming demand for air travel in Asia and the growth of low-cost carriers there. Last year Boeing predicted a 20-year need for 35,280 planes valued at $4.8 trillion. About 40 percent of single-aisle planes built in the next two decades will go to low-cost carriers, and a large share of will be in China, Tinseth said. He predicted China would overtake the United States as the world's largest domestic air travel market in the next 20 years. Twin-aisle planes also will attract strong demand. But Boeing notched back its forecast for jumbo jets such as the Boeing 747 and Airbus A380. It expects airlines to need about 620 of those over the next 20 years, down from the 760 it forecast last year. "That's the market that has really struggled to take hold," Tinseth said. Boeing expects airlines to buy 25,680 new single-aisle planes over 20 years, and that the global fleet will double to 42,180. About 58 percent of those planes will represent growth at airlines. The rest will replace retired aircraft. Boeing cut its forecast for air-cargo growth this year to 4.7 percent from 5 percent in 2013, but said the trend is stable and will continue to support production of the 747-8 freighter and freight versions of its popular 777 jet. (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Additional reporting by Tim Hepher in London; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
LumberLiquidators.comShares of Lumber Liquidators are crashing right now. The stock is down 19% early in the U.S. trading session. "Customer traffic to our stores was significantly weaker than we expected, particularly in geographic areas severely impacted by the unusually harsh weather in the first quarter," explained CEO Robert Lynch on Wednesday afternoon. Lumber Liquidators sells specialty flooring in its 340 locations across the country. Home renovation, like floor replacement, serves as a proxy for home sales activity. "The improvement in customer demand we experienced beginning in mid-March did not carry into May, and June weakened further," said Lynch."Our reduced customer traffic has coincided with certain weak macroeconomic trends related to residential remodeling, including existing home sales, which have generally been lower in 2014 than the corresponding periods in 2013.  We now believe the prolonged purchase cycle associated with our customers' discretionary, large-ticket home improvement projects is likely to be delayed for some customers into the fall flooring season, and for others, into spring of 2015." Earnings season has kicked off with a series of disappointing anecdotes from big U.S. retailers. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" said Container Store CEO Kip Tindell. “Our results continue to reflect the economic challenges facing our core customer and an intense competitive environment,” said Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine. Hopefully, these are just anecdotes. FREE AppDownload
flickr / Images MoneyThe World Series of Poker (WSOP) is currently going on at the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, and we're highlighting our favorite play of the day. On Wednesday, two players went up against each other with nearly equally great hands ... but only one came out on top. After a flop of J<U+2660> 3<U+2660> 2<U+2660>, Ronnie Bardah called Brian Tsang's check-raise. The next card was an A<U+2665>, which was enough for Ronnie Bardah. He decided to go all in with 83,900. Tsang called, and the two players revealed their cards — both had a flush. Bardah was holding A<U+2660> 10<U+2660>, while Tsang had 8<U+2660> 6<U+2660>. Tsang basically had no hope because Bardah was holding the ace. The river — or fifth card — was a 9<U+2660>, which solidified the win for Bardah. Ronnie Bardah finished 24th in the 2010 WSOP. Bonus Poker Term!An opponent is drawing dead when he is hoping to complete a hand that will nevertheless lose to his opponent. Tsang was drawing dead because the best that he could have gotten would have been a King-high flush — which would nevertheless lose to Bardah's ace-high flush. Source: Poker News FREE AppDownload
Via ZillowThe Knotts lived in this home at 12 Log Road in Jefferson Township, New Jersey.JPMorgan Chase employee Julian Knott shot his wife Alita Knott before taking his own life, Jefferson Township Police in New Jersey said.  "Through an extensive investigation conducted by the Jefferson Township Police Department, the Morris County Prosecutors Office and the Morris County Medical Examiner's Office the preliminary investigation has revealed that the two adults died as a result of gunshot wounds and the incident has been determined to be a murder/suicide. This preliminary investigation revealed that Julian Knott age 45 shot his wife Alita Knott age 47 multiple times and then took his own life with the same weapon," a press release posted on NorthJersey.com states.  The incident happened inside their home at 12 Log Road in Jefferson Township, New Jersey. The couple reportedly recently moved into the home. Zillow's site shows that the home was sold in early May 2014 for $600,000. According to his LinkedIn profile, Julian Knott worked as an executive director in the Global Network Operations Center at JPMorgan Chase. Alita Knott worked as an agent for Coldwell Banker.  The couple moved to the U.S. from London. In the last year, there has been a spate of suicides among financial services employees all around the world.  [via Here Is The City] FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidU.S. stocks remain lower, but are off their worst levels from early in the day. The Dow is down 82 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 9 points, and the Nasdaq is down 27 points. The U.S. market took its lead from Europe, which saw markets fall after troubling news from the Portuguese banking sector and worse than expected economic data.  In Portugal, the parent company of its second-largest bank, Banco Espirito Santo, missed debt payments to "a few clients," sending shares of Banco Espirito and the Portuguese market tumbling. Also in the European periphery, Spanish bank Banco Popular Espanol postponed a debt sale due to adverse market conditions.  In France, industrial production fell 3.7% in May, worse than the 1% decline that was expected. Consumer prices in France also climbed just 0.5% in June, as the specter of deflation now looms over the French economy.  Industrial production in Italy also stumbled, with production falling 1.2% in May.  In U.S. corporate news, Family Dollar reported third quarter earnings that missed expectations, as comparable store sales fell 1.8% during the quarter. Shares opened lower but were unchanged in afternoon trade.  Shares of sandwich chain Potbelly are getting crushed, down nearly 25%, after the company last night reported preliminary earnings that disappointed. Potbelly expects same-store sales to fall 1.6% during the second quarter. FREE AppDownload
  One common trait of successful people is that they get up really early. Apple CEO Tim Cook is up and about at 5 a.m. Virgin founder Richard Branson wakes up with the sunrise. Watch the video to learn some strategies about how wake up early and get a lot done in the morning. Produced by Justin Gmoser FREE AppDownload
The stock market has its ups and downs. And the downs are certainly much more unnerving than the ups. Currently, European markets are getting slammed and U.S. futures are sharply lower. As of yesterday's close, the S&amp;P 500 is down by around 1% from its recent all-time high of 1,985. And if history's any guide, the stock market could see much more red before the year's over. According to JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly, since 1980 the S&amp;P 500 has seen an average intra-year decline 14.4%. And this year, the difference between the top and bottom is around 6%. But the real message here is not that we should panic and fear a big crash. Rather, we should recognize that 5% pullbacks, 10% corrections, and even 20% bear markets are all just a part of a investing in a stock market that over the long run seems to go up. Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. But they're normal. And they're certainly no reason to just bail out of the stock market. JP Morgan Asset Management
The parent company of Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal's second-largest bank, missed debt payments to "a few clients," according to a Bloomberg report, and markets are freaking out. Shares of Banco Espirito Santo trading in Lisbon were down more than 17% on Thursday.  Google Finance The Portuguese stock market was also down about 4% after the news. Stocks across Europe were also broadly lower. In the U.S., stock futures are also lower.  Citing a statement from Espirito Santo, Bloomberg reported that Espirito is "currently assessing the financial impact of its exposure.  REUTERS/Rafael MarchanteA man has his shoes shined near an office of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon June 20, 2014. Wednesday, Moody's downgraded the debt ratings of Espirito Santo Financial Group, which is the largest shareholder of Espirito Santo International, according to Bloomberg, with Moody's saying its, "concerns regarding ESFG's creditworthiness are heightened by the lack of transparency around both the Espirito Santo Group's financial position and the extent of intra-group linkages including ESFG's direct and indirect exposure to ESI." Bloomberg economists David Powell and Maxime Sbaihi said, "Problems in Portugal's banking sector appear to have worried investors over the solvency of the country." Powell and Sbaihi also noted that the public finances of Portugal are among the most fragile in the eurozone.  Uncertainty also seems to have reached the Spanish banking sector as well. According to reports from both Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal, Banco Popular Espanol postponed a planned debt sale, citing adverse market conditions.  Shares of Banco Popular trading in Madrid were down more than 4%.  The news has also spooked investors who are concerned about how uncertainty in the Spanish and Portuguese financial sectors could impact assets across the eurozone. Bloomberg cited comments from Adrian Miller, director of fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities, who said in a note to clients, "Should the Portuguese situation continue to deteriorate, risk aversion contagion could quickly spread to other euro zone member states' bonds and other asset classes." The news of missed debt payments by Espirito Santo International also comes on the heels of discouraging economic data out of the eurozone.  Earlier Thursday, inflation data out of France showed that its economy is teetering. Industrial production fell 3.7% in May and with consumer prices rising just 0.5% in June, concerns about deflation risks in France are increasing. Industrial production data out of Italy also disappointed, with production falling 1.2% in May.  The eurozone's recovery from the sovereign debt crisis has been about improving situations in the economic bloc's peripheral economies like Italy and Portugal, and this new batch of uncertainty in Portugal's financial sector is not sitting well with investors.  FREE AppDownload
TBIInitial unemployment insurance claims unexpectedly fell this past week. According to the Department of Labor, 304,000 Americans filed for jobless claims during the week ending July 5, down from 315,000 a week ago. Economists were expecting a 315,000 print. The 4-week moving average sits at 311,500, down by 3,500. "Initial jobless claims continue to linger below 320k," said Nomura economists. "This suggests that layoffs have bottomed out and also corroborates the strong payroll growth and declines in the unemployment rate we<U+201F>ve seen this year." Continuing claims climbed to 2,584,000 from 2,574,000 a week ago. "The 4-week moving average was 2,571,250, a decrease of 7,750 from the previous week's revised average," said the Department of Labor. "This is the lowest level for this average since October 27, 2007 when it was 2,561,750. The previous week's average was revised down by 1,250 from 2,580,250 to 2,579,000." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidU.S. stocks remain lower, but are off their worst levels from early in the day. The Dow is down 82 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 9 points, and the Nasdaq is down 27 points. The U.S. market took its lead from Europe, which saw markets fall after troubling news from the Portuguese banking sector and worse than expected economic data.  In Portugal, the parent company of its second-largest bank, Banco Espirito Santo, missed debt payments to "a few clients," sending shares of Banco Espirito and the Portuguese market tumbling. Also in the European periphery, Spanish bank Banco Popular Espanol postponed a debt sale due to adverse market conditions.  In France, industrial production fell 3.7% in May, worse than the 1% decline that was expected. Consumer prices in France also climbed just 0.5% in June, as the specter of deflation now looms over the French economy.  Industrial production in Italy also stumbled, with production falling 1.2% in May.  In U.S. corporate news, Family Dollar reported third quarter earnings that missed expectations, as comparable store sales fell 1.8% during the quarter. Shares opened lower but were unchanged in afternoon trade.  Shares of sandwich chain Potbelly are getting crushed, down nearly 25%, after the company last night reported preliminary earnings that disappointed. Potbelly expects same-store sales to fall 1.6% during the second quarter. FREE AppDownload
BTC KeychainBankrate diligently follows the ups and downs and developments of virtual currencies. Earlier this year, I bought some bitcoin so I could see for myself firsthand how it worked and track its movements. After having bought, owned, spent and sold bitcoin, here are a few of my takeaways. Bitcoin's price volatility is unsettling. From the time I bought my first bitcoin to the day I sold it, the price of bitcoins jumped by nearly 25 percent and then fell as low as 45 percent from that high. That fluctuation makes it difficult to use bitcoin as a currency. That also makes it a discomforting investment choice. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has released an investor alert to that effect. The bottom line is that it's probably best to only invest money in bitcoin that you're OK with losing. Bitcoin is not anonymous. But at the same time, it can provide more privacy than paying with a credit card or other electronic payment. Like cash, you can transfer bitcoins from one person to another, or to a company, without attaching your name or other personal information to it. It creates a measure of pseudonymity. Unlike cash, the bitcoin public ledger keeps a record of all transactions. If someone knows your bitcoin address, and you only use that address to make transactions, anyone can see your transaction history. Buying bitcoin also has varying degrees of anonymity. When I bought bitcoin through LocalBitcoins, I didn't have to share any personal information online. It was very close to a cash transaction. At the other end of the spectrum, I handed over my Facebook account, credit card information, phone number and email address to Tinkercoin to buy bitcoins through that company. Bitcoin is not the shady underworld that some have reputed it to be. But, there are opportunities for scams and illicit transactions. Bitcoin's reputation has suffered several blows, thanks to such news as the government's crackdown on the online marketplace Silk Road, the arrest of one of bitcoin's proponents on money laundering charges and the sudden shutdown of Mt. Gox. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also has released a warning that bitcoin "does not have an established track record of credibility and trust" and could be ripe for scammers. My limited experience with bitcoin was anything but shady. Instead, I encountered a number of people and businesses who wanted to help me learn about and transact in bitcoins. Some illicit bitcoin sites do exist, such as online illegal drug and weapons markets that are the descendants of Silk Road, and Assassination Market, which uses bitcoin to crowdfund bounties for the murder of public officials. But there are many other sites and businesses that want to prove bitcoin is legitimate and viable. Still, there are no guarantees when transferring bitcoins or working with bitcoin companies. For instance, when I sent bitcoin to a company to buy pizza, I had no way to ensure that my bitcoin would be used to buy my pizza. (My pizza did arrive as promised.) Unlike credit card transactions, where you can dispute a purchase, bitcoin transactions are not reversible, so there is little recourse if someone improperly takes your bitcoins. Similarly, if you store your bitcoins with a company and that company goes under (see: Mt. Gox), you could similarly be out of luck. Buying the things you need with bitcoins is not easy. A growing number of companies are now accepting bitcoins, but the network of businesses doing so is still small. I'm based in Bankrate's North Palm Beach, Florida, office. Here, local vendors that accept bitcoins are fairly limited but do include a florist, car dealership, screen repair company and computer repair firm. Most have had none or only a few bitcoin sales. There are people who have successfully lived on bitcoins, including Forbes senior editor Kashmir Hill and a newlywed couple from Utah who have done a documentary of their bitcoin journey. Bitcoin enthusiasts want you to also love bitcoins. Riley Alexander, co-founder of PizzaForCoins, says there's "a lot to be desired in ease of use for the everyday consumer," but says the Internet was also difficult to navigate when it first started. "People kept playing, kept building and we have arrived at something that's so easy now that my 80-year-old grandparents go online, send emails and can figure things out," he says. Bitcoin is not yet ready for his grandparents, but it's getting there, he says. As bitcoins become more mainstream, bitcoin companies will begin to act more like mainstream financial institutions. One of the benefits of bitcoins is that they are able to circumvent traditional systems and third-party intermediaries like banks. But, companies like Coinbase are acting very much like the banks of the bitcoin world. "By introducing banks and third parties into bitcoin, it makes it more reliable and offers more consumer protections, but you do take away some of the benefits of the currency," Hill says. She says bitcoin users and companies are eager to show they are legitimate, so they act more like traditional financial institutions, working carefully to avoid breaking any laws or regulations. Hill cited a recent example of a marijuana shop in Seattle that began accepting bitcoins through Coinbase. Coinbase shut the account down, saying that although pot is legal in Washington, it's not legal nationally. That's the same thing that many traditional banks have been saying to pot shops. We will see more innovations and news coming from the bitcoin community. Even in the short time that I was doing this story, politicians began accepting campaign donations in bitcoin. Xapo, a bitcoin wallet company, announced it will soon introduce a debit card linked to users' bitcoin wallets. Bitcoin ATMs have begun to slowly spread across the U.S., and the financial industry has begun to study whether the traditional banking system could mimic bitcoin's back end. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Christophe EnaSpectators brave the rain as they line one of the cobblestone sections of the fifth stage of the Tour de France cycling race over 155 kilometers (96.3 miles) with start in Ypres, Belgium, and finish in Arenberg, France, Wednesday, July 9, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Europe Is Backsliding. French manufacturing plummeted 2.3% in May, while output dropped 1.7%, far worse than expectations. Italian industrial output declined 1.2%, the largest drop since November 2012. "In one line: Horrible; GDP contraction in the second quarter is now base case," Pantheon Macro said. Portuguese Yields Spike. The coupon on Portugal's 10-year note surged to 4%, the highest since early April, after trading in the parent company of Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal's biggest bank, had to be suspended on concerns about its solvency. "Espirito's stresses have brought questions over the underlying health of peripheral banks and the still evolving mechanisms for dealing with struggling institutions back into the spotlight," Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid wrote.  Bullard. Describing himself as "the North Pole of inflation hawks," St. Louis Fed President James Bullard told Bloomberg last night he believes the Fed is going to overshoot its inflation targets and that rates could come up sooner than some investors are currently anticipating. They seem to be ignoring the median projections of the FOMC, which call for a target interest rate of 1.13% at the end of 2015 and 2.5% a year later. “It is a mistake for the market not to go with the median of the committee,” he said. “I think that’s the best indication we have.” Trimmed Forecast Roundup. Lumber Liquidators and Potbelly's both cut their 2014 outlooks after Wednesday's bell; the latter was down 17% after hours. Destination Maternity, a U.S. retailer, delivered a profit warning Thursday, citing the weak economy. China Exports Up On US Demand. Chinese exports climbed 7.2% in June on the back of strengthening U.S. consumer demand, WJS said, though this was below expectations of 10%. "The global demand recovery is still on track but the momentum is very modest," said HSBC economist Ma Xiaoping. Claims; Trade; Fischer. At 8:30 a.m. we get jobless claims — consensus is for an increase of 1,000 to 316K. At 10:00 a.m. we get wholesale trade data; consensus is for a 0.6% increase in inventories. Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer will speak on financial sector reform at the NBER in Cambridge at 4:30 p.m. Family Dollar Misses. The discount retailer reported earnings of $0.85 per share, which was weaker than the $0.89 expected by analysts. Comparable store sales fell by 1.8%. “Our results continue to reflect the economic challenges facing our core customer and an intense competitive environment,” said CEO Howard Levine. “Although our sales results remain below our expectations, we are encouraged by the improving trends.” Chinese Hackers Breach Government Database. From NYT: "The intrusion at the Office of Personnel Management was particularly disturbing because it oversees a system called e-QIP, in which federal employees applying for security clearances enter their most personal information, including financial data. Federal employees who have had security clearances for some time are often required to update their personal information through the website." BOE Does Nothing. The Bank of England keeps its benchmark interest rate at 0.5% and its asset purchase plan at 375 billion pounds. This was in line with expectations. Markets. Stocks are lower around the world.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersDiscount retailer Family Dollar reported Q3 adjusted earnings of $0.85 per share, which was weaker than the $0.89 expected by analysts. During the period, comparable store sales fell by 1.8%. “Our results continue to reflect the economic challenges facing our core customer and an intense competitive environment,” said CEO Howard Levine. “Although our sales results remain below our expectations, we are encouraged by the improving trends.” Management expects comparable store sales to be flat in the next quarter. When times are tough, consumers tend to spend less. However, efforts to spend less often include trading down to deep discounters like Family dollar. The chart below from an investor presentation highlights how Family Dollar's sales take off right after economic shocks. Family Dollar FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe PBOC certainly has contributed to the supply of global liquidity since the Great Financial Crisis. So have the government’s various spending programs. The problem is that monetary and fiscal stimulus has stimulated too much excess capacity. The result has been deflation in China’s various PPI measures. Indeed, the overall PPI fell 1.1% y/y during June, the 28th consecutive monthly decline. The PPI is falling especially fast among heavy industries as follows: Coal (-10.8%), Ferrous Metals (-6.5), Chemicals (-4.9), All Heavy Industries (-2.6), and Nonferrous Metals (-2.4). With so much PPI deflation weighing on profits for so long, its no wonder that the China MSCI stock price index (in dollars) has been a global underperformer for the past few years. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Liquidity Story. (1) Frustrated central bankers. (2) Not very stimulating. (3) Liquidity floating lots of boats other than economy. (4) Pumping it up. (5) US short-term business borrowing well exceeds inventory financing needs. (6) ECB to provide 4-year loans to banks to make more loans, or whatever. (7) Eurozone banks still shedding loans. (8) BOJ also lending to banks that are lending to the government. (9) Lots of monetary and fiscal stimulus in China creates excess capacity and PPI deflation. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christopher HerwiLiberian children hold Chinese flags before the arrival of China's President Hu Jintao in Monrovia February 1, 2007.BEIJING (Reuters) - More than half of China's foreign aid of over $14 billion between 2010 and 2012 was directed to Africa, the government said on Thursday, underscoring Beijing's interest in the resource-rich continent to fuel its economy. Some Chinese projects have attracted attention for China's support of governments with poor human rights records and lack of transparency, such as Zimbabwe, Sudan and Angola. It provided no breakdown of aid recipients or any yearly figures. In 2011, China put its total foreign aid over the past six decades at 256.29 billion yuan ($41.32 billion). While the number pales in comparison with the United States' foreign aid, which is about $46 billion for fiscal 2015, China says its aid has no political strings attached, unlike many Western countries. "China adheres to the principles of not imposing any political conditions, not interfering in the internal affairs of recipient countries and fully respecting the right to independently choose their own paths and models of development," the government said in a policy paper. Aid was given in the form of grants, interest-free loans and concessional loans, the policy paper said, and nine countries, including Equatorial Guinea, Mali and Zambia had been forgiven a total of 1.24 billion yuan in mature interest-free loans. Some in Africa say many Chinese projects benefit local people little, with materials and even labor imported directly from China. Dam schemes have proven divisive too. China's close links with oil-rich African states, including Sudan and Angola, have fueled criticism as well that Beijing only cultivates relations to secure access to energy and raw materials to power its surging economy. The Foreign Ministry said China's relationship with African nations goes well beyond its quest for resources and encompasses agricultural, health and infrastructure-related projects. "China's cooperation with Africa is far from being limited to the sphere of natural resources," ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters. Foreign aid "is an important manifestation of China's international responsibility". The paper made no direct reference to such criticism, but said China was dedicated to helping economies boost their ability to export by providing infrastructure like roads and railways and by pursuing a policy of aid for trade. In one project, it said, Chinese experts trained 500 Liberians to weave bamboo and rattan into products they could sell. "This program has not only created jobs, brought the locals more income and lifted them out of poverty, but also boosted the bamboo and rattan industry in the country," the paper said.     (Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Megha Rajagopalan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of anti-government protesters chanting slogans during a rally in Sarajevo(Reuters) - Complaining they had worked without pay for months late last year, employees of the Serbian farming company Agroziv staged a short strike in January. Why should they work for no money, they said. The company, a poultry producer in the north of the country, was short of cash and pleaded for more time to pay wages, workers said. "The management told us, 'Please be patient for another two weeks,’” said Vesna Srdic, a packaging worker with the firm. “We waited and nothing happened. Some workers grew so desperate they were buying bread on credit from local bakers. But after some months even bakers refused to give them bread for nothing." Patience ran out on June 4. Using chains and padlocks, Agroziv employees locked every door and gate they could find on company property. Then they blocked a main road leading to the border with Romania for two hours. "My salary is 29,000 dinars ($343) a month and I haven't received a penny since January. I'm drowning in debt," Milica Milkovic, 52, said last month. The mother of two, dressed in a faded red T-shirt was waving a banner that read, "We want answers." Agroziv did not respond to requests for comment. Such scenes are surprisingly common in the Balkans, where wages are often the first expense companies freeze when times are tough. Legal loopholes, inefficient courts and poor financial supervision allow struggling firms to skip paying wages, sometimes for months on end. Since jobs are scarce, thousands of workers in the countries spawned by Yugoslavia's bloody breakup in the 1990s regularly work for nothing - in the hope that employers will eventually pay up. The phenomenon is growing in some places and contributing to social unrest in the region. Earlier this year protesters in Bosnia torched government buildings up and down the country. Protests in Croatia and Serbia have also become common, though not violent.   LACK OF CAPITAL Most former Yugoslav republics, including European Union members Slovenia and Croatia, have yet to overcome problems born of the business practices they inherited in the 1990s. In socialist Yugoslavia, the state owned all medium-sized and large companies and controlled salaries through a central payments system. With the federation's collapse, new and newly privatized companies tried to expand without much capital. Short of cash, some began delaying payments to suppliers, tax offices and workers. State-owned firms and institutions began doing the same, exploiting a lack of financial oversight to pick and choose their obligations. In Croatia, the authorities are now trying to enforce more financial discipline. Finance Minister Boris Lalovac, speaking at a conference in April, said employers were failing to pay mandatory health and pension contributions for more than 200,000 workers among the country's 4.4 million people. Kresimir Sever, a union leader in Croatia, estimates some 70,000 workers in Croatia are facing delays in wages. "In most cases workers wait too long before filing for bankruptcy (of their company), figuring they are better off having any kind of job and no salary rather than losing everything," said Sever. "In time, the company's assets melt and when the bankruptcy process begins, they (the workers) really do end up with nothing." The situation is similar in Serbia, the most populous country to emerge from Yugoslavia with 7.2 million people. Ranka Savic of Serbia's Association of Free and Independent Unions said that at least 70,000 workers have not received wages for six months or more. The country, which this year began talks on joining the EU, still has 153 state companies, partly kept afloat by annual subsidies worth more than $1 billion. In February, some 1,400 workers at the state-owned Jumko clothing manufacturer from the southern city of Vranje protested about unpaid wages by blocking Serbia's main north-south highway for a day. They claimed they were owed seven months' wages and mandatory health contributions. Two months later the Jumko workers received 5,000 dinars ($59) each, the government said. In May the workers again blocked the highway to demand all overdue wages and social benefits, as well as direct talks with the government. There has been no progress since then. Officials at Jumko did not respond to phone calls and emails seeking comment. Serbia's new government, which took office in April, has vowed to reform laws on labor, bankruptcy and privatization to improve the business climate and attract investors. It has also pledged to end subsidies for state-owned enterprises. Draft laws are being debated; the government says it hopes to adopt them by the end of July. Slovenia, which joined the EU in 2004 and the euro zone in 2007, has seen the number of workers not receiving salaries rise steadily over the past five years. There were 3,601 cases of delays, partial payment or non-payment of wages in 2013, up from 843 in 2008, according to state Labour Inspectorate data provided to Reuters in June by the trade union ZSSS. Goran Lukic, a spokesman for ZSSS, said “several thousand people” are not receiving their salaries, or receiving them with a delay, and the number is on the rise. He said the problem of unpaid wages was particularly common in construction and services such as office cleaning. The plight of most unpaid employees goes undetected until they go on strike. Workers still prefer to keep turning up, despite not being paid, rather than lose their jobs, said Belgrade sociology professor Zoran Stojiljkovic. "A common feature of the entire Western Balkans is the people's capacity to put up with a lot of things for a long time. The limit of endurance is breached only when one can no longer pay the bills," he said.   A SPREADING BLIGHT? The problem is not confined to the region’s smaller countries. In Bulgaria, a nation of 7.3 million which joined the EU in 2007 and has a $50 billion economy, businesses at the end of May owed 77.2 million levs ($53.9 million) in delayed salary payments, the labor ministry told Reuters. Trade unions dispute the figure, saying the true amount is higher. “I can assure you that we check any complaint (for unpaid salaries) received at the inspectorate,” said the state labor inspectorate’s spokeswoman Dina Hristova. Nikolay Nenkov, the vice president of Bulgaria’s largest trade union CITUB, said his organization calculates unpaid wages are around $83 million or more. He said one company that had struggled to pay salaries was Remotex, a privately-owned industrial machinery repairer. Based in the southern town of Radnevo, Remotex used to be one of Bulgaria’s largest repairers of equipment for heavy mining, transport and energy industries. According to local union official Boyka Boeva, unpaid wages at the firm amount to 5 million levs ($3.48 million). Officials at Remotex, which was bought in June by a Greek investor, were not available to comment. Boeva said: "We really hope, after the arrival of the new owner, to see a favorable outcome because this enterprise is of great importance for this town." Luca Visentini of the Brussels-based European Trade Unions Confederation said non-payment of employees had been relatively rare in EU countries, but that instances were now cropping up in crisis-hit southern states such as Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece.   WEAK INSTITUTIONS One of the key problems in the Balkans is that workers have little bargaining power. Unemployment in Croatia reached a 12-year high in March, with 380,000 people of working age without a job and an unemployment rate of nearly 23 percent. It has since fallen to under 20 percent, in part thanks to seasonal employment in the summer tourism industry. In Serbia, the unemployment rate stood at 20.8 percent for the first quarter, the last available data. At the same time, tax collection is dysfunctional, with some companies not paying dues for months or even years. Payment for goods is also far slower than in the West. "It's almost impossible to explain to someone from the West," said Ante Babic, secretary-general of the Foreign Investors Council in Croatia. "But it's not surprising that companies are not paying workers when you see that they can afford not to pay taxes or for the goods they bought. Control over salary payments is even looser." Predrag Bejakovic of the Institute of Public Finances, an economic think-tank in Croatia’s capital Zagreb, said that not paying taxes is still seen as "resourceful rather than immoral." Struggling private employers also know that commercial and administrative courts are painfully slow. Recent EU data ranked Croatia's judiciary last out of the bloc’s 28 members in terms of effectiveness. Croatian textile businessman Nikola Mikic, who owns Estare Culto, a well-established brand from Zagreb, said his company is owed 14 million kuna ($2.5 million) by various retailers and other private companies – but is struggling to collect it. That has left him unable to pay suppliers or his own workers regularly, although he says he is still "trying to pay salaries every month, in several installments." He said that even after taking legal action he would be unlikely to recover the money. "In this system you are more likely to retire before you get justice through legal channels."   REFORM EFFORTS Some progress is being made. After it joined the EU last July, Croatia published a "name and shame" list of firms that it said owed tax payments. The government also wants to create a system electronically linking tax, health and pension data, and is starting to tackle legal loopholes. Until recently, companies registered as “limited” could not be prosecuted if they continued operating while insolvent instead of filing for bankruptcy. A change to company law now makes it possible to take action against errant managers and members of supervisory boards. "You can see a strong wish to introduce order, but there has been so much neglect, so much abuse that changes are very slow," said a state labor inspector who declined to be named. The lingering problems are illustrated by Arena Modna Kuca, a company from the Croatian city of Pula that ran into trouble after the Yugoslav market fragmented and European customers turned increasingly to China. Workers saw their wages, in the region of $470 to $540 per month, begin to dry up in 2013; but many worked on. In May that year, the workers used a new legal avenue to claim unpaid salaries through FINA, the national financial supervisory body. After that, salaries were paid over the next few months, but then the tax authority blocked Arena's accounts over unpaid taxes and welfare contributions. Employees say a little-known local firm named Istra Jadran Consulting is the biggest shareholder in Arena with 20 percent. Arena and Istra did not respond to requests for comment. A caretaker management has been appointed to liquidate Arena, where a few workers still remain. “We now come here to clean up and prepare the premises for sale,” said 53-year-old Ana Ostoni, who said her income was irregular for almost a year. She hopes that, once the liquidation is settled in court, she will get three months’ salary, but says she is owed much more.      ($1 = 5.52 Croatian Kunas, $1 = 84.42 Serbian Dinars and $1 = 1.43 Bulgarian levs)   (Additional reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic in Sarajevo, Marja Novak in Ljubljana,; Ivana Sekularac in Belgrade, Angel Krasimirov in Sofia, Igor Ilic in Zagreb; Editing By Richard Woods and Matt Robinson) FREE AppDownload
BAMLThe household mobility rate, or the percent of the population that moves into a new home in a year, has been in a long term decline. This trend has been unfavorable for the housing market, which in turn has been a drag on GDP.  According to Michelle Meyer at Bank of America Merril Lynch, the household mobility rate has been slowing since the mid-1980s,  A key driver of this trend has been the rise of homeownership in the 1990s. Homeowners are less like to move than renters. It's much more expensive for homeowners to move because of broker fees, transaction costs, mortgage fees, insurance and so on. From 2000 on, aging population and changes in the labor market have also been negative for household mobility. In the short-run two factors could cause household mobility to pick up: the decline in homeownership rates and rising home prices. "The homeownership rate has plunged from the peak in late 2004, and we think the risk is that it continues to slide," writes Meyer. "Homeowners are less mobile than renters — from 2012 to 2013, 25% of renters moved compared to 5% of owners. The shift toward greater renting should boost the aggregate mobility rate." Negative equity, in which a borrower owes more on their mortgage than their home is worth, also reduces household mobility. " As home prices continue to rise, a growing number of homeowners will move into positive equity, allowing for greater mobility," she writes. In the long run however, an aging population and the end of ultra-low mortgage rates will curb household mobility. "The greatest propensity to move is when people are in their late 20s. The mobility rate steadily declines thereafter as people age," according to Meyer."We should also be concerned that mortgage 'lock-in' will reduce mobility over the medium term. We expect rates to head higher in the coming years, increasing mortgage payments. It will be difficult for those homeowners who bought or refinanced to a fixed-rate mortgage over the past few years to give up the record low rate." Meyer told Business Insider in an email interview, that in the short-run an uptick in household mobility will help boost residential investment as a share of GDP. In the longer-term however "residential investment may struggle to return to the historical average of GDP, suggesting lower multipliers from housing to the rest of the economy going forward." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerEuropean stocks are in the red early Thursday after a wave of disappointing economic data.  Here's the scoreboard: Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.6%. France's CAC 40 is down 1.0%. Germany's DAX is down 1.0%. Spain's IBEX is down 1.8%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.8%. Industrial production in Italy fell by an unexpected 1.2% in May, and France's inflation and production numbers were much worse than expected, In Asia, Japan posted a record 20% drop in machine orders in May. Meanwhile, China's June export growth rate missed expectations,  Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.56%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.27%. Trouble at the biggest Portuguese bank, Espirito Santo, is causing a surge in the country's interest rates. Portugal's PSI 20 is tumbling, down 3.36%. Here's a look at what's happening from Bloomberg: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
screengrab via YouTubeLuciano Pavarotti - I PagliacciIndustrial production in Italy unexpectedly dropped by 1.2% month-over-month in May. Economists were forecasting a modest 0.2% gain. "The surprising decline in industrial production in May throws doubt on the expected Italian recovery in the second quarter," said Bloomberg's Maxime Sbaihi and David Powell. This report follows disappointing industrial production and inflation data out of France earlier today. All of this puts increasing amounts of pressure on the European Central Bank to be more aggressive in its efforts to stimulate growth in the eurozone. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIndustrial production in France plunged 3.7% year-over-year in May, which was much worse than the 1.0% decline expected by economists. "In one line: Horrible; GDP contraction in the second quarter is now base case," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "We are running out of downbeat adjectives to describe the data in France, with the headline numbers from the French industrial production report truly appalling." "Surveys suggest there is no industrial rebound in sight," said Bloomberg's Maxime Sbaihi and Niraj Shah. This comes as deflation risks rise. Earlier, we learned that the consumer prices increased by 0.5% in June, down from 0.7% in May, and worse than the 0.7% expected by economists. "The decline in the French inflation rate may increase pressure on the European Central Bank to ease monetary policy of the euro area again in the months ahead," said Bloomberg's David Powell. At its June policy meeting, the ECB pushed rates into negative territory in its efforts to stimulate growth and inflation. @MxSba"Both French inflationary pressure and industrial output just fell back to their lowest level since November 2009." FREE AppDownload
With the U.S. economy improving and geopolitical risks relatively benign, stock market volatility has remained near historic lows. In this environment, correlations between stocks have been relatively low as investors seek out individual opportunities over indexing strategies. When correlations are low, stocks tend to move independently of each other. During periods of crisis and high stock market volatility, correlations among stocks increase. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly recently published his quarterly market chartbook, which includes a useful annotated chart tracking stock market volatility and correlations among stocks since the Great Depression. JP Morgan Asset Management
AFPNEW YORK (Reuters) - German lender Commerzbank AG is expected to pay between $600 million and $800 million to resolve investigations into its dealings with Iran and other countries under U.S. sanctions, sources familiar with the matter said. The penalty, previously reported to be more than $500 million, includes a demand from New York's top banking regulator, Benjamin Lawsky, for more than $300 million from the bank, the sources said. Other U.S. authorities, including the Department of Justice, the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve and the Manhattan District Attorney, are also involved in the talks. Among the violations being investigated are Commerzbank's transactions for the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, one of the sources said. The state-sponsored shipping company was designated for economic sanctions by the United States in 2008 for allegedly supporting Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The source said Commerzbank was alleged to have done business with the company despite knowing that it was sanctioned. A Commerzbank representative declined to comment on the allegations and the size of any settlement. A settlement could be reached in the next few weeks, one source said. The Justice Department, Manhattan DA's office and the New York Department of Financial Services declined to comment. The other authorities could not immediately be reached for comment. The German bank is the latest bank to enter into settlement negotiations with U.S. authorities. French lender BNP Paribas SA struck a record-breaking $8.9 billion deal last week to resolve investigations into violations of sanctions and related misconduct involving Sudan, Iran and Cuba. U.S. authorities are also investigating Italy's UniCredit SpA, France's Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale, and Germany's Deutsche Bank AG for sanctions violations, sources said.   SIMILARITIES TO STANDARD CHARTERED Over the past five years, more than half a dozen foreign banks have settled with authorities over sanctions violations. They forfeited more than $12 billion, according to Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance.  For example, Standard Chartered Plc, which was accused of hiding 59,000 Iranian transactions worth $250 billion from regulators, paid $667 million to U.S. authorities in 2012. One source said the number, volume and type of suspicious transactions at Commerzbank are in the same ballpark as those in the Standard Chartered case. Like Standard Chartered, many of Commerzbank’s transactions involved Iran, according to one source. Violations involving Iranian entities can lead to lower penalties than sanctions against other countries such as Sudan. That is because until 2008, U.S. law allowed Iranian transactions that originated and ended outside the United States, even if they were cleared through a U.S. bank. The U.S. inquiry into Commerzbank's activities began in 2010. U.S. authorities have found that the bank stripped identifying information from incoming wires to avoid red flags that would have helped regulators police the transactions. Commerzbank, which is 17 percent owned by the German government, is expected to enter into a deferred prosecution agreement that would suspend criminal charges in exchange for the financial penalty and other concessions, the sources said. Though other penalties against Commerzbank have not yet been determined, one source said they were not expected to be severe and might include installing an independent monitor at the bank.  Commerzbank had 934 million euros ($1.27 billion) at the end of 2013 as provision for litigation risks, including the U.S. investigation.   (Additional reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eloy Alonso Children run from the Fire Bull, a man carrying a metal structure shaped as a bull's head stuffed with fireworks, at the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 8, 2014. Hello! Here's what people will be talking about on Thursday. 1. Israel's Operation Protective Edge, a military campaign to stop rocket strikes from the Hamas-controlled Gaza strip, enters day three. The exchange of fire between Israel and Gaza militants continues to escalate with 14 Palestinians killed overnight.  2. IBM is spending $3 billion on a five-year plan to improve today's chip technology. One of the goals will be to shrink chip transistors from their current size of 22 nanometers to just 7 nanometers. 3. A freight train known as "The Beast" carrying over 1,000 young migrants derailed as it headed toward the U.S. border. No one was injured after heavy rains potentially caused the train to run off the tracks, officials said. 4. JPMorgan hired David Li, former China chairman and country head at UBS, to lead its business operations in China. Li will start at JPMorgan in October and be based in Beijing.  5. There may have been two different groups behind the Benghazi attacks according to newly revealed testimony from U.S. military commanders. The team behind the first, nighttime assault on a U.S. consulate is probably unrelated to the group involved in a second attack at dawn roughly 8 hours later.  REUTERS/Dylan MartinezArgentina's Lionel Messi celebrates his team's win over the Netherlands after their 2014 World Cup semi-finals at the Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo July 9, 2014. 6. Argentina defeated the Netherlands in the first World Cup semifinal to finish without any goals. Argentina scored the decisive goal in a penalty shoot-out and will go on to play Germany in the final.  7. Officials are investigating the second case of a German government worker suspected of spying for a U.S. intelligence agency. If the allegations are true, German chancellor Angela Merkel said it would be a clear breach of trust between the two countries.  8. An American author who wrote a book called "How to Survive the Bulls of Pamplona" was gored in the thigh while participating in the bull run during the annual San Fermin festival in Spain. Each year thousands of people run alongside six fighting bulls for more than half a mile to a ring where matadors will fight the bulls in the afternoon.  9. Both candidates in the Indonesia presidential election — Jakarta governor Joko Widodo and former army general Prabowo Subianto — claim to have won. Early results show that Widodo was in the lead, but the official count won't be in for at least another 10 days.  10. French officials said they foiled an Islamist terrorist plot to bomb the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre, and a nuclear power plant. Police learned of the plans after decoding a message between an Algerian butcher living in France and top members of al-Qaeda.  And finally... Troubled pop star Justin Bieber must pay $80,900 in restitution after entering a no-contest plea in connection with the egging of a former neighbor's house back in January. The Biebs was also sentenced to five days of community service and must complete anger management classes.  FREE AppDownload
Li will oversee all of JPMorgan's businesses in China, including the investment banking division that Fang ran. Li will report to Nicolas Aguzin, chairman and CEO for Asia-Pacific operations, the U.S. bank said on Thursday. Fang, JPMorgan's chief executive for China investment banking, left the firm in March, amid a probe of JPMorgan hiring practices in Asia. Li was most recently chairman and country head for China at UBS. He will start at JPMorgan in October, the bank said in a press release. Li is the second top China banker to leave UBS in the last month. Managing director and head of China mergers Philip Partnow left the firm on June 18, according to a regulatory filing. During his nine years at UBS in China, Li was instrumental in the formation of UBS's investment banking and brokerage joint venture in China, UBS Securities Co Ltd. UBS declined to comment. (Reporting by Lawrence White; Editing by Stephen Coates and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
