REUTERS/China DailyHSBC China PMI fell to 50.5 in December, from 50.8 the previous month. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. But this was right in line with expectations for 50.5, which was the flash PMI print. "The moderation of December's final HSBC China Manufacturing PMI was mainly due to slower output growth," said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist China, in a press release. "However, the final PMI sustained the fifth above-50 reading in a row thanks to a steady increase of new orders. The recovering momentum since August 2013 is continuing into 2014, in our view. With inflation still benign, we expect the current monetary and fiscal policy to remain in place to support growth."  We got China's official PMI data on Tuesday, which showed manufacturing fall to 51, from 51.4 in November. The slowdown in credit growth is said to have weighed on Chinese manufacturing. Here's the trajectory of Chinese manufacturing: HSBC/Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
Netflix users and investors may have a hard time remembering that the company still mails out DVDs in small red packages, or the public relations disaster in 2011 that had subscribers leaving in droves. After sinking millions into original content and developing hit shows such as "House of Cards," Netflix became the past year's best performer on the S&amp;P 500. Netflix stock increased nearly 300 percent this past year, and now investors must decide whether the media company's outperformance can carry into 2014. Raymond James' Aaron Kessler told CNBC on Tuesday that the stock's current levels—trading at around $365 on Tuesday—has priced in much of the company's upcoming good news. "We do think it's a little stretched near term," Kessler said on "Squawk on the Street," going on to reference Netflix CEO Reed Hastings' statement crediting the stock's rise to "euphoria." "We're not sure if it's quite euphoria, but at current levels you're trading at about 80 times earnings on 2014 numbers. So we think Netflix is pricing a lot of good news at current levels here." On Tuesday, Netflix announced a 50 percent raise for Hastings, and that it would test a tiered pricing service. The test would include a $6.99-a-month plan for one stream that displayed single definition video. And a $9.99-a-month plan that allows three streams at one time, across multiple devices. (Read more: Netflix hikes CEO salary by 50% for 2014) Todd Spangler, the New York digital editor at Variety, told CNBC on Tuesday that Netflix may also experiment with charging more for its original content. He cautioned that Netflix had learned its lesson in making big changes too fast when it botched a spinoff of its DVD service in 2011, and that it likes keeping its pricing plans simple because of that experience. "They might want at some point to tier into different packages," Spangler said on "Squawk on the Street." "If they want to offer additional exclusive content they may decide to put that into a higher price offering. We might see them go that route." The company has had plenty of good headlines to help boost the stock's profile in the final months of 2013. In October, an analyst from BTIGtold CNBC that Netflix ratings rivaled major networks, and this month, the streaming media company announced a blockbuster deal with Disney for exclusive first-run movie rights. Netflix also has several new original shows in the pipeline, including one from Disney's Marvel universe and a spinoff from AMC's hit series "Breaking Bad." "I think they do look to accelerate their investment in original content," Kessler said. "I think the concern a couple years ago was they didn't have enough good content. Original content has gotten them over that concern. I think right now they have maybe a handful of shows. I think that maybe expands to a dozen shows a year." (Read more:Netflix shares soar as outlook blows past forecasts) Jon Najarian, the co-founder of optionMONSTER and tradeMONSTER, said he's still waiting to see whether activist investorCarl Icahnwill abandon the rest of his stake in Netflix after taking a 9.4 percent position in the company. He cut his stake by half this past October. (Read more:Carl Icahn cuts Netflix stake, pockets $800 mln profit) Netflix also abandoned a shareholder rights plan designed to protect it from activist investors, but Najaran said he wants see days of high trading volume that could signal Icahn's departure. He said the stock could go higher, but cautioned investors that it could bubble over. "If [Icahn] is not getting out, there's still enough people getting squeezed that this thing could go to $400," Najarian said Tuesday on CNBC's"Halftime Report.""I think its a little frothy at this level—doesn't mean it can't go higher though." —By CNBC's Jeff Morganteen. Follow him on Twitter at@jmorganteenand get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street." Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report.  FREE AppDownload
National Weather Service/Google MapsA winter storm warning is in effect for New York City, Northeast New Jersey, and Southern Westchester County. The affected regions, which are expected to get more than 6 inches of snow, are outlined in red. The first major snowstorm of 2014 already looms. The National Weather Service has issued a winter storm warning for New York City, Northeast New Jersey, and Southern Westchester County starting Thursday evening and lasting through Friday afternoon. Snow is expected to begin falling overnight Wednesday, but the big storm isn't expected to hit until Thursday night, bringing near blizzard conditions, the weather service said. For regions in the warning zone, the weather service has forecast 5 to 7 inches of snow falling Thursday evening into Friday morning, with total accumulations of 6 to 8 inches. Temperatures are also expected to drop and wind chills "ranging from 15 degrees below zero to around zero will make it feel extremely cold," according to the alert.  Here's another map of warnings in New York and the surrounding areas, last updated at 4:43 p.m. ET. National Weather Service FREE AppDownload
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty ImagesRalph LaurenWealth tends to create more wealth, but a rich background is not the only way to the top. Some of the world's wealthiest people started out dirt poor. All from humble beginnings, these 15 people not only climbed to the top of their industries but also became some of the richest people in the world. Although the rich do get richer, these rags-to-riches stories remind us that through determination, grit, and a bit of luck anyone can overcome their circumstances and achieve extraordinary success. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThe market is closed, the world is at a standstill, it's New Year's Day and you may not be at your best. That doesn't mean you can't get a little Wall Street in your day though. Kick back with a tall glass of (coconut) water and watch one of these Wall Street movies. You'll definitely enjoy yourself, and you might even learn something.   FREE AppDownload
Risk goes both ways when you're making a forecast and constructing an investment strategy. For most people, the only risks to be worried about are the ones to the downside because that's when things are getting worse and you're probably losing money. For Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna, the risks to his forecasts seem to be tilted to the upside. In other words, he thinks it's more likely that the the U.S. economy will turn out better than he expects in 2014. "Generally, when investors ask us this, they always seem to imply the downside risks," wrote LaVorgna in a note to clients on Tuesday. "However, for us, the risk to growth is to the upside, not the downside. Beyond this, the primary downside risk in 2014, as it is in most years, is geopolitical, meaning we get some sort of negative exogenous shock such as an oil price spike." LaVorgna offered five predictions for the U.S. economy in 2014. Keep in mind, he thinks things are more likely to be better than worse than forecast. FREE AppDownload
Rep. Steve Stockman (R-Texas) is the outsider's outsider — what other Texan would spend a freezing New Year's hundreds of miles away in New York City? But there he was last night at the launch event for the NYC Bitcoin Center, located just up the street from the New York Stock Exchange.  Stockman's attendance was a favor to Center founder Nick Spanos, a real estate developer and Bitcoin enthusiast. Spanos helped phone bank on Stockman's most recent Congressional campaign.  The Center itself is still in something of a planning stage, existing more as a statement about Bitcoin itself, though it plans on hosting a hackathon later this month.  Stockman, a vocal opponent of Fed policy, told Business Insider last night that he wants to promote Bitcoin, whose most fervent evangelists tout as an alternative to fiat currency.  To do so, he is now accepting Bitcoin for his Senate campaign against incumbent John Cornyn. Here's the photo: The Bit PagesRep. Stockman with Nick Spanos, founder of the Bitcoin Center. FREE AppDownload
CNBCJim CramerTrading versus investing. Those terms are kicked around on Wall Street all the time and if you're new to the market you may think they're interchangeable. They're not. Typically trading means moving in and out of positions over a short period of time, sometimes in the same day. An example would be betting on a stock's move immediately after earnings are reported. That's a trade. Investing involves longer time horizons, as much as a year or more, and it typically involves themes that have breadth such as the renaissance in housing or the resurgence of banks. Cramer doesn't typically advocate that 'home gamers' trade. That's the deep end of the pool and something he thinks is better left for the pros. "I have deliberately skewed the last 500 some odd shows away from trading and toward investing because there are so many more obstacles to trading than investing these days," he said. "You have to watch your positions like a hawk, to the point where it's very hard to do your full-time job and also follow the market." However, if you're among those Cramer fans who loves the thrill of trading – that is moving in and out of positions with relative aplomb – Cramer does have some advice. It follows: 1. Make sure you have a catalyst "I would do no trade if I couldn't explain exactly what the company did and why I liked it and what I expected to happen," he said. 2. Develop an exit point "Do no buying of anything unless you have an exit strategy in place from the moment you put the trade on," said Cramer. And that doesn't just mean a level at which to stop out if the trade goes against you. It also means knowing at what level you'll ring the register if you have profits. 3. Trade with conviction "If you have little confidence, you can easily be shaken out by the broader market," Cramer said. Sometimes stocks decline before they advance. You need to believe in your thesis each and every day. "If you can do all of those things and you have an interest in trading rather than investing, Cramer said give it a try – but start small." Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Questions for Cramer? madmoney@cnbc.com Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerHere they are: the most important charts of the year.  We asked our favorite portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists across the Street for the charts that they deem the most important right now, and this is what they sent us. Much of the focus is on the 10-year Treasury yield — where does it go, and what is the read-across for other financial markets around the globe? Many are focused on the stock market as well, the consensus being that indices will rise to new highs again in 2014. But there are a lot of other things going on as well.
REUTERS/Fred ProuserNouriel RoubiniEver since Nouriel Roubini predicted the credit crisis, everyone turned to the NYU professor for his assessment of the ongoing economic risks. And for years, Roubini's words were often gloomy and sometimes outright doomy. He frequently used frightening imagery like "perfect storms" to describe what would happen when various likely risks would collide. However, his outlook for 2014 is far from doom and all-out gloom. From his new piece in Project Syndicate: The good news is that economic performance will pick up modestly in both advanced economies and emerging markets. The advanced economies, benefiting from a half-decade of painful private-sector deleveraging (households, banks, and non-financial firms), a smaller fiscal drag (with the exception of Japan), and maintenance of accommodative monetary policies, will grow at an annual pace closer to 1.9%. Moreover, so-called tail risks (low-probability, high-impact shocks) will be less salient in 2014. The threat, for example, of a eurozone implosion, another government shutdown or debt-ceiling fight in the United States, a hard landing in China, or a war between Israel and Iran over nuclear proliferation, will be far more subdued. But don't confuse this lack of doom with outright bullishness. Roubini believes that the world economy will continue to grow at a less-than-stellar pace. And he continues to be concerned about long-term bearish themes. "Indeed, there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies, owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital," he said. "And the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented too slowly." His piece goes into each of the major economies. Interestingly, he believes the U.S., which was ground-zero for the financial crisis, could be the big outperformer in the new year. "In sum, the global economy will grow faster in 2014, while tail risks will be lower," he said. "But, with the possible exception of the US, growth will remain anemic in most advanced economies, and emerging-market fragility – including China’s uncertain efforts at economic rebalancing – could become a drag on global growth in subsequent years." Overall, his outlook is much closer to the consensus than usual. In other words, this is probably the most optimistic we've seen Roubini in years. Read the whole piece at Project Syndicate. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVAuthor Nassim Taleb has a good suggestion for doing New Year's Resolutions. He posted this on his Facebook page: PLEASE SHARE VIA NEGATIVA RULES. I am quite certain that new year resolutions don't really work, are more wishful thinking (gyms are full in January and empty in February)… except that interdicts have worked in history: halal/kashrut dietary laws, etc. I have personally never been successful with positive resolutions, but have been with stated negative year-end rules: in 2007 (never be late for the year 2008 which worked well by injecting redundancies, and seems to have effortless carried over to today) and 2012 (no reading outside of math for 2013, with weak exceptions). Intuitively this makes sense. Easier to eliminate some bad practice, rather than doing something new. We'll try in 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP WASHINGTON (AP) — The U.S. is racing to keep pace with stepped-up activity in the once sleepy Arctic frontier, but it is far from being in the lead. Nations across the world are hurrying to stake claims to the Arctic's resources, which might be home to 13 percent of the world's undiscovered oil and 30 percent of its untapped natural gas. There are emerging fisheries and hidden minerals. Cruise liners filled with tourists are sailing the Arctic's frigid waters in increasing numbers. Cargo traffic along the Northern Sea Route, one of two shortcuts across the top of the Earth in summer, is on the rise. The U.S., which takes over the two-year rotating chairmanship of the eight-nation Arctic Council in 2015, has not ignored the Arctic, but critics say the U.S. is lagging behind the other seven: Russia, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland, Canada and Denmark, through the semiautonomous territory of Greenland. "On par with the other Arctic nations, we are behind — behind in our thinking, behind in our vision," Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, said. "We lack basic infrastructure, basic funding commitments to be prepared for the level of activity expected in the Arctic." At a meeting before Thanksgiving with Secretary of State John Kerry, Murkowski suggested he name a U.S. ambassador or envoy to the Arctic — someone who could coordinate work on the Arctic being done by more than 20 federal agencies and take the lead on increasing U.S. activities in the region. Murkowski is trying to get Americans to stop thinking that the Arctic is just Alaska's problem. "People in Iowa and New Hampshire need to view the U.S. as an Arctic nation. Otherwise when you talk about funding, you're never going to get there," Murkowski said. She added that even non-Arctic nations are deeply engaged: "India and China are investing in icebreakers." The U.S. has three aging icebreakers. The melting Arctic also is creating a new front of U.S. security concerns. Earlier this month, Russian President Vladimir Putin said expanding Russia's military presence in the Arctic was a top priority for his nation's armed forces. Russia this year began rehabilitating a Soviet-era base at the New Siberian Islands and has pledged to restore a number of Arctic military air bases that fell into neglect after the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union. Putin said he doesn't envision a conflict between Russia and the United States, both of which have called for keeping the Arctic a peaceful zone. But he added, "Experts know quite well that it takes U.S. missiles 15 to 16 minutes to reach Moscow from the Barents Sea," which is a part of the Arctic Ocean near Russia's shore. While the threat of militarization remains, the battle right now is on the economic level as countries vie for oil, gas and other minerals, including rare earth metals used to make high-tech products like cellphones. There also are disputes bubbling up with environmental groups that oppose energy exploration in the region; Russia arrested 30 crew members of a Greenpeace ship in September after a protest in the Arctic. China signed a free trade agreement with tiny Iceland this year, a signal that the Asian powerhouse is keenly interested in the Arctic's resources. And Russia is hoping that the Northern Sea Route, where traffic jumped to 71 vessels this year from four in 2010, someday could be a transpolar route that could rival the Suez Canal. In the U.S., the Obama administration is consulting with governmental, business, industry and environmental officials, as well as the state of Alaska, to develop a plan to implement the U.S. strategy for the Arctic that President Barack Obama unveiled seven months ago. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel rolled out the Pentagon's Arctic blueprint last month, joining the Coast Guard and other government agencies that have outlined their plans for the region. There are no cost or budget estimates yet, but the Navy is laying out what the U.S. needs to increase communications, harden ships and negotiate international agreements so nations will be able to track traffic in the Arctic and conduct search and rescue operations. Critics, however, say the U.S. needs to back the strategy papers with more precise plans — plus funding. With the country still paying for two wars, the idea of spending money in an area considered a low security threat makes the Arctic an even tougher sell. "The problem with all of these strategies is that they are absolutely silent on budget issues," said Heather Conley, an expert on the Arctic at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "How do we meet these new challenges? Well, we're going to have to put more resources to them. It's dark. It's cold. There's terrible weather. We need to enhance our own satellite communications and awareness in the area as ships and commercial activity increases in the Arctic." The U.S. needs helicopters, runways, port facilities and roads in the Arctic, she said — not to mention better accommodations in small coastal towns that have a shortage of beds and would be ill-equipped to handle an influx of tourists from a disabled cruise ship. With few assets, the U.S. might be forced to borrow from the private sector. "When Shell drilled two summers ago in the Chukchi Sea and the Beaufort Sea, they had 33 vessels and the Coast Guard had one national security cutter," Conley said. "We're not prepared. It may be another 10 years. The Arctic is not going to wait, and the increased commercial and human activity is already there. Other Arctic states are preparing more robustly, and we are choosing not to." The Obama administration defends its work on the Arctic, saying it is preparing for the rapid changes coming in the far north. "Each Arctic government, including the United States government, has developed an Arctic strategy, and the administration expects to release an implementation plan for our Arctic strategy in the coming months," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said. "We recognize that preparing for increasing human activity in the Arctic will require investment in the region, and we hope to be able to say more on this in the future." Malte Humpert with the Washington-based Arctic Institute says that when the implementation plan is completed, he's going to be looking for specifics — timelines, budget numbers, plans for new infrastructure. "There's a lot of good, shiny policy and good ideas about how to move forward, and now it's about finding money," he said. "And that's where the U.S. is really far behind." The funding battle often focuses on icebreakers. The Coast Guard has three: the medium-duty Healy, which is used mostly for scientific expeditions, and two heavy icebreakers, the Polar Sea and Polar Star. Both heavy icebreakers were built in the 1970s and are past their 30-year service lives. The Polar Star, however, was recently given a $57 million overhaul, was tested in the Arctic this summer and currently is deployed in Antarctica. About $8 million has been allocated to study the possibility of building a new icebreaker, which would take nearly a decade and cost more than $1 billion. In the meantime, lawmakers from Washington and Alaska want Congress to rehabilitate the Polar Sea too. "A half-century after racing the Russians to the moon, the U.S. is barely suiting up in the international race to secure interests in the Arctic. Russia, Canada and other nations are investing heavily," Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., wrote in an op-ed published earlier this month. "We are behind and falling farther back." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
AFP Violence in Iraq surged in 2013 to its worst level in five years, figures released Wednesday showed, fuelled by discontent among the Sunni Arab minority and the civil war in neighbouring Syria. Bombs tore through markets, cafes, football fields and mosques, militants assaulted prisons, police stations and other government facilities, and families were killed in their homes. And while Iraqi security forces carried out widespread operations targeting militants, they have yet to curb the violence, and the mass arrests they sometimes make may ultimately contribute to the problem. "One has to go back to 2008 to find comparable levels of violence," Iraq Body Count, a Britain-based NGO that tracks violence in Iraq, said in a statement. "In 2008, however, that was a declining total from the much higher levels of 2006-2007, with the second half of 2008 less violent than the first," IBC said. "In 2013, the trend is in the opposite direction, with around two thirds of the deaths occurring in the second half of the year," it said. "If current violence levels continue unabated throughout the coming year, then 2014 threatens to be as deadly as 2004, which saw the two sieges of Fallujah (by US forces) and Iraq’s insurgency take hold." Death tolls vary widely, but all point to a sharp rise in violence. IBC said it recorded 9,475 civilian deaths in Iraq in 2013, compared to 10,130 in 2008, while Iraqi government figures indicated 7,154 people died in 2013 violence, including security forces and militants, while 8,995 were killed in 2008. Tolls for intervening years were much lower, sometimes less than half the 2013 figures. The United Nations meanwhile said 7,818 civilians and police were killed in 2013, even more than the 6,787 in 2008. “This is a sad and terrible record which confirms once again the urgent need for the Iraqi authorities to address the roots of violence to curb this infernal circle,” UN envoy Nickolay Mladenov said in a statement. In 2013, militants repeatedly targeted civilians but also hit targets that should have been highly secure. In July, for instance, militants carried out coordinated assaults on the Abu Ghraib and Taji prisons near Baghdad, freeing hundreds of inmates and leaving dozens of people dead. Tensions rising since 2012   Two main factors have fuelled the spike in violence, experts say. One is widespread discontent among Iraq's minority Sunni Arab community, members of which say they are marginalised by the country's Shiite-led government and unfairly targeted by heavy-handed security tactics. Sunni anger has made it easier for militant groups to recruit and operate, while eroding the public's cooperation with security forces. Anti-government protests broke out in Sunni-majority areas of Iraq at the end of 2012 and continued for over a year. On April 23, security forces moved on a protest site near the northern town of Hawijah, triggering clashes in which dozens died, sparking a wave of revenge attacks and sending death tolls soaring. "Tensions have been gradually rising since late 2012, but the storming of the anti-government protest camp in April and subsequent killing of protesters prompted a violent backlash by armed members of the Sunni community," said John Drake, a security specialist with risk management firm AKE Group. "Radical Islamists have taken advantage of this by escalating their attacks, gradually eroding the effectiveness of the security forces," he said. On Monday, security forces tore down the country's main anti-government protest camp west of Baghdad. Clashes broke out in the area as the camp was removed, and continued into Wednesday. The Syrian conflict has also played a role in the heightened violence, with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, an Al-Qaeda linked group, launching attacks in both countries. "The rise in fighting in neighbouring Syria has given (militants) a strategic boost. They now have the opportunity to create some sort of a safe-zone crossing the border of the two countries in which they can operate with minimal interference from the authorities," Drake said. "This will allow them to conduct training, build bombs, raise funds and gather recruits, allowing them to bolster their power and prepare for more" attacks. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Siu Chiu HONG KONG (Reuters) - Thousands protested in Hong Kong on Wednesday pressingChina to allow full democracy in the city as a battle intensifies over Beijing's attempts to control the outcome of a planned direct election for the city's leader in 2017. Beijing had promised direct elections in the former British colony as the goal for 2017, but the devil is in the details of the rules governing who can run. Pressure has been building between democratic forces in the financial hub, which returned to Chinese rule in 1997, and China's stability-obsessed Communist Partyleaders who fear a rival democrat being voted into office. Protesters at the annual New Year's Day democracy rally shouted slogans demanding full democracy in 2017, with a key condition being the open nominations of candidates so that anyone, including China critics, can run for office. But Chinese officials and leftist newspapers have rejected that, citing the city's mini-constitution that states all nominees must be endorsed by a 1,200-strong election committee, which is stacked with Beijing loyalists. "There's more and more interference (from Beijing)," said Tsang Fan-yu, a designer who was at Wednesday's protest with his seven-year-old son for their sixth consecutive year. "We have to come out to make our voices heard. The form of democracy Beijing wants is unacceptable. It's fake." A cluster of banners read "Real Universal Suffrage. No pre-screened election", while protesters also called on the city's embattled and pro-Beijing leader, Leung Chun-ying, to step down after a series of scandals. "We want to see Hong Kong people have a genuine choice in electing their leaders," said Anson Chan, a respected former head of the civil service, who was at the rally. Discord over the city's democratic future could culminate in a protest this summer called "Occupy Central", seeking to shut down the central business district of one ofAsia's most important financial centers. "No direct election? See you in Central!" read one of the banners. A New Year civil referendum was also launched to gauge the public's preferences for the 2017 poll, with some 50,000 Hong Kong residents having voted by late afternoon. "Hong Kong's political future has now come to a critical moment," said Johnson Yeung, one of the rally organizers. "The 2014 New Year's Day rally will become the first field of battle between the public and the government." FREE AppDownload
Adam Berry/Getty ImagesLittle showroomers? NEW YORK (Reuters) - If there was one lesson from this year's holiday shopping season, it is that many traditional retailers are having to work a lot harder to persuade Americans to open their pocketbooks. A lot of stores had to discount heavily to eke out a modest increase in sales, likely squeezing profit margins in the process. Some improvement in the U.S. economy and declines in the jobless rate, plus gains in stock and home prices, are failing to resonate with many Americans whose incomes are struggling to catch up to where they were before the financial crisis. But to many retail experts and economists there are other less cyclical factors at play. Consumers are spending more. Government figures show monthly personal consumption has risen for seven straight months, with November's outlay marking the fastest increase in five months. But they just are not spending in the shopping malls like they used to. And that means that, even if the economy picks up significantly, retailers of many products could still struggle. "We are in a something of an evolutionary process, said Bill Martin, founder of data firmShopperTrak, which monitors foot traffic in about 60,000 retail stores. Americans are spending more online and becoming more careful about what they buy, he said. Some of this has been unfolding over a long period, although the changes might be picking up pace. For example, department stores have found themselves on the wrong end of trends for some time. According to data compiled by Reuters, they now capture just $3.37 of every $100 of U.S. retail spending, the lowest since records began in 1992, when the number was nearly $9. Some of that is explained by the rise of Wal-Mart Stores Inc and other big box discount retailers. But the pace of decline has picked up, with department stores losing about 0.28 percentage points of market share at an annualized rate between 2002 and 2011, compared with 0.22 in the prior 10 years. The problem is two-fold. The middle class consumers to whom the likes of JC Penney Co Inc and Kohl's Corp cater have struggled with stagnant wages and a payroll tax rise, prompting them to reduce spending on apparel, said Scott Tuhy, a retail analyst at Moody's Investors Service in New York. People have also gravitated toward spending on services such as travel - airline ticket prices and hotel room rates are up - as well as movie downloads and other content for their TVs, smart phones and tablets. Prices to attend live sports events, theme parks, movies and rock concerts have also been rising. In addition, increasing healthcare costs have been eating up discretionary income, with many employers seeking higher contributions from their staff. According to the Commerce Department, spending on services hit an annual rate of $7.1 trillion in November, by far the biggest slice of overall consumption "There was a day you bought your TV, refrigerator, furniture, everything in a department store, whereas today, it's really just apparel and maybe jewelry," saidStuart Hoffman, an economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. "But as incomes rise over time, people spend more on services - travel, entertainment." As data from MasterCard showed last week, it took deep discounts and hefty promotions to spur a 2.3 percent rise in holiday sales between November 1 and December 24 compared with a year earlier. The figures include apparel, jewelry, electronics, luxury goods and home furnishings. "Given how promotional the season turned out to be, profits are likely to be flat because retailers had to provide quite a lot of discounts to get those sales," said Moody's Tuhy. And it's not as if people aren't doing some serious shopping. U.S. sales of big-ticket items such as autos and home-related goods such as washing machines, as well as purchases in home-improvement stores, surged in 2013, boosting overall retail sales. Homes sales also increased pretty steadily from mid-2012, although a summer spike in mortgage rates cooled things off a bit this fall. Some of the gains reflected a long-anticipated release of pent-up demand as the economic recovery has gained momentum, but it might also be partly a reflection of changing attitudes, with the focus on more practical purchases. According to the National Association of Realtors, more than half of home buyers between July 2012 and June 2013 made some sacrifices, such as reducing spending on luxury items, entertainment and clothing. "Pent-up demand has helped on housing and autos, but consumers are still cautious. Things are getting better, yes, but even if you have a job, things are still tight," saidSam Bullard, an economist at Wells Fargo in Charlotte. In its 2014 retail industry outlook, Moody's said it expects the auto and home improvement sectors to outperform again in 2014, good news for Home Depot Inc and General Motors Co, whose stocks are up 32 percent and 41 percent, respectively, this year. It's been a different story with more ordinary purchases. An Ipsos/Reuters poll released just ahead of the Christmas holiday found consumers plan to spend about a third less this year than last year on items such as jewelry, toys and electronics. Sluggish sales of toys and packaged foods pushed down sales at Wal-Mart's U.S. stores in the third quarter and prompted the company to forecast disappointing holiday sales results, while Target Corp blamed "constrained" consumer spending for a tepid rise in quarterly sales. One factor is that the giant TV is much cheaper than it was, and tablets and many of today's laptop and desktop PCs are cheaper than their predecessors of a few years ago, again not helping store sales. Shoppers are also increasingly likely to buy such items online from the likes of Amazon.com Inc and Apple Inc. Participants in Deloitte's 2013 holiday shopping survey for the first time named the Internet as their number one shopping venue, with 68 percent of smart phone users and 63 percent of tablet users planning to use their devices to help them. As people check out goods online before heading to the store impulse buying can take a hit, said Martin. ShopperTrak data shows mall shoppers visited an average of 3 to 3-1/2 stores this year, down from 4-1/2 to 5 in 2007. The improvement in the economy and gains in asset prices have also clearly not trickled down to large segments of the broader population. Hiring has picked up, helping to push the jobless rate to a five-year low of 7 percent in November, but some 11 million Americans are still unemployed, and many are earning less than before the recession. When adjusted for inflation, average weekly wages have barely budged since late 2008. That has made Americans, particularly those in middle- and lower-income brackets, far more discerning when it comes to their spending. "There's been psychological scarring for people from this recession, much like how some people who lived through the Depression said they were scarred," said Hoffman. "There are still a lot of people who can't afford to do much, and those who can are holding back." (Additional reporting by Dhanya Skariachan.; Editing by Martin Howell and Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
