SEATTLE (Reuters) - Bill Gates, the former chief executive and chairman of Microsoft Corp, will have no direct ownership in the company he co-founded by mid-2018 if he keeps up his recent share sales. Gates, who started the company that revolutionized personal computing with school-friend Paul Allen in 1975, has sold 20 million shares each quarter for most of the last dozen years under a pre-set trading plan. Assuming no change to that pattern, Gates will have no direct ownership of Microsoft shares at all four years from now. With his latest sales this week, Gates was finally eclipsed as Microsoft's largest individual shareholder by the company's other former CEO, Steve Ballmer, who retired in February, but has held on to his stock. According to documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday, Gates now owns just over 330 million Microsoft shares after the sales this week. Ballmer owns just over 333 million, according to Thomson Reuters data. That gives both men around 4 percent each of the total outstanding shares, making them by far the biggest individual shareholders. Fund firms The Vanguard Group, State Street Global Advisors and BlackRock have slightly bigger stakes, according to Thomson Reuters data. Spokesmen for Gates and Microsoft declined comment. Gates owned 49 percent of Microsoft at its initial public offering in 1986, which made him an instant multi-millionaire. With Microsoft's explosive growth, he soon became the world's richest person, and retains that title with a fortune of about $77 billion today, according to Forbes magazine. Gates handed the CEO role to Ballmer in 2000, and stood down as chairman in February. He remains on the board and spends about a third of his time as technology adviser to new Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. For the past six years, his focus has been on philanthropy at the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which is largely funded by his Microsoft fortune. (Reporting by Bill Rigby. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
The US economy has delivered two minor shocks in a week, prompting concerns that bond tapering by the Federal Reserve may be doing more damage than expected. Non-Farm Payrolls data released on Friday shows that the workforce shed 806,000 jobs in April, a stunning drop that cannot plausibly be blamed on the weather. Wage growth and hours worked were both flat and the manufacturing hours per week fell. This follows news earlier in the week that the economy to a halt in the first quarter. Growth plummeted to 0.1pc and is now well below the Fed’s “stall speed” indicator. Analysts blamed this on the freezing polar vortex over the winter. Yet the jobs data confirm a disturbingly weak picture. The headline unemployment rate fell to 6.3pc but that was only because the labour “participation rate” plummeted back to a modern-era low of 62.8pc, last seen in 1978 when there were far fewer women in the workforce. The rate for males is the lowest ever recorded at 69.1pc. The jobs market is highly volatile – and is often revised later – but the data are a warning that the US recovery may be losing momentum. Lakshman Achuthan, from the Economic Cycle Research Institute, said the trend was already weakening long before the cold weather. “We see a failure to launch. We’re decelerating, not accelerating, and that is a big concern,” he said. The Fed has gradually been turning down the spigot of dollar liquidity, reducing its bond purchases by $10bn a month at each meeting, even though the bank’s measure of core PCE inflation has dropped to 1.1pc. The net stimulus has dropped from $85bn a month to $45bn. This is a form of monetary tightening. Interest rates have not risen – though they are rising in real terms – but the quantity of money mechanism may nevertheless be having a powerful effect. The broadest measure of the money supply – Divisia M4 – has dropped from a growth rate above 6pc a year ago to just 2.6pc in March. The Fed is unlikely to blink yet. Even the once dovish San Francisco Fed has warned that quantitative easing no longer serves a useful purpose and may be doing more harm that good at this stage, fuelling asset bubbles without much benefit for the real economy. Analysts say it would take several months of bad data to force the Fed to halt tapering and change course again. US policy-makers no longer pay much attention to the monetary data. Robert Hetzel, from the Richmond Fed, said this led to a grave error in mid-2008 when the Fed’s voting board began to talk up rate rises even though the money supply was already buckling. He argues that this played a key part in the Lehman crash several months later. Erica Groschen, from the Bureau of Labour Statistics, said the sudden drop in jobs last month was caused by fewer people joining the workforce, rather than people leaving. That is hardly reassuring, and conflicts with theories that the participation rate is falling because people are choosing to retire early. The weakness may be nothing worse than a pause for breath – or a mid-cycle correction – as the US gears up for a second leg of the post-Lehman expansion. The risk is that this instead proves to be the end of growth cycle that is already long in the teeth by historic standards. The possibility of a fresh downturn with the interest rates already at zero, the Fed’s balance sheet already at $4 trillion, and gross public debt above 100pc of GDP for the first time since the end of the Second World War is what keeps US economists awake night. There is little margin for policy error. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveHindu nationalist Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), holds a lotus cut-out after casting his vote at a polling station during the seventh phase of India's general election in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad April 30, 2014. India’s national election results won’t be announced until May 16, but the country’s financial markets already appear to have picked the winner: the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP’s recently released manifesto is one of grand ambition, with goals such as about building 100 new cities, world-class ports, a network of bullet trains, and providing universal access to low-cost housing by 2022. Investors like that kind of talk, and the Sensex, India’s benchmark equity index, is up some 13 percent since a mid-February trough. Industrial and financial stocks, which would especially benefit from a capital investment revival, have seen a particularly strong rally. Those latter investors hope BJP leader Narendra Modi will not just be able to reenergize an economy suffering from slowing growth and high inflation, but also to jump-start a stalled investment cycle. Modi is, after all, the chief minister of Gujarat, which produces 17 percent of India’s industrial output despite being home to just 5 percent of the population. India could use some of Gujarat’s magic: Annual GDP growth was below 5 percent in both 2012 and 2013, a far cry from the 10 percent average annual growth between 2007 and 2011. And gross fixed capital formation grew just 1.75 percent in the 2012-13 fiscal year, compared to 14 percent in 2010-11. But the rally in industrials and financials is premature, says Neelkanth Mishra, Credit Suisse’s Indian equities strategist. Regardless of who wins, the new government will be in a fiscal bind—facing both poor revenue growth and high non-discretionary expenditures—leaving little room for large-scale fiscal stimulus. What’s more, Mishra says, even dramatic policy changes made by the central government could take six to eight years to trickle down to jobs and growth. After all, each decision must go through several layers of government, in particular state governments, which oversee most large-scale development projects, including highway construction. Consider, too, that only one-fourth of India’s 83 trillion rupee ($1.4 trillion) worth of projects under construction are actually stuck at the federal level, a fact Mishra and colleague Ravi Shankar point out in a March note entitled, “Elections: Much Ado About Nothing.” Worse yet, two-thirds of the stalled projects that might benefit from a central government push are in power and steel, two areas where the country isn’t even suffering a shortage. The country’s power plants, for example, are running at less than 60 percent of capacity, despite the fact that peak power supply fell nearly 4 percent short of demand in March and nearly 400 million Indians lack electricity. And that’s the hard stuff: sorting out the financial problems plaguing some of the state electricity boards that distribute power to end-users is a multi-year project, says Mishra. Thus, India’s investment cycle will likely remain “broken” for several more years, BJP government or not. Still, Mishra thinks the rally in industrials and financial stocks will continue through the election. The larger Modi’s margin of victory, the longer the rally will last, he says, but investors will lose faith at some point.  “The investment cycle will come back at some point, but not in the next one or two years – and the stock market will not have the patience to wait three or four years,” Mishra says. Rather than a post-election investment boom, investors would do better to simply focus on “defensive” sectors such as IT, healthcare, and staples as well as bottom-up stories in energy and consumer discretionary products. Mishra points to India’s improving macroeconomic fundamentals and says growth may be near a trough. Not only that, it does look relatively attractive compared to other emerging markets. The current account deficit has fallen from 6.7 percent of GDP in the October-December quarter of 2012 to less than 1 percent of GDP in the January-March quarter of this year—the most dramatic change among emerging markets—and consumer and wholesale price indices are at their lowest points in two and four years, respectively. Earnings revisions have actually been positive of late, and foreign institutional investors have been pouring money into Indian equity and debt markets. So there’s an India to invest in, it’s just not the one grabbing headlines due to BJP’s manifesto. Some 50 percent of India’s GDP and 90 percent of jobs come from a thriving informal sector that is neither taxed nor monitored by the government. In a report last year, Mishra and his colleagues noted massive productivity gains and rising wages due to the proliferation of roads, electricity, and cell phones in rural villages. Rural stores are making brisk sales on ready-made clothing and instant food mixes, they noted, which would have been unthinkable luxuries for many local consumers just a few years ago. Rising prosperity among some of India’s poorest residents is a trend with the staying power and thus long-term investment opportunities on the subcontinent. The idea that a game-changing election will revive the country’s moribund investment cycle is not. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongChina bears have long argued that China's property market bubble was waiting to pop. Other's have looked at ghost cities and argued it isn't a singular bubble, but mini bubbles in various cities. Now, Mao Daqing, vice-chairman of Vanke Group, China's biggest property developer, is giving the property bubble argument some credence.  Mao thinks China's property market isn't looking good, according to a leaked recording, reports Ambrose Evans-Pritchard at The Telegraph.Here are the recordings translated by Li Junheng from JL Warren Capital, via Pritchard: "In 1990, Tokyo’s total land value accounts for 63.3pc of US GDP, while Hong Kong reached 66.3pc in 1997. Now, the total land value in Beijing is 61.6pc of US GDP, a dangerous level." "...Overall, I believe that China has reached its capacity limit for new construction of residential projects. Only those coastal Tier 3/Tier 4 cities have the potential for capacity expansion.” "I don’t see any possibility for a rise in home prices, especially in cities with large housing inventory, unless the government pushes out another few trillion. Beijing and Shanghai have already been listed among the most expensive cities in the world in terms of the medium central city property prices." Mao also said that China's crackdown on corruption has many Communist Party members looking to sell their homes to avoid being caught out in an audit. This he says has doubled the supply of homes and is forcing them to take price cuts.  Vanke Group has come out and said the recordings are authentic but do not reflect the views of Vanke Group or Mao, according to Pritchard. The recent slump in property sales and declining housing starts recently prompted Societe Generale's Wei Yao to write that "the housing sector now poses the biggest downside risk to the Chinese economy." Meanwhile, China bulls like Stephen Roach at least explain away ghost cities by arguing that these are part of China's urbanization plan. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBerkshire Hathaway's Q1 earnings are out. The massive conglomerate run by Warren Buffett earned a whopping $3.53 billion or $2,149 per share, down from $3.78 billion or $2,302 per share a year ago. One detail from Berkshire's filings we're always interested in is the value of Buffett's long-term derivative bets on the global stock markets. In case you forgot, Berkshire had sold put options on the S&amp;P 500, FTSE 100, Euro Stoxx 50, and the Nikkei 225. Berkshire collected premiums when it sold these options. Because they are put options, Berkshire is obligated to pay the option buyer should the indices fall below the exercise price.  It's important to note that these are European-style options, which means they can only be exercised at maturity. As a general rule, the value of these positions increase when stocks go up and vice versa. This bet was controversial because in his 2002 letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders, Buffett dubbed derivative securities as "financial weapons of mass destruction." In Q1, the value of these options fell by 132 million. Of course, these are just paper losses, as Buffett expects to hold them until they expire. From Berkshire Hathaway's 10-Q (click to zoom): SEC Some details from the 10-Q filing: We have written no new equity index put option contracts since February 2008. The contracts currently outstanding are European style options written on four major equity indexes. Future payments, if any, under any given contract will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration date. We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore have no counterparty credit risk. The aggregate intrinsic value (which is the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately $1.6 billion at March 31, 2014 and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2013. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates which occur between June 2018 and January 2026. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be determined for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 6.75 years at March 31, 2014. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GARY SHILLING: 9 Investments For The Prevailing Risk-On World (A. Gary Shilling's Insight)  Gary Shilling argues that going into May we're still in a 'risk on' investment climate despite "many warning signs related to economic growth and financial markets here and abroad." In this environment he likes nine investments. 1. Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The U.S. dollar against the Canadian and Australian dollars; 6. Selected health-care providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 8. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers ex renewables.  Meanwhile, he thinks select commodities, especially copper, are unattractive. "We've re-established our short on the Australian dollar. That country's strong link to China still makes it vulnerable to slowing economic growth and a possible financial shock there," according to Shilling. "We've also restored our short on emerging market stocks. Serious problems remain … especially for the poorly-managed Goats," he writes. The term refers to countries like Turkey, India, South Africa, Indonesia, Argentina, and Brazil, that have high current account deficits, weak currencies, and high inflation. "And we've added a short on small, speculative stocks in view of the high prices and ongoing declines." He also thinks a shock like a financial crisis in China could push us into a risk off. Advisors Are Wary Of Alternative Mutual Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Alternative mutual funds, are funds that have more nontraditional investments and strategies that are more like hedge funds, than the traditional buy and hold. These funds have been growing fast, from about $38 billion in 172 funds at the end of 2008, to $160 billion in 429 funds at the end of February 2014. But many advisors are wary of these funds because they are complex, expensive, lack transparency, and because they have "short track records," reports Daisy Maxey at The Wall Street Journal.  "The concept is borrowed from hedge funds and hedge funds have really high fees and very poor track records," Christopher Van Slyke, a founding partner of WorthPointe, told Maxey. "So why we would want to bring that set of circumstances to the masses for mutual funds, I have no idea." Van Slyke also added that the fees — which can range from 1.9% to 4.6% according to Morningstar — are so high that they offset any good ideas these funds have.  The Most Famous Bond Fund In The World Continues To See Money Flow Out Of It (Morningstar)  PIMCO, the world's largest bond fund run by Bill Gross, just saw its 12th straight month of new outflows. Data from Morningstar shows that investors pulled $3.12 billion from PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund in April, bringing the total in net outflows to $55.26 billion since May 2013. PIMCO has come under the scanner following the surprising departure of Mohamed El-Erian and reports about Gross' management style. The fund is also trailing 68% of its peers. Business Insider, MorningstarBrokers Stage Protest To Save UBS Branch Manager (Investment News)  UBS Wealth Management Americas was about to replace Michael Williams, its San Francisco branch manager, until his brokers decided to protest, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. Some brokers were willing to resign if Williams was replaced, and management eventually caved to the pressure. "I've never seen anything like it," a veteran adviser in the office told Braswell on condition of anonymity. "I've seen a lot of guys come and go, and I've never seen a group of brokers stand unified." GMO: The Stock Market Looks Irrationally Exuberant (Business Insider) Money management firm GMO has a proprietary measure of sentiment made up of a wide range of measures, and they say it looks stretched. "Our finding, which comes as no great surprise, is that sentiment has reached an extreme level, fast approaching two standard deviations above its long-run average, which goes back to 1950," writes GMO's Edward Chancellor. "In fact, the current score on our composite measure has only been exceeded in 1968 (during the 'Go-Go Years,' also known as the 'Great Garbage Market'), and between 1998 and 2000 (during the TMT bubble). "Clearly, the U.S. stock market is not as manic as it became during the late stages of the Dotcom bubble – IPO issuance and first-day returns and mutual fund flows are far below their record levels at the turn of the century," added Chancellor. "M&amp;A activity is also less frantic. Still market sentiment going into this year was above the level of December 1996 when Alan Greenspan first noted (but did nothing about) the market’s 'irrational exuberance.'" GMO   FREE AppDownload
Jeff Egnazcyk/flickrWelcome to the kaleidoscopic economy, where you can see a host of different views on whether the growth is picking up, all at one time. Today's jobs report did little to clear things up. The BLS said we added 288,000 nonfarm payrolls in April — well above estimates — and that the unemployment rate fell to 6.3%.  But they also said the labor force participation rate dropped, and that wage growth went nowhere. As the Federal Reserve tries to absorb all this into its policy making deliberations, they are going to have to contend with divergent views on one important question: Is there slack in the labor market?  If there are lots of workers and not many jobs, the answer is yes. If on the other hand job seekers are able to find work with relative ease, the labor market is tight. Unfortuntately, the data doesn't do a great job of providing a clear answer. Fed Chair Janet Yellen has indicated the Fed still sees slack. But a chorus of economists have begun disagreeing. For the prosecution — those who say the economy looks good, and certainly much better than the Fed is saying — is Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. He maintains that the unemployment rate is still the single best indicator of the state of the labor market. So, the fact we are approaching a 5.6% "full employment" level, he says, should be making everyone feel bullish. As he wrote this morning: This is not a labor market recovery, the economy is not healing, the economy is full on here. THERE IS NO SLACK IN THE LABOR MARKET. [caps his, bold ours — ed.] The future was uncertain until today, but now that it is certain, we got the report, the Fed needs to revise their exit strategy.  In a hurry.  With one giant leap this morning the labor market is closing in on full employment. ... The economy is better than you think.  And Fed officials are going to raise rates quicker than you think.  Bet on it. For the defense — those who share Janet Yellen's view that there remains significant slack in the economy — is Josh Feinman of Deutsche Bank. He argues that our "scariest jobs chart in the world" chart of jobs gained since the recession is indeed still terrifying. ...We still think there is a lot of slack. Nonfarm payrolls  are now finally back within a whisper of their January 2008 peak, and should breach that summit next  month. We have gone 76  months with essentially no net job growth. Even using a conservative estimate of the "breakeven" rate  of job creation—about 80,000 per month, consistent  with slowing demographic trends—employment is still roughly 6 million shy of what might be considered 'full  employment.' Even at a pace of 200,000 per month  (120,000 above the breakeven rate), it would take  about another four years to make up that shortfall entirely. It's possible we're reading too much into the drop in labor force participation. That's the view of UBS' Drew Matus, who writes:  The participation rate has been between 62.8% and 63.2% for nine months and we see little reason to believe that the drop witnessed in April will be repeated. Indeed, the expiration of long-term benefits is the likely reason  behind the drop in the labor force and suggests that not  everyone receiving long-term benefits planned to return   to the labor market. The No. 1 Fed priority from a deliberative standpoint is commitment to whatever it's doing so as not to rattle markets. For Société Générale, there has been nothing new that would suggest deviating from their current path.  There was nothing in today's jobs report that has the potential of moving the needle on the pace of tapering, or on the rate path. Despite the solid payrolls figures and the sharp drop in the unemployment rate, there was no follow-through in the wage numbers. The Fed's extremely dovishrate path is based on the thesis that there is substantial slack in the labor market - beyond that apparent in the unemployment rate - and that it will cap wage gains and inflation. Today's report is fully consistent with that view.  Ultimately, you could argue there was nothing to cause the Fed to deviate, but it also did nothing to resolve the inherent tensions between the no-slack and slackers. "The persistence of the downward trend in unemployment, coupled with still-stagnant wage growth, will keep the lights burning late into the night at the Fed, but it will do nothing to settle the differences between the policy hawks and doves," said Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson. Seems about right. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungWarren BuffettBerkshire Hathaway Q1 financial results are out. Operating earnings fell 6.6% year-over-year to $2,149 per share, which was a hair shy of the $2,171 expected by analysts. That's a $22 per share miss. Keep in mind that Berkshire closed today at $192,255 per share. Berkshire Hathaway is the massive holding company of billionaire Warren Buffett.  Its portfolio includes insurance companies, railroad operators, utilities, and various retailers. Read the brief release at BerkshireHathaway.com. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / The All-Nite ImagesNews of today's unfortunate F train derailment had New Yorkers once again thinking about how the lines they use compare to the rest of the subway system normally. As it turns out, the F tends to disappoint more than most other subway lines. The MTA's Transit and Bus committee holds monthly meetings. The meeting materials, available from the MTA's website, include a number of performance and quality indicators for the subway system. We took three of those indicators for each of the city's subway lines from the most recently available materials from the committee. The first indicator, wait assessment, is the percentage of wait times during weekdays that are close to on schedule. If an L train is supposed to come every seven minutes, and four trains arrive following that schedule, but the fifth train comes ten minutes after the previous train, the L would receive a score of 80% for this measure. The second indicator, terminal on time, is the percentage of trains during weekdays that arrive no more than five minutes late at their final stops, without having skipped any stations along the way. The last indicator, subway car quality, shows the scores from an MTA customer survey. It is a composite percentage based on customers' views of the appearance and cleanliness of subway cars, the proper function of equipment like doors, lights, heating, and air conditioning, and the understandability of the car's signs, maps, and announcements. Here are the city's subway lines, ranked from best to worst by the average of those three measures: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Metropolitan Transit Authority The L comes out on top, with its highly rated cars and good performance being on time to its terminals. The 4/5 lines are a mess, with just over half of their trains arriving at their final stops on time. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith BedfordJamie Dimon, chairman and chief executive of JP Morgan Chase JPMorgan Chase has filed its 10-Q for the first quarter with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The bank sees its second-quarter markets revenue (consumer and investment bank fixed income &amp; equities) down about 20%+/- in the second quarter, the filing states via Bloomberg News. The bank points to a "challenging environment" and lower client activity levels as the reasons for the drop.  "Based on Markets revenue results to date, which reflect a continued challenging environment and lower client activity levels, expect 2Q14 Markets revenue to be down approximately 20%+/- versus 2Q13. The Markets revenue actual results will depend heavily on performance throughout the remainder of the quarter, which can be volatile," the filing said. In the filing, JPMorgan also highlights a number of factors, including "strength of consumers and businesses, U.S. housing prices, unemployment rate, implied market interest rates, financial market levels and activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment, client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other countries" affecting various lines of its business each to a different degree. A spokesperson for JPMorgan declined to comment.  The bank's stock was last trading down 1.17% in the after-hours session. JPMorgan's stock closed down 14 cents, or -0.25%, to end at $55.58 per share today.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBog lake in Suru Bog, Põhja-Kõrvemaa Nature Reserve, EstoniaToday's jobs report got a mixed reaction from economists and investors. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Charles Platiau/ReutersFrench economist Thomas Piketty It is the closest thing to a pop-culture sensation heavyweight economics will ever provide.  "Capital in the Twenty-First Century", a vast work on the past and future of inequality by Thomas Piketty, a French economist, has become the best-selling title at Amazon.com.  In America the online retailer has run out of the 700-page hardcover, which it sells for $25. "Capital" has many virtues. It is a clear and thorough analysis of one of the foremost economic concerns of the day. It provides readers with a simple explanation for rising inequality. Wealth generally grows faster than the economy, Mr Piketty argues. What is more, there are few economic forces that counteract its natural tendency to become concentrated, as greater wealth brings greater opportunity to save and invest. In the absence of exceptionally rapid growth or a nasty period of geopolitical instability like that between 1914 and 1945, inequality therefore grows. The book has attracted much criticism, however. The most common complaints fall into four broad categories. The first concerns Mr Piketty's tone, beginning with the title. A deliberate allusion to Karl Marx's magnum opus, it suggests both immodesty and an innate antipathy to markets. Some critics object to Mr Piketty's use of words like "appropriation" to describe the rising share of income going to the rich. Writing in the Wall Street Journal, Daniel Shuchman, a fund manager, fumed at the book's "medieval hostility to the notion that financial capital earns a return". This is not just a matter of presentation. There is no disguising that Mr Piketty is keener on redistribution than many of his critics. Clive Crook, a columnist at Bloomberg (and former deputy editor of The Economist), asks whether the levels of future inequality the book predicts are really as "terrifying" as Mr Piketty claims. Others find fault with the book's economics. The statement "r &gt; g" (meaning that the rate of return on capital is generally higher than the rate of economic growth) is central to the book's argument that wealth tends to accumulate over time. But some complain that r is too mushily defined, especially by comparison with the calculus-strewn pages of much economics research. Writing in Foreign Affairs, Tyler Cowen of George Mason University reckons Mr Piketty sees capital as a "growing, homogeneous blob", and so fails to take account of the variation, across time and investments, in the returns to wealth. Happily, "Capital" is not written in economist-ese. There is relatively little mathematics; Mr Piketty uses 19th-century literature to illustrate many of his points. He freely acknowledges that riskier ventures are more lucrative than safer bets like government bonds. But he is less interested in individual investment choices than in the overall growth in value of an economy's wealth, including everything from industrial machinery to summer homes and art collections. His data suggest that, with the exceptions mentioned, wealth of this sort does tend to grow faster than the economy as a whole. Since 1700, he reckons, wealth globally has enjoyed a typical pre-tax return of between 4% and 5% a year--considerably faster than average economic growth. Other critics claim that Mr Piketty ignores bedrock principles of economics. Those dictate that the return on capital should fall as it accumulates. The 100th industrial robot does not provide nearly the same boost to production as the first. Kevin Hassett, of the American Enterprise Institute, a free-market think-tank, reckons the return should fall fast enough as wealth builds that the share of income that goes to the owners of capital should not rise (as Mr Piketty suggests it does). This disagreement is partly a problem of definitions. Capital in Mr Piketty's book includes forms of wealth, such as land, that would not figure in economists' models of production; his rate of return is the pace at which such wealth grows rather than the benefit to firms of investing it. Mr Piketty's data appear to justify this approach: in the past, at least, the rich have been able to shift resources into higher-yielding forms of wealth when over-investment slashes the return. Mr Piketty also argues that the return on capital can be propped up by technology, which could lead to new ways of substituting machines for people. A third category of criticism focuses on whether Mr Piketty overstates the extent to which the future is likely to resemble the past. Mr Cowen wonders whether r, however defined, is likely to continue to be higher than the rate of economic growth. Writing in the National Review, Jim Pethokoukis predicts that the same excessive pessimism about economies' capacity for growth that sank Marx's prophecies would also undermine Mr Piketty's. In a similar vein, some critics question the parallel between today's wealth (which is mostly the product of soaring labour incomes) and that of the "idle rich" of the 19th century, living off inheritance. The long-run relationship between r and g has little to do with the fortunes accumulated by Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos. Mr Piketty acknowledges the point, but does not let it distract him from his broader emphasis on the long-run returns to wealth. That is not an absurd decision. Some fortunes, like Warren Buffett's, seem a confirmation of the contention that r is greater than g. Mr Piketty rightly points out that self-made riches may become tomorrow's family fortune, given the propensity of wealth to perpetuate itself. The book's final section, on how policy should respond to rising inequality, has provoked the most disagreement. Mr Piketty's proposal for a global tax on wealth is widely written off as politically impossible (which he concedes). Critics like Mr Cowen and Greg Mankiw, an economist at Harvard University, argue that his recommendations are motivated by ideology more than economics. "Capital" does give unduly short shrift to conservative concerns. Mr Piketty glosses over the question of whether attempts to redistribute wealth will weaken growth. He also assumes, rather blithely, that growing inequality leads to instability. Yet that is not always the case: many democracies have managed such challenges without upheaval. Given the mass of data Mr Piketty has assembled, he might profitably have analysed in what circumstances inequality generates conflict. Then again, the success of his book, and the ever-expanding commentary it has provoked, will doubtless inspire others to do so soon. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceThe bond market rally has sent the 10-year Treasury yield tumbling to 2.5717% from 2.6858% earlier today. The stock markets are sliding a bit deeper into the red. Earlier today, we got a stronger-than-expected jobs report with nonfarm payrolls jumping 288,000 and the unemployment rate falling to 6.3%. Stocks initially climbed as bonds sold off. But now we're seeing a reversal. Strong economic data is thought to encourage the Federal Reserve to want to taper quantitative easing and raise rates more aggressively sooner than later, which means higher yields on Treasuries. This is why people are somewhat perplexed by the falling rates. "We are seeing heavy de-risking in Europe and London ahead of the weekend as Ukraine Headlines get worse (London and Japan three-day weekend to boot)," said Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz in an email. Lutz reiterated several other reasons why bonds might be rallying: low liquidity in the bond markets; no inflation; the Fed is still considered more hawkish than peers such as the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank; people are readjusting economic assumptions after Wednesday's horrible GDP report; funds may be rotating into bonds as "window dressing" since its month end/beginning; and bad positioning — CFTC data showed that short positions in 10-year note futures were near four-year highs. Still, the stock market could be doing a whole lot worse. Charlie Brown of the Intercontinental Exchange notes that the latest fund flow data was an "expression of confidence in the markets." "Domestic equity funds investing in the U.S. saw inflows of $1.9 billion in March, contributing to a year-to-date gain of $18.3 billion," Brown wrote in the NYSE MAC Desk midday update note. "Total equity flows had inflows of $10.4 billion in March, adding to a $53.5 billion inflow year-to-date. Flows into world equity funds registered $8.5 billion in March, contributing to a ytd $35.2 billion inflow. All good." FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank analyst Torsten Slok just sent this out as part of a larger chartpack relating to the state of the labor market. It shows that for the first time in 5 years (with the exception over the Census-related spike) it appears that public sector hiring is on an uptrend. Deutsche Bank Public sector austerity has been one of the big drags on the economy, thanks in large part due to severe cuts at the state and local level. If this comes bac, that's big headwind finally going away. FREE AppDownload
Is AppleCare a waste of money or a good way to protect your costly Apple products? We did the math - take a look. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
There are many ways to assess the state of the stock market. You could take the fundamental approach and consider a wide array of variables to derive an actual value based on projected profits and cash flows. You could take the technical approach and consider price chart patterns. You could also focus on sentiment, which is somewhere in between the fundamental and technical approaches. In addition to considering hard data regarding corporate behavior and trader activity, sentiment analysis also involves soft data like investor surveys. Psychology plays a heavy role. Money management firm GMO has its own proprietary measure of sentiment. Here's how they describe it: Our sentiment measure is comprised of the following measures: stock buybacks/issuance; IPO proceeds; IPO first-day pop; number of IPOs; insider buy/sell ratio; equity share of issuance; equity mutual fund net inflows; AAII bull-bear ratio; stock/bond relative performance; household % in cash; M&amp;A activity; trailing S&amp;P volatility; equity correlation; trailing small factor performance; closed-end fund discount; margin debt; high yield spread; high yield issuance share; new 52- week highs to lows; S&amp;P distance from 200d moving average; trailing momentum factor performance. It's quite the hodgepodge of indicators. But the bottom line is that they look stretched. "Our finding, which comes as no great surprise, is that sentiment has reached an extreme level, fast approaching two standard deviations above its long-run average, which goes back to 1950," writes GMO's Edward Chancellor. "In fact, the current score on our composite measure has only been exceeded in 1968 (during the “Go-Go Years,” also known as the “Great Garbage Market”), and between 1998 and 2000 (during the TMT bubble)." Chancellor's comment was part of GMO's Q1 letter, which included Jeremy Grantham's forecast for a major stock market sell-off at around the time of the 2016 presidential elections. "Clearly, the U.S. stock market is not as manic as it became during the late stages of the Dotcom bubble – IPO issuance and first-day returns and mutual fund flows are far below their record levels at the turn of the century," added Chancellor. "M&amp;A activity is also less frantic. Still market sentiment going into this year was above the level of December 1996 when Alan Greenspan first noted (but did nothing about) the market’s “irrational exuberance.”" "Irrational Exuberance" was also the title of Robert Shiller's book, the first and second editions of which predicted the dotcom and housing bubbles respectively. GMO FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Candy & CandyThe London real estate market is on fire, with an unfinished penthouse apartment at ultra-luxury residence One Hyde Park selling to an unnamed Eastern European buyer for a record $237 million, according to Reuters. Developer Candy &amp; Candy confirmed the sale of the 16,000-square-foot duplex penthouse — one of four in the development — billed as the world's most expensive apartment building, with more than $3.37 billion in sales to date. While the developer could not confirm the sale price, real estate experts have valued the finished penthouse at as much as $295 million, according to Candy &amp; Candy. One Hyde Park has been setting real estate records in London and worldwide since it launched in 2011. At that time, residences in the 86-apartment building were selling for around $11,270 per square foot, nearly three times the typical price of luxury London real estate. Now, the average price per square foot is $10,102, though units have gone for as much as $12,360 per square foot, said a representative for Candy &amp; Candy. The building made headlines that same year when Ukrainian oligarch Rinat Akhmetov paid $216 million for a penthouse and apartment in the complex. Until this latest sale, it was the most expensive residence ever sold in Britain. So what's it like to live in the world's most expensive apartment building? FREE AppDownload
Tough question. Clearly the fundamental back-drop is muddy. Chew on these headwinds and tailwinds that gold investors face: In my humble opinion, I’ve always thought that currency concerns, government (in)stability, and geo-political uncertainty play a heavy hand in the commodity markets (especially Gold). And to be fair, 2013 was a fairly quiet year on that front.  But signs of friction have emerged (i.e. Russia-Ukraine) and European elections are just around the corner. Perhaps one of these catalysts, or lack thereof, will play a role in giving Gold a directional bias into late spring or summer. Back in December, I wrote a post on 4 Gold charts to watch into 2014. Well, I’m still watching them!  They have largely defined the current price range that Gold is in and I believe still provide some notable clues and levels to watch for gold investors. Below are updated versions of those charts with an additional monthly chart to boot (ordered from daily to monthly, inside-out analysis). Gold – Daily Price Chart The daily chart shows that the 1260-1275 level is key over the near-term. If Gold is going to rally from here, it will likely need to hold this level.  A break over 1330 and 1400 could come fast. A move below 1260 and a retest of the lows could be in order.  Gold – Weekly Price Chart On the weekly charts, 1425 shows up as resistance and 1180 as support. A move over 1420 could target 1525, while a move below 1180 may call for a retest of the 2009 breakout over 1000 (see fib chart further down). Back in March 2013 with Gold trading at 1597, I posted about a possible retest of the 1000 breakout level: Support resides in and around $1400, $1200, and way down near $1000. Although $1000 is not even a consideration for most investors, it does mark the plateau from which Gold prices took off. At the time, I received some criticism for even considering the possibility. But, what many impassioned gold investors don’t realize is that opportunities often come during downtrends when the herd gives up hope. And further, a retest of that breakout would likely offer a solid buying opportunity.  Gold – Monthly Price Chart The monthly chart simply adds long-term trend perspective. Trend support resides around 1125-1150. BUT, it’s quite common to see trend line shakeouts (where price panics below the trend line for a few days, then reverses).  Gold – Fibonacci Chart The 61.8 Fibonacci retracement level has offered significant support over the past 10 months (in the form of two solid rallies). But price is at a critical stage: A move above 1330 gives the bulls renewed life, while a break below the 61.8 Fib support likely puts 1000-1100 in view.  Gold vs Gold Bugs Index (HUI) – Weekly Price Chart When Gold prices retested the summer bottom in December, the Gold Bugs Index pushed lower into strong lateral support. This provided a nice tradable setup for active gold investors. The question remains: Will the rally continue, or will the HUI require a deeper retest of that major support?  Trade safe. No position in any of the mentioned securities at the time of publication.  Any opinions expressed herein are solely those of the author, and do not in any way represent the views or opinions of any other person or entity. FREE AppDownload
Patricia Fletcher is a New York-based voice-over and dialect coach who usually works with actors to help them get rid of their Brooklyn accent. But we wanted to learn how to talk just like we're from Brooklyn, so she gave us a lesson on the basics of how to change your consonant and vowel pronunciation. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Will Wei.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Courtesy Rishi BaliRishi Bali. A former banker just released a line of yoga clothing for men that he believes will appeal to his former colleagues on Wall Street.  Rishi Bali grew up doing yoga with his family and friends in the Himalayan mountains of India. He moved to New York City for college, and worked at Goldman Sachs for more than a decade.  He started his athleticwear brand, YogaSmoga, in 2010, but only sold clothing for women.  "Up until recently, I was one of the only men in my yoga classes," Bali told Business Insider. "Today, about one-third of students are men."  At the urging of his friends, he began developing a men's line.  "My friends and former colleagues wanted clothing that was tailored and professional, but also designed for fitness," Bali said. "They didn't like the existing selections for men."  YogaSmoga also innovated a new fabric technology—Koura. The fabric is made from biodegradable eucalyptus cellulose fibers that are both moisture-wicking and soft, Bali said.  Prices are in line with competitor Lululemon. A long-sleeved t-shirt is $84, while yoga pants are $118.  Bali said he will continue innovating the men's line. He manufactures all his clothing in the U.S., which he says makes it easier to control quality.  Here's some gear from the YogaSmoga lookbook:  YogaSmoga Courtesy YogaSmoga You can buy YogaSmoga's men's line here.  FREE AppDownload
  Augie RayA subway train derailed in the Woodside area of Queens this morning, leaving 19 passengers injured, including four who were potentially seriously injured, according to CBS New York. FDNY and paramedics were on the scene quickly and evacuated the approximately 1,000 passengers on the 8-car train. Passengers had to be evacuated 20 at a time as they had to leave through a narrow emergency access point.  The train that derailed was a Manhattan-bound F Train that was running on the express track. The derailment occurred near Broadway and 65th Street at around 10:40 AM. Its still not clear what caused the train to derail. “The first car of the train made it through without derailing. The following cars then, about six cars, derailed and the final car stayed on the track,” NYPD Chief of Patrol James Hall said at a news conference this afternoon. While there are currently delays on the E, R, F, and M lines, due to the derailment, MTA officials said that they are hoping to restore local service in time for the evening rush. Here is the FDNY pulling passengers out through the emergency hatch in the ground:  DNAInfo reporter Katie Honan had a Vine of the scene from the ground:  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderSomething doesn't square with two big recent economic data releases.  In Wednesday's advance estimate of first-quarter GDP, health-care spending exploded to its highest levels in more than 30 years. But the jobs report Friday revealed no significant uptick in employment.  Former OMB Director Peter Orszag first pointed this out on Twitter: For both spending to have exploded with health-care employment growing at an average pace, it would mean an absurd boom in in health-care productivity. Here's the chart Orszag posted on Twitter: Twitter/@porszag "Employment is barely moving in health care," Orszag told Business Insider in a brief phone interview Friday. "So the implication of that is either we're experiencing a boom in productivity growth, because output is increasing much more rapidly than employment. Or the preliminary GDP numbers might be revised down, and so this whole thing may be a bit of a mirage." The GDP numbers have been seized on by critics of the Affordable Care Act, and interpreted to mean that the record-slow growth in health-care spending was coming to an end.  With a more complete picture now, though, Orszag said the type of productivity increase is not very plausible. Health-care employment grew by about 19,000 in April, which was about in line with the previous 12-month average of 17,000.  What Orszag thinks it might come down to is a flaw in how people interpret the uptick in GDP numbers, given how they are calculated. For example, once someone qualifies for Medicaid, that counts as an increase in both their income and spending, even if they don't actually consume health-care services, Orszag said. About 4.8 million qualified for Medicaid coverage through the program's expansion under the Affordable Care Act, the White House said Thursday. Jared Bernstein, the former chief economist to U.S. Vice President Joe Biden and now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, had also speculated that the GDP growth was more likely associated with the Medicaid expansion at this point. "It would mean that somehow we're able to produce so much more health care with each worker, in a dramatic fashion, starting magically with the fourth quarter of last year," Orszag said. "OK, maybe? It's just not really plausible. If all of this were real, it would mean that suddenly, magically, health-care workers have become a lot more productive." FREE AppDownload
PriceStatsAmong the more robust debates about whether Fed policy is jumping the gun or falling behind, is whether inflation is increasing. The Wall Street Journal's Josh Zumbrun has caught some interesting evidence suggesting that in fact inflation has been higher than what the Fed's been telling us. Now, normally, arguments against official numbers are pretty specious. There are a lot of cranks questioning the inflation data. But this time is different ... It comes from the State Street PriceStats index. It's been using tons of online data to measure inflation, and its correlation with the government's official measure has been nearly impeccable. Until recently. Starting in Q4, the two measures began to diverge. Q4, of course, saw extreme winter weather that everyone agrees likely caused the economy to slow. While the official measure of inflation climbed 1.5% in March YOY, the PriceStats model showed it climbed 2.5%. What happened? Online retail, it seems — which the official measure would not have picked up, and which would have surged as people stayed inside. "...What’s happening is less sinister and more interesting, according to Jessica Donohue, the senior managing director at State Street who helps oversee the index," Zumbrun writes. "The gap could be explained by bad weather, and the superiority of online data in measuring commerce that increasingly takes place over computer screens, not cash registers." Read Zumbrun's full post, with charts, on WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Michael LoccisanoThis weekend, the elite and elegant women and charming gentlemen of America's heartland will be sporting their best Lilly Pulitzer patterns, portrait hats, and seersucker suits at the Kentucky Derby.  But this year, wouldn't it be just as fun to bring some of that southern charm to the north? Check out which NYC establishments are hosting the best southern-esque soirées – so place your bets and get partying! Click here to see the parties &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipU.S. casino magnate Steve Wynn, head of Wynn Resorts Ltd and Wynn Macau Ltd, speaks during a news conference in Macau, June 5, 2012.Perhaps for Steve Wynn’s next Wynn Resorts’ commercial he’ll begin with his trademark, “Hello, I’m Steve Wynn,” and then add, “I made $19.6 million in total compensation in 2013 as chairman and CEO of Wynn Resorts.” Skift examined the financial filings of publicly listed hotel companies and came up with a list of the Top 10 Hotel CEO Pay Packages of 2013 [see below], ranging from top-earner Steve Wynn’s $19.6 million to Hilton Worldwide CEO Christopher Nassetta’s $2.26 million at number 10. Before you feel sorry for Nassetta’s base salary of a mere $850,000 and $2.26 million in total compensation in 2013 (both lowest among the top 10) as the chain’s president and CEO, consider that he signed a new employment agreement in February 2014 growing out of Hilton’s successful 2013 IPO, which raised $2.35 billion. Among the changes in Nassetta’s contract, his 2014 base salary increases 41% to $1.2 million, and he was granted 158,311 options, 55,736 restricted stock units, and 167,208 performance shares. Although it’s premature to calculate Nassetta’s 2014 total compensation, rest assured that he’ll be able to pay his grocery bills. As Wynn Resorts noted in a financial filing dealing with 2013 executive compensation, its “compensation committee is mindful that gaming companies have historically provided total compensation packages that may be higher than many of then non-gaming counterparts due to the unique blend of entrepreneurial and managerial skills required to be successful in gaming and certain regulatory and other extraordinary demands.” Gaming CEOs And that trend held true among the Top 10 Hotel CEO Pay Packages in 2013 as the CEOs of gaming companies, including Steve Wynn of Wynn Resorts (No. 1, $19.6 million), Sheldon Adelson of Las Vegas Sands (No. 2, $14 million ) and James Murren of MGM Resorts (No. 4, $10.9 million) took three out of the four top slots, with Wyndham Worldwide chairman and CEO Stephen Holmes squeezing in at No. 3 with a total compensation package of $13.5 million. It should be noted, however, that Starwood president and CEO Frits van Paasschen’s $10,913,694 total compensation package for 2013 placed him fifth among hotel CEOs, although he was in a virtual dead heat with James Murren, chairman and CEO of MGM Resorts, who earned $10,991,426 at No. 4 in the Top 10. That’s a piddling difference of $77,732. Starwood says van Paasschen’s total compensation has “moved in tandem with our annual total shareholder return over the past five years.” Starwood’s total shareholder return in 2013 stood at 41%. He’s Definitely Wynning Steve Wynn achieved his status as 2013's most highly compensated hotel CEO not just for his chairman and CEO duties, but also because he’s a marketing tool. As Wynn Resorts stated: “Mr. Wynn’s aesthetic vision, direction and the public’s association of his name and likeness with our casino resorts and services are unique and integral components of our success and provided the context for determining Mr. Wynn’s compensation for 2013.” There was one downer for Wynn in 2013, however. Wynn Resorts decided that starting in November 2013 he would have to pay $525,000 per year to lease a villa at Wynn Las Vegas as his personal residence. The abode had previously been provided to Wynn as part of his compensation package. Wyndham CEO Helped Beat Performance Targets Wyndham chairman and CEO Stephen Holmes took the No. 3 position, and was the top earner among the non-casino hotel company CEOs with a 2013 total compensation package of $13.5 million, and this included $5.25 million in stock awards, $1.75 million in option awards, and $4.27 million in non-equity incentive compensation. Wyndham exceeded certain EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) targets, which propelled Holmes’ pay. Wyndham characterized its 2013 results as “strong,” with net income increasing 8% to $432 million on $5 billion in revenue, a 10% jump. Oh, Marriott Among other points of interest in the Top 10 Hotel CEO Pay Packages in 2013 was Marriott president and CEO Arne Sorenson’s $9.16 million compensation. Investment research firm GMI Ratings gave Marriott’s board a grade of “F” in corporate governance because of the presence of insiders on the board, including J.W. Marriott Jr., John Marriott III and Sorenson, and some board members’ over-commitments to other boards, among other factors. GMI also found fault with the fact that Marriott doesn’t disclose performance targets, doesn’t necessarily figure Sorenson’s base pay after conducting external reviews, and can give its CEO long-term incentive pay “for below-median performance,” Marriott says. This year was not “below median,” though: In 2013, Marriott’s diluted earnings per share increased 16% to $2 while revenue jumped 8% to $12.78 billion. Following are the highest compensation hotel CEOs among public companies in 2013: Top 10 Hotel CEO Pay Packages of 2013 Source: Securities and Exchange Commission filings* Chairman and CEO** Sheldon Adelson is Las Vegas Sands’ chairman, CEO and treasurerNote: All of the other CEOs listed are president and CEO of their companies FREE AppDownload
AP PhotosFactory orders climbed 1.1% in March, missing expectations for a 1.5% rise.  Meanwhile, February's reading was revised down to reflect a 1.5% rise, compared with an initial reading of 1.6%. The severe winter weighed on factory orders but economists have expected a rebound in spring. The strong March durable goods report also bodes well for the factory orders number. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider, Morningstar PIMCO flagship Total Return Fund continues to see net ouflows each month. According to new data from Morningstar, the fund managed by Bill Gross saw net outflows of around $3.12 billion in April. That's the 12th straight month of net outflows for a cumulative total amount of $55.26 billion. PIMCO has attracted a lot of attention in recent months, largely due to the unexpected departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian and revelations of Co-CIO Gross's unorthodox management style. For investors, however, the top concern continues to be performance. And PIMCO just isn't delivering. According to Morningstar, the fund's performance trails 68% of its peers. Outflows are not an industry-wide phenomenon. Competitor DoubleLine Funds, led by other bond king Jeff Gundlach, saw $442.5 million in net inflows in April with the flagship Total Return Fund pulling in $319.5 million. With the bond market seeing a bit of bid lately, maybe Gross's fund will finally see things turn around. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange October 13, 2008. The market isn't moving much after today's jobs report. And it makes sense, despite the strong top-line numbers, this doesn't change much. First of all yes, the main numbers were very strong. The 288K new jobs gained was well ahead of expectations. And the unemployment rate collapsed to 6.3%, which is the lowest in 5.5 years. But there are all kinds of holes to poke in the story. For one thing, the strong gains could be partly the result of a snapback from a weak winter. And the labor force participation tanked. And there was no acceleration in average hourly earnings, which means there's no new pressure on the Fed to tighten. So we have good numbers, but no real change in the trajectory of the economy and no new pressures on the Fed.  So no real reason for markets to do much. For more on today's jobs report, see here. FREE AppDownload
Oxford's Said Business SchoolBill AckmanDealBook's Ben Protess and Alexandra Stevenson have a big article on how federal authorities are looking into a number of hedge funds on both sides of the Herbalife trade. Authorities are looking into well-timed bets in Herbalife stock. No one has been accused of any wrongdoing.  DealBook's report also includes a little tidbit about how a junior-level Pershing Square Capital Management employee told his roommate about the fund's Herbalife short position before it was publicly announced. DealBook points out that this isn't necessarily illegal. However, the roommate is said to have shorted Herbalife and made about $20,000, the report said. From DealBook:  Before the announcement, the people briefed on the matter said, one of Mr. Ackman’s junior employees mentioned the planned trade to his roommate. The conversation was not necessarily illegal. The junior employee, who like Pershing Square has not been accused of any wrongdoing, may have shared information with his roommate in strict confidence. But the roommate may have crossed a legal line when he helped a friend place a bet against Herbalife. After Mr. Ackman’s presentation pummeled the company’s stock, the people said, the friend reaped at least $20,000. The junior employee has left Pershing Square. He left the fund for reasons unrelated to the investigation, the report said. The junior-level employee also hasn't been accused of any wrongdoing.  Also, the report points out that the roommate could be liable if he broke an explicit promise to keep it confidential.  (Side note: Both of the analysts who worked on Pershing Square's Herbalife short left the fund last year.) The hedge fund battle over Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells weight-loss products, has been going on for over a year now. Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, with a price target of $0. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower-income individuals. As a result, he believes regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut it down.  Ackman's long-time rival, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, owns a massive long position in the company. He bought the stock shortly after Ackman publicly revealed his short position. He owns 16.8% of Herbalife's shares. He has also said that he believes Ackman will be the victim of a "the mother of all short squeezes."  In the months that followed Ackman's massive 342-slide presentation, Herbalife's shares surged to all-time highs. Pershing Square had racked up hundreds of millions in paper-losses. Back in March, though, Herbalife confirmed that it's under investigation by the FTC. FREE AppDownload
Here's the latest look at how we're doing making up the jobs lost in the recession. The red lines shows the trajectory of jobs lost and gained in this recession/recovery vs. the other recessions since WWII. As you can see, we are now *this close* to making up the lost jobs. Here's the chart from Calculated Risk. You can see the slight gap between the rid line and the zero line, representing the gap. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Learn how to combine different colors when choosing your clothes in the morning. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Reuters via @CigoloThe April jobs report beat expectations today. U.S. companies added 288,000 nonfarm payrolls, which was much stronger than the 218,000 expected by economists. The unemployment rate tumbled to 6.3% from 6.7% a month ago. But much of the change in the unemployment rate is due to labor force participation rate, which fell to 62.8% in April from 63.2% in March. Bloomberg reports this matches the lowest level since 1978. The LFPR has been falling for a number of reasons including an aging workforce consisting of retiring baby boomers and growing numbers of young folks heading to school. Here's a demographic breakdown via Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough: @M_McDonough Dan Crawford of the Economic Policy Institute notes that if the LFPR were more stable, the unemployment rate would be much higher, closer to 9.9%. Dan Crawford Bottom line: The drop in unemployment rate is not just about job creation; it's also about fewer people looking for work. FREE AppDownload
LOC The jobs report crushed expectations, coming in at 288,000. Expectations were for 218,000. Last month's figure was revised upward to 203,000 from 192,000. More: It's a good number but also a curious one, and market reaction has largely been muted. Interest rates ticked higher in the middle of the yield curve but held on 10-year notes.  On the plus side, we're quite close to recovering all the jobs we lost in the recession. It probably took too long though. Calculated Risk No one is quite sure what's going on with the labor force participation rate, which fell to its lowest level since 1978. Reuters A labor official said fewer people were entering the work force: BLS says labor force decline was probably "due mostly to fewer people entering the labor force than usual" -- not more people leaving And here's this from Adam Hersh: When work hours don't go up, and part-time for econ reasons don't go down, makes one wonder about labor demand. The consensus seems to be a further conundrum for monetary policy makers about what to do next. "The persistence of the downward trend in unemployment, coupled with still-stagnant wage growth, will keep the lights burning late into the night at the Fed, but it will do nothing to settle the differences between the policy hawks and doves," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said. "Treasuries, however,  have made up their own mind..." Here are the jobs added by industry: BLS Here are the alternative unemployment rate measures, which fell across the board: BLS And here are unemployment rates by demographic: BLS FREE AppDownload
Richard Drew/APFormer GE CEO Jack Welch.The U.S. Commerce Department's Office of the Inspector General released a report on Thursday finding no evidence to support allegations the monthly employment data was manipulated in the months leading up to the 2012 presidential election.  The allegations first came to light last November after the New York Post published a story purporting that the Census Bureau employees conducting the household survey — which determines the unemployment rate — were pressured by higher-ups to fudge surveys and fill in data gaps when they could not get adequate response rates.  The Post's story alleged it was ramped up during President Obama's re-election campaign, when the unemployment rate dropped to 7.8% in September from 8.1% in August. At the time, the September report had former GE CEO Jack Welch and others alleging a conspiracy. But the independent investigation, launched after the Post's story, found no evidence to support the allegations. The Office of the Inspector General said in its report that it "exhaustively investigated these allegations and found them to be unsubstantiated.  "However, during our review, we identified several areas where the Census Bureau could implement policies and improve processes to better prevent survey data falsification," the report said. It also said it is theoretically possible, though highly unlikely, that Census Bureau employees could conspire to reduce the unemployment rate by 0.3 percentage points in a single month. On average, according to the report, a single field representative surveys about 30 respondents each month to determine their employment status. Since the unemployment rate at the time was 8.1%, roughly 2.4 out of those 30 were unemployed. That means, to change the unemployment rate by just 0.1%, a group of field representatives would need to change 63 people from unemployed to employed. It would take 27 field representatives changing all of their unemployed to employed to accomplish this, meaning the 27 field representatives would have a perfect rate of employed. The Office of the Inspector General determined it would take a more widespread effort to complete the 0.3% manipulation in a single month. According to the report, about 78 field representatives would have had to participate in the scheme. The report did find evidence of falsification from the Philadelphia office, but it was "not atypical." Of the approximately 1,200 field representatives working out of the Philadelphia region, a Census Bureau process determined that 14 falsified data. This would not be enough, however, to substantially affect the survey. "To further reduce the risk for survey data falsification, supervisors should scrutinize workloads and staffing levels to avoid assigning atypically large workloads to field representatives," the office concluded. FREE AppDownload
At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its April jobs report. The average Wall Street economist surveyed by Bloomberg estimates that 218,000 nonfarm payrolls were added during the month. But the folks on Twitter have been Tweeting their #NFPGuesses all day. According to Bloomberg's Michael McDonough, the average Twitterer is looking for 211,000. The chart below shows when each guess came in.  The numbers range from a low of 17,700 to 900,000, which is represented by that huge spike at 6:50 a.m. ET. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressSean Ridgeway works in the Euro Dollar pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange October 8, 2008. Good morning! Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top topics that traders are talking about today: US Futures are basically unchanged into the 8:30 report, mirroring quiet sessions in Europe with most markets trading light to 20day averages.  We do have some tensions building in Ukraine as the Government tries to retake occupied buildings – While Ukrainian and Russian Bonds are under pressure, Russia’s Micex is only off 30bp.   Over in Asia – Shanghai remained closed for Holiday, while Japan lost small in light trading.   Down in Aussie, the Biggest Banks keep rising, and the Biggest Miners keep falling.   There was some “Good Harbor” asset allocation at work in the US market yesterday - IWM, UWM, UST, IEI, IEF, IWR, SSO were all trading heavier volumes on that light liquidity May Day.   We also saw “New Tech” outperforming “Old Tech” by almost 4% yesterday, but LNKD, EXPE, OPEN are all under pressure early today – while we are seeing ORCL and CSCO bid up almost 1% each.    Some key earnings today include CVX, MMC, KCG, OZM and CVS before the open, while we should hear from BRK.A after the close.The 10YY is up small, bouncing from multi-month lows from yesterday - Low Liquidity, No Inflation, Fed getting more Dovish, Japanese and Chinese Buying, Window Dressing, but mostly poor positioning are all reasons for the Treasury Bid this week.   The DXY is in rally mode, as the Yen is getting hit this morning, and the $/¥ is nearing 3week highs.   Despite this headwind for commodities – we are seeing Lumber jumping 1%, and Copper continuing to rebound from near multi-year lows.   Gold and Silver are showing some bounce, but may be of the “dead cat” variety for now as ETF liquidations weigh.   The Energy complex is underpinned by the Ukraine Tension, but WTI was rejected from the $100 level and 200dma early this AM.  Clearly the main catalyst today is the US Employment report at 8:30 – but we also get Brazil PMI at 9, ISM New York at 9:45, and Factory Orders at 10.  There is NO POMO operation from the NY Fed today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter Man with a devil make-up looks out of a HSB light railway carriage as he travels through the Harz mountains to celebrate the Walpurgisnacht pagan festival, April 30, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. AstraZeneca Rejects New Pfizer Bid. The British firm rejected a ratcheted-up $106 billion offer from the NYC giant before 6 a.m. Eastern Friday, deeming it inadequate.   Jobs Day. Non-farm monthly payrolls for April come in at 8:30. Consensus is for 218,000 from 192,000 prior. "The continuing recovery in employment growth after the winter damage ought to be clearly visible in today’s April payroll report," Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macro writes in a note this morning. "We look for a 200K  increase in both private and headline payrolls, the best since November, and we would not be  surprised by a stronger performance." Factory Orders. Consensus is for an increase of 1.4%, down slightly from 1.6% prior.  Berkshirefest. Berkshire Hathaway's annual shareholder meeting kicks off today in Omaha. They'll also report earnings.  Spain Debt. Yields on Spanish notes fell below 3% for the first time since 2005. Stocks Heavy. Stocks accounted for 67% of employees' new contributions into retirement portfolios in March, according to new Aon Hewitt data. That's the highest percentage since March 2008, according to the Wall Street Journal. "Jerry Verseput, a financial planner in Folsom, Calif., said he has let the stock allocations in clients' 401(k)s ride well above normal levels as the market continues to rise. Though he said that big gains like those of the S&amp;P last year would normally drive him to rebalance portfolios by selling stocks, he doesn't see places where he would rather put the money. 'What am I going to do, buy bonds?' he said. 'Equities are doing fine. But if interest rates rise, bonds could be hurt badly.'" London Bubble. The penthouse at One Hyde Park sold for $236 million. "Grosvenor Group, the Duke of Westminster’s London-based property company, this week warned that the capital’s housing market might be facing a “bubble”, adding that it believed the likelihood of a market correction was increasing," the FT's Kate Allen reported. "Grosvenor has scaled back its London residential development plans by £240m as a result." Germany's Russia Business. The Wall Street Journal reports large German firms like Siemens and BASF are resisting further screw-turning against Russia for its actions in Ukraine. "As the Ukraine crisis has worsened, German officials have faced a barrage of telephone calls from senior corporate executives, urging them not to take steps that would damage business interests in Russia, people familiar with the matter say." Earnings. In addition to the aforementioned Berkshire, Chevron, and CVs all report. Expedia and LinkedIn reported earnings last night that missed expectations., and shares are down more than 2% pre-market.  Markets. U.S. futures are higher. Stocks in Europe and Asia were mixed. The dollar gained 0.22% against the yen.  *** Below is a Q&amp;A with Jeff Johnson, a meteorologist and the chief science officer at Schneider Electric.  *** BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the connection between more extreme weather and climate change? JEFF JOHNSON: The more volatile weather experienced in recent years seems to be most frequent when the jetstream buckles and stalls in a given location for an extended period of time. Recent research postulates that greater warming in the arctic region in the past decade is reducing the north to south temperature difference between the northern and middle latitudes. The weaker temperature difference can result in a slower, weaker jetstream that is more susceptible to becoming wavier and stalling. Extended warm and cold periods along with extreme rainfall are more likely to occur with these types of stalled patterns. These patterns are not new or unheard of; they just seem to be happening more lately. This could be a natural cycle or one that is also being influenced by human activities.  BI: What areas are most and least prepared to deal with this onslaught? JJ: Extreme weather can impact many areas. These events have produced significant impacts as society faces greater risks from increasing exposure (growth) and vulnerability (sensitivity to weather and its impacts). Aging infrastructure, demands on limited resources and greater population exposure can be felt in many industries. Energy, transportation, agriculture, cities and water resources are especially impacted by extreme weather. Each area has shown increasing awareness to their vulnerabilities and are beginning to learn how to better plan for mitigation or adaption in the future.  BI: Are there yet any cost estimates for what the damage in this or the coming years might be? JJ: Average annual losses have been increasing in recent years and are approaching $20 billion annually in the U.S. Experts disagree over what is driving the increase in damages. Contributing factors may include an increasing frequency and/or magnitude of extreme weather events, increasing population, disproportionate increase in disasters in poorer areas, urbanization and growth into more areas, economic globalization, aging infrastructure and environmental degradation. Exact damage totals each year will be highly dependent on the frequency and location of impactful severe weather events, but society faces growing vulnerability.   BI: Are there any technologies out there that can help mitigate the effects? JJ: For longer term solutions the primary mitigation efforts revolve around building resiliency in the infrastructure. In shorter time frames the best approach is to install or deploy more sensors to better detect extreme weather events while they are happening. Decision support systems can then help in collecting, processing and displaying the data in real time as events unfold. Pre-planned responses can quickly be used to help deploy resources and manage the event in an efficient manner. Many different business sectors are increasing their use of weather monitoring and forecast technologies to help them plan for and react to severe weather.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Twitter symbol is displayed at the post where the stock is traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Twitter Inc investors who heeded the advice of high-profile banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Deutsche Bank AG to buy the social media company's shares might be kicking themselves. Much more accurate calls were made by Wells Fargo, Atlantic Equities and Macquarie Research, whose analysts advised clients to get out of the high-flying stock about the time it peaked in December. On Wednesday the stock fell as low as $37.24, 50 percent below its peak of $74.73 the day after Christmas, wiping almost $18 billion off Twitter's market capitalization. The downgrades, and the subsequent swoon by the stock, reflect concern about slowing growth in Twitter's user base and the company's ability to reverse the trend. Year-on-year growth in the number of Twitter users has fallen for five straight quarters, and the company said on Tuesday that its 255 million monthly users, on average, appeared to check the service less frequently than a year ago. That in turn has fueled doubts that Twitter could one day attract as many users as Facebook Inc's 1.2 billion, or match its much larger rival's power as an advertising vehicle. It's also raised questions over whether it can sustain growth over the long term. While no one is suggesting Twitter will lose its consumer cachet as happened to companies such as MySpace or Orkut, neither can anyone guarantee that as tastes change newer rivals won't usurp it. "Can they become a mainstream company? That's the open question," said Ben Schachter, the Macquarie Securities analyst who downgraded Twitter's stock to "underperform" on December 27 - the day after it peaked. It's a far cry from the enthusiasm that greeted the company when it debuted on the New York Stock Exchange on November 7 and its shares soared 73 percent over the offering price. There was no let-up for the next two months, as the stock scaled fresh highs with little or no news to justify the valuation. That got some analysts worried. Schachter, speaking to Reuters on Thursday, recalls a "runaway momentum." Starting mid-December, seven brokerages downgraded the stock within a span of three weeks. Wells Fargo and SunTrust Robinson kicked off the first round of downgrades on December 16, followed by Atlantic Equities. Macquarie timed its downgrade to perfection. In his downgrade note on December 16, Wells Fargo analyst Peter Stabler said investors were "underestimating the challenges facing the company". A common theme was that Twitter, though innovative, well-run and full of potential, simply did not warrant such a rich valuation, so soon. "They are focusing on the right things. I only have positive things to say about the company. My quibble is with the stock," said Brian Wieser, Pivotal Research Group analyst, who was among the first to urge clients to retreat. He downgraded the stock to "sell" immediately after Twitter's shares jumped on its opening day. At the time, he had a $30 target price on the stock and recommended selling after they breached the $45 level in their market debut. Twitter said in 2010 that it aims one day to have 1 billion users. It did not specify a time frame.  Some of the analysts who downgraded the stock in December are not as confident in Twitter's long-term outlook, much of which will hinge on the company's ability to increase both the number of users and how much time they spend on the site. A fast-growing and engaged user base would help Twitter rake in more advertiser dollars; however, those are issues over which management has limited control, Atlantic Equities analyst James Cordwell said in December. Investor worries were reflected in the response to Twitter's quarterly results this week, when the market overlooked higher-than-expected revenue to focus instead on the slow user and usage growth. Twitter's shares fell 10 percent. The expiration on May 5 of Twitter's six-month "lockup" - the period after the initial public offering during which early investors are barred from selling their shares - could put the stock under more pressure. Restrictions on about 470 million shares will be removed. Twitter's co-founders, Jack Dorsey and Evan Williams, and Chief Executive Richard Costolo have said they do not plan to sell their shares after the post-IPO restrictions are lifted. Only one other major investor, Benchmark Capital Management Co LLC, which owns 31.6 million shares, has publicly stated that it will not sell the stock when the lock-up expires. "Despite some key investor and executive statements that they will not sell near term, we estimate that 50-70 percent of shares could be unlocked," JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co analyst Doug Anmuth said in a research note on April 30. Still, Goldman and Deutsche Bank, both underwriters of the high-profile IPO, maintain their positive views of the stock, in spite of the user trends, two consecutive quarters of disappointing results and the decline in its shares. Twitter shares trade at 334.2 times forward earnings, far more than Facebook's 38.1 times, according to StarMine, or the average of 17.95 for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index, according to Thomson Reuters data. "The company continues to execute near-flawlessly around items in its control like revenue and expenses," Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Sandler wrote in a note on Thursday, a day after Twitter posted its second-quarter results. Sandler didn't immediately return a phone call and an e-mail. Goldman Sachs analyst Heath Terry was traveling and not available for comment, his assistant said. Sandler said market sentiment would eventually shift away from users toward revenue growth. Facebook, he argued, also struggled with slow user growth last year before regaining Wall Street's favor thanks to its strong mobile ad business. Schachter, the Macquarie analyst, says much will depend on how successful Twitter will be in revamping its site to attract mainstream users. "They are executing well in terms of innovation, but the user growth is a bit of a concern," he said. "The hope is that they can change the site, to make it more user-friendly." (Additional reporting by Anannya Pramanick in Bangalore; Editing by Robin Paxton and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorKit Juckes of SocGen sets the lay of the land, as we wait for the Jobs Report: It's about as quiet a start to a US Labour Report day as I can remember. Is that a harbinger of chaos? I'm struggling to see where volatility can come from. The market looks for +215k on jobs and 65.6% on unemployment. That would be risk-friendly. Indeed, anything between 175k and 250k or so is risk-friendly and could propel SPX through 1900 at last, while driving iTraxx XO back towards 250bps, and EMBI spreads tighter. In FX, MXN, TRY and ZAR are the likely ‘winners' on an OK-but-boring report. In G10, USD/JPY may get a bit of help; beware EUR/USD getting a lift on the back of EUR/JPY and likewise, AUD/JPY. We still like NOK/SEK but I can't think why that would react. In ‘other news', we get PMIs in the bits of Europe which haven't already released them.   FREE AppDownload
The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond has just fallen below 3% for the first time since 2005. Spanish bonds — like other European peripheral bonds — have gone on a ridiculous run lately. As a reminder, this is what the 5-year chart looks like (via Bloomberg). Not long ago, the bonds were yielding almost 8% Bloomberg By now you should now the story, but just in case you don't: In the summer of 2012, Mario Draghi issued his famous "Whatever It Takes" declaration, bringing in an implicit backstop for any country that found itself in trouble. Between that ECB backstop, a slightly improving economy, and ongoing lack of inflation/deflation throughout the Eurozone, there's been every reason to snap up these bonds.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kin CheungThe official April U.S. jobs report will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET today. Here's a rundown of the expectations according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg: The improving weather is the big story. "We think the return to better weather in April will unleash some pent-up hiring, but we don't see a strong weather-related bounce," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists, who expect NFP to increase by 215,000. "Among the components, we think the risk is that construction hiring disappoints given sluggish housing starts in March and low homebuilder sentiment in early April. Moreover, after revisions, it appears that construction job growth was fairly robust over the prior three months, following the decline in December. Job growth in manufacturing and the retail sector should increase given the pickup in production and sales." Economists will also be keeping a close eye on hourly earnings for any sign that suggests wage growth will heat up. "Earnings have been subdued and relatively stable for a while, and have not been a major market focus," said Credit Suisse economists. "This could change as the unemployment rate grinds lower and the degree of labor market slack becomes a hotter topic of debate." Estimates for NFP range from 150,000 to 292,000. Economists on the high end of that range emphasize the low jobless claims number during the BLS's jobs report survey period. Here's some of what market economists are saying: FREE AppDownload
Eurozone unemployment is out, and it's held at 11.8%. It's not just that the unemployment rate is so high, which makes it ugly, but rather that there's been so little improvement from the worst all-time levels. That's what's really astounding. Eurostat Here's the full report from Eurostat. FREE AppDownload
European manufacturing PMIs came out this morning, and basically they were totally uneventful. Via Markit, here's the quick summary of how European countries are doing from a manufacturing standpoint. Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adam Hunger  Drug behemoth Pfizer has jacked up its offer for UK drugmaker AstraZeneca. (Update: And they've already been rejected again) Here's the summary from a new announcement that's out this morning: Proposal represents a substantial premium of 32% for AstraZeneca shareholders1 Proposal represents a 39% premium to the closing price of £35.86 on 3 January 2014, being the trading day immediately prior to the date of Pfizer’s January proposal AstraZeneca shareholders would receive, for each AstraZeneca share, 1.845 shares in the combined company and 1,598 pence in cash, representing an indicative value of £50.00 ($84.47) per share2 The full press release is here. The new offer would value AstraZeneca at $106 billion. In its earlier offer, unveiled earlier this week, Pfizer indicated that it saw multiple benefits from the transaction, including broadening its product portfolio, and streamlining operations (cost cutting). There's also likely a susbstantial tax benefit as the deal could allow Pfizer to become, essentially, a UK operation. That loophole is explained here. In addition to the new offer this morning, Pfizer has sent a letter to David Cameron on the merits of the deal. That letter is here: Dear Prime Minister, I am writing to you to address the concerns of the UK Government and science community and your desire to have firm and enduring assurances from us about our commitment to the UK and its life sciences agenda. We would like to confirm that today, Pfizer made a non-binding cash and share proposal valuing each AstraZeneca share at £50 to the Board of AstraZeneca, as detailed in our accompanying public statement. We believe the industrial logic for a combination between Pfizer and AstraZeneca is compelling. A combined company would bring together powerful and world leading research expertise in key therapeutic areas such as Oncology, Inflammation, and Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disorders, in which the world class academic research resources in the “golden triangle” of Oxford, Cambridge and London would represent a vital component, along with the positive environment for inward investment that the UK Government has created. Ultimately, establishing the world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical company in the UK, together with the commitments made in this letter represent a strong indicator of the incentives that your Government has created to attract successful business to the UK. We recognize that our approach may create uncertainty for the UK Government and scientific community given the strategic importance of life sciences to the Government’s Industrial Strategy and the significance of the transaction. We would therefore like to assure the Government of our long term commitment to the UK where Pfizer already employs a significant number of colleagues across Research, Commercial, and Administrative roles. To that end, therefore, subject to successful completion of our combination with AstraZeneca on the basis proposed by us, we will make the following series of significant and tangible commitments: Clearly, predictability and stability in the local and global commercial environment, as well as the UK Government’s efforts to maintain incentives for investment, are important factors to enable success. We make these commitments for a minimum of five years, recognizing our ability, consistent with our fiduciary duties, to adjust these obligations should circumstances significantly change. Our Board has endorsed these commitments in a formal Pfizer Board resolution and will publish a statement describing these promises to the British public. In reflection of the binding nature of these commitments, we are including this letter in our public announcement issued pursuant to the UK Takeover Code regarding the possible combination. As mentioned above, we view our partnership with the UK Government as a critical part of this potential transaction. We look forward to continued discussions with you. Yours sincerely, Ian C. Read   FREE AppDownload
Tiago Fioreze/Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! Things are very quiet, as markets are essentially flat heading into the Jobs Report, which comes out at 8:30 AM ET. We've had quite a big week of economic data. Some of it has been good, some of it has been bad, but volatility in the market has been quite low throughout. In the meantime, a couple of developments. Pfizer has jacked up its mega-bid for UK drugmaker AstraZeneca. RBS is higher on strong earnings. And that's about it. Stay with us for full Jobs Report coverage all morning. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is probing whether a number of hedge funds many have acted improperly when they made bets on nutrition and weight loss company Herbalife Ltd last year, a source said. The regulator is reviewing whether investors may have engaged in market manipulation or failed to properly disclose that they were working as a group when they lined up against billionaire investor William Ackman's short bet against the company, said the person, who is familiar with the investigation put not permitted to discuss it publicly. A spokesman for the SEC was not immediately available to comment. An official at Herbalife also declined to comment. The story was first reported by the New York Times. Ackman publicly announced in December 2012 that his $13.6 billion Pershing Square Capital Management fund had wagered $1 billion short bet, alleging that Herbalife was running a pyramid scheme and that its stock price would eventually drop to zero. The SEC, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), several state prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) are looking into these allegations. A spokeswoman for Pershing Square did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Herbalife has steadfastly denied running a business where members earn more for recruiting other members into the scheme than for selling its products to retail customers. But the SEC is now also looking to find information on which hedge fund managers attended a so-called ideas dinner last year and what was said about Herbalife, shortly before a group of funds took long positions in the company. No one has been accused of any wrongdoing. A short squeeze is a trading scenario that occurs from time to time in heavily shorted stocks, when bearish traders are forced to buy shares to avoid big losses, something that ends up pushing the stock only higher. Herbalife's stock price shot up 138 percent last year when prominent fund managers, including George Soros' family office, Carl Icahn and Daniel Loeb's Third Point, took the other side of Ackman's bet. Icahn predicted early in 2013 that Ackman would get caught in the "mother of all short squeezes." Although they remain on opposite sides of the Herbalife trade and have had testy relations in the past, the men, two of Wall Street's most widely followed activists, forged a truce last week during a telephone call, agreeing to disagree on this matter. This year Herbalife's stock price has fallen 24 percent and Ackman's fund has gained roughly 20 percent this year, three investors said on Thursday. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
