Thomson ReutersA customer holds a nozzle to fill up his tank in a gasoline station in NiceNEW YORK (Reuters) - With crude oil prices hitting five-year lows, investors are scrambling to gauge the impact of the sharp drop in petroleum costs on companies beyond the energy sector. Determining the effects of the decline in commodities prices for ancillary industries is difficult. So it will be instructive to see what kind of comments come out of a number of analyst meetings being held in the next few weeks from major industrial companies, some of which have substantial businesses that supply the energy industry. On Monday, Dover Corp, which develops pumps and sensors used in oil and gas extraction, will hold an analyst day. Its shares have fallen 9 percent in the last eight trading sessions. "In the next couple of quarters, should drilling and the build-out of infrastructure slow down, these are the guys that are going to get hit," said Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. Goldman Sachs pointed out in a note this week that some big manufacturers have significant exposure to the oil and gas industry. Dover's annual report notes that its energy business comprises about a quarter of its annual sales, and its annual report last year said it expected to continue expanding. "It could be early for a number of these companies to announce or speculate on how the decline in oil prices has impacted or will impact their results, either positively or negatively," said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York. Energy earnings expectations have continued to crater. On Monday, the fourth-quarter estimate was for a year-over-year decline of 11.2 percent for S&amp;P energy stocks. By Friday, that had dropped to 14.7 percent decline, according to Thomson Reuters data. Whether the drop in energy prices will have an effect on other sectors is yet unclear. Sector behemoths Honeywell and General Electric have a 15 percent exposure to oil and gas each while United Technologies, also with an upcoming analyst day next week, is "less tied to oil trends," according to Goldman Sachs. Honeywell and GE will have analyst days the week after next. Volatility in GE's shares has been lower than usual of late, which means anything unusual out of the company could affect the stock. The same goes for Honeywell, whose shares Goldman notes have moved, on average, 3.4 percent after its last seven fiscal outlook calls, compared with an average 1.9 percent move after its last eight earnings releases.     (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak and Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/incase.American families are grappling with stagnant wage growth, as the costs of health care, education, and housing continue to climb. But for many of America's younger workers, "stagnant" wages shouldn't sound so bad. In fact, they might sound like a massive raise. These numbers come from an analysis of the Census Current Population Survey by Konrad Mugglestone, an economist with Young Invincibles. In retail, wholesale, leisure, and hospitality—which together employ more than one quarter of this age group—real wages have fallen more than 10 percent since 2007. To be clear, this doesn't mean that most of this cohort are seeing their pay slashed, year after year. Instead it suggests that wage growth is failing to keep up with inflation, and that, as twentysomethings pass into their thirties, they are earning less than their older peers did before the recession. The picture isn't much better for the youngest group of workers between 18 and 24. Besides health care, the industries employing the vast majority of part-time students and recent graduates are also watching wages fall behind inflation. (40 percent of this group is enrolled in college.) The Wages of the Youngest Workers (Ages 18-24) Have Fallen, Too via The Atlantic  There are a few reasonable follow-up questions to these stunning graphs. First: Why are real wages falling across so many fields for young workers? The Great Recession devastated demand for hotels, amusement parks, and many restaurants, which explains the collapse in pay across those industries. As the ranks of young unemployed and underemployed Millennials pile up, companies around the country know they can attract applicants without raising starter wages. But there's something deeper, too. The familiar bash brothers of globalization and technology (particularly information technology) have conspired to gut middle-class jobs by sending work abroad or replacing it with automation and software. A 2013 study by David Autor, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson found that although the computerization of certain tasks hasn't reduced employment, it has reduced the number of decent-paying, routine-heavy jobs. Cheaper jobs have replaced them, and overall pay has declined. Your second question might be: Why have health-care wages been the exception to the rule? One answer is that health care is, generally speaking, the exception to many rules. Demand for medical services is dominated by the government (i.e. Medicare, Medicaid, and the employer insurance tax break), which doesn't face the same vertiginous up-and-downs as the rest of the economy. So as the Great Recession steamrolled many industries, health care, propped up by sturdy government spending, kept adding workers. What's more, computerization and information technology have yet to work their magical price-cutting power in health care as they have in other industries, for a variety of reasons. Americans are spending four percent less on food away from home than in 2007; but we're spending 42 percent more on health insurance. As prices have increased, so have wages for younger workers in the medical field. (Update: Some readers have made the smart suggestion that money which might have gone to higher salaries has instead gone to paying higher health insurance costs.) Once you account for falling wages among young workers—if you must: "the Millennials"—many mysteries of the economic behavior of young people cease to be mysterious, such as this generation's aversion to home-buying, auto loans, and savings. Indeed, the savings rate for Americans under 35, having briefly breached after the Great Recession, dove back underwater and now swims at negative-1.8 percent. via The Atlantic Some of these young people could afford to save more, even if it's a small share of their meager income, since small amounts of money put away several decades before retirement (or an unexpected emergency) can help later. But it's easier to see why young Americans aren't saving any more than we used to: Their wages are falling behind the cost of basic goods and many are going into debt to pay for a college degree. The evaporation of real wages for young Americans is a real mystery because it's coinciding with what is otherwise a real recovery. The economy has been growing steadily since 2009. We're adding 200,000 jobs a month in 2014. That's what a recovery looks like. And yet, overall U.S. wages are barely growing, and wages for young people are growing 60 percent more slowly than overall U.S. wages. How is a generation supposed to build a future on that?  FREE AppDownload
AmazonLather up in your favorite beer-scented soap.Let's be frank: Beer is a great gift any time of year, but during the holidays beer aficionados only have one thing on their wish lists. Whether you're shopping for a homebrewing roommate or a craft beer-loving spouse, these 15 gifts will keep all the beer connoisseurs on your holiday gift list happy.  But if you end up keeping them, we wouldn't blame you.  FREE AppDownload
TeslaPUT your foot down in a Tesla Model S and the experience is rather different to other cars. The usual exhaust roar is replaced by a hushed whooshing sound as the car accelerates rapidly--and relentlessly--thanks to the high torque of an electric motor making gear changes unnecessary because there is no gearbox.  And inside, instead of multiple dials and switches, a large touchscreen dominates the centre console. Established carmakers have tended to make modest electric vehicles, usually small ones to eke out the range available from their pricey batteries. But it was Tesla, a Silicon Valley startup, which realised that many early adopters of new technologies are likely to be well heeled and would prefer a large high-performance saloon that is both luxurious and extremely high-tech. Why did Tesla act differently? For a start, it does not think of itself as a carmaker. "I see us more as an energy-innovation company," says Jeffrey "JB" Straubel, the firm's chief technology officer, and one of the co-founders of Tesla, along with Elon Musk, the chief executive. "If we can reduce energy-storage prices, it's the most important thing we can do to make electric vehicles more prevalent," says Mr Straubel. "Add in renewable power and I have a direct line of sight towards an entire economy that doesn't need fossil fuels and doesn't need to pay more to do it." Mr Straubel's captivation with energy storage is understandable. He is cagey about the exact cost of the lithium-ion (Li-ion) battery pack powering the Model S, but it is believed to represent around a quarter of the $70,000 starting price of the basic version. A smaller car, the Model 3, is due in 2017. Although the new car will have some self-driving features like the Model S, it is aimed more at the mass-market. But to hit the Model 3's expected price of around $35,000, Mr Straubel now needs to reduce the cost of his battery packs by at least a third. The best way to do that and to meet expected demand, Mr Straubel believes, is for Tesla to make its own batteries. And to make them big time. This is why he and Mr Musk are gambling on building a $5 billion "gigafactory" in Nevada in a joint venture with Panasonic, a Japanese battery supplier. By 2020 the gigafactory is set to produce as many Li-ion batteries as the entire world used this year. The determination to act boldly and independently has worked for Mr Straubel in the past. When researching a charging system for the Model S he rejected existing industry standards because they delivered too little power. And instead of waiting for an agreement with other carmakers for a universal recharging plug, he designed his own proprietary connector. The company's Superchargers, which provide free recharging in public locations to Tesla owners, can top up a battery to about 80% of capacity in 40 minutes. These now comprise the largest fast-charging network in the world. Mr Straubel also takes a different view on the batteries themselves. Whereas most manufacturers of electric vehicles have opted for large-format batteries, both the Model S and its predecessor, the Tesla Roadster, are powered by around 7,000 individual Li-ion cells. The Roadster's were originally the standard Li-ion cells widely used in industry and found in devices such as laptop computers. For the Model S, however, the cells have been significantly redesigned. Mounted inside a battery pack, the cells are interconnected and interwoven with liquid cooling systems to prevent fires in the event of an accident (damage resulting in short circuits and faulty charging can cause Li-ion batteries to burst into flame). Teslas were always going to be unique. Mr Straubel, who is 38, made his first full-sized electric vehicle 14 years ago (a golf cart which he resurrected at the age of 14 doesn't count). This was a 1984 Porsche 944 fitted with twin electric motors and 380kg of old-fashioned lead-acid batteries: a weighty proposition, but one that went on to become the fastest electric car in the world at a drag-racing event in California. "I love immersive experiences where you're engaged with the thing that you're engineering. If you are driving, riding or flying it, it's even more exciting and fun," says Mr Straubel, who holds a private pilot's licence. After graduating with a master's degree in energy engineering from Stanford University, he worked with Harold Rosen (the designer of the first geosynchronous satellite) on a novel hybrid-drive system for cars. This used a turbine to generate electricity and a fast-moving flywheel to store and release kinetic energy when needed. Although the innovative combination worked, it was a leap too far for conservative carmakers, which declined to invest in it. Nevertheless, the pair licensed the technology to a company that makes flywheels for commercial vehicles. Mr Straubel and Mr Rosen went on to build a hydrogen-powered electric engine for aircraft, which was subsequently licensed to Boeing. It was then that Mr Straubel met Mr Musk, a freshly minted multimillionaire from the sale of his PayPal digital-payments company to eBay. "One lunch was the beginning of what eventually became Tesla," says Mr Straubel. "We spent most of the meal talking about electric aeroplanes. But as we were wrapping up, I said I was working on a fun crazy project with cars, trying to build a lithium-ion battery pack that could last 1,000 miles." That dream is still some way off. The Model 3 is likely to have a range of 322km (200 miles) compared with the 440km claimed for a top-of-the-line Model S. But with Tesla intending to sell ten times as many Model 3s, the need for a reliable battery supplier is paramount. Hence the gigafactory. Tesla will have to innovate in battery chemistry and manufacturing techniques even as it ramps up production. Although the new cells are likely to remain small, their exact specifications are still undecided. Mr Straubel insists that this strategy is less risky than it might seem. He notes that Model S cells today are produced on equipment very similar to that used for the Roadster cells almost ten years ago, even though the energy from the cells has increased by half and their chemistry has changed substantially. The Roadster cells used cobalt oxide as a cathode whereas the Model S uses a nickel-cobalt-aluminium oxide. The difference, says Mr Straubel, is a much improved energy density, a longer lifetime and a higher operating temperature (which means less cooling is required). Besides the chemistry, Tesla is also developing other new features for the batteries. The idea is that, benefiting from economies of scale, the gigafactory's cells will be significantly cheaper than those from more established manufacturers. "Over the next ten years, it's going to change to the point where we're focused on production to meet the world's energy-storage needs rather than waiting for a cost reduction from a radical change in battery technology," says Mr Straubel. Not everyone agrees. A report by Lux Research, a firm of technology analysts, has predicted that the gigafactory will bring about only a modest cut in battery costs and suffer more than 50% overcapacity. "Most other companies do not believe that battery volume will grow as fast as it's going to," Mr Straubel counters. "They don't understand the tight linkage between cost and volume. We're at this crossing-point where a small reduction in cost is going to result in a ridiculously big increase in volume, because the auto industry is so big." Not all the cells made by the gigafactory are destined for vehicles. Some will end up in the company's Superchargers, allowing Tesla to cope with sudden bursts of demand should multiple vehicles need to recharge at once. Others will be used at Tesla's assembly plants to store energy when it is cheap, typically at night, and release it when the price rises. The use of batteries to store renewable power (see "Printing electronics: Chips off the old block") may provide Tesla with its biggest opportunity in the years ahead. The potential is huge, says Mr Straubel. "The economics in many cases have already crossed a threshold where battery packs can effectively store renewables on a very big scale." The main problem with renewable-power sources, such as wind or solar, is that the wind does not always blow or the sun shine when demand for electricity is high. This requires utility companies to maintain additional power stations, usually running on fossil fuels, to meet the shortfall. Batteries, however, could store the power from renewables when it is generated and release it when needed. Around 1,000 households in California already have a Tesla battery pack installed alongside photovoltaic panels leased from Solar City, another company owned by Mr Musk. The battery packs allow householders to run appliances if the power goes out or switch when electricity prices are high. But they are also designed to maximise the return from "net metering" rules that allow residential customers to sell excess energy to utilities. Tesla's residential batteries have been plagued by interconnection problems with utilities and are not being adopted as swiftly as Mr Straubel had hoped. "Utilities tend to be very conservative by nature," he says. Nevertheless, Mr Straubel thinks that favourable economics will persuade utilities of the benefits. As batteries improve in terms of safety and the amount of energy they can store, this will allow new electrically powered products to be produced, reckons Mr Straubel, returning to another of his interests: "In the foreseeable future, electric aeroplanes become an interesting and pretty compelling proposition." A variety of small electric aircraft have been built in America, China and Europe. Airbus recently set up a subsidiary in France to build a two-seater pilot-training aircraft called the E-Fan. It is powered by electric motors driving a pair of ducted fans on either side of the rear fuselage. The European aerospace giant is also looking at the potential of building an electric helicopter and a 90-seat electrically powered passenger plane for short journeys. A number of developments are under way which have the potential to boost the amount of energy a battery can store. For instance, a team at Stanford University is investigating enclosing the lithium-based anodes used by Li-ion batteries in a thin film of carbon "nanospheres". This would allow more lithium to be used safely in the anode (it is lithium's high chemical reactivity that puts the batteries at risk of catching fire). The coating, researchers think, would allow a Li-ion battery to hold about five times as much energy as those used today, weight-for-weight. Such innovations are still at the laboratory stage and remain some way from commercial reality. In time, perhaps, even lithium may be replaced by more exotic new materials in batteries. "No one wishes we could come up with a technology that makes today's chemistry obsolete more than me," says Mr Straubel. "We could sell more cars at a lower price. But we're not waiting." "One lunch was the beginning of what eventually became Tesla"   Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
TeslaPUT your foot down in a Tesla Model S and the experience is rather different to other cars. The usual exhaust roar is replaced by a hushed whooshing sound as the car accelerates rapidly--and relentlessly--thanks to the high torque of an electric motor making gear changes unnecessary because there is no gearbox.  And inside, instead of multiple dials and switches, a large touchscreen dominates the centre console. Established carmakers have tended to make modest electric vehicles, usually small ones to eke out the range available from their pricey batteries. But it was Tesla, a Silicon Valley startup, which realised that many early adopters of new technologies are likely to be well heeled and would prefer a large high-performance saloon that is both luxurious and extremely high-tech. Why did Tesla act differently? For a start, it does not think of itself as a carmaker. "I see us more as an energy-innovation company," says Jeffrey "JB" Straubel, the firm's chief technology officer, and one of the co-founders of Tesla, along with Elon Musk, the chief executive. "If we can reduce energy-storage prices, it's the most important thing we can do to make electric vehicles more prevalent," says Mr Straubel. "Add in renewable power and I have a direct line of sight towards an entire economy that doesn't need fossil fuels and doesn't need to pay more to do it." Mr Straubel's captivation with energy storage is understandable. He is cagey about the exact cost of the lithium-ion (Li-ion) battery pack powering the Model S, but it is believed to represent around a quarter of the $70,000 starting price of the basic version. A smaller car, the Model 3, is due in 2017. Although the new car will have some self-driving features like the Model S, it is aimed more at the mass-market. But to hit the Model 3's expected price of around $35,000, Mr Straubel now needs to reduce the cost of his battery packs by at least a third. The best way to do that and to meet expected demand, Mr Straubel believes, is for Tesla to make its own batteries. And to make them big time. This is why he and Mr Musk are gambling on building a $5 billion "gigafactory" in Nevada in a joint venture with Panasonic, a Japanese battery supplier. By 2020 the gigafactory is set to produce as many Li-ion batteries as the entire world used this year. The determination to act boldly and independently has worked for Mr Straubel in the past. When researching a charging system for the Model S he rejected existing industry standards because they delivered too little power. And instead of waiting for an agreement with other carmakers for a universal recharging plug, he designed his own proprietary connector. The company's Superchargers, which provide free recharging in public locations to Tesla owners, can top up a battery to about 80% of capacity in 40 minutes. These now comprise the largest fast-charging network in the world. Mr Straubel also takes a different view on the batteries themselves. Whereas most manufacturers of electric vehicles have opted for large-format batteries, both the Model S and its predecessor, the Tesla Roadster, are powered by around 7,000 individual Li-ion cells. The Roadster's were originally the standard Li-ion cells widely used in industry and found in devices such as laptop computers. For the Model S, however, the cells have been significantly redesigned. Mounted inside a battery pack, the cells are interconnected and interwoven with liquid cooling systems to prevent fires in the event of an accident (damage resulting in short circuits and faulty charging can cause Li-ion batteries to burst into flame). Teslas were always going to be unique. Mr Straubel, who is 38, made his first full-sized electric vehicle 14 years ago (a golf cart which he resurrected at the age of 14 doesn't count). This was a 1984 Porsche 944 fitted with twin electric motors and 380kg of old-fashioned lead-acid batteries: a weighty proposition, but one that went on to become the fastest electric car in the world at a drag-racing event in California. "I love immersive experiences where you're engaged with the thing that you're engineering. If you are driving, riding or flying it, it's even more exciting and fun," says Mr Straubel, who holds a private pilot's licence. After graduating with a master's degree in energy engineering from Stanford University, he worked with Harold Rosen (the designer of the first geosynchronous satellite) on a novel hybrid-drive system for cars. This used a turbine to generate electricity and a fast-moving flywheel to store and release kinetic energy when needed. Although the innovative combination worked, it was a leap too far for conservative carmakers, which declined to invest in it. Nevertheless, the pair licensed the technology to a company that makes flywheels for commercial vehicles. Mr Straubel and Mr Rosen went on to build a hydrogen-powered electric engine for aircraft, which was subsequently licensed to Boeing. It was then that Mr Straubel met Mr Musk, a freshly minted multimillionaire from the sale of his PayPal digital-payments company to eBay. "One lunch was the beginning of what eventually became Tesla," says Mr Straubel. "We spent most of the meal talking about electric aeroplanes. But as we were wrapping up, I said I was working on a fun crazy project with cars, trying to build a lithium-ion battery pack that could last 1,000 miles." That dream is still some way off. The Model 3 is likely to have a range of 322km (200 miles) compared with the 440km claimed for a top-of-the-line Model S. But with Tesla intending to sell ten times as many Model 3s, the need for a reliable battery supplier is paramount. Hence the gigafactory. Tesla will have to innovate in battery chemistry and manufacturing techniques even as it ramps up production. Although the new cells are likely to remain small, their exact specifications are still undecided. Mr Straubel insists that this strategy is less risky than it might seem. He notes that Model S cells today are produced on equipment very similar to that used for the Roadster cells almost ten years ago, even though the energy from the cells has increased by half and their chemistry has changed substantially. The Roadster cells used cobalt oxide as a cathode whereas the Model S uses a nickel-cobalt-aluminium oxide. The difference, says Mr Straubel, is a much improved energy density, a longer lifetime and a higher operating temperature (which means less cooling is required). Besides the chemistry, Tesla is also developing other new features for the batteries. The idea is that, benefiting from economies of scale, the gigafactory's cells will be significantly cheaper than those from more established manufacturers. "Over the next ten years, it's going to change to the point where we're focused on production to meet the world's energy-storage needs rather than waiting for a cost reduction from a radical change in battery technology," says Mr Straubel. Not everyone agrees. A report by Lux Research, a firm of technology analysts, has predicted that the gigafactory will bring about only a modest cut in battery costs and suffer more than 50% overcapacity. "Most other companies do not believe that battery volume will grow as fast as it's going to," Mr Straubel counters. "They don't understand the tight linkage between cost and volume. We're at this crossing-point where a small reduction in cost is going to result in a ridiculously big increase in volume, because the auto industry is so big." Not all the cells made by the gigafactory are destined for vehicles. Some will end up in the company's Superchargers, allowing Tesla to cope with sudden bursts of demand should multiple vehicles need to recharge at once. Others will be used at Tesla's assembly plants to store energy when it is cheap, typically at night, and release it when the price rises. The use of batteries to store renewable power (see "Printing electronics: Chips off the old block") may provide Tesla with its biggest opportunity in the years ahead. The potential is huge, says Mr Straubel. "The economics in many cases have already crossed a threshold where battery packs can effectively store renewables on a very big scale." The main problem with renewable-power sources, such as wind or solar, is that the wind does not always blow or the sun shine when demand for electricity is high. This requires utility companies to maintain additional power stations, usually running on fossil fuels, to meet the shortfall. Batteries, however, could store the power from renewables when it is generated and release it when needed. Around 1,000 households in California already have a Tesla battery pack installed alongside photovoltaic panels leased from Solar City, another company owned by Mr Musk. The battery packs allow householders to run appliances if the power goes out or switch when electricity prices are high. But they are also designed to maximise the return from "net metering" rules that allow residential customers to sell excess energy to utilities. Tesla's residential batteries have been plagued by interconnection problems with utilities and are not being adopted as swiftly as Mr Straubel had hoped. "Utilities tend to be very conservative by nature," he says. Nevertheless, Mr Straubel thinks that favourable economics will persuade utilities of the benefits. As batteries improve in terms of safety and the amount of energy they can store, this will allow new electrically powered products to be produced, reckons Mr Straubel, returning to another of his interests: "In the foreseeable future, electric aeroplanes become an interesting and pretty compelling proposition." A variety of small electric aircraft have been built in America, China and Europe. Airbus recently set up a subsidiary in France to build a two-seater pilot-training aircraft called the E-Fan. It is powered by electric motors driving a pair of ducted fans on either side of the rear fuselage. The European aerospace giant is also looking at the potential of building an electric helicopter and a 90-seat electrically powered passenger plane for short journeys. A number of developments are under way which have the potential to boost the amount of energy a battery can store. For instance, a team at Stanford University is investigating enclosing the lithium-based anodes used by Li-ion batteries in a thin film of carbon "nanospheres". This would allow more lithium to be used safely in the anode (it is lithium's high chemical reactivity that puts the batteries at risk of catching fire). The coating, researchers think, would allow a Li-ion battery to hold about five times as much energy as those used today, weight-for-weight. Such innovations are still at the laboratory stage and remain some way from commercial reality. In time, perhaps, even lithium may be replaced by more exotic new materials in batteries. "No one wishes we could come up with a technology that makes today's chemistry obsolete more than me," says Mr Straubel. "We could sell more cars at a lower price. But we're not waiting." "One lunch was the beginning of what eventually became Tesla"   Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Robert Nickelsberg/Getty ImagesSolar tracker panels follow the sun's path May 17, 2014 on a Champlain Valley dairy farm near West Haven, Vermont.Matching output to demand is hard with wind and solar power. The answer is to store surplus juice on the grid until it is needed ON OCTOBER 28th a battery factory opened in Concord, North Carolina. That was good for an area which has seen dark economic times, but the event made few headlines. Perhaps it should have made more, though, for this factory's owner, Alevo, a Swiss company, is not in the business of manufacturing cells for torches, mobile phones or even laptop computers. Rather, it is making batteries that can store serious amounts of electricity--megawatt-hours of it. And it plans to sell them to power-grid operators. To start with, the new batteries will be used to smooth the consequences of irregular demand through the day by absorbing electricity during troughs and regurgitating it during peaks. If that pans out, it will eliminate the need for gas-powered "peaker" stations which fire up quickly when needed, but are expensive to run. It would also allow non-peaker stations to operate more efficiently. Alevo reckons that if a grid as big as America's Western interconnection (which supplies the west of the United States and Canada) were to use 18GW-worth of its batteries the grid could save $12 billion a year. Though the company has no North American contract yet, it does have an agreement to deploy its batteries in Guangdong, China. Smoothing the operation of existing grids, however, may be only the beginning. In the longer run, optimists believe, batteries like these, or some equivalent technology, are the key to dealing with the problem not just of irregular demand, but of irregular supply. As the unit cost of solar and wind energy drops ever closer to that of power from fossil fuels, the fact that the wind does not always blow and the sun does not always shine becomes more and more irksome. It is not just the great power-gap that is night which matters. As the chart below shows, even during the day--and even in deserts--the amount of sunlight can vary from minute to minute. And the wind, of course, is equally fickle. The EconomistCheap grid-scale storage would overcome these irregularities. Renewables could then compete on cost alone. And there are many ideas for how to make this happen. Some, such as Alevo's, are ready to be sold. Others work in laboratories but have yet to be scaled up for use in the real world. Others still are little more than twinkles of varying plausibility in their inventors' eyes. But if even one of them is up to the task, then renewable energy may, at last, be able to stand on its own, rather than having to be subsidised and regulated into existence. At the moment, grid-scale storage is dominated by pumped hydro. According to the Electric Power Research Institute, an American think-tank, 140GW-worth of this is installed around the world, with a capacity of 1.4TWhr. Pumped storage requires friendly geography. You need two reservoirs separated by a good gap of altitude. But it is then just a matter of linking them with pipes and using turbines that, if turned by falling water, generate electricity, but, when fed electricity, turn the other way to pump that water whence it came. Send it uphill when power is cheap, and let it flow down when there are spikes in demand, and you have a nice little business. Not everywhere, though, has compliant hills and valleys. And pumped storage takes a long time, and a lot of money, to build. Technologies that start small, but can be scaled up as needed, are often a better answer. The immediate future of grid-scale storage, then, probably lies with real batteries rather than topographical ones. At least, Alevo thinks so. At full capacity, the firm's factory in Concord should be able to turn out 16.2GWhr-worth of them a year. And Alevo is not alone. Tesla is building an even bigger factory near Reno, Nevada (see "Brain scan: Tesla's electric man") to make batteries for its electric cars and for local and grid storage. The Economist Several stations that use batteries to regulate the output of wind farms have already been built, or are under construction. In Sendai, Japan, Toshiba is creating one based on lithium-ion batteries. This should open in 2015. It will have a maximum power of 40MW, and will be able to run at that rate for half an hour. The Notrees Battery Storage Project, which opened in Texas in 2013, uses lead-acid batteries--sophisticated versions of the type found in petrol and diesel cars. It has a maximum power of 36MW and could run for 40 minutes at full tilt. Another Japanese project, of 34MW, in Rokkasho, uses sodium-sulphur batteries. And one in Alaska, of 27MW, uses nickel-cadmium ones. As that list suggests, many types of grid-scale battery technology are available. Alevo uses electrodes made of lithium iron phosphate and graphite. These are connected by an inorganic sulphur-based electrolyte, a combination, the firm claims, that is particularly propitious because cycling between charged and discharged states produces only a 1&amp;#176;C change in the battery's temperature. This should eliminate the risk of overheating, to which some sorts of lithium-based cells are prone. There are types of battery that actually require high temperatures to work. In sodium-sulphur cells of the sort deployed at Rokkasho both of those elements need to be liquid, meaning the battery has to be maintained at a temperature of 300-350&amp;#176;C. And an approach being developed by Donald Sadoway of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology would use two sorts of liquid metal, separated by a liquid electrolyte. The clever thing about this design is that, by picking a dense metal such as a mixture of antimony and lead, a light one such as lithium, and an electrolyte whose density falls between the two, the three substances will float as separate layers in a container, rather as oil separates from vinegar in a salad dressing. The Economist Despite their superficial differences, one thing all these batteries have in common is that the energy they contain is stored chemically within their electrodes. This has a consequence, at least for those with solid electrodes. The constant change in the electrodes' composition as they are charged and discharged gradually wears them out. This limited lifespan is one reason using batteries for grid-scale storage is still pricey. Indeed, Alevo's claim that its batteries can undergo more than 40,000 cycles of charging and discharging without noticeable loss of function is an important part of its sales pitch. An alternative approach, known as a flow battery, does not suffer from this difficulty. A flow battery's energy is stored in its electrolytes (of which there are two, separated by a membrane), rather than its electrodes (see illustration 1). Not only does that stop the electrodes wearing out, it also means that there is no upper limit, based on the sizes of those electrodes, on how much energy such a battery can store. Its capacity depends instead on the size of the tanks used to hold the electrolytes. Flow batteries are a much less developed technology than standard batteries, but they are beginning to become commercially available. Many of those on sale at the moment (by firms such as Gildemeister of Germany and UET of Washington state) use vanadium-based electrolytes. Vanadium is a good material because its multiple ionic states mean it can be used to store energy without having to involve other reagents, and thus complicate the design. Unfortunately, vanadium is expensive. But systems that use cheaper materials are being developed. Several firms are trying zinc and bromine in electrolytes and others iron and chromium. Ideas still in the lab include flow batteries based on cheap organic compounds called anthraquinones. If these prove robust enough to commercialise, they will be strong competitors in the grid-scale storage market. But they will not be alone. For batteries are not the only route to the destination. If the engineers at Gravity Power in Goleta, California, get their way, even pumped storage is in line for a makeover. Their approach, it should be said from the outset, is one of the most twinkly of the twinkling eyes in the field. Even if it ultimately fails it shows the originality of thought that is being brought to bear on the problem. Instead of two large reservoirs at different altitudes on a hillside, Gravity Power proposes two water-filled cylindrical shafts--one wider than the other--dug into the ground (see illustration 2). The shafts will be linked top and bottom to form a circuit, with a combined pump-turbine, similar to the ones used in conventional pumped storage, in the upper link. The wider shaft will contain a huge cylinder, made either of the rock the shaft is cut through or of concrete, to act as a piston. When the pump-turbine is opened, the piston sinks, driving water around the circuit and through the turbine, generating power. Spin the device the other way using electricity, and the reversed water flow pushes the piston up again. How much energy this arrangement can store depends on how deep the shafts go. And that is where it gets tricky, for some serious civil engineering will be needed if the idea is to work. Gravity Power proposes the shafts descend hundreds of metres. This will require large thicknesses of suitable rock--in practice this will probably be limestone, which is soft enough to cut into--so deployment will be limited not so much by geography as geology. And making a good seal between piston and shaft will hardly be trivial. So it will be expensive. A unit 700 metres deep, with a main shaft 26 metres across and a return shaft (or penstock) of about a tenth of that, would cost $170m. It would, though, be able to store about 200MWhr of energy, with an output of 50MW. Building one that size is years away, but the firm hopes to start work in 2015 on a demonstration plant near Penzberg, in Germany, with a depth of 140 metres, a capacity of 500 kWhr and an output of 1MW. Nor is Gravity Power's approach the only one to rely on underground spaces and friendly geology. Another is to fill a subterranean cavern with compressed air. For that, the cavern needs to be hermetically sealed and this means using an underground salt dome that has been hollowed out by solution mining (ie, the salt has been extracted with hot water). Given such a cavern, compressed-air storage is a bit like classical pumped storage, except with a gas, rather than a liquid. Air is pumped into the cavern, increasing its pressure, and then let out to drive a turbine. But there is a catch: gases heat up when compressed and cool when they expand. For compressed-air storage to work, therefore, the air released from the cavern has to be heated (usually by burning natural gas), otherwise it would freeze the turbine. That makes compressed-air storage inefficient--one reason there are only two grid-scale examples of it in the world (one in Germany, the other in Alabama). This would change if the heat of compression could be captured, stored and recycled. And that is the goal of LightSail Energy, a firm based in Berkeley, California. LightSail has developed a small, but still grid-scale, compressed-air system that sprays water into the compression chamber, to cool the air as its volume shrinks. The air is then stored in a set of tanks with a total volume of 42,000 litres, and the water, with its heat load, is put into two tanks that have, in total, about a quarter of the volume of the air tanks. At the moment, this device can store 700kWhr of energy, but that should rise to 1.1MWhr when (as is the plan) it is pressurised to 300 atmospheres instead of the current 200. That is a fraction more than one of Alevo's battery packs, which store 1MWhr. For comparison, the Alabama salt dome can store 2.9GWhr. If heat is to be stored at scale some inventors would prefer to simplify the process, get rid of the compressed air, and concentrate on sequestering the heat itself. Isentropic, a company in Fareham, Britain, plans to employ the compression and expansion of a gas (in this case, argon) to create heat and cold respectively in two large containers of gravel--one of the cheapest solid heat-storage media imaginable. Once again, a pump-turbine is involved. It does the compression and expansion when electricity is abundant, and when it is scarce the gas flow, and thus the heat flow and therefore the whole process, is reversed. Nor are these ideas the end of the list. Several firms, from giants such as ABB of Zurich, to minnows such as Berkeley Energy Sciences, a neighbour of LightSail, are pushing giant flywheels as at least part of the answer. Another suggestion--for filling in the shortest irregularities in supply, those lasting a few seconds or minutes such as are caused by the passage of a cloud in front of the sun--is to use supercapacitors, which store electricity as an actual electric charge, rather than converting it into chemical or physical potential energy of a non-electric form. At the other end of the scale as far as the size of the gap in supply is concerned, namely the nocturnal hours when solar energy cannot operate, several research groups are trying to use molten salts (usually sodium and potassium nitrates) to store heat gathered during the day and then, at night, raise steam for generators with it. And there is one further idea around that, though it relies on new storage technology being developed, does not rely on that technology being developed specifically for grid-scale storage. This is to use the fleet of electric cars that its proposers hope will take over from ones driven by internal-combustion engines over the course of the next couple of decades. In the imaginations of such people, the batteries of these cars (which would, when idle, be attached to the grid in order to charge them), could be employed as a giant storage network, to be plundered with the car owners' permission at times of peak demand. It is an intriguing thought--but the overlap between those times and the times cars are most likely to be on the road might scupper it in practice. As might the answer to the question about how ubiquitous electric cars will actually become. For that will depend on the future success and affordability of batteries. The path from startup to success is littered with corpses, and an awful lot of business models depend for their putative profit on what is, according to your point of view, either a subsidy or a factoring in of the economic externalities (in the form of climate change) imposed by fossil fuels. In particular, Germany's Energiewende and California's Renewable Energy Programme have, by requiring a large fraction of those jurisdictions' electricity to be renewable, helped fuel the boom. The world would no doubt be a better place if the externalities imposed by fossil fuels were properly accounted for in the price of electricity. But that is a hard sell, not least because of disagreements about those externalities' true size. In the meantime, it is better if grid-scale storage can be rolled out without taxpayer support. That is the main reason for watching the example of Alevo. It says it can make money even in unsubsidised grids, because it has been ruthless about reducing manufacturing costs and simplifying the technology as far as possible. This is a businesslike approach. If it works, and others prove able to mimic it, then the cost of running a grid, and thus the price of electricity, will fall. That alone will be a good thing. But success will change the very nature of such a grid, enabling it to absorb more wind and solar power even if this is a consequence unintended by the grid owners. How much more is yet unknown, for fossil fuels (particularly natural gas) are getting cheaper too. But renewables will no longer be fighting the battle with one hand tied behind their back. The world would no doubt be a better place if the externalities imposed by fossil fuels were properly accounted for in the price of electricity Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Robert Nickelsberg/Getty ImagesSolar tracker panels follow the sun's path May 17, 2014 on a Champlain Valley dairy farm near West Haven, Vermont.Matching output to demand is hard with wind and solar power. The answer is to store surplus juice on the grid until it is needed ON OCTOBER 28th a battery factory opened in Concord, North Carolina. That was good for an area which has seen dark economic times, but the event made few headlines. Perhaps it should have made more, though, for this factory's owner, Alevo, a Swiss company, is not in the business of manufacturing cells for torches, mobile phones or even laptop computers. Rather, it is making batteries that can store serious amounts of electricity--megawatt-hours of it. And it plans to sell them to power-grid operators. To start with, the new batteries will be used to smooth the consequences of irregular demand through the day by absorbing electricity during troughs and regurgitating it during peaks. If that pans out, it will eliminate the need for gas-powered "peaker" stations which fire up quickly when needed, but are expensive to run. It would also allow non-peaker stations to operate more efficiently. Alevo reckons that if a grid as big as America's Western interconnection (which supplies the west of the United States and Canada) were to use 18GW-worth of its batteries the grid could save $12 billion a year. Though the company has no North American contract yet, it does have an agreement to deploy its batteries in Guangdong, China. Smoothing the operation of existing grids, however, may be only the beginning. In the longer run, optimists believe, batteries like these, or some equivalent technology, are the key to dealing with the problem not just of irregular demand, but of irregular supply. As the unit cost of solar and wind energy drops ever closer to that of power from fossil fuels, the fact that the wind does not always blow and the sun does not always shine becomes more and more irksome. It is not just the great power-gap that is night which matters. As the chart below shows, even during the day--and even in deserts--the amount of sunlight can vary from minute to minute. And the wind, of course, is equally fickle. The EconomistCheap grid-scale storage would overcome these irregularities. Renewables could then compete on cost alone. And there are many ideas for how to make this happen. Some, such as Alevo's, are ready to be sold. Others work in laboratories but have yet to be scaled up for use in the real world. Others still are little more than twinkles of varying plausibility in their inventors' eyes. But if even one of them is up to the task, then renewable energy may, at last, be able to stand on its own, rather than having to be subsidised and regulated into existence. At the moment, grid-scale storage is dominated by pumped hydro. According to the Electric Power Research Institute, an American think-tank, 140GW-worth of this is installed around the world, with a capacity of 1.4TWhr. Pumped storage requires friendly geography. You need two reservoirs separated by a good gap of altitude. But it is then just a matter of linking them with pipes and using turbines that, if turned by falling water, generate electricity, but, when fed electricity, turn the other way to pump that water whence it came. Send it uphill when power is cheap, and let it flow down when there are spikes in demand, and you have a nice little business. Not everywhere, though, has compliant hills and valleys. And pumped storage takes a long time, and a lot of money, to build. Technologies that start small, but can be scaled up as needed, are often a better answer. The immediate future of grid-scale storage, then, probably lies with real batteries rather than topographical ones. At least, Alevo thinks so. At full capacity, the firm's factory in Concord should be able to turn out 16.2GWhr-worth of them a year. And Alevo is not alone. Tesla is building an even bigger factory near Reno, Nevada (see "Brain scan: Tesla's electric man") to make batteries for its electric cars and for local and grid storage. The Economist Several stations that use batteries to regulate the output of wind farms have already been built, or are under construction. In Sendai, Japan, Toshiba is creating one based on lithium-ion batteries. This should open in 2015. It will have a maximum power of 40MW, and will be able to run at that rate for half an hour. The Notrees Battery Storage Project, which opened in Texas in 2013, uses lead-acid batteries--sophisticated versions of the type found in petrol and diesel cars. It has a maximum power of 36MW and could run for 40 minutes at full tilt. Another Japanese project, of 34MW, in Rokkasho, uses sodium-sulphur batteries. And one in Alaska, of 27MW, uses nickel-cadmium ones. As that list suggests, many types of grid-scale battery technology are available. Alevo uses electrodes made of lithium iron phosphate and graphite. These are connected by an inorganic sulphur-based electrolyte, a combination, the firm claims, that is particularly propitious because cycling between charged and discharged states produces only a 1&amp;#176;C change in the battery's temperature. This should eliminate the risk of overheating, to which some sorts of lithium-based cells are prone. There are types of battery that actually require high temperatures to work. In sodium-sulphur cells of the sort deployed at Rokkasho both of those elements need to be liquid, meaning the battery has to be maintained at a temperature of 300-350&amp;#176;C. And an approach being developed by Donald Sadoway of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology would use two sorts of liquid metal, separated by a liquid electrolyte. The clever thing about this design is that, by picking a dense metal such as a mixture of antimony and lead, a light one such as lithium, and an electrolyte whose density falls between the two, the three substances will float as separate layers in a container, rather as oil separates from vinegar in a salad dressing. The Economist Despite their superficial differences, one thing all these batteries have in common is that the energy they contain is stored chemically within their electrodes. This has a consequence, at least for those with solid electrodes. The constant change in the electrodes' composition as they are charged and discharged gradually wears them out. This limited lifespan is one reason using batteries for grid-scale storage is still pricey. Indeed, Alevo's claim that its batteries can undergo more than 40,000 cycles of charging and discharging without noticeable loss of function is an important part of its sales pitch. An alternative approach, known as a flow battery, does not suffer from this difficulty. A flow battery's energy is stored in its electrolytes (of which there are two, separated by a membrane), rather than its electrodes (see illustration 1). Not only does that stop the electrodes wearing out, it also means that there is no upper limit, based on the sizes of those electrodes, on how much energy such a battery can store. Its capacity depends instead on the size of the tanks used to hold the electrolytes. Flow batteries are a much less developed technology than standard batteries, but they are beginning to become commercially available. Many of those on sale at the moment (by firms such as Gildemeister of Germany and UET of Washington state) use vanadium-based electrolytes. Vanadium is a good material because its multiple ionic states mean it can be used to store energy without having to involve other reagents, and thus complicate the design. Unfortunately, vanadium is expensive. But systems that use cheaper materials are being developed. Several firms are trying zinc and bromine in electrolytes and others iron and chromium. Ideas still in the lab include flow batteries based on cheap organic compounds called anthraquinones. If these prove robust enough to commercialise, they will be strong competitors in the grid-scale storage market. But they will not be alone. For batteries are not the only route to the destination. If the engineers at Gravity Power in Goleta, California, get their way, even pumped storage is in line for a makeover. Their approach, it should be said from the outset, is one of the most twinkly of the twinkling eyes in the field. Even if it ultimately fails it shows the originality of thought that is being brought to bear on the problem. Instead of two large reservoirs at different altitudes on a hillside, Gravity Power proposes two water-filled cylindrical shafts--one wider than the other--dug into the ground (see illustration 2). The shafts will be linked top and bottom to form a circuit, with a combined pump-turbine, similar to the ones used in conventional pumped storage, in the upper link. The wider shaft will contain a huge cylinder, made either of the rock the shaft is cut through or of concrete, to act as a piston. When the pump-turbine is opened, the piston sinks, driving water around the circuit and through the turbine, generating power. Spin the device the other way using electricity, and the reversed water flow pushes the piston up again. How much energy this arrangement can store depends on how deep the shafts go. And that is where it gets tricky, for some serious civil engineering will be needed if the idea is to work. Gravity Power proposes the shafts descend hundreds of metres. This will require large thicknesses of suitable rock--in practice this will probably be limestone, which is soft enough to cut into--so deployment will be limited not so much by geography as geology. And making a good seal between piston and shaft will hardly be trivial. So it will be expensive. A unit 700 metres deep, with a main shaft 26 metres across and a return shaft (or penstock) of about a tenth of that, would cost $170m. It would, though, be able to store about 200MWhr of energy, with an output of 50MW. Building one that size is years away, but the firm hopes to start work in 2015 on a demonstration plant near Penzberg, in Germany, with a depth of 140 metres, a capacity of 500 kWhr and an output of 1MW. Nor is Gravity Power's approach the only one to rely on underground spaces and friendly geology. Another is to fill a subterranean cavern with compressed air. For that, the cavern needs to be hermetically sealed and this means using an underground salt dome that has been hollowed out by solution mining (ie, the salt has been extracted with hot water). Given such a cavern, compressed-air storage is a bit like classical pumped storage, except with a gas, rather than a liquid. Air is pumped into the cavern, increasing its pressure, and then let out to drive a turbine. But there is a catch: gases heat up when compressed and cool when they expand. For compressed-air storage to work, therefore, the air released from the cavern has to be heated (usually by burning natural gas), otherwise it would freeze the turbine. That makes compressed-air storage inefficient--one reason there are only two grid-scale examples of it in the world (one in Germany, the other in Alabama). This would change if the heat of compression could be captured, stored and recycled. And that is the goal of LightSail Energy, a firm based in Berkeley, California. LightSail has developed a small, but still grid-scale, compressed-air system that sprays water into the compression chamber, to cool the air as its volume shrinks. The air is then stored in a set of tanks with a total volume of 42,000 litres, and the water, with its heat load, is put into two tanks that have, in total, about a quarter of the volume of the air tanks. At the moment, this device can store 700kWhr of energy, but that should rise to 1.1MWhr when (as is the plan) it is pressurised to 300 atmospheres instead of the current 200. That is a fraction more than one of Alevo's battery packs, which store 1MWhr. For comparison, the Alabama salt dome can store 2.9GWhr. If heat is to be stored at scale some inventors would prefer to simplify the process, get rid of the compressed air, and concentrate on sequestering the heat itself. Isentropic, a company in Fareham, Britain, plans to employ the compression and expansion of a gas (in this case, argon) to create heat and cold respectively in two large containers of gravel--one of the cheapest solid heat-storage media imaginable. Once again, a pump-turbine is involved. It does the compression and expansion when electricity is abundant, and when it is scarce the gas flow, and thus the heat flow and therefore the whole process, is reversed. Nor are these ideas the end of the list. Several firms, from giants such as ABB of Zurich, to minnows such as Berkeley Energy Sciences, a neighbour of LightSail, are pushing giant flywheels as at least part of the answer. Another suggestion--for filling in the shortest irregularities in supply, those lasting a few seconds or minutes such as are caused by the passage of a cloud in front of the sun--is to use supercapacitors, which store electricity as an actual electric charge, rather than converting it into chemical or physical potential energy of a non-electric form. At the other end of the scale as far as the size of the gap in supply is concerned, namely the nocturnal hours when solar energy cannot operate, several research groups are trying to use molten salts (usually sodium and potassium nitrates) to store heat gathered during the day and then, at night, raise steam for generators with it. And there is one further idea around that, though it relies on new storage technology being developed, does not rely on that technology being developed specifically for grid-scale storage. This is to use the fleet of electric cars that its proposers hope will take over from ones driven by internal-combustion engines over the course of the next couple of decades. In the imaginations of such people, the batteries of these cars (which would, when idle, be attached to the grid in order to charge them), could be employed as a giant storage network, to be plundered with the car owners' permission at times of peak demand. It is an intriguing thought--but the overlap between those times and the times cars are most likely to be on the road might scupper it in practice. As might the answer to the question about how ubiquitous electric cars will actually become. For that will depend on the future success and affordability of batteries. The path from startup to success is littered with corpses, and an awful lot of business models depend for their putative profit on what is, according to your point of view, either a subsidy or a factoring in of the economic externalities (in the form of climate change) imposed by fossil fuels. In particular, Germany's Energiewende and California's Renewable Energy Programme have, by requiring a large fraction of those jurisdictions' electricity to be renewable, helped fuel the boom. The world would no doubt be a better place if the externalities imposed by fossil fuels were properly accounted for in the price of electricity. But that is a hard sell, not least because of disagreements about those externalities' true size. In the meantime, it is better if grid-scale storage can be rolled out without taxpayer support. That is the main reason for watching the example of Alevo. It says it can make money even in unsubsidised grids, because it has been ruthless about reducing manufacturing costs and simplifying the technology as far as possible. This is a businesslike approach. If it works, and others prove able to mimic it, then the cost of running a grid, and thus the price of electricity, will fall. That alone will be a good thing. But success will change the very nature of such a grid, enabling it to absorb more wind and solar power even if this is a consequence unintended by the grid owners. How much more is yet unknown, for fossil fuels (particularly natural gas) are getting cheaper too. But renewables will no longer be fighting the battle with one hand tied behind their back. The world would no doubt be a better place if the externalities imposed by fossil fuels were properly accounted for in the price of electricity Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/GettyYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer. As 2014 draws to a close, you can catch up on some of the year's best business books, like Peter Thiel's "Zero to One" and Sophia Amoruso's "#GIRLBOSS." But it's also time to start looking forward to some of next year's big releases. We've looked through the books that have been announced for 2015 and picked out the highlights, from a history of money to the story of Marissa Mayer's rise to the top. FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban chatted with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. He told us why he thinks Roger Goodell is replaceable. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
Esther Perel, a couples therapist and the best-selling author of "Mating in Captivity," reveals her provocative perspective on the subject of infidelity. Aiming to spark a new conversation about this taboo topic, Perel reverses the lens by proposing that affairs are not a symptom of a problem in one's relationship, but are instead an expression of a deeper longing to experience something different. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis
The economics of oil have changed. Some businesses will go bust, but the market will be healthier. The official charter of OPEC states that the group's goal is "the stabilisation of prices in international oil markets". It has not been doing a very good job. In June the price of a barrel of oil, then almost $115, began to slide; it now stands close to $70. This near-40% plunge is thanks partly to the sluggish world economy, which is consuming less oil than markets had anticipated, and partly to OPEC itself, which has produced more than markets expected. But the main culprits are the oilmen of North Dakota and Texas. Over the past four years, as the price hovered around $110 a barrel, they have set about extracting oil from shale formations previously considered unviable. Their manic drilling--they have completed perhaps 20,000 new wells since 2010, more than ten times Saudi Arabia's tally--has boosted America's oil production by a third, to nearly 9m barrels a day (b/d). That is just 1m b/d short of Saudi Arabia's output. The contest between the shalemen and the sheikhs has tipped the world from a shortage of oil to a surplus. Cheaper oil should act like a shot of adrenalin to global growth. A $40 price cut shifts some $1.3 trillion from producers to consumers. The typical American motorist, who spent $3,000 in 2013 at the pumps, might be $800 a year better off--equivalent to a 2% pay rise. Big importing countries such as the euro area, India, Japan and Turkey are enjoying especially big windfalls. Since this money is likely to be spent rather than stashed in a sovereign-wealth fund, global GDP should rise. The falling oil price will reduce already-low inflation still further, and so may encourage central bankers towards looser monetary policy. The Federal Reserve will put off raising interest rates for longer; the European Central Bank will act more boldly to ward off deflation by buying sovereign bonds. There will, of course, be losers (see "Shale oil: In a bind"). Oil-producing countries whose budgets depend on high prices are in particular trouble. The rouble tumbled this week as Russia's prospects darkened further. Nigeria has been forced to raise interest rates and devalue the naira. Venezuela looks ever closer to defaulting on its debt. The spectre of defaults and the speed and scale of the price plunge have unnerved financial markets. But the overall economic effect of cheaper oil is clearly positive. Just how positive will depend on how long the price stays low. That is the subject of a continuing tussle between OPEC and the shale-drillers. Several members of the cartel want it to cut its output, in the hope of pushing the price back up again. But Saudi Arabia, in particular, seems mindful of the experience of the 1970s, when a big leap in the price prompted huge investments in new fields, leading to a decade-long glut. Instead, the Saudis seem to be pushing a different tactic: let the price fall and put high-cost producers out of business. That should soon crimp supply, causing prices to rise. There are signs that such a shake-out is already under way. The share prices of firms that specialise in shale oil have been swooning. Many of them are up to their derricks in debt. Even before the oil price started falling, most were investing more in new wells than they were making from their existing ones. With their revenues now dropping fast, they will find themselves overstretched. A rash of bankruptcies is likely. That, in turn, would bespatter shale oil's reputation among investors. Even survivors may find the markets closed for some time, forcing them to rein in their expenditure to match the cash they generate from selling oil. Since shale-oil wells are short-lived (output can fall by 60-70% in the first year), any slowdown in investment will quickly translate into falling production. This shake-out will be painful. But in the long run the shale industry's future seems assured. Fracking, in which a mixture of water, sand and chemicals is injected into shale formations to release oil, is a relatively young technology, and it is still making big gains in efficiency. IHS, a research firm, reckons the cost of a typical project has fallen from $70 per barrel produced to $57 in the past year, as oilmen have learned how to drill wells faster and to extract more oil from each one. Getty Images / Leslie LindemanScott Berreth, a derrick hand for Raven Drilling, works on an oil rig drilling into the Bakken shale formation on July 28, 2013 outside Watford City, North Dakota.The firms that weather the current storm will have masses more shale to exploit. Drilling is just beginning (and may now be cut back) in the Niobrara formation in Colorado, for example, and the Mississippian Lime along the border between Oklahoma and Kansas. Nor need shale oil be a uniquely American phenomenon: there is similar geology all around the world, from China to the Czech Republic. Although no other country has quite the same combination of eager investors, experienced oilmen and pliable bureaucrats, the riches on offer must eventually induce shale-oil exploration elsewhere. Most important of all, investments in shale oil come in conveniently small increments. The big conventional oilfields that have not yet been tapped tend to be in inaccessible spots, deep below the ocean, high in the Arctic, or both. America's Exxon Mobil and Russia's Rosneft recently spent two months and $700m drilling a single well in the Kara Sea, north of Siberia. Although they found oil, developing it will take years and cost billions. By contrast, a shale-oil well can be drilled in as little as a week, at a cost of $1.5m. The shale firms know where the shale deposits are and it is pretty easy to hire new rigs; the only question is how many wells to drill. The whole business becomes a bit more like manufacturing drinks: whenever the world is thirsty, you crank up the bottling plant. So the economics of oil have changed. The market will still be subject to political shocks: war in the Middle East or the overdue implosion of Vladimir Putin's kleptocracy would send the price soaring. But, absent such an event, the oil price should be less vulnerable to shocks or manipulation. Even if the 3m extra b/d that the United States now pumps out is a tiny fraction of the 90m the world consumes, America's shale is a genuine rival to Saudi Arabia as the world's marginal producer. That should reduce the volatility not just of the oil price but also of the world economy. Oil and finance have proved themselves the only two industries able to tip the world into recession. At least one of them should in future be a bit more stable. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
The economics of oil have changed. Some businesses will go bust, but the market will be healthier. The official charter of OPEC states that the group's goal is "the stabilisation of prices in international oil markets". It has not been doing a very good job. In June the price of a barrel of oil, then almost $115, began to slide; it now stands close to $70. This near-40% plunge is thanks partly to the sluggish world economy, which is consuming less oil than markets had anticipated, and partly to OPEC itself, which has produced more than markets expected. But the main culprits are the oilmen of North Dakota and Texas. Over the past four years, as the price hovered around $110 a barrel, they have set about extracting oil from shale formations previously considered unviable. Their manic drilling--they have completed perhaps 20,000 new wells since 2010, more than ten times Saudi Arabia's tally--has boosted America's oil production by a third, to nearly 9m barrels a day (b/d). That is just 1m b/d short of Saudi Arabia's output. The contest between the shalemen and the sheikhs has tipped the world from a shortage of oil to a surplus. Cheaper oil should act like a shot of adrenalin to global growth. A $40 price cut shifts some $1.3 trillion from producers to consumers. The typical American motorist, who spent $3,000 in 2013 at the pumps, might be $800 a year better off--equivalent to a 2% pay rise. Big importing countries such as the euro area, India, Japan and Turkey are enjoying especially big windfalls. Since this money is likely to be spent rather than stashed in a sovereign-wealth fund, global GDP should rise. The falling oil price will reduce already-low inflation still further, and so may encourage central bankers towards looser monetary policy. The Federal Reserve will put off raising interest rates for longer; the European Central Bank will act more boldly to ward off deflation by buying sovereign bonds. There will, of course, be losers (see "Shale oil: In a bind"). Oil-producing countries whose budgets depend on high prices are in particular trouble. The rouble tumbled this week as Russia's prospects darkened further. Nigeria has been forced to raise interest rates and devalue the naira. Venezuela looks ever closer to defaulting on its debt. The spectre of defaults and the speed and scale of the price plunge have unnerved financial markets. But the overall economic effect of cheaper oil is clearly positive. Just how positive will depend on how long the price stays low. That is the subject of a continuing tussle between OPEC and the shale-drillers. Several members of the cartel want it to cut its output, in the hope of pushing the price back up again. But Saudi Arabia, in particular, seems mindful of the experience of the 1970s, when a big leap in the price prompted huge investments in new fields, leading to a decade-long glut. Instead, the Saudis seem to be pushing a different tactic: let the price fall and put high-cost producers out of business. That should soon crimp supply, causing prices to rise. There are signs that such a shake-out is already under way. The share prices of firms that specialise in shale oil have been swooning. Many of them are up to their derricks in debt. Even before the oil price started falling, most were investing more in new wells than they were making from their existing ones. With their revenues now dropping fast, they will find themselves overstretched. A rash of bankruptcies is likely. That, in turn, would bespatter shale oil's reputation among investors. Even survivors may find the markets closed for some time, forcing them to rein in their expenditure to match the cash they generate from selling oil. Since shale-oil wells are short-lived (output can fall by 60-70% in the first year), any slowdown in investment will quickly translate into falling production. This shake-out will be painful. But in the long run the shale industry's future seems assured. Fracking, in which a mixture of water, sand and chemicals is injected into shale formations to release oil, is a relatively young technology, and it is still making big gains in efficiency. IHS, a research firm, reckons the cost of a typical project has fallen from $70 per barrel produced to $57 in the past year, as oilmen have learned how to drill wells faster and to extract more oil from each one. Getty Images / Leslie LindemanScott Berreth, a derrick hand for Raven Drilling, works on an oil rig drilling into the Bakken shale formation on July 28, 2013 outside Watford City, North Dakota.The firms that weather the current storm will have masses more shale to exploit. Drilling is just beginning (and may now be cut back) in the Niobrara formation in Colorado, for example, and the Mississippian Lime along the border between Oklahoma and Kansas. Nor need shale oil be a uniquely American phenomenon: there is similar geology all around the world, from China to the Czech Republic. Although no other country has quite the same combination of eager investors, experienced oilmen and pliable bureaucrats, the riches on offer must eventually induce shale-oil exploration elsewhere. Most important of all, investments in shale oil come in conveniently small increments. The big conventional oilfields that have not yet been tapped tend to be in inaccessible spots, deep below the ocean, high in the Arctic, or both. America's Exxon Mobil and Russia's Rosneft recently spent two months and $700m drilling a single well in the Kara Sea, north of Siberia. Although they found oil, developing it will take years and cost billions. By contrast, a shale-oil well can be drilled in as little as a week, at a cost of $1.5m. The shale firms know where the shale deposits are and it is pretty easy to hire new rigs; the only question is how many wells to drill. The whole business becomes a bit more like manufacturing drinks: whenever the world is thirsty, you crank up the bottling plant. So the economics of oil have changed. The market will still be subject to political shocks: war in the Middle East or the overdue implosion of Vladimir Putin's kleptocracy would send the price soaring. But, absent such an event, the oil price should be less vulnerable to shocks or manipulation. Even if the 3m extra b/d that the United States now pumps out is a tiny fraction of the 90m the world consumes, America's shale is a genuine rival to Saudi Arabia as the world's marginal producer. That should reduce the volatility not just of the oil price but also of the world economy. Oil and finance have proved themselves the only two industries able to tip the world into recession. At least one of them should in future be a bit more stable. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
The EconomistAs New York's lefty mayor Bill de Blasio likes to say, the Big Apple is a tale of two cities, one on the ups and one on the downs.  It might surprise Mr de Blasio that this is true even of Wall Street. Large banks, hammered for their own failures and those of the government, are going through endless rounds of cost cuts and redundancies to pay for fines and ever more compliance.  In contrast, a handful of smaller financial institutions, many created by refugees from big firms, are doing well. So-called "boutique" investment banks have gained a much larger share of the lucrative business of advising on mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;A) since the financial crisis (see chart) and are gaining other footholds. Their flourishing has put paid to the belief that consolidation was inevitable as one institution after another was crushed or absorbed by bigger rivals. The giants who offered advice, credit, trading, research and underwriting on top of the technological capacity to track what was going on used to seem unstoppable. But technology now comes cheap and breadth is as likely to result in fines as in synergies. Minnows, often still under the management of a charismatic founder, are snaffling the business that once belonged by right to Wall Street's titans. Their main product is one in which personal relationships matter a lot and scale very little: advice on M&amp;A. Another strength is restructuring, since in a bankruptcy or reorganisation, the institutions that provide capital--the large, established, banks--have too many conflicts to participate. Over time, a third business has emerged: providing advice on how best to exploit capital markets. The publicly traded quartet of Moelis, Evercore Partners, Greenhill &amp; Co and Lazard are flourishing. They trade at profit multiples many times higher than their larger rivals, some of which are deemed to be worth less than the value of the assets on their books. That there has been a surge in M&amp;A while other bits of investment banking are struggling probably helps. The tiddlers' success has resulted in a transformation in the perceived wisdom. In the period leading up to the financial crisis Lazard and the family-controlled Rothschild, both founded in the 19th century, were seen by many outsiders as relics for maintaining their independence and focus; now they represent models to be emulated. Their revenues, the biggest among boutiques, have become benchmarks. The current flock of competitors caught on to the new environment early on. In the 1990s Robert Greenhill left Morgan Stanley to work for a key client, Sandy Weill, who was in the process of assembling numerous investment firms into what would become the disastrous amalgam of Citigroup. Mr Greenhill later went on to create a new firm as narrow as Citi was broad. Privately-held Perella Weinberg was set up in 2006 by men who had worked at Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. Ken Moelis began his firm in 2007 after stints at various big investment banks. There are more potential businesses to pick off, most notably asset management, which does not require capital. But one of the big selling-points of boutique banks is round-the-clock access, often to senior executives. That requires minimising distractions and maintaining flat managerial structures. It also makes it hard to take part in heavily regulated activities such as taking in deposits, making loans, holding physical commodities, structuring derivatives and trading. Clients distrust mega-banks, where conflicts of interest abound. Cost-cutting is also hampering those banks' efforts to fend off the upstarts. In a small example, one big bank is said to be drastically curtailing travel to reduce expenses in the current quarter, despite an ongoing frenzy in the merger market. None of the boutique banks would skimp on plane tickets when opportunities beckoned. Having firms so heavily dependent on individuals carries risk of its own. But it is employees and shareholders, not taxpayers, that have to worry about that: the boutiques are not "too big to fail". Their recent growth is a welcome sign that America's beleaguered financial markets are evolving. Even more heartening is their capacity, should their business dry up, to disappear without causing chaos. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
The EconomistAs New York's lefty mayor Bill de Blasio likes to say, the Big Apple is a tale of two cities, one on the ups and one on the downs.  It might surprise Mr de Blasio that this is true even of Wall Street. Large banks, hammered for their own failures and those of the government, are going through endless rounds of cost cuts and redundancies to pay for fines and ever more compliance.  In contrast, a handful of smaller financial institutions, many created by refugees from big firms, are doing well. So-called "boutique" investment banks have gained a much larger share of the lucrative business of advising on mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;A) since the financial crisis (see chart) and are gaining other footholds. Their flourishing has put paid to the belief that consolidation was inevitable as one institution after another was crushed or absorbed by bigger rivals. The giants who offered advice, credit, trading, research and underwriting on top of the technological capacity to track what was going on used to seem unstoppable. But technology now comes cheap and breadth is as likely to result in fines as in synergies. Minnows, often still under the management of a charismatic founder, are snaffling the business that once belonged by right to Wall Street's titans. Their main product is one in which personal relationships matter a lot and scale very little: advice on M&amp;A. Another strength is restructuring, since in a bankruptcy or reorganisation, the institutions that provide capital--the large, established, banks--have too many conflicts to participate. Over time, a third business has emerged: providing advice on how best to exploit capital markets. The publicly traded quartet of Moelis, Evercore Partners, Greenhill &amp; Co and Lazard are flourishing. They trade at profit multiples many times higher than their larger rivals, some of which are deemed to be worth less than the value of the assets on their books. That there has been a surge in M&amp;A while other bits of investment banking are struggling probably helps. The tiddlers' success has resulted in a transformation in the perceived wisdom. In the period leading up to the financial crisis Lazard and the family-controlled Rothschild, both founded in the 19th century, were seen by many outsiders as relics for maintaining their independence and focus; now they represent models to be emulated. Their revenues, the biggest among boutiques, have become benchmarks. The current flock of competitors caught on to the new environment early on. In the 1990s Robert Greenhill left Morgan Stanley to work for a key client, Sandy Weill, who was in the process of assembling numerous investment firms into what would become the disastrous amalgam of Citigroup. Mr Greenhill later went on to create a new firm as narrow as Citi was broad. Privately-held Perella Weinberg was set up in 2006 by men who had worked at Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. Ken Moelis began his firm in 2007 after stints at various big investment banks. There are more potential businesses to pick off, most notably asset management, which does not require capital. But one of the big selling-points of boutique banks is round-the-clock access, often to senior executives. That requires minimising distractions and maintaining flat managerial structures. It also makes it hard to take part in heavily regulated activities such as taking in deposits, making loans, holding physical commodities, structuring derivatives and trading. Clients distrust mega-banks, where conflicts of interest abound. Cost-cutting is also hampering those banks' efforts to fend off the upstarts. In a small example, one big bank is said to be drastically curtailing travel to reduce expenses in the current quarter, despite an ongoing frenzy in the merger market. None of the boutique banks would skimp on plane tickets when opportunities beckoned. Having firms so heavily dependent on individuals carries risk of its own. But it is employees and shareholders, not taxpayers, that have to worry about that: the boutiques are not "too big to fail". Their recent growth is a welcome sign that America's beleaguered financial markets are evolving. Even more heartening is their capacity, should their business dry up, to disappear without causing chaos. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
Amarilis Sinchi visited Macy's at a New Jersey mall on Black Friday, but she waited until this week to purchase the red fleece pajamas she had her eye on. The 21-year-old student ended up paying $13 at the department store, down from $30 on Friday, which has traditionally been the best day for deals during the U.S. holiday season. "The prices keep getting better," she said, planning a return to another store - Kohl's - which had dropped the price on LEGO toys. Retailers started discounting early this holiday season, but that hasn’t stopped them from stepping up the offers now, particularly on apparel. The increasingly fierce struggle for consumer dollars online is adding to pressure for lower prices at stores, where mobile device-toting customers compare prices as they shop. Many deals are being extended and deepened, visits to malls and data from price tracking firms show, and analysts see many retailers' margins being compressed, especially in apparel. "We’re experiencing post-holiday promotions even before the holiday is in full swing," said Steven Barr, U.S. Retail and Consumer Leader at consultants PwC, who has not seen such a high level of deals at this stage of the season before. On one trip to a mall, an apparel store dropped a discount from 40 percent to 50 percent while he ate lunch. “We expect this is going to be the most promotional holiday on record,” challenging profits in the sector, he said. Consumers remain cautious about spending despite lower gasoline prices and an improved jobs and housing market, surveys by Reuters/Ipsos show. Wages growth has been very limited while food and healthcare costs have risen. People do generally appear to be getting more price conscious. In a survey this summer conducted by PwC, 84 percent of respondents said they chose a store because of the prices it offers, up from 74 percent in 2013. The 10 retailers with the most traffic and sales more than doubled the number of discounted items online during the week after Black Friday, according to data from TrackIf, a service that tracks prices across nearly 2,000 retail websites. To be sure, retailers with unique or popular products have avoided big price cuts, and there is substantial variation between companies and types of merchandise. Many retailers have gone into the season with less inventory than previous years, and mainstream forecasters expect holiday sales will rise around 4 percent for the year, despite the discounting. But already some retail earnings and stock prices are being hurt by weak sales and the increased level of discounting, in particular at teen clothing store chains. Teen buyers preferring to spend on phones and gadgets rather than clothes has been hurting that sector for some time. SOME RETAILERS HURT BADLY Shares of teen retailer Aeropostale dropped Wednesday to a 52-week low after it reported a larger-than-expected fourth-quarter loss. Like apparel retailers Express and Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Aeropostale was hurt by discounting and slowing demand. On Friday, teen retailer Delia*s said it would file for bankruptcy. "The gross margins are being pressured," said Nomura retail analyst Simeon Siegel. Apparel retailers, he said, can't cut prices much more than 50 percent without losing money, so many are trying to win sales by extending the time they offer discounts. Companies that track discounts can discern a significant change. Last year, online prices from traditional retailers were lowest on Black Friday for a variety of products in many categories, according to Market Track. But this year, for instance, it found prices of kitchenware fell in the days after Black Friday, by 13 percent at Sears and 47 percent at Macy's. ShopSavvy, which tracks merchandise and prices for the top 100 online and in-store retailers based on their traffic and sales, compared discounts in five categories of items at 32 of these merchants on Black Friday and early this week. Computers, clothing and home and garden products showed widening discounts. Electronics and entertainment products were cheaper on Black Friday itself. ShopSavvy CEO John Boyd said that the rise of mobile and online commerce was driving retailers to spread discounts beyond Friday. This year's move toward post-Black Friday bargains was "materially stronger" than previous years, he said. Most stores also didn't wait until the holiday weekend to start discounts, said ShopSavvy, which also found that many of the big retailers were offering the same deals as online retailer Amazon.com. Ecommerce researcher Profitero found online discounts of some 41,000 toys, electronics and sporting goods at Amazon, Best Buy, Toys R Us and Walmart held steady on this week's Cyber Monday compared with last week's Black Friday. A Macy's spokesman said the retailer plans its promotions in advance. Other retailers declined to comment on holiday pricing strategies. Standing in the Newport Centre mall in Jersey City, New Jersey, that he has visited regularly over the last eight years, Moody's analyst Charles O'Shea said that while he's seen strong sales of electronics at stores like Best Buy and Target, many apparel retailers already were marking down merchandise. Walking into a Sears store, he flipped over tag after tag, showing deep discounts on almost all apparel. Some stores, such as American Eagle, were offering shoppers the chance to buy one item and get 50 percent off a second. Standing outside an Aeropostale, O'Shea pointed at a sign advertising up to 70 percent off. Inside, stacks of neatly folded sweaters were marked down to $14 from $44.50. That's a good indication that Thanksgiving holiday weekend sales "weren't what they wanted," he said. "They have to get stuff out of there."   (Reporting by Jilian Mincer in New York and Nandita Bose in Chicago.; Additional reporting by Samatha Sunne in New York and Nathan Layne in Chicago.; Editing by Peter Henderson and Martin Howell.) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThe holiday season means holiday parties, and if your schedule is anything like ours, you're going to be buying a lot of wine. We asked sommelier Jörn Kleinhans, owner of the Wine Elite Sommelier Company, to share some of his favorite affordable picks. FREE AppDownload
 Jim Cramer sits on the board of TheStreet.com, a small investment-news website he cofounded in 1999 and that currently trades on the Nasdaq with a market cap of about $80 million. One of the company's shareholders is not happy with Cramer. In letter sent to Cramer on Wednesday (via Talking Biz News), one of the company's shareholders, Cannell Capital, outlines a series of complaints. These include, among other things, Cramer's alleged enjoyment of a "perfumed sedan driver and assorted assistants who spray ionized lavender water on [Cramer's] barren cranium." It is unclear if this claim has any merit.  Cannell Capital, which owns 8.95% of TheStreet.com, proposed in its letter that either 1) TheStreet sell itself, or 2) Cramer stop working with CNBC and devote his time and energy solely to TheStreet while also taking a 70% pay cut. Cannell notes that the market cap of TheStreet.com has fallen from around $1.7 billion in 1999 to around $80 million today, a loss of more than $1.6 billion in shareholder value.  Cramer is currently one of the hosts of CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" program as well as the host of "Mad Money," which airs on weeknights.  Cannell's letter, while proposing some strategies for TheStreet.com, also implores Cramer to do some soul-searching. "You are 59," Cannell writes. "When you lie upon your deathbed, how will you reflect upon your legacy? Once a $70 stock, TST is now $2.20. You will have done well, but how has the common shareholder done?" Cannell notes that Cramer signed a four-year employment contract with TheStreet in November 2013 that pays him $3.5 million annually. And while the letter states, "I commend you for your tenacity and intellect," Cannell maintains that Cramer's conflict between his director role with TheStreet and his employment at CNBC creates a "grand structural conflict." In imploring Cramer to leave CNBC and devote his energy to TheStreet while also taking a 70% pay cut, Cannell invokes Steve Jobs' one-dollar-a-year salary, as well as Warren Buffett's $100,000/year salary. "I imagine that this communication may be received with some frustration and perhaps a little embarrassment," Cannell writes.  "Please rest assured that my intent is merely and solely to help all shareholders — not just one shareholder. Please review the facts for what they are." Whatever that is, exactly.  In afternoon trade on Wednesday following disclosure of the letter, shares of TheStreet were up more than 6%.     FREE AppDownload
 Wall Street didn't always exist as we know it now. Forty years ago, banks were sleepier businesses — boring, even.  But then all of that changed. In an interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, Peter Solomon, founder of the Peter J. Solomon Company investment bank, pinpoints the moment everything shifted.  “I ascribe it to the 1981 going public of Salomon Brothers and two issues happened. One, the firms incorporated so they had limited liability, and number two, they had other people’s money so they could take more risk …there’s no question that that was the moment that Wall Street changed,” Solomon told von Stade. At that point Solomon had spent most of his career at Lehman Brothers, taking breaks to work in politics during a time when New York City was in an incredibly tenuous financial position. There was an energy crisis, inflation was high, and jobs were scarce. The entire country was hurting. Solomon worked in former New York Mayor Ed Koch's administration, and also worked on former President Jimmy Carter's second presidential run. When the latter failed, Solomon returned to Lehman Brothers. He said that was a mistake. "If I had to do it again... I would've taken six months off," he said. He believes that's still important to do when you're making a change in your career. Solomon's choice to go back him at Lehman during a fascinating time, though. It's all documented in Ken Auletta's book, "Greed and Glory on Wall Street: The Fall of The House of Lehman."  A battle between two rivals at the top of the firm — Lewis Glucksman, the head of trading, and Pete Peterson, the head of the investment-banking business — was tearing the firm apart. “There was a famous vote, a 14-1 vote, where I’m the only one voting against 14 of my partners in terms of accepting the deal between Peterson and Glucksman because I thought it would destroy the firm," said Solomon. "It destroyed the firm.” Solomon eventually started his own business — one of the first independent investment banks. The way he sees it, Wall Street banks are returning to the state they were in when things were more boring. The government has regulated risk out of that sector by raising liquidity requirements. “I think Wall Street is going to go back to where it was. I think that the Evercores and those types of companies that have done an excellent job are going to morph into the Lehman Brothers and the Morgan Stanleys of the 1980s, 30 years ago. I think the banks are going to go back to where they are. And I think the role of folks like ourselves is to be very very, very, very good in advisory business," he said. Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted. FREE AppDownload
Amazon president, chairman, and CEO Jeff Bezos explains why Amazon doesn't feel the need to keep up with the amenities of other silicon valley startups.  Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Investors aren't just selling off oil stocks these days. The junk bonds, or noninvestment-rated bonds, of energy companies are also beginning to see heavy selling as investors start to worry that drillers could one day default on these bonds. Those defaults could get so bad, according to one analyst, that up to 40% of all energy junk bonds go into default over the next few years if oil prices don't recover.  It's a well-known fact that energy companies racked up a fair amount of debt to take advantage of the shale boom in recent years. Capital was flowing into the energy sector as investors eagerly provided funding to drillers. Because of this, energy companies represented the fastest growing segment of the high-yield bond market over the past few years. In fact, energy companies now account for 18% of all outstanding high-yield bonds according to J.P. Morgan, which is up from just 9% in 2009. All of this debt could pose a real problem if oil prices don't recover in the next couple of years. J.P. Morgan's analysts estimate that if the price of oil falls below $65, and stays there for the next three years, that upwards of 40% of all of those bonds could default in a few years under a worst case scenario. That said, oil companies do have levers to pull to maintain liquidity as these companies could cut dividends and costs while selling assets to preserve liquidity. However, even under that scenario, 20%-25% of bonds could still default. The good news is that because most energy companies hedge production, liquidity shouldn't be a problem until late 2015 at the earliest. Still, investors are preparing for the worst well in advance. The bonds of several junk rated companies sold off this week in wake of OPEC's decision not to cut production. The bonds of LINN Energy  (NASDAQ: LINE  ) , for example, were among the most actively traded earlier in the week amid fears that its heavy debt load would one day be too big of a burden. The company's B-rated notes due in 2019, for example, were trading for $0.82 on the dollar -- pushing the yield up to 11.5%. This is despite the fact that 93% of the company's cash flow in 2015 is protected and 88% is protected the following year as we see in the following slide. LINN Energy LLC Investor Presentation Because most of its cash flow is hedged for the next few years, there is little near-term risk that LINN Energy will default on its debt. However, that's not to say the weakening in the company's bonds won't prove to be problematic. LINN Energy could face problems down the road if it needs to access the credit markets to make an acquisition. It might be unable to borrow money at attractive terms, or worse yet, find that the credit markets are completely closed. So, while its default risk is pretty low, that doesn't mean the company might not have to make adjustments due to these developments. Where things could become a problem more quickly is at lower rated companies as bond investors react even more swiftly in selling off these bonds. Halcon Resources, for example, saw its triple-C rated bonds plunge 10% on Monday to just $0.69 on the dollar causing yields to spike to 17%. This is despite the fact that the company continues to target to hedge 80% of its production for the next 18-24 months. Bond investors are more focused on the fact that Halcon spent $324 million in capex last quarter while only generating $170 million in operating cash flow. Investors see that as an unsustainable model now that oil prices are lower and are now reacting to the company's debt profile before things ever have the chance to get worse. This could prove to be very problematic for the company as it likely won't be able to access the credit markets on acceptable terms unless oil prices move a lot higher, which means its capex spending will likely face a significant cut.   More often than not, investors sell first and then ask questions later. Here, we see investors selling off the bonds of lower-rated companies two years before those bonds could ever become an issue. While it's quite possible that the oil markets continue to get weaker and stay weak for years, it's also just as possible that today's fears will prove to be nothing more than an irrational overreaction that's shortly forgotten a few months from now. That said, we still shouldn't forget the famous words of John Maynard Keynes: "The market can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Peter Andrews A gas drilling rig for hydraulic fracturing.Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has come full circle in Denton, Texas after a controversial ban on the practice entered into effect on Tuesday. Denton is one of several cities located on top of the massive Barnett shale formation, regarded as the birthplace of modern fracking. The ban, while incomplete, gives strength to what is a growing anti-fracking movement in the United States. The Barnett shale covers an area of more than 5,000 square miles with depths between 5,000 and 8,000 feet. With more than 40 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of technically recoverable gas, the Barnett holds approximately 12% of the nation’s proved reserves.  Over the past decade, activity on the shale skyrocketed and over 15,000 wells have been drilled to date.  For the state, the benefits are clear – in 2011 alone, Barnett production added nearly $13.7 billion to the Texas economy. However, production peaked in 2012 at 2 Tcf and will plummet by more than half toward 2030 – recent ban notwithstanding. EIA Despite the success, fracking is not a victimless pursuit and its spread has been met with an unequal, but growing amount of public criticism; local bans and national moratoriums prove not everyone is on board. Earlier this year, Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson became party to a suit, which sought to remove fracking-related infrastructure from his Dallas suburb.  When carried out properly fracking is no more impactful than conventional drilling. However, when done incorrectly – and this is a source of contention – its costs outweigh the benefits. In short, the practice itself is not so much the worry, but instead its lightning-quick spread across the United States and into increasingly populated areas. Of primary concern are very real issues surrounding land use, water contamination, emissions, and seismic activity. Science is moving behind the boom, but some startling trends are already apparent. Oklahoma, home to the 27.5 Tcf Woodford shale, has seen its seismic activity – virtually non-existent in the modern era – go through the roof since 2008. The increase is associated with wastewater, which is often pumped back into the Earth after a frack is complete. Between 2006 and 2012, Oklahoma re-injected more than one billion barrels of wastewater annually. And it’s not just Oklahoma – earthquake incidence is up in fracking territory across the central and eastern United States according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS). USGS As science lags, so does regulation and an incomplete regulatory framework muddles the science. Missing information and under reporting create data holes that delay our understanding of an ever more widespread process. Enter civilian groups like Frack Free Denton, who aim to slow growth and take a more precautionary approach through science and technology. Denton’s ban prohibits drilling within the city limits – about 270 wells – and joins other local referendums passed in California, Colorado, Ohio, and New York. The Texas Oil and Gas Association and the state’s General Land Office both filed lawsuits against the ban, but the city is prepared to defend its position. The lasting effect of such local referendums is yet to be seen, but they come at a difficult time for an oil and gas industry trying to find its way amid low prices – oil is down 40 percent since June. New well permits issued in November fell nearly 40 percent from the previous month which indicates a slowdown in shale plays across the US. Still, the Energy Information Administration believes the clamor from the fracking boom can sustain a few more naysayers. FREE AppDownload
Jay ButlerJust because the modern gentleman is busy, doesn't mean he isn't thoughtful. A gentleman values those who are close to him, and he knows they deserve the best gifts this holiday season. To help you out, Business Insider has put together a list of elegant, useful items he should get for each person in his life.  Take a look. You can thank us later. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / ericmayAlmost two years ago I wrote The Future's so Bright .... In that post I outlined why I was becoming more optimistic.   Now that 2014 is the best year for employment since the '90s, it is time for an update! For new readers: I was very bearish on the economy when I started this blog in 2005 - back then I wrote mostly about housing (see: LA Times article and more here for comments about the blog). I started looking for the sun in early 2009, and now I'm more optimistic.Here are some updates to the graphs I posted two years ago.  Several of these graphs have changed direction since I wrote that post.  As example, state and local government employment is now increasing, and household deleveraging is over (as predicted).Calculated RiskThis graph shows total and single family housing starts. Even though starts have almost doubled from the bottom, starts are still way below the average level of 1.5 million per year from 1959 through 2000.  As of October, starts are still close to the bottom for previous recessions. Growth for starts in 2014 was slow, but that just means there is more growth ahead.  Demographics and household formation suggests starts will increase to around 1.5 million over the next few years. That means starts will probably increase another 50% or so from the October 2014 level of 1 million starts (SAAR).Residential investment and housing starts are usually the best leading indicator for the economy, so this suggests the economy will continue to grow over the next couple of years.Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Facebook/VailVail is the best ski mountain in America.Ski season has officially arrived in the US, with most mountain resorts officially opening within the next week. FindTheBest helped us pick the best ski resorts in the US. They generated a Smart Rating to rank ski resorts around the country, based on rankings from SKI Mag and PowderHounds.com, mountain size, terrain, and snowfall.  In addition to awesome slopes, these mountains offer everything from sleigh rides to heli skiing to bumping apres-ski parties. 
 Veteran Merrill Lynch brokers have been leaving Bank of America Merrill Lynch and taking billions in assets elsewhere, and it's not just because they don't want to drink wheatgrass shots and meditate.  Insiders say that Bank of America is encouraging practices that hurt its brokers' business and relationship with clients.  Bank of America wants "you to be an asset gatherer," one veteran Merrill broker said. "It seems like the banking side thinks it knows better than the broker dealer ... They want everyone to look the same, act the same, and wear pins the way Bank of America bankers do." Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch during the height of the financial crisis, and the marriage hasn't always been a happy one. Among themselves, brokers wonder whether Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan cares for the brokerage business.  Merrill brokers used to have an entrepreneurial spirit antithetical to the desire for uniformity that Bank of America allegedly champions. That dissonance is a large part of the reason why key teams are leaving the firm — teams like Pennsylvania's Spanos Group, with $535 million under management, and Stephen Brown and James Goetz's $2.5 billion Pittsford, New York, team. Brown tells Business Insider that after his 23 years at Merrill, he and Goetz were let go and went to Stifel, "as a client first firm that is loyal to its advisors." That isn't the only place Merrill alum are ending up, of course. "A lot of Merrill brokers leave to go to UBS, or go on their own, or maybe even to Morgan Stanley," the current Merrill broker told Business Insider. "Old-line Merrill guys go to other players because it seems the bank side is taking over." And what the bank side wants isn't just control of what financial advisers are telling their clients to buy, the broker says, it's a new a distribution process that separates advisers from their clients. Brokers are "suggested" to direct clients with less than $250,000 assets under management to Merrill Lynch's call centers where young financial advisers are trained. "You send them to the call center because you really don't have much of a choice," the broker said. "The client calls, and says, 'I came to work with you, not someone I don't know.' Then what do you say to them?" Another option available to Merrill brokers is to tell clients that they can manage their portfolios themselves through BAML's online Edge platform. To many brokers, all of this seems to be undermining their business, especially in parts of the US where $100,000 (for example) is a significant amount of money. Professional financial advisers welcome the challenge of growing that money with their client. Part of the problem is Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan, who was an executive at Fleet Boston from 1999 to 2004 and didn't have the best history with brokerages. At Fleet he was integral in the high-profile acquisition of two brokerages — Quick &amp; Reilly and Robertson Stephens. Quick &amp; Reilly morphed into something else entirely, and Robertson Stephens was closed down in 2003. This isn't just a Moynihan issue, though. In 1997, when most of what we know as Bank of America was Nationsbank, the bank bought Montgomery Securities, a firm brokers still remember for its top talent. By 2005 most of that talent had fled, and the remaining brokers were turned into private bankers. "Bank of America is trying to 'Bankamericatise' Merrill Lynch, and the older guys are fed up," one former Bank of America banker said. "I suspect the US Trust private bankers are tired of all the nonsense. But Brian is running the show." Now it seems far less likely that Bank of America would get rid of a brokerage business. That's because since the financial crisis, wealth management has become a hot moneymaking business for Wall Street, taking the place of trading and investment banking in some cases. Bank of America, for its part, has grown its Global Wealth and Investment Management revenue from 13.5% in 3Q’09 to 22% in 3Q’14. “Our financial results, by every measure, show that we are a leader in the industry and that we are headed in the right direction. We are committed to delivering positive outcomes for our clients that help them achieve their goals," said Bank of America spokesperson, Susan McCabe. That said, Merrill brokers who want to leave the firm have a few options aside from big Wall Street banks like Morgan Stanley or UBS. The Spanos team, for example, went to Raymond James. "In small towns like that it makes more sense to align with an Raymond James or an LPL Financial as opposed to going to the full independent platforms, as you get some home office administration and operations support," one Wall Street veteran said. Another option is to simply go it alone. These brokers may very well like it better that way.   FREE AppDownload
Columbia.eduJames Montier. This paper comes from a presentation that Montier gave at the CFA Institute earlier this year. "When it comes to bad ideas, finance certainly offers up an embarrassment of riches," Montier writes, though perhaps none of these is as bad as the idea that executives ought to strive, first and foremost, at shareholder value maximization. Montier’s paper takes its title from a quote given to the Financial Times by Jack Welch, the former CEO of General Electric, who told the FT in 2009 that, "On the face of it, shareholder value is the dumbest idea in the world … Shareholder value is a result, not a strategy … your main constituencies are your employees, your customers and your products." And it's Welch's sentiment that what you achieve is shareholder value, not what you aspire to, that Montier believes become inverted in modern corporate management. The target Montier zeroes in on is IBM. Montier writes that in its early days as a company, "IBM's mission statement was outlined by Tony Watson (the son of the founder) and was based on three principles (in descending order of importance): 1) respect for individual employees; 2) a commitment to customer service; and 3) achieving excellence." GMO But by the early '90s, IBM's returns had been flat since the '70s, and the message changed.  "Lou Gerstner arrived as [IBM] CEO and stated, 'Our primary measures of success are customer satisfaction and shareholder value,'" Montier writes. Montier highlights the following chart, which shows commentary from IBM CEOs overlayed with the company’s stock price.  Hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller has also been critical of IBM's corporate behavior, calling the company the "poster child" for what’s wrong with corporate behavior, noting that the company’s sales have been flat for the last six years, though earnings have still been increasing.  And through this chart, Montier argues that it is the change in philosophy that accompanied the increase in IBM's share price; it was making shareholder returns the goal, not the outcome, that goosed IBM's stock. The idea that Montier is advancing, however, is not something that is strictly new. Naked Capitalism has written on the subject in the past, and a 2013 article from The Washington Post also explored the change in IBM that saw the company’s stock price rise during the '90s while it undertook massive layoffs.  But away from IBM, another shift in corporate incentives that Montier focuses on is how executives are compensated. GMO And this shift has, in Montier’s view, created executive incentives that are misaligned with running productive businesses. Montier traces the origins of this shift in compensation to work from Michael Jensen and William Meckling — whose work Montier argues follows from that of Milton Friedman ("It is quite staggering just how many bad ideas in economics appear to stem from Milton Friedman," Montier writes) — which argued that effective corporate governance needed to be aligned with shareholder values, which they assumed was a desire to maximize profits.  And so the theory followed that if executives were paid like shareholders — that is, were compensated with stock not cash — then it would follow that their actions to maximize returns would benefit themselves, the shareholders, and by extension the company as a whole.  But Montier believes this has failed. In 1981, the Business Roundtable, an association of US CEOs, said that, "Corporations have a responsibility, first of all, to make available to the public quality goods and services at fair prices, thereby earning a profit that attracts investment ... provide jobs, and build the economy." GMO But by 1997, that message had shifted to "The principal objective of a business ... is to generate economic returns to its owners ... if the CEO and the directors are not focused on shareholder value, it may be less likely the corporation will realize that value." And with this shift, the idea that running a business was a pursuit in maximizing returns for shareholders became conventional wisdom.  What followed were stock returns but not improvement in the underlying performance of companies.  Montier concludes his analysis with lessons for shareholders, companies, and everybody else:      FREE AppDownload
Did you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts, both short and long, from the last few days that make for a good weekend read:How Bill Gross lost his empire — Mary Childs  "Rather than cleanse the economy, recessions actually restrict workers from advancing to jobs that are better matches" — Nick Bunker How the fight for the $15 minimum wage has spread — Lydia DePillis The Sony Pictures hack accidentally also revealed a huge gender pay gap at Deloitte — Kevin Roose and Alexis Madrigal Rising housing prices mean a lot of people have been priced out of the market — Trulia Ontario has adopted a gender diversity quota for corporate boards (sort of) — Ontario Securities Commission What rights should pregnant employees have in the workplace? — Rebecca Leber This is the only thing you need to read about Art Basel Miami Beach — Scott Indrisek Self promotion: Here's what nerds mean when they say 'standard deviation' — Andy Kiersz These 14 Wall Street experts got the 2014 interest rate story dead wrong — Akin Oyedele Russia's brain drain is astounding — Elena Holodny The real reason why high-powered brokers are leaving Merrill Lynch — Linette Lopez Corporate America's stuff is just so old — Sam Ro India is the last BRIC standing — Portia Crowe GMO Capital's James Montier destroys the idea that maximizing shareholder value is good — Myles Udland This is what the next financial crisis might look like — Me  FREE AppDownload
APIncome and wealth inequality continue to be a major political issue in the US and around the world. The World Economic Forum just surveyed its list of Global Agenda Council Members on the biggest issues facing the world, and rising inequality came in at number one. On a number of measures, inequality in the US has been rising for the last few decades. We put together a dozen charts and maps that show some of the core issues of inequality. FREE AppDownload
