Beijing (AFP) - China's consumer inflation fell to a five-year low of 1.4 percent in November, the government said Wednesday, increasing concerns over the risk of deflation in the world's second-largest economy. The news comes after the central People's Bank of China on November 21 shocked markets by slashing interest rates for the first in more than two years to kickstart the economy and analysts said they expect further easing measures in the new year. The rise in the consumer price index is the lowest since November 2009 and came in short of a median forecast of 1.6 percent in a survey of 16 economists by the Wall Street Journal, and marks a slowdown from October's 1.6 percent. The National Bureau of Statistics also said the producer price index (PPI) -- a measure of costs for goods at the factory gate and a leading indicator of the trend for CPI -- fell 2.7 percent year-on-year, the worst reading since a similar decline in June 2013. The last PPI increase was in January 2012. The data signal further downward pressure on economic activity in China, a key driver of global growth, with figures Monday showing imports unexpectedly fell and exports grew far slower than forecast. The country has also been hit by disappointing manufacturing activity, tumbling property prices and nagging concerns over corporate and local government debt. "China has entered into a rapid dis-inflation process, and faces the risk of deflation as commodity prices continue to trend lower and growth is expected to slow further in the coming year," ANZ economists Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao wrote in a reaction to the data. Moderate inflation can be a boon to consumption as it encourages consumers to buy before prices go up, while falling prices lead shoppers to delay purchases and companies to put off investment, both of which can hurt growth. "We expect inflation to remain below 2.0 percent in 2015, which may raise concerns of deflation and trigger more policy easing," Nomura economists said in a note after the data release. Economists have been expecting further easing after last month's rate cuts, including reductions in the reserve requirement ratio (RRR), the amount of cash banks must keep on hand. Cutting the level means more money is available for lending, which can have a stimulatory effect on the economy. The Nomura economists said they expected one more interest rate cut in the second quarter of 2015, with RRR reductions in each quarter of next year. Julian Evans-Pritchard, China economist at Capital Economics, said price rises should ease further heading into 2015, citing cheaper soybeans and pork. But he said worries about deflation risks were overblown despite the worsening producer prices figure. "Industrial input costs are falling, on the back of lower commodity prices, but the factory gate price of final consumption goods has remained broadly flat and so many firms are actually better off," he wrote in a reaction. The inflation data came after China's top leaders opened a meeting Tuesday to craft economic policies for 2015, including targets for economic growth inflation. China's growth came in at 7.3 percent in the third quarter, the slowest since the height of the global financial crisis in early 2009.   FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - Brent crude fell more than $1 on Wednesday, resuming its fall caused by a glut of oil in the market after a short-lived reprieve the previous day when a weaker dollar had provided some support. Worries about oversupply have pushed Brent down 40 percent since June. On Wednesday, as the dollar inched higher, Brent's front-month futures contract traded down $1.06 at an intraday low of $65.78 a barrel at 0225 GMT (09:25 p.m. EST), remaining above a five-year low of $65.29 touched on Tuesday. On Monday alone it fell $2.88, or 4.2 percent, its third-largest one-day loss this year. U.S. crude futures fell $1 to $62.82 a barrel at one point before picking up slightly to $62.87, down 95 cents on the day. It also closed higher on Tuesday after a fall of $2.79, or 4.2 percent, on Monday. U.S. inventories rose 4.4 million barrels in the past week to 377.4 million barrels, compared with analysts' expectations of a drop of 2.2 million, according to the American Petroleum Institute. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) may still hold an emergency meeting before its June gathering to discuss how to tackle the global surplus, Algeria's energy minister said on Tuesday. (Reporting By Adam Rose; Editing by Alan Raybould) FREE AppDownload
After being slapped with a lawsuit by rival Cisco on Friday, newly public company Arista Networks has come out swinging. Its CEO, former Cisco star engineer Jayshree Ullal, just published a blog post that implies she thinks Cisco is a has-been. She has labeled Cisco as part of the "second-wave" of network vendors being overrun by a host of "third-wave" companies that includes Arista. She says that aging companies "often fall by the wayside" and "resort to tactics that do not benefit customers or expand markets as a means of defending their market position." By tactics, she means lawsuits. When hearing of the lawsuit on Friday, Ullal said, "I am disappointed at Cisco's tactics. It's not the Cisco I knew." But wait, there's more. The post describes "protectors" versus "pioneers." She writes: Protectors defend old habits and remain strongly entrenched in following legacy technology trends. They try to enforce new buzzwords and dictate markets in ways that maintain their dominant position with customers. They are often in denial of new technologies and market disruptions until it’s too late. They deploy inappropriate tactics that serve to distract customers and partners from making the investments that will lead to competitive advantage. To recap the drama: Arista is an upstart networking equipment company formed by two famous Valley billionaires, Andy Bechtolsheim and David Cheriton, and run by a whole bunch of ex-Cisco employees. (Bechtolsheim, Arista's Chief Development Officer and chairman is also a former Cisco employee after Cisco bought one of his previous startups.) Cisco has accused Arista of stealing and copying its tech as these employees left the company. It's an old fashioned patent-infringement/copyright infringement suit. Arista has become a growing threat to Cisco (though Cisco refutes this). Arista had a hugely successful IPO in the summer and has been blowing out its quarterly results with growth and profits. It also just started publicly talking about a huge customer: Microsoft. Cisco sent us this comment in response to Ullal's blog post. “Our General Counsel’s blog [post] and the suits speak for themselves. Cisco believes to compete in technology, you need to innovate, not copy. We take our innovation very seriously and will protect it.”   Arista refutes Cisco's allegations. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/Bloomberg NewsBen Edelman is not sorry. HBS associate professor Ben Edelman criticized Chinese restaurant Sichuan Garden and restauranteur Ran Duan, who manages the connecting Baldwin Bar, for supposedly overcharging him $4 on his takeout order. Edelman said he had alerted local Boston authorities about Sichuan Garden's out-of-date website and Duan's initial offer to only refund him $3. Here's how he defended his emails in a statement to Business Insider:  I think the Boston.com piece totally misses the benefit that all diligent consumers provide in looking for overcharges and other errors. We all rely on trust in our daily lives — that when sales tax is added, it actually applies and equals the specified amount; that the meter in a taxi shows the correct amount provided by law and correctly measures the actual distance; that when you order takeout, the price you see online matches the amount you pay in the restaurant. We all take most of this for granted. It would be a lot of trouble to all have to check these things day in and day out. That's exactly why we should be concerned when folks fall short — because hardly anyone ever checks, so these problems can go unnoticed and can affect, in aggregate, large amounts.If you look at my other work, e.g. http://www.benedelman.org/airfare-advertising/, you'll see I've been pretty diligent in holding large companies accountable for their false statements of price and other attempts to overcharge passengers. Should all small businesses get a free pass? Some people seem to think so, I wonder if that really makes sense.Notably, though not emphasized in the Boston.com piece, the restaurant at issue knew the website prices had been "out of date for quite some time." At what point should they do something about it? I'm pleased to have at least gotten the problem fixed for the benefit of others.    FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsAll year, Jeffrey Gundlach has nailed what would happen with interest rates and the US dollar. In a new presentation titled, "This Time It's Different," Gundlach outlines the challenges he sees facing the Federal Reserve and the global economy right now.  Gundlach also highlighted some of the complications that the crash in oil prices could pose for the global economy. And of course, Gundlach staged a defense of his presentation's title.  "It's always different," Gundlach said. "The one thing that is constant in the world of investing is change... Things are always changing." Go through all 60 of Gundlach's slides and you'll see what he's talking about.  FREE AppDownload
Oil trading "god" Andrew John Hall is leaving Phibro, a commodities-trading unit Occidental Petroleum purchased from Citigroup in 2009, Bloomberg News reports. According to the Bloomberg report, Hall will focus on his hedge fund, Astenback Capital Management, which he founded in 2010. The fund currently manages about $3 billion in assets.  Hall, a lengedary oil trader, became notorious as the leader of Phibro when he demanded a $100 million pay package from then-owner Citigroup during the financial crisis. Phibro, which has been around since 1901, laid off some of its US-based employees today, Reuters is reporting. The firm is also looking to sell some of its overseas operations. According to Reuters, some of the traders in the company's Westport, Conn. headquarters have been retained to help run Astenback Capital.       FREE AppDownload
Patricia Drury/ FlickrA major dustup over a very small amount of money. Boston.com originally posted the email exchange between HBS associate professor Ben Edelman and Ran Duan, who manages The Baldwin Bar in his parents' restaurant, Sichuan Garden. The Chinese restaurant has two locations in the Boston suburbs of Woburn and Brookline Village. According to the emails, Edelman placed a $53.35 takeout order with Sichuan Garden for dinner last week but was charged $4 more than he expected based on the restaurant website's prices. He reached out to the restaurant, which told him its website was out of date but that it would be updated as soon as possible. Via Boston.com, here's how Edelman responded: Thanks for the reply and for explaining what went wrong. We enjoyed the food, but we don’t need to trouble you for an updated menu. Under Massachusetts law it turns out to be a serious violation to advertise one price and charge a different price. I urge you to cease this practice immediately. If you don’t know how to update your web site, you could remove the web site altogether until you are able to correct the error. In the interim, I suggest that Sichuan Garden refund me three times the amount of the overcharge. The tripling reflects the approach provided under the Massachusetts consumer protection statute, MGL 93a, wherein consumers broadly receive triple damages for certain intentional violations. Duan offered to refund Edelman $3 and "honor the website price," he wrote. Edelman replied that he had "already referred this matter to applicable authorities in order to attempt to compel your restaurant to identify all consumers affected and to provide refunds to all of them, or in any event to assure that an appropriate sanction is applied as provided by law." The pair exchanged several more emails about the overcharge and the potential actions of the local authorities. "I was 100% compliant with him, and I'm not really sure what he wants," Duan told Business Insider. The restaurateur and bartender stressed that he's in the hospitality business, so even with a hard-to-handle costumer, "you still have to be professional." Edelman sent Business Insider the following statement: I think the Boston.com piece totally misses the benefit that all diligent consumers provide in looking for overcharges and other errors. We all rely on trust in our daily lives — that when sales tax is added, it actually applies and equals the specified amount; that the meter in a taxi shows the correct amount provided by law and correctly measures the actual distance; that when you order takeout, the price you see online matches the amount you pay in the restaurant. We all take most of this for granted. It would be a lot of trouble to all have to check these things day in and day out. That's exactly why we should be concerned when folks fall short — because hardly anyone ever checks, so these problems can go unnoticed and can affect, in aggregate, large amounts.If you look at my other work, e.g. http://www.benedelman.org/airfare-advertising/, you'll see I've been pretty diligent in holding large companies accountable for their false statements of price and other attempts to overcharge passengers. Should all small businesses get a free pass? Some people seem to think so, I wonder if that really makes sense.Notably, though not emphasized in the Boston.com piece, the restaurant at issue knew the website prices had been "out of date for quite some time." At what point should they do something about it? I'm pleased to have at least gotten the problem fixed for the benefit of others. You can read the original emails in full at Boston.com &gt;&gt;     FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Fred ProuserFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  El-Erian: The Global Economy Will Be Dominated By 4 Diverging Powers (Project Syndicate) The world is becoming increasingly multipolar. "In the coming year, 'divergence' will be a major global economic theme, applying to economic trends, policies, and performance," writes Mohamed El-Erian. The four powers include the US, with continued improvement in economic performance; China, with continued structural maturing; Europe, with continued economic stagnation and sociopolitical "disenchantment"; and "wild card" countries such as Russia and Brazil, according to El-Erian. Since these four powers will be pursuing different methods and solutions for their specific problems, the interplay between them will become increasingly economically complicated. Advisers Are Rushing Out Of Convergent After The Former CEO's Suicide (Financial Planning)  Many advisers are leaving Convergent Wealth Advisor. At least seven have already left. Their departures come after former CEO David Zier committed suicide, Ann Marsh reports. "It's mayhem," one former adviser said. The new CEO, Douglas Wolford, wrote in an email that executives were "disappointed" that advisers were leaving, but that this would not affect the firm's operations.  Vanguard Quintupled The Assets In Its Robo-Adviser Platform (Investment News)  "The Vanguard Group Inc. has more than quintupled the assets in its human-augmented online advice platform this year, despite the program not yet being made widely available," Trevor Hunnicutt reports. Assets grew to $4.2 billion by the end of Q3 2014. At the end of 2013 they were at $755 million. This is part of the larger robo-advisor trend. Charles Schwab Corp. is planning to create a "digital platform" next year, and Fidelity Institutional is offering advisers access to two online advisory services. Chinese Consumers Are Going To Change The Global Economy (Charles Schwab)  China's the second largest consumer market — after the US — and that has large implications for investing in the Chinese consumer sector. There are five major trends in the sector. One, spending by China's consumers is sizable and growing. Two, spending on services is expected to rise. Three, online shopping is a bigger deal in China than in the US already. Four, lower income levels are growing, which is creating opportunities. And, five, Chinese companies are preferred over Western multinationals by consumers, Michelle Gibley writes. Although the transition from industrial-led to consumer-led in China may be "bumpy," these trends suggest that the consumer sector will keep growing and that there are opportunities in diversified funds, according to Gibley. Wells Fargo Just Got A Pair Of UBS Brokers (Reuters)  Wells Fargo "hired a Chicago-area team of brokers away from rival UBS AG's wealth management unit, where they managed $463 million in client assets and generated $3.5 million in annual fees and commissions," Elizabeth Dilts reports. The team manages corporate retirement plans primarily, and the rest of the assets are from high-net-worth families. FREE AppDownload
They emerged as a novel way for the rich and famous to expand their homes, but now multi-story basements are set to be outlawed in one of Britain's wealthiest areas. The London borough of Kensington and Chelsea has become the first local authority in the country to introduce restrictions on controversial subterranean developments. Basement extensions will still be permitted but the new rules will restrict how far they can stretch under a garden, limit them to a single story in most cases and ban developments under listed buildings altogether. Council cabinet member for planning policy Tim Coleridge said: "Basements have been the single greatest planning concern our residents have expressed to us in living memory. "Many have experienced years of misery from noise, vibration, dust and construction traffic." Basement extensions several stories below the ground have become increasingly popular in some of the capital's most expensive neighborhoods as home owners attempt to increase their living space without infringing strict planning controls. They have led to the creation of what are known as "iceberg homes", with the extra space earmarked to accommodate private cinemas, spas and swimming pools. The trend has gathered pace in the last decade. In 2001 there were just 46 planning applications for basement developments in Kensington and Chelsea, rising to 450 last year. Gert-Rudolf Flick, heir to the Daimler-Benz fortune, last year won permission to dig two stories under his £30 million South Kensington home, facing opposition from neighbours, including Julian Lloyd Webber, the cellist. Proposals for the property included two rooms for clothes — winter and summer — along with a luggage store, a 50ft swimming pool, gym, cinema and beauty room. Jon Hunt, founder of the Foxtons estate agency, won permission for a mega-basement with tennis court and car museum to store his Ferraris at his home in Kensington Palace Gardens. Neighbor Lakshmi Mittal decided that his underground pool should be lined with marble from the same quarry as the Taj Mahal. Residents complained that streets were being turned into 24-hour building sites and while dust, noise, traffic and vibrations were irritating, cracks were also beginning to appear. The council said they have also increased in size, with two and three-storey basements "not uncommon". They have drawn repeated complaints from neighboring residents about noise and dust. Now after a two-year process, Kensington and Chelsea council has announced that a Government planning inspector has given the green light to its proposals to curb the scale of subterranean development. Mr Coleridge said: "It hasn't been easy and basement developers have aggressively opposed us every step of the way. We are delighted that the inspector agrees that we have got it right while at the same time praising us for our extensive public consultation. "Two years ago we started drafting a policy to try and strike the right balance between addressing our residents' concerns and the genuine need for people to expand their homes. "This ruling is a victory not only for the council but also our residents who have been overwhelmingly supportive of what we have been trying to do." The new guidelines are set to be formally adopted at the next full council meeting in January.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungEmerging market currencies are getting pummeledThe U.S. dollar is on a major strong streak, but that's worrisome news for other countries around the world.  The dollar's continued rise has hit emerging market currencies hard, and, Monday, JP Morgan's index of EM currencies reached an all-time low, the Financial Times reported.  It dropped to 79.36 for the first time since the index's creation in 2000, the report said. Having a weaker currency is not always bad news for emerging markets. While it means more expensive American imports, it also means more attractive exports for many developing countries.  Except the oil-exporting ones.  Countries like Russia, Nigeria, and Mexico are facing the double whammy of plunging oil prices and weakening currencies, the FT noted. Not to mention other resource- and commodity-exporting countries dealing with weaker demand from a struggling China. Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisThe trade weighted index measures the value of the U.S. dollar compared to an array of foreign currencies. So while the dollar continues to climb, times are tough for the emerging world. But the countries that will most need to remain on their guard are those with high levels of debt held in U.S. dollars.  Granted, many governments in the developing world learned from 1980s Latin America and 1990s Southeast Asia, where a reliance on dollar-denominated debt pulled multiple economies into default.  They were again reminded of that risk last year, when the Federal Reserve signaled that the U.S. economy had improved enough that it would soon end its asset-buying program, and investors scrambled to pull out of emerging markets. Governments grew prudent, and began to limit their exposure to foreign debt. But, as the Bank for International Settlements noted in its December quarterly review, private banks and companies within emerging markets have not followed suit. Instead, many firms have taken on large dollar-denominated debts that could become extremely difficult to repay, the BIS said. That could be just as dangerous, notes The Wall Street Journal's Allen Mattich, because EM governments will need to bail these guys out when they falter, which will still scare investors away. Capital flight is the last thing any of these countries needs.    FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine"This Time It's Different." DoubleLine's Jeffrey Gundlach just wrapped up his latest webcast, outlining why this time, when the Fed hikes interest rates, it will be different. Gundlach, who said recently that the US dollar looks set to go even higher said that, if crude oil falls to $40 the 10-year yield could fall to 1%.  Gundlach also highlighted a few things that, to him, make it appear that "all is not right" in the global markets.  Oil has cratered. Two-year yields have gone negative in Germany, meaning investors are paying the German government to keep their money.  And with the situation in Greece now appearing more unstable, Gundlach is not convinced that there isn't something wrong in the global economy.  On specific investing themes, Gundlach said that he has allocated some money to junk bonds after having almost no money in the sector at the beginning of this year.  Gundlach is also closely watching the Treasury yield curve, which has been flattening this year, meaning that short-term rates have been rising while longer-date Treasury yields have been falling. You can read our live-blog below, or find Gundlach's complete presentation here.  FREE AppDownload
Reuben Whitehouse on FlickrStocks finished Tuesday mixed, but well off the lows, after all of the major indexes dropped sharply early in the day on Tuesday following overnight declines in Asian and European markets. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. Stocks had an ugly morning. Overnight, the Shanghai Composite fell more than 5%, a sharp pullback after what's been a furious rally for Chinese stocks. The Shanghai Composite is still up by almost 40% in January. There was no apparent news connected with the move in Chinese stocks, but after going so far, so fast, some volatility is to be expected. But as Business Insider's Mike Bird reported: "Such rapid slumps will most likely be raising a few eyebrows." 2. Stocks in Greece lost more than 12% on Tuesday, the biggest one-day drop for Greek stocks since 1987. This crash followed news that the country unexpectedly pulled forward its presidential elections by two months to December 17. The main problem this poses for Greece is that its presidential election is conducted by its legislature, not its population, and so the government needs a super-majority to install a president. If this does not happen, then a general election would be called, with public polls currently lead by the anti-austerity group Syriza.  3. As equity markets sold off early in the day, "safe haven" assets like US Treasury bonds and gold were in rally mode. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell below 2.2%, while the 30-year yield fell to as low as 2.86%, the lowest level since 2012. Gold spiked as high as $1,240 an ounce. 4. The big stock news on Tuesday was that Abercrombie CEO Mike Jefferies would be stepping down from his post leading the teen retailer. Jefferies is leaving after more than two decades at the company. Abercrombie shares gained 8% on Tuesday.  5. Citi CEO Michael Corbat said that the bank would take a $3.5 billion charge in the fourth quarter related to investigations and restructuring. Corbat said, however, that the bank still expects to be "marginally profitable" in the fourth quarter.  6. In economic data, the latest NFIB report on small business showed that 45% of the survey's respondents reported "few or no qualified applications" for positions they sought to fill. This number, coupled with an increase in the number of firms that reported an increase in actual worker compensation in November, suggest that higher wages could be coming for America's workers.  Don't Miss: The OPEC Era Is Over » FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 consists of 500 of the largest publicly-traded US corporations. It includes extremely valuable companies like Exxon Mobil and Apple. Many of these names are massive employers like Wal-Mart, which has around 2.2 million people on its payroll. Many folks consider the S&amp;P 500 to be a decent bellwether of the economy. But in the context of the US labor market, the S&amp;P 500 is small. This pie chart comes to us from Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok. According to Slok's data, the total payrolls of S&amp;P 500 companies would represent just roughly 15% of US nonfarm payrolls, which currently stands at around 140 million. "Small and medium-sized companies play a very important role in the US economy," Slok says. This is good perspective as these smaller companies tend to be more aggressive in their hiring. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderSaudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi. The 54-year-old organization still exists on paper, but it's unclear whether it wields any influence as a cartel above and beyond the desires of one member: Saudi Arabia. BAMLHere's proof that OPEC is no longer unified. Here's what the BAML commodities research group wrote in a note at the end of November about the subject: ...the fact that the some members still have spare productive capacity while others are facing structural declines ahead following years of underinvestment and lack of capital may have further widened the gap in perspective between the various interest groups. Diverging geopolitical interests and ideological rivalries among some members may have done the rest. BAMLOne commodity. Many different breakeven prices. Very few of these countries' interests were served by the November OPEC decision not to rein in production and let the price of oil continue to drop. Meanwhile, the Saudis are sitting back, letting prices fall, and trying to starve out American producers — because they can. That said, it does seem that smaller Gulf states like Kuwait and the UAE are on board with this plan. At BAML earlier today, Blanch noted that in the long term, it benefits Saudi Arabia to attempt to reduce US production, particularly as the world moves toward emissions caps and more energy-efficient technologies. But long-term strategy is a luxury of those who can afford the losses. Alan Beattie makes the point in the FT's beyondbrics blog that the Gulf states tend to have a much lower fiscal breakeven price, meaning their budgets assume lower oil prices and volatility doesn't necessarily affect how the country is run — contrasted with, say, Venezuela. (More on that here.) "Politically secure governments are generally better at managing oil wealth than are shakier regimes, and indeed continue to be stable because of it," Beattie writes. If oil prices remain at current levels, the world will find out just how true this is.      FREE AppDownload

Wikimedia CommonsComing into 2014, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus was one of the most bullish voices on Wall Street, making him one of the most accurate strategists in this surprisingly strong year. For 2015, strategists are expecting stocks to move even higher, and again, no one is more bullish than Stoltzfus.   "We have initiated a target for the S&amp;P 500 at the end of 2015 at 2,311," he wrote. Courtesy of Oppenheimer, we've included the key slides from Stoltzfus' brand-new monthly presentation. Thumb through them carefully if you want to better understand what's going on in this bull's head. Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to feature this presentation. FREE AppDownload
Get Rich Slowly conducted an online survey of about 2,000 randomly selected individuals on the subject of investing recently, and I found the insights from the results quite interesting. Some of the highlights of the findings of the survey are: 1. Over 40% of all respondents do not invest at all at the present moment. 2. Despite investing being more advantageous to the young, the highest proportion of respondents not investing were also the youngest. 3. Using index funds is not a primary investing strategy by any age group. 4. The older people get, the more active they become in their investments. The first question on the survey was: What best describes your investment strategy? Six possible answers were provided for respondents to choose from: By a large margin, most respondents selected option number two, i.e., "I don't invest right now." Get Rich Slowly This result is in line with numerous reports which have documented in many ways how Americans are under-investing for their retirement, some even stating that up to 60% of Americans don't have either mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). The general lack of investing activity could turn out to be a time bomb when those folks want to but find they are unable to retire. It would be bad enough if, say, two out of every ten people were unable to support themselves as they grow older, but the results of this survey suggest the magnitude of the problem could be much greater than that, with almost half the respondents reporting that they are not investing at all. Another surprising result is that index funds, regarded by many as the safest and most profitable long-term investment strategy, is not the most-followed investment strategy. It is not even the second-most popular. This is true across all age groups. Only 20% of those respondents who actually do invest use index funds as their primary investment strategy. The most popular strategy, in contrast, was "I let others invest for me." Given overall investing industry data, that shouldn't be surprising: The Investment Company Institute reports that about 80% of assets invested in mutual funds are invested in managed funds, not index funds. Why aren't index funds used by more people? The reasons were not probed by the survey, but a possible explanation is that individuals who do invest do so through their employers' 401(k) and similar retirement plans. Those plans tend to be managed by outside investment firms who encourage participants to invest in the stock market through their captive managed mutual funds by various means, but most 401(k) plans don't even offer index funds as an option, or, when they do, they give those funds no prominence because the fees those plans generate are far lower than the fees they get from their managed funds. The survey didn't explicitly ask each respondent to state their age, but it is possible to guess their approximate age from their response to this question: How many recessions have you survived? The number of recessions survived can be considered a proxy for age because nothing influences the answer other than age. In the chart below, the survey's responses reveal how the investment strategies of respondents correlate with their ages: Get Rich Slowly The first, and most glaring, conclusion from the long red bar in the chart above is that the youngest among the respondents overwhelmingly do not invest. Given that the last recession has been officially over for not much more than five years, that would place the group who haven't survived a single recession yet in their mid-twenties or younger. It is easy to take the glass-half-empty view, i.e., that young people don't see investing as a way to make money at this point in their lives. However, there is another view, a more encouraging one — almost 30% of young people, i.e., those earning the lowest wages of their careers, have taken responsibility for their futures and do see investing as a viable way to prepare for their later years. Either way, this is the group which stands to gain the most by getting an early start with their investing. Getting them to engage in any form of investing at all — even if it were only to hold funds in certificates of deposit — would benefit them. If history is to repeat, more people from the younger cohort can be expected to start, or increase, their investing. However, that is by no means a certainty. In order to get a better grasp of investing strategies, as compared with respondents' ages, it is possible to group the investing strategies into the following three categories: Get Rich Slowly There seems to be a clear relationship between age and the degree of active involvement in investing. To test this, it is possible to construct a somewhat crude index of active involvement in investing strategy out of our results, by assigning a numeric value to the degree of passivity/activity in investing, as follows: Using those numbers, it is possible to create an "index of active involvement." A value of 1 would signify a completely passive approach to investing, and a maximum value of 100 would apply to investors with no passive elements in their strategy. Using that definition, the following chart highlights the correlation between age and active involvement in respondents' investing habits: Get Rich Slowly The survey didn't explore the reasons why younger people tend to prefer a more passive approach, but a few potential reasons could be: 1. Older people have gained more knowledge and experience in their lifetimes, which would give them the confidence needed to take a more active role in their investing. 2. Younger people are earlier in their earnings cycle and the amount they have invested doesn't justify the expense of employing a paid financial adviser. 3. Younger people's investments tend to be dominated by employment-related retirement funds, which lend themselves to simple and passive investing strategies. Often, older people have acquired other monies, such as inheritances, settlements, proceeds from the sale of homes, and other sums which exceed the statutory limits for retirement funds. Consequently, they may feel the need to take a more active role in their investments. That said, it is significant to observe that around 15% of the oldest group, i.e., those who have survived the 1987 stock market crash, do not invest at all. These are people who have been in the workforce for more than 25 years, which would put them in their 40s or 50s today. Those tend to be peak earning years, and one would think that the urgency of the approaching years and higher incomes would lead almost everyone in that age bracket to be investing. That, however, is not the case. The survey didn't probe the reasons the older group chooses not to invest, but it could be due to people depleting their retirement accounts because of illness, job loss, child-related emergencies or other misfortunes. Whatever the reasons, the fact that around 15% of those soon to retire have no investments has to be of concern. Consistent with what other surveys show, more than 40% of all respondents reported that they don't invest at all. This was most pronounced in the youngest age group, but not insignificant in the oldest age group. Among those who invest, the most popular strategy is purely passive, i.e., letting others do their investing for them. A noteworthy observation is that, across all age groups, index fund investing is nowhere near the most popular strategy. An interesting observation is that, as people get older, they tend to move away from passive to more active investing strategies. This article originally appeared at Get Rich Slowly.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sallie Krawcheck rose to be one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, a star analyst turned senior executive at Sanford Bernstein, Citigroup and Bank of America. Now Chair of Ellevate Network, she reveals key insights from decisions she has made over her career. Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Your parents said it was bad for you, and you kept on doing it. Guess what? You were right! Here's what's really going on.
Thedecathlon.orgRegistration for the 2015 Wall Street Decathlon—an annual event where some of the strongest and fastest people in the financial services industry compete for the title of "Wall Street's Best Athlete"—opened today! (It usually sells out in a couple of days).  In June, athletes will complete a 400-meter run, football throw, pull-ups, 40-yard dash, dips, 500-meter row, vertical jump, 20-yard shuttle, bench press, and an 800-meter run all within a span of four hours. In the past, the competition has included former professional football players and former college athletes. The annual event raises funds for pediatric cancer research and treatment at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. The Decathlon has raised more than $4.6 million.  We caught up with some of the top finishers from this year's event. They were kind enough to share some of their training and nutrition tips.  Julia La RocheLi's Workout: "I think it’s important to train for every event – that’s also what makes the event so challenging, because it tests your abilities in a number of ways.  Muscle memory is critical to performing well (getting used to each event), as is training your body to deal with the specific stresses that each event presents.  I have days marked for lifting, running, rowing, etc. with each workout tailored to a goal – some workouts are endurance-focused, others are more anaerobic.  Recovery is also important, so I do have rest days too.  Once you get sick of the workouts, that’s when you know you’re close to being ready!" Nutrition: "I’d say that my diet doesn’t change....it’s primarily focused on getting enough protein and complex carbs so that I can train hard and my body gets the nutrition it needs to keep up.  For someone my size, that means about 200 grams of protein daily – some from supplements, and let’s just say I eat a lot of chicken." Kevin McCarthyZych's Workout: "I workout 6 days a week, usually 1-2 hours during the week and 2-3 hours each weekend day. During the week, I workout in the mornings (usually get up around 5:30). My work hours sometimes get a little crazy, so this is the only time I know I have available. Also, nothing beats the post-workout feeling as I sit down at my desk in the morning. I like to schedule a workout on Saturday morning, mostly to keep myself from drinking too much on a Friday night haha. If my body is too sore, I will take a day off. I used to try to train through the aches and pains, but it just isn't smart. The last thing I want to do is get hurt. "I belong to a local CrossFit gym (CrossFit Deep), where I do most of my lifting. I don't always agree with their programming (burpees are stupid), but I can lift heavy and drop weights and be loud there. There are also some great athletes to compete with. "I have a football training background, so that makes up the meat and potatoes of my training. Bench press, Olympic lifts, heavy squats and deadlifts. I do not do body part splits. "Arms Day" is stupid. Every day is Leg Day in some shape or form."  Nutrition: "Since I’m sitting at a desk for sometimes up to 100 hours a week, I try to be as healthy as possible when at the office. Some rules: try to bring prepared lunch as much as possible, only fruits/veggies as snacks, only drink water or milk during the day. I don’t follow a strict diet, but instead try to shoot for 6 “100% healthy days” a week. I define that as no alcohol, as much sleep as possible, and clean diet (meaning lean proteins and carbs mostly from fruits and veggies). I give myself 1 day a week to eat/drink whatever. This usually ends up being Saturday. This usually ends up being pizza. This usually ends up being beer." Lidel's Workout: "My normal workout routine is an alternating schedule of cardio only days and weight training with cardio days.  I use various types of cardio including running, swimming, bike riding, elliptical machines, and stair climbing, and there is always an interval component to the cardio workout.  Each weight training day I focus on a different muscle group (for example legs, back and biceps, and chest and triceps) and then I always end with abs and a session of stretching.  As we get closer to the decathlon I start doing event specific training and when the weather allows I attempt to log as many track workouts as possible. "I, like nearly everyone else in this event, have a very stressful job.  My exercise routine is how I deal with that stress.  It is as important of a part of my day as brushing my teeth.  I make time to exercise and the people I work with know and respect that.  Our firm invests internationally and we basically have risk 24 hours/day, so I hit the gym in the short period of time between the US market close and Asia open."  Nutrition: "Nutrition is important all year long but a lot of people find it especially hard over the holidays.  I am a very clean eater and the trouble I have is with quantity this time of year.  It’s difficult for example, when your family is constantly setting out the high calorie nuts to snack on all day.  If you must have your “naughty food” just make room for it in your diet.  Don’t be afraid to splurge on a Christmas cookie, or your favorite carb trio of rolls, mashed potatoes, and stuffing, but be sure to do it in moderation.  Let the naughty happen at a couple of special meals and not the entire 4 days you might take for the holiday.  You can’t outrun your fork." Dmitry Gudkov Lidel (center) Setyadi (right) Setyadi's Workout: "The Decathlon is tough, mostly because you need to do well in every single event.  It’s important to have an honest idea of where you’re starting from, so test yourself for a baseline.  Then set ambitious (but achievable!) goals.  Most importantly, prepare a training schedule over the next 5 months, keeping in mind that this should be a flexible schedule that you should modify continuously based on your progress.  Again, you need to prepare equally for all 10 events, so a well-planned schedule is essential.  However, be careful not to over train; minimizing or avoiding injuries is equally as important."  Nutrition: "Minimize processed foods, and incorporate as much fresh protein, produce, whole grains, etc. into your diet.  Women especially should increase their protein intake… don’t worry about “bulking up” because it won’t happen!  Instead you’ll build lean muscle, which may add a couple pounds but overall will greatly help your performance.  However, over the holidays, enjoy yourself (without going overboard).  There is plenty of time between now and the Decathlon to get some less healthy holiday treats out of your system, so relax and enjoy this time of year."  FREE AppDownload
Reuben Whitehouse on FlickrStocks finished Tuesday mixed, but well off the lows, after all of the major indexes dropped sharply early in the day on Tuesday following overnight declines in Asian and European markets. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. Stocks had an ugly morning. Overnight, the Shanghai Composite fell more than 5%, a sharp pullback after what's been a furious rally for Chinese stocks. The Shanghai Composite is still up by almost 40% in January. There was no apparent news connected with the move in Chinese stocks, but after going so far, so fast, some volatility is to be expected. But as Business Insider's Mike Bird reported: "Such rapid slumps will most likely be raising a few eyebrows." 2. Stocks in Greece lost more than 12% on Tuesday, the biggest one-day drop for Greek stocks since 1987. This crash followed news that the country unexpectedly pulled forward its presidential elections by two months to December 17. The main problem this poses for Greece is that its presidential election is conducted by its legislature, not its population, and so the government needs a super-majority to install a president. If this does not happen, then a general election would be called, with public polls currently lead by the anti-austerity group Syriza.  3. As equity markets sold off early in the day, "safe haven" assets like US Treasury bonds and gold were in rally mode. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell below 2.2%, while the 30-year yield fell to as low as 2.86%, the lowest level since 2012. Gold spiked as high as $1,240 an ounce. 4. The big stock news on Tuesday was that Abercrombie CEO Mike Jefferies would be stepping down from his post leading the teen retailer. Jefferies is leaving after more than two decades at the company. Abercrombie shares gained 8% on Tuesday.  5. Citi CEO Michael Corbat said that the bank would take a $3.5 billion charge in the fourth quarter related to investigations and restructuring. Corbat said, however, that the bank still expects to be "marginally profitable" in the fourth quarter.  6. In economic data, the latest NFIB report on small business showed that 45% of the survey's respondents reported "few or no qualified applications" for positions they sought to fill. This number, coupled with an increase in the number of firms that reported an increase in actual worker compensation in November, suggest that higher wages could be coming for America's workers.  Don't Miss: The OPEC Era Is Over » FREE AppDownload
Well, it turns out that Jack Bogle is an advocate of active investing. Yes, the myth of the passive investor appears to be dying fast.   In a recent Bloomberg article the king of so-called “passive indexing” advocates an active home bias and says that investors shouldn’t even consider investing abroad. He says: “I like the U.S. The U.S. is the most productive country in the world. It is the most rapidly growing of the industrialized nations, other than Switzerland. We still have plenty of problems, but we’re much better than France, Britain and Germany. And we don’t even want to talk about Italy and Greece. And importantly — people forget this too quickly — we have the most established government and legal institutions. When you look at global market capitalization it’s true that the U.S. accounts for about 48 percent and other countries 52 percent. But the top three markets outside the U.S. are the U.K., Japan and France. What’s the excitement about there? Emerging markets have great potential, but have fragile sovereigns and fragile institutions. I wouldn’t invest outside the U.S. If someone wants to invest 20 percent or less of their portfolio outside the U.S., that’s fine. I wouldn’t do it, but if you want to, that’s fine.” That’s pretty interesting stuff. Bogle is obviously making a pretty active decision here by choosing only to invest in 50% of the world’s stock markets. He downplays it by claiming that US stocks don’t perform all that differently from international stocks, but that’s only because Bogle conveniently ignores the highest growth regions of the world – emerging markets. If we look at the last 40 years since emerging markets started to become substantial components of the Global Financial Asset Portfolio it becomes clear that Bogle is wrong and not by a small margin.  A portfolio that was 50% US stocks, 25% developed international and 25% emerging markets generated an annual return of 14% over this period with a standard deviation of 19.8. A pure US portfolio generated a 12% return with a standard deviation of 17.9.  You not only generated a better nominal return by adding emerging markets, but you improved your risk adjusted returns as well.  Over this 40 year period the equity portfolio with a 25% slice of emerging markets more than doubles the total portfolio balance of the pure US portfolio. Pragmatic CapitalismMore importantly, I would argue that Bogle is viewing the financial asset world through the rear view mirror. The highest future growth is unlikely to come from developed countries. In fact, the points that Bogle makes about how established the US economy is, are the precise reasons why it will likely generate lower returns than the emerging world. As the emerging world takes market share from developed countries their institutions and companies will also change. The USA was once an emerging market before Americans began assuming that it was the only game in town. And here we now sit as the most developed global market very likely to lose global market share to surging populations and middle classes in countries like India, China and other emerging markets. I think Bogle is dead wrong here. Not only is he contradicting his own “passive” view on asset allocation, but he’s using an approach that assumes that the USA will be the dominant market just because the recent past has told us so.  This thinking, I fear, is the result of this sort of “passive” indexing mentality. Not only do they often fail to realize that they’re explicit asset pickers with biased allocation selection, but in failing to utilize a forward looking model they end up assuming that the past is prologue when it very likely isn’t. FREE AppDownload
Many of us have experienced the following situation at a big-box store: You're trying to find an item, but store workers are assisting other customers or are nowhere to be found, so you end up walking around endlessly from aisle to aisle. Lowe's is trying to improve the customer experience by testing robotic "employees" at Orchard Supply Hardware in San Jose, California. The OSHbots — named after their new place of employment — have the ability to locate products and lead customers to their location throughout the store. Lowe's, Orchard Supply's parent company, is focused on infusing more technology into its customer service in the near future. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Special thanks to Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs Tweeted this photo of CEO Lloyd Blankfein and retired former partners discussing the history and future of the 145-year-old investment banks. Rob Kaplan (far right) was the moderator. That's Lloyd Blankfein next to him. The other Goldman alums on the panel (from right to left) include: Talk about a blast from the past!  FREE AppDownload
Martin Enlund/Twitter Oil prices have been tumbling for months, and historically, GDP tends to pick up following these drops. You can see the relationship in this chart from Nordea Markets' Martin Enlund. Enlund sees thing being particularly good in the second half of 2015. And with a nod to the popular TV show "Game of Thrones," he sums it up nicely: "summer is coming." From the macro point of view, major energy importers like Japan, China, and India really benefit from lower prices because they have to spend less on oil. "China is the world's second-largest net importer of oil. Based on 2013 figures, every $1 drop in the oil price saves it an annual $2.1 billion," according to The Economist. And Citi's Robert Buckland wrote in a note that "the decline in oil prices, along with moderate growth in nominal per-capita wages and employment is likely to boost the real purchasing power of Japanese consumers." As for India, "the lower oil prices help [the] government deal with some of those challenges by taking some of the financial burden off the oil subsidies. Cheaper oil also introduces a trickle-down effect on inflationary pressure on food and other commodities," Jeff Benjamin writes. To put it briefly, lower oil prices are great for energy importers. Even the US, which is increasingly becoming a gas exporter, sees a net benefit from lower prices. It's a huge win for consumers, who can now spend that money on other things. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders writes "the net is that lower prices are good for both US consumers and many US businesses. The Brookings Institute recently noted that the decline specifically in gasoline prices thus far represents a $500 'tax cut' per household." So unless you're an oil exporter, plunging oil prices are great news. Below is a chart from M&amp;G investments highlighting how major events related to oil price spikes negatively affected global growth. Bond Vigilantes/Twitter   FREE AppDownload
rachelpasch/flickrDecisions, decisions.We like to think that we're totally logical when we make decisions.  But over the past few decades, social science has uncovered a staggering number of cognitive biases that shape our behavior — whether we know it or not. We've collected a list of the most common ones.  FREE AppDownload
Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesStock market leadership virtually always changes when volatility significantly spikes, and the 2008 bear market was no exception. Credit-related asset classes led the markets for the decade prior to 2008 as the global credit bubble inflated. Since 2008’s bear market, however, leadership has significantly changed and credit-related asset classes have generally underperformed plain, old-fashioned stocks. Chart 1 below shows the relative performance of credit-related asset classes versus the S&amp;P 500® from 1998 to 2008 and from 2008 to present. The deflation of the global credit bubble has clearly hurt the performance of credit-related asset classes. The deflation of the global credit bubble remains the prime driver of our positioning for 2015. We continue to underweight or fully avoid credit-related asset classes. RBA The European Central Bank (ECB) seems to be trying very hard to be among the worst central banks in history. The ECB actually tightened monetary policy over the past couple of years despite mounting evidence of budding deflation. One does not need a Ph.D. in Economics to know that tightening monetary policy in the face of deflation and contracting private sector credit growth is not a sound monetary policy. The ECB’s continuous missteps have resulted in significantly subpar growth. The ECB is now claiming they will significantly expand their balance sheet, and such actions might be bullish for European equities. However, recent data suggests they have so far only stopped tightening, and have yet to start easing. If they alter that policy, then European stocks might again be attractive, however, the ECB’s sclerotic policy reaction to building deflation warrants an underweight of European equities. Our portfolios remain underweight Europe, with exposure limited to large cap and defensive stocks. Early in my career at EF Hutton in 1986, our auto analyst stated in our morning meeting that Toyota felt they could gain market share from GM at 120 ¥/$. ¥/$ was 160 at the time, and the entire meeting broke up in laughter. No one could believe that the dollar would depreciate 25% versus the Yen and, if it ever did, Toyota would never gain market share. The Yen eventually traded to 80¥/$, and Toyota nearly put GM out of business. The point to the story is that Japan at the time had a significant competitive advantage versus the United States. The fact that the Yen might appreciate was a minor hindrance to Japanese companies gaining market share versus US companies. Today, however, Japan’s competitive advantage has been whittled away by the combination of Japanese demographics, Japan’s lack of domestic investment in productive resources, and the improvement in productivity in other parts of the world (including the US). In the absence of a competitive advantage, companies or countries are forced to compete on price in order to gain market share, and we believe depreciating the Yen is the only route for the Japanese economy to re-emerge within the time frame of most investors. We began this theme when ¥/$ was roughly 85, and we think the Yen may weaken significantly even from today’s depressed levels (roughly 120).We remain overweight Japan with an emphasis on large cap exporters of finished goods. We have become somewhat notorious for our liking of treasuries as a portfolio diversifier. Although not as extreme as it was several years ago, Chart 2 shows the correlation of various asset classes to the S&amp;P 500® and there are relatively few asset classes that have negative correlation to stocks. By including treasuries, we can take stronger risk positions within our multi-asset portfolios, but not increase overall portfolio volatility. High yield municipal bonds are a sizeable portion of most of our multi-asset portfolios because we view them as the most attractive sector of the global fixed-income markets. It seems ironic to us that investors are taking all sorts of risks in sectors like emerging market debt, but refuse to look at US high yield munis.Chart 3 shows the spread between high yield munis and Iraq government bonds. The spread implies that US high yield municipal bonds are riskier than Iraqi bonds. Isn’t there a brutal civil war taking place in Iraq? One might question fiscal responsibility in Illinois or Michigan, but they’re certainly not Iraq! Whereas high-beta social media stocks and other “disruptor” stocks (as CNBC calls them) are extraordinarily expensive, other more traditional high-beta stocks appear historically undervalued. Chart 4 shows the relative PE of low beta and high beta stocks within the S&amp;P 500®. This chart clearly suggests that investors remain very scared of traditional high beta stocks, but we have significant exposure to this traditional high-beta group which is historically undervalued. RBAOur overall positioning of avoiding credit-related asset classes remains largely out-of-favor, and remains the cornerstone of our portfolios. We will watch these themes closely and reposition accordingly should a more favorable cyclical backdrop potentially outweigh this secular trend. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The latest smartphone? Upgraded. The next Great American Novel? Pre-ordered. The most popular toy to hit shelves? Already in your kids' playroom. If this sounds like you, then you probably consider yourself a trend spotter — someone who thrives on getting in on the action ahead of everyone else. But while jumping on the bandwagon may be good when it comes to discovering new music or fashion, it may not be the best thing for your portfolio — in fact, with your money at stake, it might be downright disastrous. That's because the economic headlines are always humming with developments that sound great on paper — but come with a whole host of what-ifs and caveats. So before you get distracted by the hype, it's important to take a step back and really examine whether they could be a friend or foe to your finances. With this in mind we've rounded up five buzzworthy finance trends that you may have read about recently — from bitcoin to crowdsourced stock picks — and then reached out to investment pros to fill us in on the pros and cons for each one. RELATED: Why Playing the Market Will Probably Lose You Money These days, you can do just about anything with a swipe. Call for a ride. Train for a marathon. Analyze your sleeping patterns. There's an app for all of that. Investing is no different. For instance, Stock Market Simulator lets you practice your virtual trading skills using real market data. And with E*TRADE Mobile, you can buy and sell shares straight from your phone. But when it comes to managing your portfolio, is too easy and instantaneous necessarily a good thing? Pros: Investing apps make staying abreast of market and economic news as simple as checking the weather forecast — and being more informed is never a bad thing. "[Apps] are good for learning and collecting information," says Gil Luria, an analyst for investment bank Wedbush Securities. "For example, Google Finance and Yahoo Finance are good tools to help you learn about equities." And there's one generation, in particular, that might benefit from them. "I think that younger Millennial investors will embrace [investing apps]," says Rusty Vanneman, chief investment officer for advisory firm CLS Investments. After all, it's only natural that the generation that lives and breathes by its mobile devices will want to use their phones to manage their money life too. Acorns, for example, is an app geared toward encouraging twentysomethings to start a portfolio by giving them the option to round up their purchases to the next dollar. That "spare" change is then placed into an investment account that they can manage from their phones. Cons: Just as gamers can develop an all-consuming fascination with playing Candy Crush Saga, investors can also grow overly attached to their apps, which may in turn lull you into a false sense of confidence. Translation: Just because you use an investing app on a regular basis doesn't make you an advanced stock jockey. "Relying solely on investing info from one particular source is not great for investors," says Luria, adding this is especially applicable if you're the type who uses apps to make investing moves based on on-the-fly market information. "A critical [investment] decision should be made in a more comprehensive way." And ideally with advice from a financial professional. Vanneman points out another way that making knee-jerk trading decisions can be bad for your portfolio. "A lot of investment sites want to get people hooked, and their users can become overconfident [with trading]," he says. "And if you're making more transactions, you'll also have more fees. Even if they're lower fees, they add up." RELATED: 6 Apps That Help Make Managing Your Money Easier Wikimedia CommonsBitcoin is becoming more mainstream. If Bitcoin continues to gain in legitimacy, it could bring the world that much closer to the end of physical dollars and cents. For those who haven't been following its surprising ascendancy, Bitcoin is a form of electronic currency, but its origins are shrouded in mystery. It was created in Japan in 2009 by either a person or an entity — no one seems to know for sure — known as Satoshi Nakamoto. You purchase bitcoin in units, although industry professionals often refer to quantities of them in the singular, as in, "how many bitcoin will this cost?" RELATED: Ditching the Dollar: The Real Deal on the Bitcoin Bitcoin was at the center of controversy because it was used to pay for transactions on the now-defunct illegal drug marketplace Silk Road. But over the past year or so, more and more legitimate businesses have started accepting it as payment. So can Bitcoin be trusted? Pros: Mysteriousness notwithstanding, bitcoin is undeniably exciting and pushing the currency envelope. Major retailers like Overstock.com and some Subway franchises now accept them as a form of payment. And there's even a growing network of bitcoin ATMs, in which you deposit physical dollars that convert to bitcoin and fund an online account. And there's no denying that the digital money has skyrocketed in value. It cost four cents in early 2010, but at one point in November 2013, that price shot up to $1,200 — producing quite a return for early buyers. Even if you're not willing to purchase bitcoin directly, adventurous investors can find ways to take advantage of the opportunities they provide. "If you want to tap into bitcoin, you can look into ancillary companies that provide services pertaining to bitcoin, like digital wallets," says David Yermack, a New York University Stern finance professor who teaches a course on bitcoin. "There is a lot of funding flowing into them. There may be returns there to be earned eventually." Cons: To call bitcoin a risky investment is an understatement. To date, one bitcoin is worth about $355 U.S. dollars — that's quite the tumble from its year-ago highs. "Bitcoin is much more volatile than equities, bonds and even commodities," says Steven Englander, a foreign exchange specialist with Citigroup. And, at this stage, no one can truly assess its stability or viability as a long-term investment. "Bitcoin hasn't been around long enough to go through market cycles," says Michele Clark, a CFP® and owner of Clark Hourly Financial Planning in Chesterfield, Missouri. "There aren't enough days of data points [to make a decision] for an investment portfolio. There's not enough market research." RELATED: IRS Ruling: Bitcoin Isn't Money REUTERS/Andrew KellyYou might not want to trust the wisdom of the crowd. These days we can look to our social networks for just about anything: funding for an exciting new business idea, answers to burning trivia questions, recommendations for where to grab dinner. The list goes on. So why not harness the power of crowdsourcing for investment knowledge too? At least that's the thinking behind a growing number of online platforms like Estimize.com, which uses the opinions of the general public (read: amateurs) as well as Wall Street professionals, to predict earnings per share and whether companies are worth the investment. But is giving credence to crowdsourced investment advice really a wise idea? Pros: Investors seeking a seal of approval for the power of public opinion need look no further than this study compiled by academics from five prominent business schools in the U.S. and Hong Kong. The researchers found that opinion pieces published by bloggers on the crowdsourced investor forum SeekingAlpha.com predicted stock returns better than Wall Street analysts or traditional financial news outlets did. And a University of California, Riverside study found an unusual correlation between Twitter activity and a company's stock price and trading volume. Namely, the more people tweeted about a variety of topics related to a company, the better a company's showing was in the stock market. On the flip side, if the tweets tended to focus on a singular piece of news about the company, the stock would underperform. As precarious as it sounds to put any faith in social media, in Yermack's opinion, there's nothing wrong with a little free crowdsourced advice. "You're not going to do yourself any harm as long as the [crowdsourcing] sites are free," he says. "They're no better or worse than [listening to] the professionals." Cons: As with any piece of information you find on the internet, take what you read with a grain of salt. "I would proceed with a high degree of skepticism," says Chuck Roberts, a CFP® and owner of Financial Freedom Partners. "Until you [have a reason to] value [crowdsourced] opinions, I would suggest ignoring the advice. There's a lot of scary stuff out there." And remember that you have to put any stock performance in perspective. "Sometimes [stock pickers] think, 'Hey, I'm making money, so I'm doing a great job,' " says Clark. "What they don't realize is that if their stock rose 10% but the market has gone up 12%, it's not that impressive." So unless you're an investing guru like Warren Buffett looking for a company to add to your portfolio, it's probably a better idea to stick with low-fee index or mutual funds that track a larger market index. RELATED: Crowdfunding Goes Private: How People Are Bankrolling Their Personal Lives Paul Darrow / ReutersSmart beta funds don't actually invest in robots. Smart beta funds sound a bit like an investment in a robotics company, but they're basically an exchange traded fund (ETF) that weighs companies differently from the standard measure most funds use, which is market capitalization, or the company's stock price multiplied by its number of shares. A smart beta ETF might instead weigh its companies by dividend yield, earnings growth, sales, or even stock volatility, in order to give smaller companies investing appeal — even if they lack the headline-grabbing market cap of big players like Apple or General Electric. Pros: "The concept is good," says Luria. "Instead of taking the simple weighted averages a lot of indices and ETFs take, they try to add another screen." And some smart beta supporters say that certain smart-beta weightings have helped create indexes that have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 Index. Roberts also believes it's something that investors can take into consideration for their portfolios. "It's one tool in an array of strategies and concepts," he says. "Some companies tend to dominate the market-cap valuing — one is Apple — so the [smart beta] concept is a way to calibrate an index. You're giving equal weighting to a smaller company, and there are markets where that's applicable." Vanneman also sees potential in smart beta funds: "I think that as people get familiar with smart beta funds, you'll see a lot of mutual funds that have smart beta funds eat their lunch." Cons: Smart beta fund fees tend to be higher than those of traditional ETFs — sometimes as much as 10 times more. And even analysts who recognize that the smart beta concept has wings caution that it hasn't proven itself just yet. "Beating the S&amp;P 500 every year would be great, but I haven't heard of one [smart beta fund] that has done that for a particularly long [period of] time," Luria says. The other big beef that smart beta detractors have is the use of the word "smart," because it implies that it's somehow better than other investing strategies. "It's a marketing gimmick," Vanneman says. "I'd call it 'factor beta' or 'strategic beta.' 'Smart' is too strong a word." RELATED: Are Your Mutual Fund Fees Too High? Flickr / Matthew KenwrickPeer-to-peer lending allows small-scale loans. Ever ask your friends or relatives for a small loan to tide you over? That's the big-picture idea behind lending clubs, also known as peer-to-peer lending. Once relegated to the realm of informal arrangements between friends and small communities, the more formal models now enable regular citizens to reap interest payments by making direct loans to other people or businesses. The most famous such facilitator to date is the Lending Club, which says it's made more than $5 billion in loans possible. By lowering or eliminating the types of fees banks would charge, they purport to benefit both the borrower and the lender. Other well-known peer-to-peer lending clubs include Funding Circle and Dealstruck. Pros: For investors, who in this case are lenders, the returns don't seem too shabby. "You cut out the middleman, which saves costs, so in theory you're getting better returns," Vanneman says. The Lending Club, for example, says its lenders get returns of 5% to 8.67%. Those who'd prefer not to lend directly can also invest in the lending clubs themselves. The Lending Club filed for an initial public offering this August, and market watchers have valued the company around $4 billion. So as a new phenomenon, lending clubs have high growth potential and, hence, the possibility of strong returns. RELATED: Peer-to-Peer Investing: Should You Get In on This Trend? Cons: The downside of being a lender couldn't get any simpler: The borrowers may not be able to pay back the money. "I would expect the default rate to be higher than for a traditional lending institution," Roberts says. "In the triangle of risk, I'd put [lending your own money via lending clubs] at the top. It's risky for the lenders because they don't have the underwriting experience." You'd also have to be comfortable knowing that you're potentially lending money to people at high interest rates. Some peer-to-peer loans have been known to reach rates in excess of 25%. As for investing in lending clubs themselves, Vanneman points out that with high growth also comes high risk. In fact, notable failed peer-to-peer start-ups include SoMoLend and Funding Community. "Some of these business models aren't going to survive over time," he says. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisAlexis Tsipras, the head of Greece's leftist Syriza group, during a pre-election rally in Athens on June 14, 2012. And according to most polls, that election would be won by Syriza, a crew of radical left-wingers who are demanding an end to Greece's austerity. Because of a weird Greek electoral law, if Syriza gets the most votes in a snap election, it would gain an extra 50 seats in parliament. This would strengthen the group even more. But what does the group actually want? The first thing to know is that Syriza isn't really a political party as such: It's a coalition. For example, although Syriza's position is not to abandon the use of the euro, the Left Platform bloc that makes up a big chunk of the alliance does want to quit the single currency.  As a result the group lacks a crystal-clear manifesto full of policies, but between the statement of intent published at its conference in 2013 and a speech given by leader Alexis Tsipras in September, we can get a pretty good idea. Much of Syriza's economic platform relates back to the Memorandum of Understanding between Greece and its international lenders, known as the Troika (the International Monetary Fund, European Commission, and European Central Bank). The agreement has meant some severe economic changes for Greece, like heavy reductions to public-sector pay, and Syriza wants the whole thing torn up.  Tsipras gave a speech in Thessaloniki three months ago that provides the building blocks of Syriza's program: The bottom line of all of this is that it's extremely expensive. The disagreements between Syriza and the finance ministry as to what this will all cost are pretty cosmetic. With 10-year bond yields at over 8%, any extra spending will be very difficult. Government spending might well be a very positive thing for Greece, but borrowing in a currency that the country is not in charge of complicates that. So the Syriza program also implies almost no co-operation at all with European institutions. The coalition is demanding things from the ECB and European Union that it simply won't do (like fund its programs). That means that for the first time, there may be an entire EU member state just refusing to go along with European policy, which is a massive challenge for the whole continent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoLightning bolts strike around the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic chain near Osorno city in Chile, June 5, 2011.  Europe closed sharply lower. Britain's FTSE closed down 1.8%, France's CAC 40 closed down 2.3%, Germany's DAX closed down 2.0%, and Spain's IBEX closed down 3.0%. Asia markets got wrecked, led by the Shanghai Composite, which crashed by 5.4%. US stocks are in the red with the Dow down 218 points (1.2%); the S&amp;P 500 down 25 points (1.2%); and the Nasdaq down 58 points (1.2%). Meanwhile, bonds are surging with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note falling to as low as 2.184% from 2.257% earlier Tuesday. Gold has also been rallying. "Angst reigns as Oil drops — and a trio of headlines (Greek Elections, China clamping down on Leverage in Credit, 'considerable time,' removal from Fed)," JonesTrading's Dave Lutz wrote ahead of the US opening bell. Let's unpack that trio a bit. On Monday, Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras announced that Greece's presidential elections would be held Dec. 17, two months earlier than scheduled. Business Insider "But the government needs a super-majority to install a president, which it doesn't have," he wrote. "If it can't elect a president, that might precipitate a general election, and the radical Coalition of the Left (Syriza) is leading the polls." This uncertainty echoes the Greek crisis years ago. Greece's ASE index crashed, falling by more than 12% Tuesday. "Samaras today nominated Stavros Dimas, a 73-year-old former European Union commissioner, for the post," Bloomberg's Nikos Chrysoloras and Antonis Galanopoulos reported. "Samaras will have to rely on opposition votes to push through his pick for the mainly ceremonial post; without them, his government will fall." China, the world's second-biggest economy, is slowing. And this has been expected as Chinese policymakers aggressively make moves to rein in loose credits, cool off the housing market, crack down on corruption, and shift the economy from one driven by exports to one driven by consumption. Earlier Tuesday, Chinese policymakers took another step in clamping down on loose credit. From Bloomberg News: "The nation’s clearing agency for exchanges said yesterday it won't allow bonds rated below AAA or sold by issuers graded lower than AA to be used as collateral for short-term loans obtained through repurchase agreements. The new rules sparked a retreat in lower-rated bonds of local government financing vehicles and contributed to a tumble in Shanghai shares as noteholders reassessed the appeal of owning such debt." Bespoke Investment Group The Shanghai Composite plunged 5.4% Tuesday. But despite the violent move, the index is still up 39% since the beginning of the year. In the US, Fed-watchers are debating when the Federal Reserve will begin tightening monetary policy by raising interest rates. The Fed has been using the phrase "considerable time" to describe the period between the end of its bond-buying quantitative easing program and the first rate hike. Fed Chair Yellen once suggested that "considerable time" could be as short as six months. With QE ending in October and the US labor market improving sharply, experts warn that the Fed could soon drop the phrase "considerable time." REUTERS/Danny MoloshokDennis Lockhart. Still, some Fed officials are arguing the opposite as inflation remains well below target levels. "For my purposes I am not in a rush to drop" "considerable time," Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said Monday. "Inflation is the one key element that does not seem to be consistent with what we are seeing in terms of growth and what we are seeing in the labor market. [If inflation] goes completely sideways or begins to indicate a decline, disinflation, then I think it will raise some concerns." The prospect for tightening and all of the uncertainty surrounding appears to have investors a bit more cautious lately. At around 2,040, the S&amp;P 500 is down by around 2% from its intraday high of 2,079 which was set on Friday. It's also still up 10% for the year and up 206% from its March 2009 low. Stock market bulls have actually been warning investors to prepare for some heightened volatility. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders put it very bluntly at a media event Thursday, noting that the Black Monday crash of 1987 occurred in the middle of the secular bull market between 1980 and 2000.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussia's Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina.Just two days before the Russian Central Bank is scheduled to a hold a meeting to set interest rates, analysts' forecasts about the bank's plan to rescue the rouble are all over the place. Market analysts are forecasting a hike of the central bank's key interest rate of 9.5% by anything from 25 basis points to as much as 250 basis points, according to the Wall Street Journal. That is, people are expecting anything from 9.75% to 12%! Inflation in Russia hit 9.1% last month as sanctions on imports and the collapsing rouble drove up prices in the country. The Economic Development Ministry is forecasting that prices are unlikely to level off until at least the end of the first quarter of 2015. The rate of price rises and ongoing falls in the value of the currency has put pressure on the central bank to increase interest rates in order to slow the pace of spending in the economy by encouraging people to save more of their money. However doing so risks worsening the already parlous state of Russia's economy, which is now expected to fall into a recession next year. Piotr Matys, rates strategist at Rabobank, is one of the outliers and is quoted as saying that he expects the Bank of Russia to raise rates sharply despite the risks to the economy (emphasis added). “I expect the Bank of Russia to raise its base rate to 12% from 9.5%. The rouble rout not only worsened the outlook for inflation, but more importantly poses a major threat to financial stability in Russia. Fairly aggressive interest rate hikes should prove a far more efficient tool to finally discourage speculators and stabilise the battered rouble rather than large scale FX interventions. Admittedly, such a strong dose of monetary policy tightening would have serious negative implications for the Russian economy. However, at this stage of the crisis stabilising the rouble should be priority with the economy already heading for a recession.” And he is not alone in expecting a sharp hike. Tatiana Orlova, Russia economist at RBS, and Per Hammarlund, emerging markets strategist at SEB, also expect a sharp increase in rates, albeit only to 11%. The problem is that the central bank has tried to use shock tactics before to limited effect. At the end of October it raised rates from 8% to 9.5% in a widely unexpected gamble that higher rates will halt the rouble's slide against the dollar and the euro. Unfortunately, while the economic outlook certainly declined as expected the move failed to prevent the rouble from sliding. The central bank has admitted that it has been forced to intervene again in currency markets spending over $1.9 billion on Monday. So far in December it has spent over $4.5 billion in an attempt to prop up the currency, despite announcing the "abandonment of unlimited foreign exchange interventions" last month. One dollar would have bought you around 46 roubles a month ago. The same amount will now buy you 54. BloombergDollar vs the rouble. And the upshot of all this? Markets are losing confidence in the ability of the Russian central bank to balance financial stability and political concerns. But nobody knows how this will play out. While the state has plenty of reserves to bring to bear in its campaign against "currency speculators" it has yet to demonstrate its willingness to do so at scale. This has cast doubt over its desire to provide the so-called widow-maker trade — where the central bank continues to buy roubles until it exhausts the desire of traders to take the other side of the trade. One option is that the Russian government could impose capital controls, where limits are set on the amounts that people can withdraw from their accounts and companies are prevented from moving foreign capital abroad, as it did during the crisis in the late 1990s. However, these are fraught with difficulties and risks both in the cost of implementing them and the danger that it would provoke even heavier selling of the rouble. The biggest risk that the central bank will be worrying about is that Russian people start to lose faith in their own currency. Damaging the economy even further with a rate hike may be deemed a worthwhile cost to prevent that from happening. FREE AppDownload
After you buy the perfect shoes, it's important to take good care of them so you can wear them for more than one season. Cleaning and shining them regularly, and getting them resoled when needed will help you keep your shoes looking nice and lasting longer. Figuring out which shoe repair shop to go to isn't easy so the folks over at Yelp help us put together a list of the best cobblers in NYC. Customers on Yelp rave about the work that the cobblers at North 11 Shoe repair do on their favorite shoes. While it is a little on the pricey side, Yelp users say it's worth it. Josh N. from Brooklyn said. "First I was a little taken back by the estimated price to repair a stitching and re-sole my favorite Ashton Grey boots--about 40% of the cost to get new ones. When I received them back, they look and feel new! Polishing is included. Couldn't be happier --with the repairs these boots should last a lot longer." Yelp users said over and over in their reviews that Roma Shoe Repair &amp; Shine "saved their favorite shoes." The service speedy and the cobbler's craftsmanship is perfect. Not only is the work top notch, the owner is helpful and friendly. Yelp user Cindy J. said, "The man was incredibly friendly and fixed a pair of boot heels I thought were ruined! He did an amazing job! They look wonderful. He was done in half an hour and only charged $15! I will become a very loyal customer and recommend him to all of my friends." While Giovanni's looks like a "hole in the wall" from the outside, don't be fooled, he'll do great work on your shoes. Yelp users say he is friendly, fast, and reasonably priced, and that they would never go anywhere else. Wendy Y said, "Quality of work is outstanding -- shoes brought in for repair are returned nicely polished.  When my daughter needed a couple of extra holes punched in her purse straps, the shoe repair guy did it for free.  You will be able to add years of wear to your shoes and boots by bringing them here." Wall Streeters: here's your place. The easy place for you to stop in on your lunch break is also one of the best on the island. Yelp user Scott S. said Hadn't been here in a long time.  Went in for a shine and they did an amazing job.  Shoes look brand new.  If you're near Wall Street this is the place to go.  Excellent shoe repair as well. Service is personal. And top notch." The helpful cobblers at Chelsea Cobbler will walk you through the basics to make sure you get the most wear out of your shoes. On Yelp, Adam S. said, "Absolutely love this place. These two taught me the basics of my new leather shoes and helped proof them for long-term use. Great price and quick turnout. Would highly recommend to anyone for reliable repairs. Super sweet couple, too." The people at Cobbler Express go above and beyond to make your shoes, and other leather goods look great. Yelp user Alli G. said, "Incredible and friendly service. Went to 3 different warehouses to find the right color leather to fix my bag. It looks better than when I first bought it!" You can trust Romano Cobbler with your most expensive, most beloved shoes. Lewis M. said on Yelp, "I brought 8 pairs of Gucci shoes to Romano for repair and refurbishing. Let me tell you, he's the best, what beautiful work he does! Wonderful service, prices, quality; he only Uses  JR Leather soles. I will be back every time I need your expertise! Thanks Romano ...you are THE BEST!!!!!" Gabriel B. via YelpRomano is the best of the best. Bring your shoes to Albert's and they'll look better than when you first bought them, is what Yelp users say. Robin B. was impressed by how quickly the cobbler could have her shoes for her too, "Yes, this place is the real deal.  Friendly service and great workmanship.  I brought in two pairs of shoes and he said, "ready tomorrow, ok?"  I thought, am I in heaven?  Nobody ever turns my shoes around that quickly!  Both pairs came out looking great.  He has a real attention to detail! You won't be disappointed." Not only does Rostelle's do a great job, the price is right too. Yelp user Suz B. said, "Amazing service. First of all, the guy was really helpful, friendly, and accommodating.  Was quite happy to let me decide when I wanted to pick them up.  An extra bonus is that they're open really early. He did an AMAZING job re-heeling my boots.  And the tips were buffed to the most shiny shine I have ever seen!  really, a month later, on the cooler streets of Edinburgh, they still look fabulous. I was VERY happy to have found this place (a bargain at $20, too!).  Seek him out if you're in deed of shoe repairs.  You can't go wrong.  It's brilliant!" You might not recognize your shoes when you pick them up from Michael's because they'll look so good. Ilya M. said on Yelp, "What can I say. Michael really knows what he's doing. Brought a couple of pairs of shoes that needed to be resoled and new heels. When I came to pick them up, at first I thought he gave me the wrong shoes.  Then I realized that he did such a great job that they looked brand new. What surprised me the most is that I had my shoes done in a couple of different places. But this guy topped them! He actually sewed the leather soles, To make sure it has a better hold than just glue. And keep its original look. Gave it a nice matte finish on the upper leather... From what I heard he's been in this business for over 20 years. Shows why he's still in business." FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce If you've ever owned a remote-controlled car, you'll want to take a look at MiP, its modern cousin. You can control the pint-sized robot using the MiP mobile app, which is free, but MiP also responds to motions and can detect things in its path. MiP operates like a Segway using dual wheel balance, and has seven settings including roam, dance, and tricks. You can grab it here with a discount thanks to Insider Picks and our friends at Stack Commerce. Get 10% off the MiP Smartphone Controlled Robot ($89.99+Free Shipping). See the robot in action in the video below (watch on mute to avoid the annoying music), along with the full specs.  Full specs: Get 10% off the MiP Smartphone Controlled Robot ($89.99+Free Shipping). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Gold is surging. In morning trade on Monday, gold futures were up more than 3%, trading as high as $1,240 an ounce as stock everywhere were selling off hard.  Gold is seen as a safe haven asset and tends to rise when equity markets sell off and the market takes a "risk off" posture.  Also on Tuesday, safe haven assets like US Treasury bonds were also in rally mode.  Here's the gold chart. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Andy Kiersz/Business Insider But a few asset classes are rallying, and one staging a furious rally is US Treasury bonds. On Tuesday morning, the 10-year bond yield had fallen back below 2.2%, while the 30-year bond was down at 2.86%, the lowest level for the 30-year since 2012.  Remember: Falling yields mean bond prices are rising. Andy Kiersz/Business Insider Back in November, DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach said that 2.2% was the "line in the sand" on the 10-year yield, and said that discounting the wild morning of Oct. 15, that level has pretty much held for the 10-year.  And so with volatility back in the market on Tuesday and the 10-year once again flirting with 2.2%, we will see if that level holds again.  Stocks in the US are taking their lead from markets in Asia, which dropped hard overnight as the Shanghai Composite fell more than 5%. Stocks in Europe were also selling off in a big way, as concerns over the political situation in Greece flared up when the presidential election was pulled forward by two months on Monday.  Business Insider's Mike Bird has the full breakdown of the Greece situation here.  And while Treasury bonds were rallying as investors sought safety amid equity instability, gold was also surging.     FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jonathan Ernst Matthew Winkler founded Bloomberg News in 1990. Matthew Winkler, formerly editor-in-chief of Bloomberg, is shifting his role. He will be editor-in-chief emeritus — whatever that is.  He is being replaced by John Micklethwait, editor-in-chief of the Economist. Winkler founded Bloomberg News in 1990. Since then, it has grown to be one of the largest news organizations in the world, with reporters pretty much everywhere.      FREE AppDownload
YouTube Of that, $2.7 billion will be for probes and $800 million will be for restructuring as the bank closes franchises in some markets around the world, according to CNBC. Corbat expects Citi to be "marginally profitable" in the fourth quarter, the report said.  Shares of Citi were most recently trading down more than 2%.  Corbat is speaking at the Goldman Sachs 2014 US Financial Services Conference in New York.    FREE AppDownload
 Stocks in Greece crashed on Tuesday. At the close, the Athens Stock Exchange Index was down a mindboggling 12.78%. That's the worst fall since 1987. The steep decline comes after the announcement that Greece's presidential elections are being brought forward to Dec. 17. The presidential election is conducted by Greece's legislators, not its population. But the government needs a super-majority to install a president, which it doesn't have. If it can't elect a president, that might precipitate a general election, and the radical Coalition of the Left (Syriza) is leading the polls. The uncertainty also means sovereign bond yields are breaking out of the region they've been in for the past few days, up from 7.2% to beyond 7.75%. The yield on a 10-year bond is a common measure used to show how expensive it is for governments to finance their debt. Yields saw a recent peak just below 9% in October, when the far-left anti-austerity party Syriza took a polling lead, and the government was planning to exit its bailout early. Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid explains the situation here: The failure to elect a President by the existing parliament would lead to a national general election within 3-4 weeks, with the current SYRIZA opposition party leading in the polls (according to various opinion polls). So very large electoral uncertainty and the lack of an official financing backstop ensures a meaningful period of uncertainty ahead for Greece. In rounds 1 and 2 (Dec 17th and 22nd) the Government requires 200 out of 300 MPs which is extremely unlikely. In the final round (Dec 29th) they require 180 votes. Deutsche's George Saravelos also says there's a 60/40 chance of a Greek parliamentary election. With Syriza in the lead, that's a big risk for bondholders. The insurgent party wants Greece's creditors to take a major haircut (dramatically cutting the value of their investment), and for existing bailout programs to be canceled. Here's a longer term look at Greece's ASE index. As you can see, the Greek stock market has a history of massive swings. Bloomberg.com   FREE AppDownload
ReutersCustomers at the official opening of a new Abercrombie &amp; Fitch store in central London on March 22, 2007. Jeffries retired after already being stripped of his chairman title. Activist investors felt his ideas about what it meant to be "cool" — which allegedly excluded large people and minorities — hurt the brand.  Now that Jeffries is out, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has some big problems to solve.  Sales fell 12% in the third quarter, which ended Nov. 1, while the company cut its profit outlook for the year. Jeffries cited turmoil in the teen apparel market as reasons for the company's performance. "It is very clear that the young apparel sector in which we operate is going through a period of disruption and turmoil," he said. "We expect conditions to remain difficult" for the rest of the year. Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has said it plans to offset declining sales by phasing out visible logos on its clothing and offering trendier items. But Eric Beder, specialty apparel analyst at Wunderlich Securities, said he thought Abercrombie was running out of options.  "What is going to turn the tide?" Beder asked in a note to clients. "Frankly, we have no idea." Beder notes that Abercrombie has already exhausted numerous turnaround strategies, to no avail.  "Abercrombie has already aggressively closed domestic locations, cut back on inventories, shifted away from logo products, and cut costs," Beder writes.  The once-leading teen retailer has struggled to stay relevant since the surge in demand for fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M.  GettyAbercrombie &amp; Fitch has said it plans to offset declining sales by phasing out visible logos on its clothing. Abercrombie has also been criticized for excluding plus-size customers and minorities in its stores.  For several months, Abercrombie has been touting a rebrand that apparently includes scaling back on logos and spraying less of its Fierce cologne in its stores.  But when Business Insider recently went shopping at the store, it was clear that little had changed since its heyday.  Beder says a fundamental shift in teen customers is hurting Abercrombie, as well as competitors Aeropostale and American Eagle.  The mentality of teenage consumers is changing rapidly, according to Piper Jaffray's recent Taking Stock With Teens survey.  Researchers found that teens were increasingly spending on technology and food over clothing.  For the first time in history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing, according to the analysts at Piper Jaffray. This is fueled by trendy coffee drinks at Starbucks, the top food-and-drink retailer among the demographic.   FREE AppDownload
Teen retailer Abercrombie &amp; Fitch's stock is up big this morning after the company's CEO Mike Jefferies announced he's stepping down.   Shares of Abercrombie were last trading up more than 6.1% in the early session.  You might interpret the stock price move as confirming investor lack of faith in Jefferies. The retailer's stock has struggled for the ten years. The shares have slumped 38% in the last decade. This year alone the stock is down 15%.  Here's a five-day chart:  Google Finance Here's the year-to-date chart:  Google Finance And the ten-year chart: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Claro CortesA tourist poses for photographs with a shirtless model outside an Abercrombie & Fitch store in Singapore's Orchard Road shopping district, Dec. 14, 2011.Abercrombie &amp; Fitch CEO Mike Jeffries is stepping down from the teen-clothing retailer following a rocky few years. It's the latest upheaval for the brand, which started as a store for outdoorsmen and evolved into the epitome of preppy cool in the '90s. More recently, Abercrombie has been criticized for excluding large women and promoting unrealistic standards of beauty. The retailer has suffered 11 straight quarters of same-store sales declines as alternative fashion trends have superseded Abercrombie's sporty, logo-heavy look. Michael Thrasher wrote the original version of this story. Hayley Peterson, Ashley Lutz, and Julie Zeveloff contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockAccording to the new Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, US employers had 4.834 million job openings in October. This was up from 4.685 million in September, and it was higher than the  4.795 million expected by economists. "[N]ot counting the August 2014 high were last this big in January 2001, two months before that recession began," Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey noted. "Job openings now are larger than any month during the housing bubble economy years 2004 to 2007.  The Fed better re-check their calculations for slack in the economy.  This is not a weak labor market." "The rate of quits, indicative of those who are confident enough in the labor market to leave their current jobs, decreased 0.1pp to 1.9%, but remains at the second highest level since June 2008," BNP Paribas' Derek Lindsay noted. Overall, the US labor market continues to show strength. "One measure we use to quantify the amount of slack in labor markets is the ratio of unemployed job seekers to job openings," Barclays Jesse Hurwitz noted. "This measure fell to 1.86 in October (previous: 1.98), the lowest level since February 2008... Taken together, the October JOLTS data reflect continued progress in labor markets, which we expect will drive the unemployment rate down by 0.6pp over the next year." On Friday we learned US companies added 321,000 nonfarm payrolls in November, crushing expectations for a gain of just 230,000. This is the biggest single-month gain in payrolls since January 2012. FREE AppDownload
Greece is getting crushed. Stocks were down by as much as 11.2% on Tuesday — the worst plunge since 1987. Reuters reporter Jamie McGeever tweeted a chart showing the magnitude of this plunge relative to other drops. It's not good; that's for sure. Check it out: Jamie McGeever/Reuters So what's going on in Greece? This crash follows the news that Greece's presidential elections are being brought forward to Dec. 17. If the government does not get the supermajority needed to install a president, there could be a general election. Right now, the radical Coalition of the Left is leading in the polls. And investors appear to be getting really nervous about that.   FREE AppDownload
You may have noticed that Chinese stocks have experienced a bumpy ride over the last couple of months. At the heart of the turbulence: concerns about whether the government can successfully engineer a soft landing for the world’s second-largest economy, with a market capitalization that accounts for around 20% of broad emerging markets.*  Ultimately, we think there are more positives than negatives here. The Story The HSBC flash PMI figure – a key economic indicator that measures private sector performance data across manufacturing, construction, retail and service sectors — released in late November disappointed the markets, and last week’s official PMI reading of 50.2 confirmed a still expanding, but softening economy. (The PMI, or Purchasing Managers Index, measures manufacturing activity and is a widely watched economic growth indicator; anything over 50 points to expansion, anything under 50 to contraction.) Property prices also declined this fall, albeit at a slower pace than they had been. Finally, the highly anticipated launch in mid-November of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, linking the two stock markets, was underwhelming (although adoption is likely to grow over time). Policymakers Act In response, policymakers took bold steps to bolster China’s GDP, using a range of levers. Last month, the People’s Bank of China cut interest rates for the first time in two years and only the third time since 2001. Combined with a $113 billion commitment to infrastructure and a reduction in reserve ratio for banks lending to small business, these measures should help support both the economy and China-related assets. After shedding over 3% in the wake of the mediocre data, the MSCI China Index rose sharply for the remainder of November to finish the month up 1.57%. This positive performance helped offset weakness in other emerging market countries, as Brazil sold-off following its election and Russia slumped amid declining oil prices. The MSCI Emerging Market IMI Index slid -1.12% in November. Ways to Step into China A certain degree of volatility is to be expected when investing in emerging markets, and the recent events have not altered our views on broad emerging markets or on China. We continue to believe that emerging markets can provide valuable long-term growth potential and diversification benefits, and that today’s low historical and relative valuations represent an attractive re-entry point for investors who have been on the sidelines. To dip back into emerging markets, consider the iShares Core MSCI Emerging Market ETF (IEMG), which provides access to 99% of the investable market (as defined by MSCI) for the low cost of 0.18%. For pure exposure to China, we favor the iShares MSCI China ETF (MCHI) for its efficient access to large- and mid-cap Chinese stocks. * as measured by the MSCI Emerging Market IMI Index. Heidi Richardson is a Global Investment Strategist at BlackRock, working with Chief Investment Strategist Russ Koesterich. She also leads the iThinking initiative for iShares. You can find more of her posts here. FREE AppDownload
The world's stock markets suddenly look wobbly. So it seems a good time to remind everyone that, if stocks suddenly crash, say, 30%-50%, it should not come as a surprise. Why? Because based on valuation measures that have been valid for the past ~130 years, stocks are at least that overvalued. True, many people believe "it's different this time" — that the world has changed and that historical valuation measures are no longer meaningful. Let's hope so. Regardless, I have become increasingly worried about the level of stock prices over the last couple of years. So far, this concern has made me sound like Chicken Little. And, from a personal finance and business perspective, I hope it will continue to do so. (I own stocks, and I'm not selling them. I also run a business, and it's easier to run a business when everyone is feeling happy and optimistic and rich.) But my concern has not diminished. On the contrary, it grows by the day. I've discussed the two big factors causing this concern in detail here. They are: 1) price, and 2) a change in Fed policy from easing to tightening. Today, I'll just focus on price. Here's the bottom line: Based on reliable historical measures, stocks are now more expensive than at any time in history, with the brief (and very temporary) exceptions of 1929 and 2000. True, today's high prices do not mean that stock prices can't go even higher. They can. And they might. What they do mean is that, at some point, unless it is truly "different this time," stock prices are likely to come crashing back down.  Just as they did after those two historic market peaks. (I unfortunately know this especially well. Because I was one of the people hoping it was "different this time" in 1999 and 2000. For many years, it did seem different — and stocks just kept going up. But then they crashed all the way back down, erasing three whole years of gains. This was a searing lesson for me, as it was for many other people. It was also a lesson that cost me and others a boatload of money.) Anyway, here are three charts for you... First, a look at price-earnings ratios over 130 years. The man who created this chart, Professor Robert Shiller of Yale, uses an unusual but historically predictive method to calculate P/Es, one that attempts to mute the impact of the business cycle. Importantly, this method is consistent over the whole 130 years. As you can see, today's P/E, 27X, is higher than any P/E in history except for the ones in 1929 and 2000. And you can also see how quickly and violently those P/Es reverted toward the mean: Robert Shiller, Business Insider   Second, a chart from fund manager John Hussman showing the performance predictions for 7 different historically predictive valuation measures, including the "Shiller P/E" shown above.  Those who want to remain bullish often attack the Shiller P/E measure, pointing out that it is useless as a timing tool (which it is). Those folks may also want to note that the 6 other measures in the chart below, including Warren Buffett's favorite measure, same almost exactly the same thing.  John Hussman, Hussman Funds   Third, a table from the fund management firm GMO showing predictions for the annual returns of various asset classes over the next 7 years. As you can see, the outlook for all stocks, but especially U.S. stocks, is bleak. Specifically, GMO foresees negative real returns for U.S. stocks for the next 7 years. Even after adding back the firm's inflation assumption of 2.2% per year, the returns for most stocks are expected to be flat or negative. The lone bright(er) spot is "high quality" stocks — the stocks of companies that have high cash flow and low debt. Those are expected to return only a couple of percent per year. (Returns for international stocks are expected to be modestly better, but still far below average). GMO The real bummer for investors, as GMO's chart also makes clear, is that no other major class offers compelling returns, either. The outlook for bonds and cash is lousy, too. This puts investors in a real predicament. The only asset class forecasted to provide compelling returns over the next 7 years is... timber. And most of us can't go out and buy trees.  To be crystal clear: There is only one way that stocks will keep rising from this level and stay permanently above this level. That is if it really is "different this time," and all the historically valid valuation measures described above are no longer relevant. It is possible that it is different this time. Some smart people, like Wharton Professor (and mutual fund advisor) Jeremy Siegel, argue that it is indeed different this time. Some of their arguments seem reasonable. And they might be right. It is does not seem likely, however, that it is different this time. If only because, every time over the past 130 years that smart people have argued that it is different this time (and they always argue that), it has not, in fact, been different. And that is one thing to keep in mind as you listen to everyone explain why it's different this time: One of the things everyone does when stocks get this expensive is attempt to explain the high prices (and justify even higher ones) by looking for reasons why it's different this time. That's what most of us did in 1999 and 2000. For a while, we seemed "right," and we were heroes because of it. But then, suddenly, without much warning, we were drastically, violently wrong. And we — or me, at least — learned that lesson that I referred to above: That it's almost never "different this time." SEE ALSO: People Get Mad When I Say Stocks Might "Crash," So I Won't Use That Word, But... FREE AppDownload
Europe is already hovering right on the edge of deflation, and a further drop in oil prices would shove the eurozone right over the edge, according to Oxford Economics. The group have used their November prediction for oil prices in 2015 as their baseline, with Brent Crude at $84 per barrel (which already looks too high), and showed what inflation might look like for a bunch of advanced economies at different oil prices. Here's Oxford Economics on what inflation looks like with oil at $70, $60, $50 and $40. Oxford Economics, Haver Analytics At $80, only one country, Spain, sees overall deflation in 2015.  At $40, Portugal, France, Spain, Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Greece, Germany, Austria and Ireland all see more than 1% deflation in 2015-16. The UK and US would also plunge way below zero, according to the model. There's a good argument that this is a benign form of inflation, rather than the bad kind. That could clearly be true, if the decline in prices is driven by a big surge in the supply of oil. But either way, it would leave inflation if  a long, long way from the European Central Bank's 2% target. With brent crude currently at just $66.69 per barrel, something between the $70 and $60 scenario seems likely, if prices hold. That's going to worsen the split at the heart of Europe over whether the ECB should be doing more to raise prices. German rate-setter Jens Weidmann has already made his view clear: falling oil prices are a good thing and the ECB shouldn't try to weigh against it.  Though falling prices could drag country after country into a negative inflation situation, the effect on growth looks much more muted. Oxford Economics suggests it's positive for most of Europe, but very modest.  Oxford Economics, Haver Analytics FREE AppDownload
 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch CEO Mike Jeffries is stepping down from the teen retailer effective immediately. Jeffries is retiring after more than two decades at the helm of the company, which has not named a successor. Abercrombie's stock was up as much as 6% Tuesday morning. "It has been an honor to lead this extraordinarily talented group of people," Jeffries said in a statement. "I believe now is the right time for new leadership to take the company forward in the next phase of its development," he said. Jeffries is leaving after 11 straight quarters of same-store sales declines. A year ago, Jeffries was stripped of his role as chairman of Abercrombie's board of directors because of pressure from investors.  Jeffries became CEO in 1992, when Abercombie's sales were languishing. He turned the brand into a retail powerhouse by plastering the Abercrombie logo all over its offerings, focusing on a more preppy, casual aesthetic, and then sexing it up with racy advertising and selling it at steep prices. His strategy was aimed at the "cool kids ... the attractive all-American kid with a great attitude and a lot of friends," Jeffries told Salon in a 2006 interview. He made Abercrombie seem like an exclusive club that bestowed its logo on thin, tan, popular teens with lots of cash to spend. The advertising, which featured frolicking, half-naked co-eds, upset many parents — which made the brand even more attractive to their kids.   "A lot of people don’t belong [in our clothes], and they can’t belong," Jeffries famously said in the Salon interview. "Are we exclusionary? Absolutely." Jeffries' strategy worked. It turned Abercrombie into a status symbol that nearly every teenager in America sought to attain, and sales nearly doubled, to $165 million, within Jeffries' first two years with the company. By 1999, sales topped $1 billion. Getty "In schools across America, Abercrombie is shorthand for popular," Time magazine wrote in 2000. That year, it was the top-ranked clothing brand according to a national teen survey, and it was eulogized in the rap song "Summer Girls" by LFO with the lyrics, "When I met you I said my name was Rich/You look like a girl from Abercrombie Fitch." But over time, the brand has lost its luster. "The logo is no longer cool, unless you are a middle schooler in a rural middle school," Erik Gordon, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan's business school, told Business Insider. Cash-strapped teens have grown tired of wearing logos, and they are opting for cheaper brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M. "Half the time I don’t really buy any brands," Olivia D'Amico, a 16-year-old from New York, told The New York Times in a recent interview. "I just bought a pair of fake Doc Martens because I don’t really care." Abercrombie has also been hit by a major shift in teen consumption. Young people are now spending more on restaurants than clothes, and they aren't visiting the mall as much as previous generations did. Teen mall visits have dropped 30% in the past decade, according to Piper Jaffray's semiannual survey of teens' shopping habits. And when teens do spend on clothes, they aren't shopping at Abercrombie. The company ranks second on a list of brands that teens no longer wear, according to Piper Jaffray's survey. Abercrombie's same-store sales fell 10% in fiscal 2013. The company laid out a plan in August to lure back teen shoppers that included getting rid of visible logos on its clothing in the North American region.  Abercrombie is also changing the nightclub aesthetic of its stores to make them more open, light, and inviting. The company is removing the dark shutters (shown below) from its windows to let in more light, turning down the volume on its store music, and cutting back on regimented cologne spritzing inside its stores. Reuters Here's the release from the company on Jeffries' retirement:  December 09, 2014-Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today announced that Michael Jeffries is retiring as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, effective immediately. Abercrombie &amp; Fitch's current Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, Arthur Martinez, will become Executive Chairman. The Board has established an Office of the Chairman, consisting of Mr. Martinez, as well as Jonathan Ramsden, Chief Operating Officer, Christos Angelides, Brand President of Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Fran Horowitz, Brand President of Hollister.  The Office of the Chairman, led by Arthur Martinez, will oversee the Company's strategic direction and be responsible for managing the Company's day-to-day operations until a new CEO is appointed. The Board has commenced a search for Michael Jeffries's successor and has engaged a leading executive search firm to identify and evaluate both internal and external candidates. Mr. Martinez has served as Non-Executive Chairman of Abercrombie &amp; Fitch since January 2014. He has substantial public company board leadership and senior executive experience in the retail industry. Mr. Ramsden has been with the Company for 6 years, and has served as Chief Operating Officer since January 2014. Mr. Angelides and Ms. Horowitz, both experienced and respected industry executives, joined Abercrombie &amp; Fitch in October 2014 to lead the Company's Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Hollister brands, respectively. These recent organizational enhancements, including the creation of the Chief Operating Officer and Brand President roles in 2014, significantly strengthened the Company's senior leadership team. "It is impossible to overstate Mike Jeffries' extraordinary accomplishments in building Abercrombie &amp; Fitch to the iconic status the brand now enjoys. From a standing start two decades ago, his creativity and imagination were the driving forces behind the company's growth and success. Going forward, we are confident in our talented senior leadership team and the steps we are taking to revitalize our brands and business," said Mr. Martinez. "We are also confident that our search will identify a new leader with the skills and expertise to enable Abercrombie &amp; Fitch to capitalize fully on its growth opportunities and build shareholder value." Mr. Jeffries said, "It has been an honor to lead this extraordinarily talented group of people.  I am extremely proud of your accomplishments.  I believe now is the right time for new leadership to take the Company forward in the next phase of its development."   NOW WATCH: 14 Things You Didn't Know About Whole Foods    FREE AppDownload
The latest jobs report crushed expectations. November saw the biggest single-month gain payrolls since January 2012. Plus, unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.8% in November — once again, the lowest rate since 2008. According to the latest small business optimism from the National Federation of Independent Business, good labor in America is still in short supply. Forty-five percent of respondents reported "few or no qualified applications" for the positions they were trying to fill — unchanged from October. This number has been continuously trending higher since 2009. Additionally, twenty-one percent of firms reported actual compensation changes in the past three months, up from October's nineteen percent. This number has also been trending upwards since the financial crisis. And while sales are still one of the bigger concerns for small businesses, it's seen a major drop as the "single most important problem." The change towards labor quality becoming the most important problem for more employers suggests that economic concerns are shifting from weak demand to tight supply. And all of this points to higher wages for America's workers. NFIB FREE AppDownload
As Uber's reach widens, so do the company's legal troubles. Several Southeast Asian countries are questioning Uber's legality in light of allegations that a driver raped a young female passenger in India. New Delhi has banned the ride-sharing service, and Thailand soon followed suit. The company is also facing scrutiny in Vietnam, Singapore, and Indonesia. And Indian police are reportedly considering taking legal action against Uber, saying the company hasn't run proper background checks. Officials are concerned that drivers picking up passengers from the Uber app in these countries aren't adhering to the same licensing regulations as other drivers. Nevertheless, Uber recently raised more funding and is now valued at $40 billion. Here's a look at the dozens of cities in which the company now operates: Reuters The Netherlands banned Uber because the company's drivers lack special licenses to allow them to pick up passengers. Uber is planning to appeal the ban, according to Reuters. Portland sued Uber on Monday, shortly after the company began operations in the city, contending that the company was an "illegal, unregulated transportation service." Uber suspended operations in Nevada last month after a district court issued a preliminary injunction preventing the service from providing rides across the state. The injunction was reportedly spurred by regulatory concerns, according to Reuters.  
Kev Rodde / Flickr*Last week’s news suggests that the center of the FOMC continues to see interest rate hikes in the middle of next year as most appropriate. *December 17 looks like a natural time to begin signaling the possibility of rate hikes to financial markets—an eventuality for which bond investors do not look prepared. *There are risks to making this change, but we suspect that Fed officials would favor a small hawkish surprise now over a large hawkish surprise later. The November jobs report offered more evidence that U.S. growth has shifted up a gear. We are particularly encouraged that the gains in payroll employment were corroborated by other measures of real activity, such as surveys of business and consumer sentiment. Our proprietary indicator of U.S. growth has now increased at an annualized rate of at least 3% for nine consecutive months (Exhibit 1). Columbia ManagementBesides the jobs numbers, communication from the Federal Reserve last week also affected risks around the policy outlook. Four news items caught our attention: 1. Dudley continues to back mid-2015 liftoff date. New York Fed President Dudley said in a speech last Monday that a first rate hike in mid-2015 seemed “reasonable”—an addition to his remarks on November 13 which were otherwise very similar. He added that inflation expectations “still seem well-anchored”—despite some wobbles in market- and survey-based measures recently. Thus, President Dudley’s speech was noteworthy in that it contained very few changes: he signaled that the Fed remains on a similar course for policy, at the same time that market views have skewed toward later rate hikes. 2. Fischer hints “considerable time” open for debate; Fed leadership has centrist views. Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer’s remarks to WSJ and CFR events offered a number of clues on how Fed officials are processing incoming information. Most importantly, his response to a question on the “considerable time” language in the FOMC statement suggested that the internal discussion around this topic was not finalized (for the time being) in October—which we had thought after reading the minutes from that meeting. Here is what Mr. Fischer had to say: “I think you saw in the minutes of the last meeting there was some discussion of that, so it’s clear that we are closer to getting rid of that then we were a few months ago. But it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to give you a guess as to what my colleagues and I are going to do at the next meeting … we’re not going to suddenly stop that [i.e. “considerable time”] and not say anything … as the likely date nears, or as the likely situation nears, we will use different words, I assume, to describe the situation.” His comments included several other notable points on the Fed’s current worldview. On the appropriate monetary response to the decline in oil prices: “This is a supply shock, and you treat them differently than a shock that’s caused by … demand” On the state of the labor market: “The really big fact that I think about with the labor market much of the time is the fact that the unemployment rate has come down much more rapidly than was expected as little as a year and a half ago … [broader measures] too have come down more recently; U6 has come down quite rapidly as well.” And on the lack of a pickup in wage inflation: “It is often the case in economics that you’re waiting to see a phenomenon. Somebody did something that should have produced X, and there’s no X on the horizon. My experience has typically been that if you wait another six months, or longer, X will suddenly make a belated appearance.” These are important counterpoints to the increasingly dovish narrative among market participants. Fischer chose to highlight the decline in labor market slack (rather than its abundance), said that wages would likely pick up with a lag, and made clear he read the drop in oil prices as a supply shock—something that monetary policy should “treat differently”. This does not sound like a central banker leaning towards a later start date for rate hikes. 3. Evans only conditionally backs “considerable time”. In an interview with the New York Times, Chicago Fed President Evans supported the continued use of the “considerable time” language, but conditioned his response on his out-of-consensus policy view. Specifically, when asked whether it was now time to revise the phrase, he said: “I think appropriate monetary policy would keep the funds rate where it is until the first quarter of 2016. “Considerable time” seems to describe that perfectly fine. I don’t feel it’s important to change the public’s thinking on that, so I don’t see a need.” Evans’ elliptical response may suggest that under the consensus view—which seems to favor a mid-2015 rate hike—the current statement language may no longer be “perfectly fine”. 4. Fed staff says optimal control rules call for early-15 rate hikes. Finally, in a post to the Board’s FEDS Notes blog, Fed staffers presented an update to the “optimal control” (OC) simulations described by then-governor Yellen in 2012 (see here for background). At the time they were first presented, these projections surprised markets because they called for rate hikes only in early 2016. However, due to the larger-than-expected decline in unemployment since that time, updated forecasts from these models call for rate hikes beginning in Q1 2015 (Exhibit 2). For a variety of reasons we still believe the first rate hike will be slightly later than that (arriving at the June 2015 FOMC meeting), but the projections nonetheless highlight that standard policy rules envision the Fed beginning its exit in the very near future. Columbia ManagementWhat does all this mean for the upcoming FOMC meeting? In our view, it means that the “considerable time” language—which has been in the statement in some form since September 2012—is likely to be revised. Last week’s news suggests the center of the FOMC continues to see rate hikes in the middle of next year as most appropriate, and has not been swayed by recent developments in commodity markets, inflation breakevens or foreign growth. Plus, we see few signs that key officials are adamant about keeping the language in place. Therefore, with no press conference at the January 2015 FOMC meeting, the December 17 announcement looks like a natural time to begin signaling the possibility of rate hikes to financial markets—an eventuality for which bond investors do not look prepared. There are risks to making this change, but we suspect that Fed officials would favor a small hawkish surprise now over a large hawkish surprise later. This article originally appeared at Columbia Management Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. Follow Columbia Management Perspectives on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog According to the WSJ yesterday, the IMF is raising its forecast for US growth next year to 3.5% from its last estimate of 3.1%, partly because of expected lower energy costs. The nearby futures prices for gasoline and heating oil are down 45% and 33% from their summer highs. Last year, consumers spent $371 billion on gasoline and $27 billion on heating oil. So they could save a total of about $175 billion, or $1,510 per household at an annual rate.  Payroll employment gains have averaged 227,830 per month during the 12 months through November, up from 205,100 per month last November, and the most since March 2006. Inflation-adjusted wages and salaries in personal income rose 2.9% y/y to a record high during October. As I showed yesterday, our Earned Income Proxy suggests that they continued to rise sharply during November.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: 2015 Is Coming. (1) Reassessing 2015. (2) Lower oil prices widely deemed to be a net positive for growth. (3) $1.5 trillion windfall. (4) Winners and losers by countries. (5) IMF raising US growth for 2015. (6) Better growth with lower inflation. (7) Bond yields and crude oil should stabilize, but the dollar could soar some more. (8) Fed’s “lift off” may be delayed or downsized. (9) Still targeting 2300 for S&amp;P 500 in 2015. (10) Net earnings revisions down for Energy, up for Transportation. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation. (More for subscribers.)   FREE AppDownload
When managing employees, sometimes your patience is tested by a lack of motivation, a resistance to what you're asking, or one or more "problem" workers. And just because you're the boss does not mean you're perfect. Sometimes we all say things we regret later. Watch all the latest Entrepreneur video here
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning, US Futures are looking off 30-40bp, with the S&amp;P taking out yesterday’s lows.    Angst reigns as Oil drops – and a trio of headlines (Greek Elections, China clamping down on Leverage in Credit, “considerable Time” removal from Fed) all weigh.    London is off 1.2% in heavy volume (1.5x normal) as every major sector of the FTSE is off at least 1%.  The DAX is off 1% as energy companies retreat – but the Athens stock exchange is off over 11% and Greek yields are out 50bp as political uncertainty mounts – So the EU banks are getting hit for 1.7%.  With the Oil drop, Gulf Exchanges under good pressure – Dubai lost 6.6%, Saudi lost 2.5%, Qatar 3.5%, and Abu Dhabi 3.7%.   Over in Asia, Shanghai had its biggest drop in 5years on record volumes as China's securities clearing house had tightened the use of corporate bonds as collateral for short-term financing, the Miners knocked Aussie for 1.7% as the price of Iron ore gapped lower again overnight (JPM cut forecasts).  Despite the wild move in the Yen in the last 24hours, The Nikkei was off only 70bp.  The 10YY is coming in, as “Flattener” flows continue to pressure longer-term yields in the USA despite Bunds being flat.   The $/Y has broken south of 120 – a key level for it to retake, but the Euro has a bid, pressuring the DXY this AM.  With this tailwind for commodities, we have Brent/WTI Crude up 1% (Brent was off 1.5% earlier).   Silver is up 1%, and Gold is holding yesterday’s late day surge, adding 20bp and over $1200.   Natty has been beaten up of late, we are seeing some covering this AM.    Grains and Beans are under pressure this AM.    Scheduled Catalysts today include NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, UK GDP, US JOLTS Job Openings, Wholesale Inventories and ISM Semiannual Report On Business at 10, and a 3Y auction at 1.  We will get SIFI headlines for the Fins today, and API data tonight.    Some Trends I’m watching:  ·         Despite the weakness yesterday, “Growth” stocks only underperformed Value by 17bp.   We have a slew of China data tonight (CPI, PPI, New Yuan Loans, Money Supply) – be interesting to see if the “growth” trade outperforms again.  (IWO &gt; IWN)  ·         Watch the “Gundlach Floor” of 2.2% in the 10YY as “Flattener” trades continue to sell short-term (SHY) to buy 10’s (TLT).    ·         Despite Rates yesterday, Banks had a great day – An allocator may have been at work, big prints of financial ETFs hit the tape late in the day.  In total it looked like about $750mm of financials buying FXO (Alphadex) and IYF.  SIFI announcement from the Fed on Bank Capital Requirements today may be a “Buy the News” as a uncertainty is removed.  MS and GS your highest levered.   ·         Watch the Commodity Rich Exporters - Canada (EWC), Russia (RSX) and Brazil (EWZ).  Canada had it’s worst loss in 3 years on plunging Oil – Led by drops in Resource and Financial Shares   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark WilsonA UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter from Bravo Co 2/147th AVN Renegades flies support for US Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel over Kuwait City on Monday.Good morning! Here are the major stories in markets that you need to know about on Tuesday. Greece Is Gearing Up For An Early Presidential Election. On Monday, Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras announced that Greece's presidential elections would be held Dec. 17, two months earlier than scheduled. If Greece's legislators can't elect a president, parliamentary elections will be triggered, which could usher in Syriza, the radical anti-austerity leftists leading Greek polls. Athens Also Got A 2-Month Bailout Extension From Eurozone Ministers. Eurozone ministers on Monday approved a request from Greece for a two-month extension to its bailout program that was set to end Dec. 31, amid an ongoing budget row between Athens and its EU-IMF creditors. Greece Crashes. The Greek stock market is down by 10% in the wake of all this news. China Tanks. The white-hot Chinese stock market finally pulled back a bit with a violent 5.43% plunge in the Shanghai Composite on Tuesday. Still, the index is up by 39% this year, fueled by the boom in mom-and-pop brokerage accounts. Markets Are Selling Everywhere. US futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 58 points and S&amp;P futures down 6.9 points. Europe is sliding, with Britain's FTSE down 1.2%, France's CAC 40 down 1.3%, and Germany's DAX down 0.9%. Asia closed down, with Japan's Nikkei down 0.6% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 2.3%. German Imports Sank In October. Imports dropped 3.1% from September, compared with a 0.5% drop in exports, leaving a trade surplus of €20.6 billion, second only to July's record figure.British Industrial Production Crumbled. UK industrial output dropped 0.1% in October from September, and manufacturing production slumped 0.7% in the same period. Analysts had expected a 0.2% increase in industrial production from September, and a similar increase from manufacturing, which would have left industrial and manufacturing output up 1.8% and 3.2% respectively. The Fed Might Drop Some Of Its Forward Guidance. The Federal Reserve says rates will stay near zero for a "considerable time," language the Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath believes may be dropped at its meeting next week, with the US economy recovering rapidly. This would be considered a hawkish move, as inflation remains incredibly low. Russia Has Started Sending Ukraine Gas Again. Ukraine's gas transport monopoly, Ukrtransgaz, said Russia had resumed gas flows to Ukraine on Tuesday after a six-month gap during a dispute over prices and unpaid debts. The US Is Suing Deutsche Bank. "The US government filed a lawsuit on Monday accusing Deutsche Bank AG of tax fraud for engaging in a series of transactions designed to evade federal income taxes," Reuters' Jonathan Stempel reports. "The lawsuit seeks more than $190 million in taxes, penalties and interest, according to US Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan. Several other defendants were also named." FREE AppDownload
AFPMoscow (AFP) - The World Bank on Tuesday predicted that Russia's economy would shrink by 0.7 percent in 2015, but warned that the contraction would be worse if oil prices were to keep sliding. The World Bank said its forecast is based on a scenario of crude prices averaging at $78 in 2015. But if oil prices fell to $70, Russia's output would shrink by 1.5 percent, it said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Stocks are sliding.European stocks are slumping Monday morning, after last night's announcement Greek presidential elections are being pushed ahead two months to Dec. 17. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: -0.90% Germany's DAX: -0.82% UK's FTSE 100: -1.03% Spain's IBEX: -1.06% Italy's FTSE MIB: -0.82% Asian markets also closed way down. Japan's Nikkei finished 0.68% lower, Hong Kong's Hang Seng was down 2.34%, and China's Shanghai Composite plummeted, ending down 5.43%. US futures are also trading low. The Dow is now off 51 points from Monday's close, and the S&amp;P is down 5.75 points. Later today, from the US, we have JOLTS data coming out at 3 p.m. GMT. The figure measures the number of job openings, and analysts think it will climb to 4.79 million for October, up from 4.735 million in September. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi J. Michael Pearson, Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc., gestures during their annual general meeting in Laval, Quebec May 20, 2014.NEW YORK/WINNIPEG (Reuters) - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International In is abandoning its growth-by-acquisitions strategy for the time being to try to reduce debt, boost its stock price and one day return to its traditional deal-making in a stronger position, people familiar with the matter told Reuters. After spending $19 billion on 40 acquisitions since 2008, the Canadian drugmaker is regrouping after failing last month to acquire Botox-maker Allergan Inc, they said. The new strategy, targeted for the next two to three quarters, may surprise some investors accustomed to Valeant's usual way of doing business. Speculation about Valeant's next takeover target has driven up shares in generic drugmaker Mylan Inc, medical device maker Cooper Companies and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Valeant does not rule out pursuing deals where appropriate, but it is focused on its ability to pay down debt or buy back shares, said spokeswoman Laurie Little. "The silver lining that has come out of the Allergan situation is that we have already reported one relatively clean quarter," said Little. "By delivering several more clean quarters over the next several months, we will clearly show the strength of our base business." By clean quarter, Little was referring to the absence of one-time acquisition costs that frequently appear on Valeant's balance sheet. Valeant has more than $16.3 billion of debt as of September 30 and is rated Ba3 by Moody's, the third level of junk status. Improving its credit rating will help it pay for acquisitions down the road, the sources said. In fending off Valeant's cash and stock bid, Allergan repeatedly questioned the financial strength of its unwanted suitor. In the end, it agreed to a $66 billion buyout by generics maker Actavis Plc. Valeant said last month it would spend up to $2 billion buying back senior notes, shares and other securities. Thomson ReutersThe head offices of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. are seen in Laval, Quebec Over the next two to three quarters, Valeant also aims to sell more of its new products, which includes toenail fungus drug Jublia, athlete's foot product Luzu, acne treatment Onexton and a new line of Bausch and Lomb Ultra contact lenses. Valeant has little choice but to put big acquisitions on hold because they have little cash and their stock is "poor currency" after losing Allergan, said Vicki Bryan, analyst at Gimme Credit, an independent research service on corporate bonds. Valeant's pipeline of new products isn't as strong as other companies', and if it spends more on research and marketing, profit margins may narrow, Bryan said. "Reactive (strategy) is way more expensive than proactive," she said. Glenn Greenberg, managing director of Brave Warrior Advisors, a Valeant shareholder, said Jublia and B&amp;L Ultra together have estimated sales of $1 billion and could contribute profits of $2.50 a share. Valeant's strategy persuaded San Francisco-based hedge fund ValueAct Capital to return to Valeant's board in September after a hiatus of several months. ValueAct CEO Jeff Ubben told Reuters that Valeant's "stand-alone business plan is exciting, and is the main reason we rejoined the board." Valeant has "been built around quality assets that can grow organically, and a decentralized management style that empowers performance to deliver high levels of profitability," he said. ValueAct owned 5.7 percent of Valeant as of Sept. 30. In August, at the height of Valeant's pursuit of Allergan, Ubben questioned whether the Canadian drugmaker could afford a protracted takeover battle. The loss of Allergan after a seven-month pursuit was a setback for Chief Executive Mike Pearson, who aims to make Valeant one of the world's top five pharmaceutical companies by the end of 2016. Valeant lost bids for drugmaker Cephalon and ophthalmology drugmaker Ista Pharmaceuticals in recent years. Sources close to Valeant say that the company has been disciplined by not overpaying for acquisitions. Still, some investors who had watched Valeant's market valuation rise from $1 billion in 2008 to more than $48 billion today said much of the company's mystique faded during the protracted takeover battle with Allergan. Now, Valeant "needs to show that this is a sound business and that their fundamentals are strong," said Alex Arfaei, an analyst at BMO Capital. "If you go from one hostile deal to another, you are creating the impression that you're desperate. Valeant certainly has some strong signs of growth and is anything but desperate." (Additional reporting by Jessica Toonkel in New York; Editing by Michele Gershberg and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
The City of Portland, Oregon, has filed suit against Uber and declared it an "illegal, unregulated transportation service." Mayor Charlie Hales said in a press release, “Our main concern is public health and safety, because the state invested in the cities the responsibility to do that. Beyond that, though, is the issue of fairness." Uber announced it was launching in Portland in a blog post on Friday. Hales also threatened to fine Uber in a Facebook post on Friday. "The city will enforce existing regulations," he said. "That could include fines for the company, as well as fines for drivers." The City's Bureau of Transportation issued two civil penalties for Uber on Monday for operating without a company permit and operating without a vehicle permit. Uber's website claims it is "not a transportation provider." An Uber spokesperson gave Business Insider the following statement: Uber has received a tremendously warm welcome from riders and drivers in and around Portland. We appreciate the way residents have welcomed Uber into the Rose City, their support illustrates why it’s time to modernize Portland transportation regulation. In less than 4 hours, nearly 7,000 Portland residents have signed the petition in support of Uber and we remain hopeful that the city will listen to Portlanders who want safe, reliable, hassle-free ride options now. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiBMW CEO Norbert Reithofer poses beside the BMW i8 hybrid supercar during a media preview day at the Frankfurt Motor Show (IAA) September 10, 2013.BERLIN (Reuters) - Norbert Reithofer will step down early as chief executive of German carmaker BMW in May of next year and be replaced by Harald Krueger, the company's 49-year old production chief. The Munich-based carmaker announced the surprise changes in a statement on Tuesday. Reithofer, who has run BMW since 2006, is slated to succeed Joachim Milberg as chairman of the company's supervisory board, BMW said. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
The price of oil has been rising slightly this morning, reducing some of its losses from one of the worst collapses of the year. Yesterday oil crashed to its lowest level since 2009. It is a minor smile in what otherwise looks like a grimmy day for the markets, especially in Greece and the rest of Europe. This afternoon crude is trading in positive territory, gaining 0.09 (+0.14%) and is valued $63.14 a barrel at about 3pm GMT (10am ET). Earlier, it had gone up at almost $64. Investing.com At 2.30pm GMT (9.30am ET), Brent is trading in red, losing 0.12 (-0.23%) after being on a positive pathway for much of the day. At noon (7am ET), it had raised to $66.86, its daily highest so far. More importantly, the index seems now stable at above $66, after having traded below that figure for most of yesterday. Investing.com Of course, these are only minor improvements. It's expected that after a very bad fall prices might surge a little the following day. The long-term scenario still looks pretty bleak for oil producers. This chart shows the oil price from the beginning of the year: Investing.com The crash has multiple consequences around the world: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dylan MartinezNot good news for the government, less than six months from a general election.UK industrial output dropped 0.1% in October from September, and manufacturing production slumped 0.7% in the same period, according to figures just out. Analysts had expected a 0.2% increase in industrial production from September, and a similar increase from manufacturing, which would have left industrial and manufacturing output up 1.8% and 3.2% respectively.  Instead, the drop leaves industrial production up just 1.1% year-on-year, and manufacturing up only 1.7%. This is one of the earliest signs of how the economy is performing in the fourth quarter of the year, and it's not good so far. Growth in manufacturing has been a lot weaker than the services sector. Output is still well below 2008 levels, as the Office for National Statistics shows:  ONS FREE AppDownload
TheRealMichaelMoore / FlickrTesco shares are crumbling today, down more than 15% at the open, hitting lows not seen for at least ten years. The share price hasn't closed below 160p since the millennium. As of 11:30 a.m. GMT, the share price is at 168.90p, down 10.% from yesterday's close. That's barely half of what it was at the beginning of the year. Tesco issued a profit warning today that sparked the renewed sell-off: In our interim results on 23 October we highlighted that full year profitability would be impacted by actions we may choose to take and that the commercial income overstatement would affect second half results as we revisited our plans with the new management team... On the basis of the changes and investments made to date we now anticipate group trading profit for the financial year ending February 2015 will not exceed £1.4billion. As of November 21, Tesco published analyst expectations for its profit in the year ending February 2015 which are considerably higher. In fact, the lowest analyst estimate still ran to £1.8 billion. This is probably an unavoidable clean-up effort. Tesco has struggled to manage its top spot as the UK's biggest retailer (and the world's second biggest), and an enormous provide overstatementhas worsened its structural issues. The gaffe meant Tesco had to revise its profit before tax for the first half of the year down by more than 90%. An investigation was called and many senior executives were suspended. Here's Mike van Dulken at Accendo Markets, offering his take in a note: Stop! Unidentified item in the bagging areas! While it’s slogan may be ‘every little helps’, Tesco’s decision to take the rule-of-three a step further with another profits warning is no laughing matter or more satisfying/effective for loyal and battered shareholders. While new CEO Dave Lewis and his team may be taking all the right steps to restore confidence in the UK’s biggest grocer by market share after its accounting troubles of late and trying to keep the continually gaining cut-price competition at bay, the short-term impacts on profitability are being punished mercilessly  Tesco's problems might be a long-term issue, but this particular correction seems to be about a short-term shortfall in profits, even if the painful adjustment is necessary. FREE AppDownload
Chinese stocks just saw a colossal sell-off late in trading, sending the Shanghai Composite index from a small increase to a 5.43% crash, the biggest in five years. Here's how it looked: Bloomberg, Business Insider That has not done much to dent the meteoric rise of Shanghai's stock market, which is still up by 39.47% since January. But such rapid slumps will most likely be raising a few eyebrows. Only Monday, Shanghai stocks were being sent through the roof by some abysmal trade numbers. The stock exchange is setting record trading volumes, and it's extremely choppy. Analysts have noticed that Shanghai's boom is consistent with the same story we've seen before in China: as valuations climb, retail investors pile in and prices surge even further. "China’s retail investors have an unfortunate track record of jumping in at the top of the market," according to Bloomberg's Tom Orlik, while Bespoke Investment group note that the explosion in Shanghai equities has coincided almost exactly with a big jump in the number of Chinese brokerage accounts being opened. So it's no surprise that Chinese regulators are already warning investors about the sharp rally. Below is a look at the meteoric rise of the Shanghai Composite in 2014. Bloomberg.com   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dmitry Lovetsky/PoolRussia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin looks on during a visit to the Solitaire construction ship in the Gulf of Finland, some 200 km (124 miles) west of St.Petersburg, September 20, 2010. KIEV (Reuters) - Russia resumed gas flows to Ukraine on Tuesday after halting them six months ago in a dispute over prices and unpaid debts, Ukraine's gas transport monopoly said. "Ukraine has started receiving Russian gas. The volume of imports is around 43.5 million cubic meters per day," Ukrtransgaz spokesman Maxim Belyavsky said. Supplies will flow via the northern Belarussian pipeline of Mozyrand the eastern Sudzha route, he added. The ex-Soviet republic consumes about 200 million cubic meters on average per day during the winter. Without Russian gas and short of coal because separatist violence has disrupted domestic coal mining, Ukraine has been forced to introduce widespread power cuts. With relations poor because of the fighting in Ukraine's east, Russia had insisted that Ukraine pay upfront for renewed supplies over the winter, under an interim agreement in October. Cash-strapped Ukraine delayed for as long as possible but after a cold snap that sent temperatures plummeting below freezing, Ukrainian state energy firm Naftogaz transferred a $378 million prepayment to Russia's Gazprom to buy 1 billion cubic meters (bcm) of Russian gas in December. Ukraine's gas reserves have fallen by more than 20 percent since October to 13.3 bcm as of Dec. 6. Gazprom confirmed in a statement that gas shipments had resumed to Ukraine from 0700 GMT. Gas payments to Russia and efforts to support the struggling hryvnia currency have forced Ukraine to draw deeply on foreign currency reserves, which have fallen to a 10-year low. The depleted state of central bank coffers means the International Monetary Fund may need to ramp up an ongoing $17 billion bailout program. An IMF mission was to visit Kiev on Tuesday to start a fresh round of talks with the new government, which has pledged to introduce a broad range of reforms including to the gas sector, in exchange for international financing. (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk and Alessandra Prentice; Writing by Alessandra Prentice and Richard Balmforth; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Benchmark Brent crude slipped to its lowest in five years on Tuesday, dropping below $66 a barrel after plunging more than 4% the day before on worries over a deepening supply glut. The chief executive of Kuwait's national oil company on Monday said oil prices were likely to remain around $65 a barrel for the next six or seven months, the latest indication that Gulf producers were ready to ride out plunging prices. Brent has fallen over 40% since June with losses deepening in late November after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries decided not to cut its output target. Since then, the top oil exporter Saudi Arabia has reduced its monthly prices for crude it sells to the US and Asia, a move that analysts say shows it is stepping up its battle for market share. "Short-term sentiment is to remain weak for crude oil given the oversupply expected in 2015 and leveraged funds still have further selling to do before fund positioning returns to neutral," ANZ analysts said in a note. Brent crude for January delivery was down 43 cents at $65.76 at 9:57 p.m. ET on Tuesday — its lowest since October 2009. On Monday, Brent dropped $2.88, over 4%, to settle at $66.19 a barrel — its third-largest one-day percentage loss this year. US crude fell 52 cents to $62.52 a barrel on Tuesday morning, after briefly hitting $62.25 — the lowest since July 2009. It dropped 4.2%, or $2.79, to end at $63.05 on Monday. It is unclear how soon the price slump will slow the US shale boom. The number of onshore rigs drilling for crude oil remains relatively high, and new US projections released Monday showed production from the big three US shale plays should carry on growing at over 100,000 barrels per day into January. However, many companies are already starting to make deep cuts to spending for next year. Conoco said on Monday it would slash spending by 20%, or $3 billion, the biggest reduction announced so far by US drillers. Asian markets were mostly in the red Tuesday morning while the US dollar began to edge higher once again aided by a media report the Federal Reserve might take a rhetorical step toward tightening at its meeting next week. (Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
NASA/JPL-Caltech/ESA/DLR/FU Berlin/MSSSThis illustration depicts a lake of water partially filling Mars' Gale Crater, receiving runoff from snow melting on the crater's northern rim.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. A World Health Organisation report released Tuesday showed that malaria deaths dropped by 47% worldwide compared with 2000, but it contained a warning that Ebola could worsen in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.  2. Hong Kong authorities are preparing to clear the city's main pro-democracy protest next to government headquarters, following a court order requested by a local bus company.  3. NASA's Curiosity rover has found stronger evidence that Mars supported life more than 3 billion years ago after the six-wheeled robot observed sedimentary deposits that suggest Gale Crater once held lakes, streams, and deltas.  4. Brent crude on Tuesday fell to its lowest in five years, slipping below $66 a barrel on fears of oversupply. 5. The human rights group Amnesty International accused the Israeli military of committing war crimes against the people of Gaza during a nearly two-month war this summer.  6. The International Olympic Committee on Monday approved the largest reforms package in decades. Among some of the most significant changes, it calls for the launch of a TV channel and would allow the Games to be hosted by two countries in extreme circumstances.  7. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras on Monday called a snap presidential election, pushing the vote forward by two months to Dec. 17 in a move to “prevent the opposition from undermining Greece’s economy," a government spokesman said.  8. Many former Sony Pictures employees are furious with the studio for not offering enough protection after more than 40,000 Social Security numbers, as well as other confidential documents, were leaked online following a massive hack.  9. Apple has named the best iPhone apps of the year, with Elevate, an app designed to train your brain and increase your memory, taking the top spot. 10. A report released Monday suggests that the historic three-year drought in California is the result of natural conditions and not global warming caused by man-made greenhouse gas emissions.  And finally ... General Mills is bringing back French Toast Crunch, a sugary corn cereal that was pulled from US supermarket shelves in 2006 but remained on sale in Canada. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown behind security barriers in WashingtonBy Peter Rudegeair NEW YORK (Reuters) - Executives at the biggest U.S. banks are sharing notes with each other before their next round of tests with federal regulators. Banks are struggling to figure out what exactly the U.S. Federal Reserve is looking for when it conducts its annual "stress tests," which measure how banks will hold up during times of economic turmoil, bank executives, former Fed officials and consultants involved in the process told Reuters. In gatherings organized by industry groups as well as more informal forums, executives say they have swapped tips about everything from how to best communicate their data – regulators evidently appreciate robust summaries -- to how to project legal losses in a hypothetical downturn. The Federal Reserve deliberately keeps quiet about how it measures lenders' performance during downturns, to prevent banks from finding loopholes in the process that would allow them to take more risk, senior regulators have said publicly. It has given banks a little more information recently, but many executives still gripe about the tests. "You put something in and one year it's okay and the next year they say 'no,' and you're scratching your head," said one bank executive. The executive, like others that spoke to Reuters, spoke about the stress tests on the condition of anonymity. A few years ago, banks might have hesitated to share information with rivals about how they measure risk and how they communicate with the Federal Reserve. Their willingness to talk to competitors about these issues underscores just how exasperated they are with the process. The Fed does not mind the information sharing, because the banks do not share confidential supervisory information and it is not collusion in any legal sense - it does not result in price fixing or evidently hurt customers in any other way, the executive said. A Fed spokesman declined to comment. Regulators have multiple tools for keeping banks in check, including global capital rules known as "Basel III," which rule-makers world-wide have been crafting for years. But Basel III is viewed by the Fed as flawed, because it gives so much leeway to banks to measure how risky certain assets are. The Federal Reserve has more control over the stress test process, which is part of its annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. Many analysts believe the Fed will not hesitate to use stress tests to pressure banks to make their balance sheets safer.   "The Fed will likely use the CCAR process as a way to help drive capital requirements even higher for the largest U.S. banks," said Steven Chubak, a bank analyst at Nomura. As part of the CCAR process, the Fed lists a series of bad scenarios for the financial sector - for example, U.S. economic activity shrinking by 4.25 percent over nine future quarters and unemployment spiking to 11.25 percent, and banks estimate how much their assets will deteriorate in those scenarios. They submit reports that run into the thousands of pages to regulators who then make their own estimates for how banks would perform using Federal Reserve models. If the Fed does not like what it sees, the bank cannot increase dividends to shareholders or buy back more stock.     A WIDE GAP What irks banks is that their stress test results and the Fed's are often far apart, and regulators give little information about how or why they disagree. For instance, in 2014 Zions Bancorporation,  a Salt Lake City, Utah-based bank with $55 billion of assets, said its assessment showed it passed the stress tests: in a hypothetical downturn, it would have capital equal to about 5.9 percent of its assets, above the Fed's 5.0 percent threshold. But the Fed ruled Zions's capital ratio would fall to 3.6 percent in its scenario and issued a failing grade. Executives also complain that strong capital levels are often not enough: well-capitalized banks can still be prohibited from paying out more dividends for "qualitative" reasons, such as a flaw in its capital planning process. Banks including Citigroup Inc , BB&amp;T Corp  and Ally Financial Inc  have failed the qualitative portion of the stress tests in recent years. To combat the opacity, banks have met in forums hosted by the Clearing House, a trade group for big U.S. commercial and retail banks, the American Bankers' Association, and at other informal venues. Among the problems they have discussed is how to effectively write their reports, which must contain detailed information on the mathematical models they employ as well as a narrative piece that describes a lot of the methods that banks used to arrive at their conclusions. Executives say it is a challenge to produce a document that clearly and concisely explains everything to Fed modelers and examiners who may be unfamiliar with individual institutions. One senior executive at a large U.S. bank involved in the stress-test process said one thing the Fed pays close attention to is the changes a bank made since the last submission. Instead of describing those changes in an appendix, the executive has learned the Fed preferred it to be addressed at the beginning of the document. The executive added that given that the Fed has a limited period of time to review submissions, examiners have told other banks that they prefer to see a more detailed executive summary. The Fed itself has taken some steps to help banks get a better sense of its expectations on the qualitative portion of the stress tests and how banks should organize their information - its October instructions for the 2015 stress test included a section on their preferential format. The instructions also contained a "common themes" appendix that explained issues the Fed was looking closely at, such as if assumptions banks used to estimate losses are clearly articulated and how banks account for potential limitations and weaknesses in the models they use. But some executives say that the more specific information about what it is looking for is not helpful if the Fed does not detail how it reached its conclusions. "We've had a lot of conversations about methodologies and the approach to transparency in the CCAR process that have been more of a concern," said Chris Halmy, finance chief of Ally Financial Inc , in an October interview. Ally has been seeking clarity "less about instructions and more about the feedback," Halmy said.  Another unresolved issue that banks have been powwowing about is how to estimate legal losses nine quarters into the future. In its common themes appendix, the Fed faulted many banks' projections and said they needed to take into account "possible claims of all types." Legal losses are notoriously difficult to forecast. Without any more specifics about what the Fed wants banks to incorporate into their forecasts, it is a struggle to produce a result that will satisfy regulators, said one consultant that does stress-testing work for large banks. "No one really knows what the Fed is looking for" with respect to potential legal losses, the consultant said. "There may be some objections to capital plans next year as a result."  (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair, editing by Dan Wilchins and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
