AP PhotoChef Danny Meyer — of Shake Shack, Gramercy Tavern, and The Modern fame — is being forced to move his flagship restaurant, Union Square Cafe, out of its now-hip namesake home, says The New York Times. Yes, the restaurant does have NYC culinary landmark status, but that still doesn't save it from the same problem plaguing establishments all over Manhattan — the rent is too damn high. The space that Meyer rented out for $8 per square foot, or $43,000 a year, in the mid-'80s is now going for $650,000. Meyer says that increase, combined withe renovations it needs to maintain the quality of the entire experience, makes it impossible for him to stay. Plus, Meyer doesn't believe in taking money from one restaurant to sustain another (i.e. taking Shake Shack money to prop up Union Square Cafe). His model is that if an establishment can't stand on its own, it can't thrive. So what model is working? The same one New Yorkers have been seeing restaurants and clubs take on since the financial crisis and even before. Many are finding homes within hotels, malls, apartment buildings, and the like that offer restaurants and clubs lower rent because they draw in foot traffic. Meyer first rented the space from the current owner, Ari Ellis', father. The younger Ellis, for his part, thinks it's better for both parties if they part ways. "There are landlords out there willing to do back flips to get a Danny Meyer restaurant," he told the NYT. Later adding: "A Shake Shack could do very well in that space." For the full story (with some choice quotes from Chef Bobby Flay) head to the NYT&gt; FREE AppDownload
We recently discussed what kids entering college should consider majoring in given the state of the jobs market.  We may have made this unnecessarily complicated, because a chart we posted this morning shows the answer is really a no-brainer. There's really only one industry in which you're guaranteed of earning a pretty respectable wage no matter what specific occupation you choose: medicine. Nine of the top 10 best-paid positions in the U.S. tracked by the BLS are all in the field, and there are 17 occupations where the mean wage is above six figures. Here's the rundown: UCanDoEat/reddit UCanDoEat/reddit  Note: These are different from some health-related support occupations, which are way down there — almost half make less than $30,000. UCanDoEat/reddit Basically, if you're going into anything but medicine, you'd better be the best in your field at it. FREE AppDownload
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderI've been Business Insider's managing editor for almost four years now. Since we're a fast-growing company, we're constantly looking for new talent, from interns to site leads. Between career fairs, coffees, and in-office interviews, I've interviewed hundreds of people. Most candidates come prepared — but many don't. Each one of these warnings comes from real life experiences I've had while conducting interviews at Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
This symbol first showed up in the 1770s, appearing in documents of English-Americans who had business dealings with Spanish-Americans.  However, it wasn’t until the very early 1800s that it became popularized, around the same time as the first official U.S. dollars were being minted.  Previous to this, the symbol had already been in use as an abbreviation for names of Spanish currency, namely as an abbreviation for the Spanish peso “p”. So how do you get from a “p” to the dollar sign, “$”?  When writing financial documents referring to pesos, it was common to abbreviate the peso, for instance, “1 peso” to “1 p”.  However, when pluralized, as in “1000 pesos”, it becomes “ps“. When writing up financial documents and having to write “ps” numerous times, it started to become common among the English-American colonists to merge the “p” and the super scripted “s” as one.  The top half of this symbol then produces something looking very much like a double vertical lined dollar sign. In an even further bout of laziness, it became common among the English-American colonists to write the “p” with just one downward stroke vertically slashing the “s”, thus the ‘$’.  In some of the earliest documents containing this short hand, it was common to see both the double slashed version as well as the single slashed version in the same document, referring to the same thing, the Spanish peso. How then did this symbol that originally denoted pesos spread to also denote the U.S. dollar?  Around the same time the U.S. was minting its first dollar coins, in 1792, Spanish currency was extensively circulated in the U.S. and around the world.  In large part due to this, the U.S. chose to design the U.S. dollar coins to duplicate the Spanish coins, in terms of matching the material and weight, hence value (at the time, the coins were made of silver and valued after the price of silver).  Doing this allowed the U.S. coin to be exchanged for a peso in a 1 to 1 exchange.  Thus, it was natural to use the same symbol to denote the U.S. dollar as was used for the Spanish peso. FREE AppDownload
AP Hecto-millionaire Nick Hanauer is at it again. One of the country's most successful entrepreneurs and investors, Hanauer is on a mission to teach his fellow 1%-ers how the economy actually works — how jobs are actually created, how a higher minimum wage would actually help, and how the crazy "trickle-down nonsense" parroted by the ruling class is creating record inequality and actually crippling the economy. As Hanauer points out in a new essay in POLITCO, "The Pitchforks Are Coming...For Us Plutocrats," the problem with our economy is that the once-powerful middle class has been impoverished by decades of cost cuts and wage stagnation, while Hanauer and his friends have captured an ever-greater percentage of the country's income. Unlike Hanauer and other 1%-ers, middle class people spend almost every penny they make, and this spending becomes revenue for companies started and owned by people like Hanauer. But right now, thanks to shortsighted greed, wages are at record lows as a percent of the economy, and the middle class is hurting. And that hurt, in turn, is holding back the revenue growth of companies owned by Hanauer. Unlike most successful entrepreneurs and investors, Hanauer understands that his success is in large part the result of having been born in the right place at the right time. Had he been born in Africa, Hanauer points out — where the potential customers for his entrepreneurial efforts would have barely enough money to survive — Hanauer would likely be selling fruit by the side of the road. And so would the rest of his rich, successful entrepreneur and investor friends. Happily, Hanauer was born in America, land of the (formerly) well-off middle class, so he was able to build and invest in companies whose customers could afford to buy their products. And the buying power of that affluent middle class made Hanauer's companies prosper and his family rich. To anyone reared on the political orthodoxy of the moment — "rich people create the jobs," "higher wages cause higher unemployment," etc. — Hanauer's views sound like lunacy. But they're just common sense. Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages as a percent of GDP are at an all-time low.Take that first phrase, the one that has been repeated so often that people regard it as fact: "Rich people create the jobs." By starting and directing America's companies, this story goes, entrepreneurs and rich investors create the jobs that sustain everyone else. But entrepreneurs and investors like Hanauer (and I) actually don't create jobs — not sustainable ones, anyway. Yes, we create jobs temporarily, by starting companies and funding losses for a while. And, yes, we are a necessary part of the economy's job-creation engine. But to suggest that we alone are responsible for the jobs that sustain the other 300 million Americans is the height of self-importance and delusion. So, if rich people don't create the jobs, what does? A healthy economic ecosystem — one in which most participants (especially the middle class) have plenty of money to spend. This ecosystem starts with the company's customers. The company's customers buy the company's products. This, in turn, channels money to the company and allows the company to hire employees to produce, sell, and service those products. If the company's customers and potential customers go broke, the demand for the company's products will collapse. And the company's jobs will disappear, regardless of what the entrepreneurs or investors do. Yes, entrepreneurs are an important part of the company-creation process. And, yes, so are investors, who risk capital in the hope of earning returns. But, ultimately, whether a new company continues growing and creates self-sustaining jobs is a function of the company's customers' ability to pay for the company's products, not the entrepreneur's vision or risk-tolerance or the investor's capital.  Saying "rich people create the jobs" is like saying that seeds create trees. Seeds do not create trees. Seeds start  trees. But what actually grows and sustains trees is the combination of the DNA in the seed and the soil, sunshine, water, atmosphere, nutrients, and other factors in the environment that nurture them. If you think seeds create trees, try planting seeds in an inhospitable environment. Plant a seed in a desert or on Mars, and the seed won't create anything. It will die. So, then, if what creates the jobs in our economy is, in part, our companies' customers, who are these customers? And what can we do to make sure these customers have more money to spend to create demand and, thus, jobs? The customers of most companies are ultimately American's gigantic middle class — the hundreds of millions of Americans who currently take home a much smaller share of the national income than they did 30 years ago, before tax policy aimed at helping rich people get richer created an extreme of income and wealth inequality not seen since the 1920s. She'd like to create jobs. But she can't afford to anymore. Click to see how extreme inequality has gotten.America's middle class has been pummeled, in part, by tax policies that reward "the 1%" at the expense of everyone else.  It has also been pummeled by globalization and technology improvements, which are largely outside of any one country's control. And, most importantly, it has been pummeled by our corporate obsession with short-term profits—by a prevailing business ethos in which employees are viewed as "costs" and companies strive to pay as little in wages as possible. The economic story that justifies this behavior is the "trickle down" theory. Eventually, the mountains of money America's owners make, will get spent and, thus, find its way to the middle class ... Unfortunately, that's not the way it actually works. America's richest entrepreneurs, investors, and companies now have so much money that they can't possibly spend it all. So instead of getting pumped back into the economy, thus creating revenue and wages, this cash just remains in investment accounts. Hanauer explains: I earn about 1,000 times the median American annually, but I don’t buy thousands of times more stuff. My family purchased three cars over the past few years, not 3,000. I buy a few pairs of pants and a few shirts a year, just like most American men. I bought two pairs of the fancy wool pants I am wearing as I write, what my partner Mike calls my “manager pants.” I guess I could have bought 1,000 pairs. But why would I? Instead, I sock my extra money away in savings, where it doesn’t do the country much good. If $9 million out of Hanauer's $10 million of annual earnings went to 9,000 families instead of Hanauer, Hanauer has pointed out, it would get pumped back into the economy via consumption. And, in so doing, it would create more jobs. Instead, it sits in Hanauer's bank account or gets invested in companies that don't have enough well-off potential customers to sell to. Hanauer estimates that, if most American families were taking home the same share of the national income that they were taking home 30 years ago, every family would have another $10,000 of disposable income to spend. That, Hanauer points out, would have a huge impact on demand — and, thereby job creation. So, if nothing else, it's time we stopped perpetuating the fiction that "rich people create the jobs." Rich people don't create the jobs. Our economy creates jobs. We're all in this together. And until we understand that, our economy is going to struggle. SEE ALSO: "The Pitchforks Are Coming... For Us Plutocrats"   FREE AppDownload
Microsoft founder Bill Gates is probably the most famous billionaire college dropout. He's often held up as a shining example that you don't need to graduate from college to be successful. And it is true there are many successful college dropouts. But even Gates explained: "It is strange to call me a college dropout in all but the most literal sense. I went for three years and took enough courses to graduate." He also scored 1590 out of 1600 on the SAT, which is probably why he was admitted to not just any college, but Harvard University.  While we like to tell the dropout-turned-billionaire story, most people in powerful positions graduated from college — and not only that, highly elite colleges.  Here are just a few examples: Billionaire Amazon founder Jeff Bezos graduated from Princeton University; Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer earned undergraduate and graduate degrees from Stanford University; and Ben Bernanke, former chair of the Federal Reserve, got undergraduate and graduate degrees from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from MIT.  In a recent research study titled "Investigating The World's Rich And Powerful," I examined the education level of three groups of global elites: billionaires (people in the top 0.0000001% of wealth), the people who attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, and the world's most powerful men and women according to Forbes magazine. The total sample size included over 4,000 global elites.  In the graphs that follow, black bars indicate the percentage that attended an elite school, which were those schools that appear at the top of the U.S. News &amp; World Report rankings and the QS World University rankings. (See this paper and this paper for the full list of schools considered elite.) Dark gray bars indicate the percentage that attended graduate school, independent of the elite school category. Brown bars indicate the percentage independent of the first two categories that attended college. And finally, light gray bars indicate the percentage that did "not report" or had "no college." Jonathan WaiCollege attendance of the global elite. Overall for the global elite, the majority of each of these groups attended and graduated from college, and a very high percentage attended elite schools. Powerful men (92.4%), women (91.0%), and Davos attendees (90.5%) had higher college attendance than billionaires (71.1%).  To give a sense of the over-representation of people in these groups who went to elite schools, in the U.S. 44.8% of billionaires, 85.2% of powerful men, 55.9% of powerful women, and 63.7% of Davos attendees went to elite schools. Based on census and college data, I estimate that only about 2% to 5% of all U.S. undergraduates went to one of these elite schools. That makes 44.8% to 85.2% well above base-rate expectations.  An interesting story emerges when the data is examined by country. Billionaires are represented in the top graph, and Davos attendees in the bottom graph below.  Jonathan Wai College attendance of billionaires by country. Jonathan Wai College attendance of Davos attendees by country. Elite school education appears especially important in the U.S. compared to other countries. There are, of course, exceptions. David Abney was recently named the new CEO of UPS. He attended Delta State University, a relatively unknown school, rather than a brand name college.  I wondered how common it is for a Fortune 500 CEO to have an elite school vs. a state school on their resume, as well as how much it's changed over time. To address this question, I examined the proportion of Fortune 500 CEOs who attended an elite school from 1996 to 2014, represented below. Jonathan WaiCollege attendance of Fortune 500 CEOs over time. It turns out that roughly 38% of CEOs have attended elite colleges for the last two decades. This shows the remarkable consistency of the selectivity of higher education in the backgrounds of some of the most influential business leaders.  At a time when plenty of high-profile people are arguing that college is less and less necessary — Yale graduate David Leonhardt of the New York Times argued on The Upshot that "there is still scant evidence that the selectivity of the college one attends matters much," and Stanford graduate and billionaire Peter Thiel has advised "don't go to college" — the opposite seems to be true.  A degree from a highly selective college appears to be part of the trajectory of those people who are now billionaires, World Economic Forum attendees, the most powerful, and Fortune 500 CEOs.  So why is attending a brand name school so common among the global rich and powerful?  One could argue that, especially for billionaires, many of these people got a leg up in college admissions due to their parent's wealth and influence. However, even among self-made billionaires, the percentage attending elite schools was not much different. Still, it is hard to completely rule out the possibility that this trend is, in part, about money and elite college attendance as a symbol of status for the ruling class.  Alternatively, it could be that many of the smartest people end up attending elite schools due to their high standardized test scores and other academic metrics. Maybe it's not elite college attendance that matters as much as the personal traits they had before they even went to college. Following that theory, whether David Abney went to a state school or an elite school, perhaps he still would have risen to the top spot at UPS because of who he is.  Or it might be that the power of the networks, brand name, and quality of education that come with elite school attendance is why so many of these people ended up in such positions of influence.  Like most things, it's probably a combination of all these factors, in different measure for different people. It is without question that at least for the people who currently control a disproportionate share of the world's wealth and power, a college education — and specifically an elite college education — appears important in some way.  Perhaps in the future a college education may not be as important. However, this data should give pause to anyone who thinks that not going to college is a good idea. College dropouts who rule the world are exceptions, not the rule.  If you want to become one of the global elite, you should probably attend college. And to increase your chances even more, a brand name college wouldn't hurt. Jonathan Wai, Ph.D., is a psychologist, writer, and research scientist at the Duke University Talent Identification Program and an expert on multiple issues surrounding the development of intellectual and creative talent. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, or G+. Read his blog Finding the Next Einstein: Why Smart is Relative. © 2014 by Jonathan Wai. FREE AppDownload
Nest Seekers InternationalThree units in the Ritz Carlton Battery Park are selling as one penthouse apartment for $118.5 million, making it the most expensive listing in New York City, according to the Wall Street Journal.  The massive penthouse takes up the top two floors of the Ritz Carlton and has indoor space totaling 15,434 square feet, as well as 2,193 square feet of terrace. The three units are not yet combined, but cannot be purchased separately, according to the Journal. The Journal reports that one of the three apartments is owned by Gary Segal of Five Star Electric in Ozone Park. It was on the market last year for $56.5 million before being taken off. The second of the three apartments is a three-bedroom unit also owned by Segal.  The final apartment is a four-bedroom, five-bathroom unit owned by financier Randall Yanker. It was listed earlier this year for $23 million, then was taken off the market shortly after its price was lowered to $19 million. Even if this combined penthouse doesn't sell for its exact asking price, there's a good chance it will become the most expensive home ever sold in New York. A mansion at 15 Central Park West currently holds the record at $88 million. Ryan Serhant of Nest Seekers International is the listing agent for this property.
From the man who bought you "the shortest economic textbook in the world"; and "13 things Economists won't tell you", here is Ha-Joon Chang's ultimate pocket guide to the differences (and similarities) between all the economic schools of thought. As Chang discusses in his new book, Despite what the experts want you to believe, there is more than one way of ‘doing’ economics People have been led to believe that, like physics or chemistry, economics is a ‘science’, in which there is only one correct answer to everything; thus non-experts should simply accept the ‘professional consensus’ and stop thinking about it. Contrary to what most economists would have you believe, there isn’t just one kind of economics – Neoclassical economics. In fact there are no less than nine different kinds, or schools, as they are often known. And none of these schools can claim superiority over others and still less monopoly over truth. I accept that being suddenly asked to taste nine different flavours of ice cream when you had thought that there was only one plain vanilla can be quite overwhelming. In order to help, the simple table below should help you overcome your initial fear. (Click image for large legible version) The Little Blue Book Via The Little Blue Book
Getty Images/ Hong WuNicola PeltzThe daughter of billionaire activist investor Nelson Peltz, the founder of Trian Fund Management, is starring in the latest Transformers movie.  Nicola Peltz, 19, plays Mark Wahlberg's daughter Tessa Yeager in Transformers: Age of Extinction. She said the role reminds her of her relationship with her real father.  "I love the human element of this film," Peltz said in an interview recently posted on YouTube. "My favorite part of the whole movie, you know, having to do with my character is the father/daughter relationship because I'm so close with my dad. I think it's so important to have a strong dad."  Peltz has had roles on television show Bates Motel and the movie The Last Airbender. She definitely seems like a promising young actress. She's also not the only one in Hollywood in the Peltz family. Her brother William Peltz is also an actor.  The film comes out on June 27th.  [via NY Daily News] Check out the trailer and interview below:    FREE AppDownload
YouTube/MITNewsOfficeDespite record student debt, the benefits of a college degree still outweigh the costs, according to a new report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But the real message to students — especially if you are borrowing is: stay in school. The study, published by Jaison Abel and Richard Deitz, found that the return on a college degree has remained at 15%. (As a point of comparison, Abel and Deitz note that since 1950, investing in stocks or bonds have yielded annual returns of 7% and 3%, respectively.) And though college graduates now make less on an inflation-adjusted basis than they did a decade ago, wages have fallen for all workers regardless of their level of education. In short, you get about as much of a leg up, wage wise, now as you did a decade ago. Federal Reserve Bank of New York Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz also find that "net tuition," which they compute as the "sticker price" of attending college minus the aid students receive that doesn't need to be paid back, isn't rising as quickly as gross tuition numbers suggest. They find that the while "sticker price" of a bachelor's degree has increased from $4,600 per year in the 1970s to about $15,000 in 2013, "net tuition" rose from $2,300 a year in 1970 to about $6,500 per year in 2013. Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkAbel and Deitz, however, note that their findings pertain only to students who finish college. They write: "Significantly, our rate of return estimates pertain to those who complete a college degree; the estimates do not account for the risks associated with not completing the degree and dropping out of college. Indeed, while college dropouts incur at least some of the costs associated with going to college, they enjoy far fewer benefits." This message is an often overlooked part of the debate about student loan debt and the effects it will have on our economy going forward.  In addition the Fed's report, yesterday The New York Times discussed a recent study by the Brookings Institute that found debt burdens from student loans have not risen sharply. Among Brookings' findings were that the mean — or simple average — of student debt held has increased over the last decade; however, the median — or midpoint — of all debt held actually decreased from 2007-2010. In other words, there are more outliers taking on massive amounts of debt, but not enough to lift the average Brookings InstituteThe Times' piece caused a bit of a kerfuffle on the internet. Brookings fellow Matthew Chingos, one of the authors of the Brookings study, told The Times' David Leonhardt, "We are certainly not arguing that the state of the American economy and the higher education system is just great. But we do think that the data undermine the prevailing sky-is-falling-type narrative around student debt." Leonhardt also noted the problem with dropping out of college after taking out loans, writing that, "The vastly bigger problem is the hundreds of thousands of people who emerge from college with a modest amount of debt yet no degree. For them, college is akin to a house that they had to make the down payment on but can't live in." There is no denying that there are lots of students taking on lots of debt to attend college. But where some see a growing burden that will hamper the economy long-term, others see a clear message that college is still a sound investment. At the very least, finish your degree. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderMove over, millennials. Marketers are beginning to target a new crop of young people who are rapidly growing in number and influence: Generation Z.  Studies differ on the exact age range of Generation Z, but most agree they were born after 1990, which makes them the largest generational group in the U.S.  We set out to discover who they are and what they eat and buy. Here's what we found: Gen Z wants to change the world. 60% of them want to have an impact on the world, compared to 39% of millennials, according to a study by Sparks &amp; Honey, a New York-based marketing agency. Roughly one in four Generation Z-ers are involved in volunteering. Advanced college degrees are less important to them. 64% of Gen Z-ers are considering an advanced college degree, compared to 71% of millennials.  They are more entrepreneurial than millennials. 72% of high school students want to start a business someday and 61% would rather be an entrepreneur than an employee when they graduate college, according to a study by Millennial Branding, a consulting firm, and Internships.com.  They are digitally over-connected. Gen Z-ers multitask across at least five screens daily and spend 41% of their time outside of school with computers or mobile devices, compared to 22% 10 years ago, according to the Sparks &amp; Honey report. "They suffer from FOMO (fear of missing out) more than millennials, so being culturally connected is critical," researchers wrote. But they prefer to work independently. "This generation is very individualized," Dan Schawbel, the founder of Millennial Branding, told Business Insider. "While millennials seek mentors, Generation Z is more about helping themselves." They worry about the economy more than anything else, including crime, politics, their parents' job security, politics, or the cost of goods. This chart details some of their interests:    Sparks & Honey They prefer home-cooked foods over processed, ready-to-eat meals such as cold cereal, according to a study by The NPD Group. They aren't big fans of microwaves and would rather use a stove top or oven to prepare meals. Salad consumption is expected to increase the most among Gen Z-ers over the next five years, followed by sandwiches and breakfast foods that require some cooking, such as eggs and pancakes. Gen Z-ers spend more money on food and drinks than anything else, and their favorite eatery is Starbucks, according to Piper Jaffray's most recent semiannual survey of teens. Nike is their top clothing brand, followed by Forever 21, Action Sports Brands, American Eagle, and Polo Ralph Lauren. They are less active. 66% of kids ages six to 11 say online gaming is their main source of entertainment, according to the Sparks &amp; Honey report. On a related note, teen obesity has tripled between 1971 and 2010. They lack brand loyalty. "The products themselves are more important to Generation Z than the brands that produce them, and these consumers will change brands easily in search of higher quality," according to Arkansas-based marketing agency Martin-Wilbourne Partners. Gen Z-ers are close with their families. "Their parents have a lot of control over the decisions that they make," Schawbel said. "Their influence is huge and plays into every aspect of their lives." Many of them are also living in multi-generational homes, as Baby Boomers age and move in with their kids. They communicate with speed and often use emoticons and emojis instead of words. "They are accustomed to rapid-fire banter and commentary," Sparks &amp; Honey analysts wrote. "As a result, Gen Z are not precise communicators and leave a lot of room for interpretation." Here's what Sparks &amp; Honey recommends to effectively communicate with a Gen Z-er: Sparks & Honey Sparks & Honey FREE AppDownload
In April, Huang Shan, a shareholder in the Kimren Group, one of Macau's top high-roller promoters, took $1.3 billion worth of the company's money and vanished. Now Macau's entire junket funding system is facing a crisis of faith that could change the face of Asia's gambling mecca as we know it. "It's been a great ride — up until the point this $1.3 billion was stolen," says Jason Ader, founder of hedge fund SpringOwl and an investor in Macau's gaming industry. "All the sudden investors and junket operators were facing a loss, and the prospect that these returns are not guaranteed." That's when Macau had what Ader calls its "Lehman Brothers moment." To understand why this is such a shake-up, you have to understand how China's real high-rollers in Macau play. They go to VIP rooms to bet big, and those rooms are operated by junkets (the junkets can also be called VIP junket operators or VIP room promoters). The gamblers get treated like royalty, and the junkets make money from their games. Win or lose, the junkets take a cut of every wager placed in a game. That's called "rolling chip volume." In this model, investors in these junkets make 1% to 2% "guaranteed returns". Huang, the guy who made off with $1.3 billion, was guaranteeing investors an unheard of 2.5%. When Huang disappeared with all that cash, though, investors started to demand more return for their risk. Plus, there was less money flying around to host games, so there was less money being made off the gamblers. "Investors started to think — 'maybe this isn't worth all the brain damage,'" said Ader. As a result of this crisis of faith, some small-listed junket firms have taken a beating. Over the last year, one junket listed on the Nasdaq, Iao Kun Group Holding Company Limited (formerly known as Asia Entertainment &amp; Resources), is down 20%. There is, however, a bright shining light here. China's middle class is ascending and becoming a higher-margin customer for casinos. Mass-market gamblers led the charge in Macau's 20% year-over-year revenue surge last quarter. The completion of infrastructure projects like the bridge between Macau and Hong Kong and a high-speed rail connection to the mainland will ensure that more of them can go to Macau and play. So instead of Macau being a haven for gangsters and high rollers, it'll be like Las Vegas now — a city of watered-down sin with kiddie pools and Celine Dion shows. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA bitcoin sticker is seen in the window of Locali Conscious Convenience store, where one of Southern California's first two bitcoin-to-cash ATMs began operating today, in VeniceNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Marshals Service on Friday auctioned off about 30,000 bitcoins seized during a raid on Silk Road, an Internet black-market bazaar where authorities say illegal drugs and other goods could be bought. An online auction took place over a 12-hour period on Friday for the bitcoins, valued at nearly $17.7 million. It consisted of nine blocks of 3,000 bitcoins and one block of 2,657 bitcoins. The Marshals Service has said it would notify the winning bidders on Monday. A spokeswoman for the Marshals Service declined to say how many bids the office received. Among those who said they registered to participate in the auctions were SecondMarket and Bitcoin Shop Inc. &lt;BTCS.PK&gt; Silk Road was shutdown after an FBI raid in September 2013 as agents took control of its server and arrested a Texas man, Ross Ulbricht, that the authorities said owned and operated the website. The auction was for 29,655 bitcoins contained in files residing on its servers, which were forfeited in January. Chris DeMuth, a partner at Rangeley Capital who had been considering bidding, said last week the chance the Marshals Service gets the market price for the bitcoins is low. "Anyone could pay market prices on existing exchanges," he said. "So the key question is how much of a discount do bidders want." The Marshals are holding about 144,342 additional bitcoins found on computer hardware belonging to Ulbricht that were subject to a civil forfeiture proceeding. Ulbricht, 30, is scheduled to face trial Nov. 3. He has pleaded not guilty to the four counts against him, including money laundering conspiracy and engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise. U.S. authorities have separately charged three men - Andrew Jones, Gary Davis and Peter Nash - in connection with their alleged roles in assisting Ulbricht in operating Silk Road. Bitcoin prices were up 3.1 percent Friday at $597.41 per coin, according to the digital currency exchange CoinDesk.   (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Noeleen Walder and Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Philadelphia Fed This coming week we're going to get a bunch of economic data that will show whether the US economy is really taking off or not. But regardless of what it shows, we know that some parts of the economy are already VERY hot. This week the Philadelphia Fed released its map showing the economic strength of the states, measuring each one by indicators such as employment growth, wage growth, average work-week, and the unemployment. The greener the state, the stronger the data. Anyway, some parts of the US economy are VERY hot. Neal Dutta of Renaissance Macro wrote in an email to clients pointing out how fast some of the state accelerations have been: Let's run through some of the details for May. California, roughly 15% of US GDP, is up 4.1% annualized. Texas, roughly 10% of US GDP, rose 7.1% annualized. New York, which is about 8% of US GDP, is up 2.6%. The neighboring states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, about 7% of US GDP together are up 6.3% and 3.3%, respectively. As a whole, the United States rose 3.4% annualized in May and is up 3.2% so far this year. Over the last three months, about 84% of the country is in an expansion. Remember these numbers if you hear anyone continuing to talk about the weak Q1 GDP. Not only is the economy growing, some parts are already really seeing the accelerator being pressed. FREE AppDownload
Reddit user Dan Lin has uploaded a chart showing the mean wage breakdown for every profession in America tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The top wages all belong to specialized medical fields, while the ones on the bottom are all in food and hospitality. The numbers in parentheses are the mean wages, in thousands, while the different shapes show the range of salaries available in that field.  (NOTE: If you are having trouble viewing the image, click here and zoom in ») dan lin/reddit/bls   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Neil Kremer Ugh. Here's the hot new meme: It's almost time to start worrying about Washington, D.C. again and whether it will screw up the economy by risking a government shutdown. Our Brett Logiurato wrote this week about how people are talking about the risk of a government shutdown due to the fight over the Export-Import Bank, whose charter will expire this year if Congress doesn't act to renew it. The Export-Import Bank provides subsidized, federally backed loans to foreign enterprises who purchase goods made by U.S. manufacturers. The company helps a range of businesses, though from a dollar standpoint the primary beneficiaries are big exporters like Boeing and Caterpillar. And critics of the Export-Import Bank (many of whom are Tea Partiers, though there are also critics on the left) see the bank as the epitome of crony capitalism, the government serving large, well-connected corporations. Anyway, the bank isn't the only source of trouble. In a new note, Goldman warns of the depletion of the Highway Trust Fund, and what that could mean for state and local infrastructure spending. Warning, this isn't good: The federal highway program is financed out of a trust fund that takes in gasoline taxes, which are used to make payments to state governments for public transportation infrastructure projects. The highway program actually faces two deadlines: first, the program expires September 30 and must be renewed before then. However, Congress will probably need to act even sooner: gasoline taxes have not kept up with spending and the fund is expected to be depleted by August. To avoid disruption through year-end, Congress will need to transfer around $10bn from another source. However, lawmakers have not yet agreed, in either chamber, on how to finance this and time is running short. The Department of Transportation has indicated it may begin to delay payments to states for infrastructure projects if the situation has not been addressed by late July. In similar situations in the past, states have pulled back somewhat on construction spending as a result of the uncertainty, and could do so again if the issue is not resolved soon. This is awful news. State and local spending on infrastructure got decimated during the economic crisis, and it still hasn't recovered. This has represented an ongoing drag on the economy. The good news is that there are signs that it's about to turn around. A recent survey by Credit Suisse of people who sell Caterpillar equipment said that they believe public infrastructure spending has now finally "bottomed" and is ready to turn higher. If true, that would have all kinds of nice effects for the economy, both short and long term.  But now it looks like Washington, D.C. is on the verge of screwing things up all over again. FREE AppDownload
Mauirizio Pesce/flickr The Japanese government has announced measures that could indirectly pressure Tesla sales in Japan.  On Tuesday, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said his administration would begin providing additional support to the country's fuel-cell vehicle industry, as part of his overall growth plan. It's something of an unusual move, given that Japan is the world's second-largest market for plug-in vehicles.   We recently wrote about the burgeoning civil war in the renewable fuels world between charge-batteries and fuel cells. Tesla CEO Elon Musk called them "fool cells" at the company's annual meeting earlier this month.  This announcement is the latest chapter in that struggle, and it coincides with news out of Toyota that it would be releasing a Camry-sized hydrogen fuel cell in Japan for next year.  The new sedan will be priced at $69,000 (or ¥7 million) — exactly $1,000 lower than the price of a Tesla Model S. That is unlikely to have been a coincidence, according to Lisa Jerram, senior research analyst at Navigant Research. "It does seem as though they're attempting to compete in that category," she told BI, noting that the $69,000 price tag is actually lower than the $100,000 initially floated.  Japan's per-capita penetration of electric vehicles matches the U.S.'s, according to HybridCar's Jeff Cobb, and last year, Tesla was the only U.S. automaker to show at the Tokyo's Motor Show.  Despite this seeming opportunity for the California firm, plug-ins may soon face pricing pressure in Japan. Jarrem said the country has been ramping up fuel-cell production for its electric generation sector in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. The size of Abe's subsidies for fuel-cell vehicles weren't announced, but the goal is to have the sector generating 1 trillion yen ($9.8 billion) in revenue by 2030. To do so, he's set a target of bringing fuel-cell car prices down to $20,000 by 2025.  Meanwhile, in a note this week, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas confirmed that half the auto industry seems to be abandoning electric vehicles in favor of fuel-cell vehicles, the result of chicken-and-egg-esque forces of flagging demand and a half-hearted commitment to building out the necessary plug-in infrastructure. The broader goal, he says, is to get governments to respond accordingly. "We see the [fuel-cell vehicle] push as a diversionary tactic to slow down, if not completely reset, a regulatory framework scripted to support mass adoption of EVs that don’t appear ready for prime time," he wrote.  It seems to be working in Japan. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNew York Attorney General Schneiderman speaks to reporters during the New Eastcoast Arms Collectors Associates Arms Fair in Saratoga Springs in this file photoNEW YORK (Reuters) - New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, long seen as a secondary force in policing Wall Street banks, is taking the lead in what may be the most ambitious case of his career: accusing Barclays Plc of favoring its high-frequency trading clients. By making a case against the bank, Schneiderman has seized a lead role in a contentious dispute about whether high-frequency traders have turned the stock market into a rigged game that hurts regular investors. The case against Barclays could lead to investigations into other Wall Street banks and define Schneiderman's career as an attorney general, lawyers say. "It is the most important attack on practices in the market that any AG has engaged in a while," said John Moscow, a former Manhattan prosecutor who now handles white-collar defense cases. Barclays spokesman Mark Lane declined to comment on Friday. A former state senator and corporate lawyer, Schneiderman is following a well worn path for New York attorney generals - taking on Wall Street and potentially winning political capital - and could end up, like Eliot Spitzer and Andrew Cuomo before him, as the state's governor. He declined to comment for this story. Schneiderman, 59, graduated from Amherst College and earned a Harvard Law degree in 1982. He spent 15 years in corporate law, including as a partner at Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart, where he handled white-collar defense cases. He served six terms as a state senator before running for attorney general, taking that office in 20ll. Early in his tenure, Schneiderman was knocked for seeming more like the state legislator he used to be than a prosecutor. He has been less adept at grabbing headlines than Spitzer or Cuomo, and while he may have held banks accountable, he was less likely to push out ahead with cases. In 2011, in his first year as attorney general, Schneiderman accused BNY Mellon Corp &lt;BK.N&gt;, the world's largest custody bank, of overcharging pension funds on foreign currency trades, alleging the bank made $2 billion. But the civil action was hardly novel, as similar cases had already been filed in other parts of the country. He is co-chair of a state-federal task force that in 2013 settled with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; for $13 billion, with more than $600 million going to New York. The bank admitted to having routinely overstated the quality of mortgages it sold to bond investors before the housing crisis. He also is a key negotiator with Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt; over similar claims. But banks have been settling with prosecutors and investors over these matters for years. In contrast, Spitzer busted Wall Street with a $1.4 billion settlement with big banks and brokerages for urging customers to buy stocks that their analysts privately said were junk. Cuomo led a nationwide investigation into the auction-rate securities market, uncovering how the investments were marketed as safe when in reality they faced increasing liquidity risk. His investigation resulted in more than $60 billion in investor buybacks. People close to Schneiderman characterize him as patient and low-key. While Spitzer runs in Central Park in his free time and Cuomo rides a Harley Davidson motorcycle, Schneiderman practices yoga. But lawyers say that banks should not be fooled by Schneiderman's demeanor. He carries a big stick, namely the Martin Act, a New York state securities law that is powerful for prosecutors because it often does not require proof of intent to deceive. Some lawyers have criticized the law as too broad, with some saying it has been superseded by federal law. "Another bank will pay enormous fines under a law that, in my mind, no longer exists,” said defense lawyer Robert McTamaney, a critic of the law, referring to the Barclays case.   (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons This is your warning: Have a restful weekend. You're going to need a lot of energy next week. There's going to be a mountain of economic data released next week. While the first week of the month is always busy for data, there are two things that are special about next week. First, the week is condensed into four days. Friday is the July 4 holiday, so all of the data that would normally be released then will be pushed to Thursday instead. And yes, you know what that means: Jobs Thursday! Instead of getting Non-Farm Payrolls at 8:30 a.m. on Friday, we'll get it at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, July 3, which interestingly is the exact same moment that Initial Jobless Claims will be released as well. Of course, The Jobs Report is just a tiny slice of the data we're about to get next week. Other numbers include: Chicago PMI (Monday), Construction Spending (Tuesday), Auto Sales (Tuesday), ISM Manufacturing (Tuesday), The ADP Jobs Report (Wednesday), Factory Orders (Wednesday), and ISM Services (Thursday). Oh, and just to make Thursday even crazier, at the exact moment that we get Non-Farm Payrolls and Initial Claims, Mario Draghi will be starting his latest press conference. But the business of the week is only half of what will make it fun. What's really exciting is that we'll be getting top-shelf data that helps answer the crucial question: Is a serious recovery here? After the horrible first quarter, the economic data has been much stronger, and there are increasing signs of a true breakout, and even a lift up in inflation. But it's possible that the data is just a snapback from the weather, and that it will get weak again once things level off. But now we're talking about data from the middle of the summer, and theoretically these effects should have worn off. So this is the moment of truth, arguably, for the economy. These above data points should come close to answering the question: Is it for real this time, or is the economy sliding again? It's going to be fun, and of course we'll be covering all of this LIVE. FREE AppDownload
