Prayitno/FlickrPelican Hill in Newport Beach, Calif., is one of America's wealthiest neighborhoods.With its beautiful weather and booming entertainment business, Southern California is one the most desirable places to live in the U.S. No surprise, then, that it's home to some of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the country, from Beverly Hills to La Jolla. Stephen Higley, a professor emeritus of urban social geography at the University of Montevallo, recently ranked the richest neighborhoods in the U.S. based on American Community Survey 2006-2010 data.  He aggregated contiguous block groups (subdivisions of Census tracts) with a mean income over $200,000. You can read his complete methodology here. These are the wealthiest neighborhoods in Southern California, from the areas in and around Los Angeles to San Diego. These neighborhoods, while still wealthy, generally ranked lower on an overall list of the richest neighborhoods in the U.S. than the neighborhoods in the suburbs surrounding New York City. FREE AppDownload
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Berkshire Has Been Through This Before (Jeff Kimelman) This weekend, the New York Times published a story noting Berkshire Hathaway had underperformed the S&amp;P 500 in four of the past five years. The author, Jeff Sommer, warns Buffett may be entering his Michael-Jordan-on-the-Wizards phase of his career. Barron's Jeff Kimelman disagrees: "...what the article doesn't mention is that this isn't the first time that Buffett has been accused of losing his mojo. During the tech-stock boom of the mid to late 1990s, Buffett appeared out of touch for failing to invest in many tech names that were leading the market. He responded at the time that he didn't invest in things that he didn't understand. Of course, the Luddite would get the last laugh when many of those stocks cratered and he began beating his benchmark in the next decade. And who is willing to bet that Buffett might not have at least one more five-year period of successful outperformance left in him?" Risk-On Is A Go (Josh Brown) Josh Brown links to data compiled by Barron's Ben Levinsohn showing that in the four weeks ended Thursday, equity funds saw average inflows of $5.8 billion, and taxable bond funds had $3.8 billions in inflows. Munis and money market funds, meanwhile, lost $44 million and $11.5 billion, respectively. Brown: "It’s not so much a 'rotation; from bonds to stocks as it is a vote of confidence for the economic recovery. Over the last 30 days investors showed a clear preference for corporate stocks and bonds – and a continued distaste for the safety of treasury-holding money markets and local government-backed muni bonds funds." US Equities Losing Global Market Share (Bespoke) Here's a chart from Bespoke showing a heatmap for gains and losses in global share of equity market cap since the NASDAQ started retreating March 20. During this period, the U.S. has lost more than 1%. No other country comes even close in the lost column. The biggest gainers? Hong Kong, Brazil, and India. Bespoke  Everyone Is Changing Advisers (Wall Street Journal)  Data show the client retention rate among advisers declined two percentage points in 2013 to 90%, with largest decrease in annual retention rates occurred among households with $1 million or more. Patrick Kennedy of PriceMatrix says this shows everyone is shifting advisers at a higher rate than usual. "when markets are sort of significantly or anomalously down or up, it may be driving higher rates of attrition," he told WSJ's Daisy Maxey.  Are Buybacks Just A Way For Management To Meet Stock Performance Goals? (Fortune) 86% of firms on the S&amp;P 500 engaged in share buybacks last year, data from Behind The Numbers' Will Becker show. Becker also found a tendency among firms to do buy-backs when stocks are overvalued. He thus accuses some companies of using buybacks merely looking to meet stock performance goals. He fingers Pfizer in particular: "Looking at PFE's annual incentive program, a pool is funded based on the company's performance on three financial metrics: total revenue, adjusted diluted earnings per share and cash flow from operations ... largely with the aid of its record share repurchase activity, PFE managed to exceed the 2013 target goal fro adjusted diluted EPS, while producing slightly below-target performance for its revenue and cash flow metrics."   FREE AppDownload
Good morning, and welcome to Tuesday. Here’s what you need to know: Australia’s trade deal with Japan, announced last night, is expected to be ratified by the respective parliaments by the end of the year. It’s the first time Japan has agreed to reduce beef tariffs for any other country; they will fall from the current 38.5% to 19.5%. The price of imported Japanese electronic goods and cars will fall quickly in Australia with the removal of import duties, including the 5% on cars. Dairy is a big winner; cheese exports are already $372 million a year on 27,000 tonnes of sales covered by a global quota of imports to Japan. There will be an Australia-only increase of 20,000 tonnes. (It’s a case ofblessed are the cheesemakers, though it doesn’t necessarily extend to all manufacturers of dairy products.) Other notable provisions include more transferability of financial and legal advisory services between Japan and Australia, and the trigger point for an investment by a private Japanese company being referred to Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board increases from $248 million to just over $1 billion. The sell-off continued in the US markets overnight with tech stocks hardest-hit again. The major indices were all down 1% or more, and the NASDAQ was down has now had its biggest three-day slide since 2011, is down almost 7% from its recent highs. ASX futures are pointing to a softer open; Australian technology-related stocks were hit hard yesterday and there’ll be a lot of attention on the sector again today. We get the NAB business survey at 11.30am AEST which traders will be watching closely to see if last month’s poor number was an outlier. Looking across Asia, the Nikkei is looking weak technically and is down for the third day in a row losing another 1.69% in trade yesterday. At times like these when risk goes a little off the Yen strengthens and this has driven USDJPY back to very important technical support. The Yen sits at 103.09 this morning and traders are watching the 102.80/90 zone very closely. We get Japanese trade data this morning at 9.30am AEST and the Bank of Japan decision later in the day. Chinese markets are back from their holiday today and the Shanghai exchange is likely to be pressured lower. Wall St’s brightest minds have shared their most important charts in the world. Plenty in there on the major global economic stories right now including the progress of the US recovery and Chinese debt. The stream of news around businessman MP Clive Palmer continues:The Australian reports he’s only voted on one piece of legislation since being elected, while Brisbane’s Courier-Mail says he’s being sued by one of his ex-best-mates. Remember, this bloke could determine the government’s agenda with his control of a four-vote bloc in the Upper House. Ships and submarine equipment are focused on a small search area where signals thought to be emitted by the black boxes from the missing Malaysian Airlines jet. The race is now on to find them before their batteries expire – some estimates put the deadline at today. Peaches Geldof has been found dead in her home in Kent, with authorities only saying at this point that the death was “sudden and unexplained. She was 25. “What a beautiful child. How is this possible that we will not see her again?” her father Bob said in a statement. “How is that bearable?” Hard work aren’t always enough: your relationships and your network matter too. Here’s a great round-up of the research on how your network can shape your health and happiness, including how your ideas tend to be only as good as your colleagues’ ideas. Unknown Australian golfer Matt Jones secured the final wildcard spot in the US Masters with two miracle shots at the Houston Open: one 40-foot putt for birdie and then an incredible chip from the rough over a bunker in a playoff hole. Good on him and best wishes for the Augusta this week, where Australia’s Adam Scott will be defending his title. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons410th Flight Test Squadron - F-117 FormationJust over a year ago, there were a lot of folks raising concerns about sequestration budget cuts and about how it would destroy jobs and slam America's defense contractors. But in hindsight, all of those fears were far overblown. "Counterintuitively, since sequestration kicked in on March 1, 2013 the Dow Jones U.S. Select Aerospace and Defense Total Return Index has risen 55.6%, compared to gains of less than half that in the other major US indexes," said Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. "Over the same period to April 4th, 2014, the S&amp;P 500, the S&amp;P 400 (midcaps), and Russell 2000 (small caps) have delivered total returns of 25.7%, 26.4% and 28%, respectively." Stocks have a funny way of doing just the opposite of what you would expect them to do. Stoltzfus, however, argues there is an economic rationale for the rally. "Realities of instability in the Middle East (Iran, Syria, Egypt), North Korea and most recently in Ukraine remind us that from a super-secular cycle, mankind has been at war or at risk of war for most of history," he said. "The necessity of protecting borders and trade routes as the process of globalization continues likely contributes to the loyalty that investors have shown for this specialty index." When Business Insider asked for his most important chart in the world, Stoltzfus submitted this chart of the Dow Aerospace and Defense Index stealthily outperforming the market. Oppenheimer / Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Dario Lopez-Mills/APA worker unloads a truck-full of Mexican limes at a citrus packing plant in La Ruana, in the state of Michoacan, Mexico. Most people don't really spend their time thinking about limes, the tangy green fruit we use in margaritas and as food garnishes. But across the country, people are starting to take notice as the price of limes skyrockets — $100 for a 40-pound box, from $25 a year ago. The reason? A Mexican cartel war. Mother Nature had already been threatening Mexican limes for a while: A severe drought was followed by the spread of a bacterial disease (huanglongbing) that attacks citrus trees, then by a harsh winter that killed tree blossoms. As the lime supply grew more and more valuable, a Mexican gang saw an opening for an investment opportunity. In the southwestern state of Michoácan, where most Mexican limes are grown, the notorious Knights Templar gang started hijacking lime trucks and demanding ransoms from farmers. Since the limes are so valuable — nearly $300,000 per truck — a farmer usually paid the extortion fee and moved along. But some were putting their lives on the line to protect their livelihood from the cartel. "So what they've done over the last couple of years, is that, if they're nice, they put humongous taxes on the farmers. If they're not nice, they just kill farmers and take the land and take over lime production themselves," says journalist Gustavo Arellano.  The farmers essentially have no choice other than to defer the cost to customers. "So when you have such chaos in the region, price speculators are just going to drive the price of limes up." Michoácan is the biggest lime supplier in the world, and the ripple effects could be felt far outside its borders. The U.S. alone receives more than 95% of its lime supply from Mexico, and limes are now sold at grocery stores for around $1 each. But not everyone was taking the abuse lying down. Vigilantes began rising up against the Knights Templar, eventually forming into heavily-armed local militias. Though the Mexican government was hesitant at first, it eventually teamed up with the militias to take down the Knights Templar. The gang has since retreated, with its leaders hiding out in caves. Still, the lime crisis continues. The power vacuum has been filled by these armed militias, with around 15,000 to 20,000 vigilantes roaming the region. There are reports that some are demanding quotas from farmers or have ties to rival cartels — perpetuating the cycle of violence and intimidation that led to the uprising in the first place. So while the cartels, the militias and the Mexican government duke it out, the true losers in the fight are the innocent farmers who are simply trying to make their living. It's something worth remembering the next time you buy that bag of limes. FREE AppDownload
Finding work in other countries is one of the main drivers of international migration. Migrants who travel across the world to work elsewhere frequently send remittances — money to help support family or friends in their home countries. The Pew Research Center has an interactive tool to visualize flows of remittances in 2012 to and from different countries, based on data from the World Bank. According to Pew, migrants to the United States are responsible for sending almost a quarter of the global total of international remittances. We used the World Bank's database of 2012 remittance flows to make a map showing which countries are the destinations for remittances from the U.S. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the World Bank The World Bank has data on remittances from the U.S. to 155 different countries, adding up to a total of about $123 billion sent home by migrants. The countries with the biggest flows were Mexico, India, China, and the Philippines. Mexico had almost $23 billion in remittances, and migrants from each of India, China, and the Philippines sent over $10 billion home. Below are the twenty countries with the largest flows of remittance payments from the U.S. World Bank
There are some interesting parallels between this situation and the membership of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Current Governor Jeremy Stein has submitted his resignation from the Board in order to return to his teaching position at Harvard after serving two years of his term, which was to expire in January 2018.  Thus, he is leaving after his sophomore year, presumably in part because Harvard’s policy, like that of many other major universities, is to grant a leave of absence for a maximum of two years before a faculty member on leave must resign his or her position. In Governor Stein’s case, some have begun to suggest that his resignation was motivated by the fact that he placed a stronger weight on the FOMC’s inflation objective than did other members of the Board. But this is only conjecture, and probably not likely, because he never dissented from any policy decision during his tenure on the FOMC. A more probable explanation is the tenure issue combined with the fact that Governor Stein has already seen much of public service beyond his short stint on the Board of Governors, including time spent as a senior person in the Treasury and as a member of the Council of Economic Advisors. He should be well positioned to capitalize financially, if he so chooses, on his government service.  Similar situations faced former Governors Fredric Mishkin and Alan Blinder who left the Board to return to tenured teaching positions at NYU and Princeton, respectively, after serving slightly less than two years. Governor Miskin indicated that one pressing priority he faced was an upcoming revision of his extremely successful college textbook. The Board of Governors has tended to be a revolving door: the average tenure of Board members since its creation in 1913 has been 6.7 years, and this average has dropped to 5.5 years starting with Alan Greenspan’s chairmanship in 1987. The next longest serving governor after Greenspan himself was Roger Ferguson, who served 8.5 years. Short tenures were clearly not the intent of Congress.  The Federal Reserve Act provides that the seven Board members are to be appointed to 14-year terms, with a term expiring every two years. The intent was longevity that would help to ensure political independence and institutional memory over the business cycle. Additionally, the act also seeks a broad representation among various business and public interests on the Board as well as geographical diversity.  Normally, if full 14-year terms were served, no one sitting president would ever be able to appoint a majority of the Board, at least until that presidential term was nearly up. The rules do provide for tenures to extend beyond 14 years, since a governor appointed to serve an unexpired term is then eligible to be appointed to a full term, which explains why Alan Greenspan was able to serve for some 18.5 years. Enter now the current Board team. There is a new point guard to lead the team in Janet Yellen (granted, she has played numerous roles on past teams). There is an incoming rookie two-guard in Stanley Fisher, assuming he is confirmed, and another rookie in Lael Brainard.  Jerome Powell, whose term expired early this year, has been nominated to fill a full term. There will be another rookie appointed to fill Jeremy Stein’s remaining term. It is also noteworthy that President Obama will have appointed all seven members of the Board (eight if one also includes Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served only 3.4 years), and there is still more than two years remaining in his second term. This begins to look like a team with a lot of freshmen, people playing in new positions, and a team that is short on institutional knowledge. Given the challenges of unwinding the FOMC quantitative easing program and returning policy to a normal stance, let us hope that this team does as well as the Kentucky freshmen have so far – and is as lucky with last-second shots. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dadang TriIn his book 'Flash Boys', Michael Lewis attempts to answer the question — what happens to my trade once I hit 'execute' now that high frequency trading firms are in the market?' Here's one answer — your broker sells you trade to a high frequency trading firm in a bundle with a bunch of other trades. At that point they're just orders. The high frequency trading firm that buys this bundle pays your broker a lot of money for the privilege of executing your order and turning it into a trade. This practice is called 'payment for order flow', and it's not new to the market. Bernie Madoff used to do it by paying other brokers a penny per share. Then his firm would use that to trade with a better understanding price. (This part of his business was totally different than the Ponzi scheme) Think about it: If you know demand in the market, and you know when/how other people (i.e. the orders you just bought) are trading, you can trade smarter and better for yourself — sometimes by sacrificing the best price for the order you bought. In our HFT world, payment for order flow has a new incarnation that HFT critics have been railing about for years. Now it looks like regulators are going to start looking into the practice. Because of that, says the Wall Street Journal, stocks like Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, and E*Trade got killed last week. E*Trade fell 10%, Schwab fell 5%, and TD Ameritrade fell 9.2%. One look at Charles Schwab's 2013 annual report and you can see why the bears came out in full force on this news. In 2012 the brokerage took in $236 million from "other revenue" sources. One of the sources was payment for order flow. From the report: Other revenue – net decreased by $20 million, or 8%, in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a non-recurring gain of $70 million relating to a confidential resolution of a vendor dispute in the second quarter of 2012 and realized gains of $35 million from the sales of securities available for sale in 2012, partially offset by an increase in order flow revenue that Schwab began receiving in November 2012. Other revenue – net increased by $96 million, or 60%, in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a non-recurring gain of $70 million relating to a confidential resolution of a vendor dispute mentioned above. In November 2012, the Company began receiving additional order flow rebates from market venues to which client orders are routed for execution. Order flow revenue increased by $23 million due to this revenue and the inclusion of a full year of optionsXpress’ order flow revenue. Charles Schwab told the WSJ that payment for order flow is "entirely different from the unfair access and practices used by high-frequency trading outfits that put investors at a disadvantage." It also released a note calling for the end of HFT saying that "traders are gaming the system, reaping billions in the process and undermining investor confidence in the fairness of the markets." Yet at the same time, payment for order flow gives HFT firms the ammo they need to do everything that they do. Weird. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yevgeny VolokinA man looks at a graffiti produced to support the territorial integrity of Ukraine and to protest Russia's annexation of the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea in Odessa April 7, 2014.The selling in the stock market isn't over yet. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
We're slowly posting our favorite selections from Matt Boesler's "MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD" feature.  We just wrote up the "Sotheby's indicator" from Jim Chanos which suggests run-ups in the auction house's stock price presage bubble bursts — and that we may be in the midst of a bubble now. Another comes from Neil Dutta of Renaissance Capital, who takes an opposing view: that the U.S. economy has plenty more room to grow if one looks at durable goods spending and private investment relative to GDP. He writes: "First, companies and consumers have been quite cautious since the recession ended in 2009. Eyeballing the figure, the cyclical sectors of the economy are still operating at levels that prevailed after the 1991 recession. Second, the risk of a recession in the U.S. is microscopic. In the last two cycles, for example, bubbles in financial markets morphed to bubbles in the real economy — tech investment in the '90s and residential investment in the 2000s. There is little excess in the U.S., making it hard to see what would get cut if a recession were to ensue. Finally, the cycle has a long road ahead. Expansions do not die of old age. This expansion is five years old but from a cyclical perspective, it's still young at heart." This makes intuitive sense: Everyone has become hyper aware of bubbles and have thus become extremely circumspect about investing. Meanwhile, anyone with cash to burn apparently has so muchthey're prepared to burn a ton of it. For example: the entire Bitcoin experience. More than $100 million has now been poured into something completely unprecedented and experimental — and the backers say they have mentally reckoned with the prospect that they could lose everything.  Anyway here's the chart: Neil Dutta/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
APWorld Wrestling Entertainment announced that last night's WrestleMania 30 broke all kinds of records as it sold out the Superdome in New Orleans and became the venue's highest-grossing event. Unfortunately, the 75,000 that showed up for WrestleMania wasn't enough to impressive investors. The stock is down by 12% today. The sell-off can be attributed to disappointing digital subscriptions. "WWE today announced that WWE Network has 667,287 subscribers and is well on its way to reaching its goal of 1 million subscribers by the end of 2014 just 42 days after launching in the U.S., making it the fastest-growing digital subscription service," said management. But according to Bloomberg, analysts were expecting subscriptions to be in the neighborhood of 800,000. Even with today's sell-off, the stock is still up 47% since the beginning of the year. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Companies still haven't forgotten about the credit crunch that occurred during the financial crisis. At the time, even the healthiest companies had a tough time meeting their short-term financial obligations. As such, companies have spent much of the economic recovery building up their balance sheets with mountains of cash. Check out this table from U.S. Trust showing Apple's corporate cash hoard against the cash balances of various countries. U.S. Trust "Amid a world of uncertainty, one thing is without question: Most U.S. corporations have plenty of capital at their disposal," said U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan. "Indeed, capital is in abundance among America’s largest nonfinancial companies, with Moody’s noting that U.S. firms were sitting on some $1.6 trillion in cash at the end of 2013, a 12% increase from a year ago. The latest figure is nearly double the level of 2008, signaling the extent by which U.S. firms have built out their cash positions over the post-crisis period." Indeed, the cash piles of some of the biggest corporations rival those of some of the major economies around the world. "Putting that number into perspective, the cash hoard of corporate America (e.g., financials) is greater than the total international reserves of Japan, the second-wealthiest nation in the world, with foreign exchange reserves of $1.2 trillion," said Quinlan. "Only China has more cash in the safe—almost $4 trillion." "As Moody details, the combined cash of Apple, Microsoft, Google, Verizon Communications and Pfizer climbed to $404 billion at the end of last year," he continued. "That figure is up over 16.4% from the prior year and is in excess of some of Asia’s most cash-laden nations including South Korea, with foreign exchange reserves of $336 billion, Hong Kong ($311 billion), Singapore ($270 billion) and India ($268 billion). America’s top five holders of cash not only have more in the bank than most Asian states, but their savings are also in excess of the entire Eurozone’s ($221 billion)." Those are some mind-boggling comparisons. FREE AppDownload
Maurice LacroixAnother week of luxury eye candy has concluded in Basel, Switzerland.  Baselworld, the enormous springtime watch and jewelry trade show, attracted thousands of visitors to ogle and buy the latest generation of luxury accessories. Ariel Adams, founder and editor of aBlogtoWatch — a website that covers all things timepieces — shared his top picks from the show, focusing on "buyability" over impressive or novel watches. You can see aBlogtoWatch's complete Baselworld 2014 coverage here.   FREE AppDownload
Most people sit between 5 and 12 hours a day. Depending on your job, you may be spending your days sitting more than you are sleeping. Watch how sitting is slowly killing you, and what you can do about it. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
REUTERS/Claro CortesConsumer credit balances jumped by $16.48 billion in February. Economists expected balances to increase by $14.0 billion. January's increase was revised up to $13.79 billion from a previous estimate of $13.69 billion. Non-revolving credit, like student and auto loans, jumped by $18.9 billion. Revolving credit, which includes credit cards, fell by $2.4 billion. "Nonrevolving credit is projected to drive virtually the entire increase, as revolving credit growth has been muted in the years following the end of the recession," said Barclays economists ahead of the report. FREE AppDownload
Today we published the latest installment of our quarterly MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD slide deck, which contained contributions from some of the leading lights of the finance world — economists, analysts, investors, and others. One contributor is famed short-seller Jim Chanos, who has been talking lately about the Sotheby's Indicator — that is, that the famous auction house tends to peak when big bubbles peak. The indicator is almost too perfect. And you have to love the quote from the obviously out-of-their-depth auction attendant who was freaked out by how intense the bidding was. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
REUTERSStocks are in the red in the U.S. And once again, the momentum names of the Nasdaq are leading the way down. The Dow is down 153 points, or 0.9%. The S&amp;P 500 is down 22 points, or 1.1%. The Nasdaq is down 70 points or 1.7%. This extends the big sell-off we saw on Friday. Amazon.com, Google, and Facebook are among the underperformers. According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, the big hedge funds are among the investors exposed to these losers. "These high growth/high multiple stocks feature prominently on our list of “stocks that matter most” to hedge fund performance," noted Kostin. "Having outperformed by 230 bp through February, our VIP basket dropped 2% in March while S&amp;P 500 climbed 0.8%. Long positions trail by 98 bp YTD. Short holdings created problems by rising 130 bp more than S&amp;P 500 YTD." There isn't much on the economic calendar this week. However, earnings season kicks off, and expectations have only been deteriorating. "The estimated earnings decline for Q1 2014 of -1.2% is below the estimate of 4.3% growth at the start of the quarter (December 31)," noted FactSet's John Butters. "Nine of the ten sectors have recorded a decrease in expected earnings growth due to downward revisions to earnings estimates, led by the Materials, Financials, and Consumer Discretionary sectors. The only sector that has seen an increase in projected earnings growth over this period is the Utilities sector." FREE AppDownload
Damien du ToitDoorn River Waterfall in the Northern Cape of South Africa. It seems like not much has been going right in Bitcoin land these days. Despite the hopes of evangelists that the fall of MtGox would mean the end of persistent headaches in the cryptocurrency's ecosystem, there has been a spate of new theft and fraud accusations. The most recent has emerged at Neo and Bee, a Cyprus-based organization thought to have opened the world's first Bitcoin bank branch. Cypriot authorities are now investigating claims that at least $48,000 have gone missing.   Meanwhile Wall Street analysts have expressed doubt about the potential for Bitcoin as a viable currency, though suggested its underlying technology could prove useful.  Analysts at Goldman Sachs recently knocked down some of the key assumptions about why people should start using Bitcoin. Then UBS did mostly the same thing. And Warren Buffett has said the notion the digital currency has long-term potential is "a mirage." As a result of all this, Bitcoin prices have fallen about 30% since the initial Gox price hit, and volatility has surged. And yet. In this same post-Gox period, we've continued to see a steady stream of new investments in and commitments to Bitcoin ventures. Late last month, crypto-payment group Circle announced it had closed a new $17 million funding around. SecondMarket CEO Barry Silbert, perhaps the most aggressive Bitcoin investor, not only announced plans for a U.S.-based digital currency exchange network, but also that he intends to beat the Winklevoss Twins to a Bitcoin ETF. The Chicago Sun-Times said it would start accepting Bitcoin payments for subscriptions, with Josh Metnick, the CTO of parent company Wrapports, saying they planned to extend that option to other products. And Marc Andreessen told the Wall Street Journal he planned to invest "hundreds of millions" more dollars in Bitcoin products.  What gives?  The answer: A willful belief in Bitcoin's future potential. Wedbush analyst Gil Luria, who's covered Bitcoin for the investment service, says it's a sign belief in Bitcoin has basically become independent from headline-driven volatility. "VCs are all looking past the price and the noise at the promise of the underlying technology," he told us in an email. "Considering many see bitcoin technology as the most disruptive technology since Social (others would say since the Internet started) there is a tremendous amount of entrepreneurial activity emerging and VCs want to be involved."  In an email, Circle CEO Jeremy Allaire used an analogy frequently deployed by Bitcoin enthusiasts, comparing both Bitcoin's potential and makeup to the World Wide Web to explain the continued capital flow.   Bitcoin is an open Internet technology not dissimilar to SMTP or HTTP, which provided the foundation for innovations like email and the Web, and transformed industry and society forever. Bitcoin holds similar disruptive potential, most immediately as a new payments platform, modernizing how we use money, but also for applications that have yet to be imagined. And he echoed what many are VCs are saying about the long game investors are playing: Most of the leading VC investors are taking a long view on Bitcoin and negative headlines here and there represent minor hiccups for a technology that is extremely young and hasn't even reach its 1.0 release. I anticipate continued, aggressive investment in the space and an acceleration in startup activity across the ecosystem.  Lightspeed Ventures CEO Jeremy Liew, one of the main backers of the BTC China exchange, says there's much more coming.  We’re at the very earliest stages of the Bitcoin investment cycle, and I would expect continued investment to flow into the sector over the next few years....This is going to be a long and bumpy road, but I think one that leads up and to the right. Most people who are interested in bitcoins potential are not focused on any short term changes or setbacks, but the longer term trend. Even before this moment, venture capital groups had invested at least $134 million in Bitcoin-related firms and services, according to a report from the Aite Group. As of March 17, North American VC firms had banked a total of $98.6 million in Bitcoin-related projects.  Still, it remains unclear how much money these firms are actually making at this point. Julie Conroy, the author of the Aite study, noted that even at its peak weight in the Bitcoin market, MtGox was earning just $1.3 million per year in revenue.  And investors are under no illusion that price fluctuations may be scaring off potential users.  Instead, they seem to be dedicating themselves to the long game. As Barry Silbert told us last week upon announcing his plans to found the first public Bitcoin ETF: I do think vehicles like this will help to reduce it, it will be bringing in larger sums of money, which will ultimately reduce supply of Bitcoin subject to volatility. [SecondMarket's] vehicle will not in itself help, but it will help as more vehicles do hit the market." One unknown remains what impact the IRS' ruling on Bitcoin taxes will have on this funding flow. Bitcoin tax expert Tyson Cross told us the new rules create a heavy bookkeeping burden on Bitcoin users. And in a recent debate with Felix Salmon, Barry Silbert admitted that could have a chilling effect on Bitcoin use in the U.S. At the same time, he said, American tax law has no bearing on the rest of hte world.  It seems possible that Bitcoin could yet prove to be one of those technologies that ends up going viral simply because influential and wealthy keep telling us it should. To the existing Bitcoin community — the ones who'd have to bail for the project to really go south, that's all that matters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueIs this the end of the bull market? Is this the beginning of the crash? We can't help but ask these questions when we see stocks take a tumble from their highs. Currently, the S&amp;P 500 is down 2.8% from highs set last week. The Nasdaq is down 6.9% from highs set last month. If we look to history, things could get much worse before they get better. But this doesn't mean we're doomed for a crash. Here's an excerpt from Rich Barry's NYSE MAC Desk Mid-Day Update: In light of the fact that floor traders and the talking heads on the financial networks are sounding a bit “panicky” today about the recent sell-off in equities, we think that now is a good time for a little history lesson on “market corrections”. Corrections are a normal feature of the stock market, and they are healthy for the market. Since we haven’t experienced a correction since late 2012, market-watchers need to be reminded of their frequency. Since 1900, checkout these stats on how frequently corrections occur on average: 1.- 5% market corrections: 3x per year. 2.- 10% market corrections: Once per year. 3.- 20% market corrections: Once every 3.5 years. Those are the rough numbers. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly offers this chart of intra-year declines that every investor should pin to their walls. Bottom line: Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. But they're normal. And they're certainly no reason to just bail out of the stock market. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
YouTubeA former top Dutch bank CEO, his wife, and their 22-year-old daughter were found dead this weekend inside their family home located in Laren in The Netherlands.  According to a newly released police statement (via Google translate), Jan Peter Schmittmann, 57, the former head of ABN Amro Group NV, killed his wife and daughter before taking his own life. Police found the bodies of the three deceased family members on Saturday morning. The initial police report suspected that it was the result of a "family drama." The Dutch Forensic Institute confirmed that suspicion, the report said. A suicide note was also found inside the home, the report said. The police said they will not comment on the time of death, the manner of death, or the contents of the suicide note, the report said.   The eldest daughter was not in the home at the time. "We are deeply shocked and beaten by this unimaginable news. We knew that Jan Peter struggled with severe depression, [but] that [it] would eventually lead to these events is still incomprehensible to us. Our first concern . . . [is] now supporting the other daughter of the family in the processing of this indescribable grief . We hope to be able to do [so] in peace and seclusion," the Schmittmann family said in a statement.  FREE AppDownload
Earnings season kicks off this week. As usual, investors should prepare for some volatility as companies do their best to beat analysts' expectations. It's worth noting, however, that those expectations tend to be very inaccurate. Furthermore, analysts will revise their forecasts dramatically as more information comes in. In almost every quarter since the financial crisis, we've seen estimates gradually reduced.  Deutsche Bank's David Bianco presents this chart of analysts' evolving quarterly earnings expectations. Deutsche Bank "Given sharp cuts in analyst estimates this quarter, 2/3rds of S&amp;P companies should beat with an avg. EPS beat of 3% to 5%," speculated Bianco. Counterintuitively, stock prices have only been rising during these periods of reduced earnings expectations. This can partially be explained by the fact that most investors have actually expected estimates to come down. Barclays' recently asked its clients by how much and in what direction they expected analysts to adjust their earnings estimates. As you can see in the bar chart below, most were expecting negative revisions. Barclays For some historical context, strategist Gerard Minack published this chart a while back. It shows evolving earnings expectations since 1986. As you can see, the expectations are never static, and they're almost always way off when they're first published. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Renaissance Macro Research, Bureau of Labor Statistics The U.S. labor force participation rate rose to 63.2% in March from 63.0% in February, according to data released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on Friday in the monthly jobs report. As illustrated in the chart above, the 0.4 percentage-point gain over the past three months is something of a rare event — in the last 22 years, it's only happened 5 times. "We’re skeptical the upward trend in participation will continue," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research. "Instead, we expect entrants into the labor force to roughly offset retirees. Over the last year, the labor force has expanded by 94,000 per month. The number of retired workers filing for Social Security? 94,512 per month over the last year." The rise in labor force participation brings into focus an interesting tension between two powerful forces: the retirement of the baby boom generation, which exerts massive downward pressure on the labor force participation rate, and improving economic fundamentals, which may be drawing discouraged workers back into the labor force. "This is a good sign suggesting that people believe they can find work or — with the cancellation of extended unemployment benefits — need to," say economists at UBS. "An even better sign is that the labor force is expanding without boosting unemployment." Which of these two forces will win out could be a big story for the labor market in 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVIt takes a special kind of person to cover deals. You have to be smart, persistent, easy to talk to and most importantly, tireless. Bloomberg's star M&amp;A reporter Cristina Alesci is all of those things. And when she's not chasing scoops, writing stories, or doing TV spots, she's probably practicing her mixing skills on her turntables at home. Multitalented, no?   FREE AppDownload
Here's something you rarely hear from a Wall Street CEO: "I never intended to run a Wall Street firm. I don't think that's where my skill set is. ... I did it because that’s what the situation called for.” In an interview with finance career site OneWire, Joseph Perella, founder of Perella Weinberg, shares how he started his unlikely (as he tells it) 40-year career on Wall Street. He also shares how he could lose it all in no time at all. “If you’re an advisor, the most important thing is your reputation … If we jeopardize our reputation, everything begins to melt down and erode overnight. I’ve been on Wall Street for 40 years. If I screw up next month, 40 years doesn’t matter. It’s what I did today.” It's just the first part of Perella's two-part interview with OneWire's Open Door video series. Watch it below, and click here to subscribe to the series.    FREE AppDownload
Corporate America just finished its first quarter last week, which means they will soon reveal what their earnings are looking like. If you predicted that earnings expectations were too optimistic and doomed to be revised downward, then you were right. "The estimated earnings decline for Q1 2014 of -1.2% is below the estimate of 4.3% growth at the start of the quarter (December 31)," noted FactSet's John Butters. "Nine of the ten sectors have recorded a decrease in expected earnings growth due to downward revisions to earnings estimates, led by the Materials, Financials, and Consumer Discretionary sectors. The only sector that has seen an increase in projected earnings growth over this period is the Utilities sector." Earnings and expectations for earnings are arguably the most important drivers of stocks. So, you'd think that negative revisions would be bad news for stocks. But, you'd be wrong. The S&amp;P 500 climbed to record highs as expectations for earnings came down. And valuations don't really explain this because valuations are actually high relative to historical averages. "The current 12-month forward P/E ratio is 15.5," said Butters. "This P/E ratio is above the 5-year (13.2) and 10-year (13.8) averages." In the long-run, these divergences tend to work themselves out. But in the short-run, investors need to accept that weird things will happen that can't be explained rationally. This chart from Butters illustrates stocks climbing for three months as earnings expectations fall. It reminds us that stocks will do the exact opposite of what you expect it to do for extended periods. It's everything you need to know about investing in stocks. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerHere they are: the most important charts in the world. We asked our favorite portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists across the Street for the charts they deem the most important right now. This is what they sent us. Much of the focus is on the amount of slack left in the labor market and the U.S. economy in general. Many are focused on the euro, too, which has surprised many observers with its persistent strength. But there are a lot of other things going on — such as the drop in inflation expectations since the Fed began winding down quantitative easing (QE).
If you live in certain buildings in New York City, you get to know your doorman. The weekend guy in my building, Gene, knew I was a business reporter, and on Saturday he asked me what his son should study when he starts City College next year. (City College, by the way, remains the primary option — and a stellar one — for advanced higher ed in New York for the children of what remains of New York's working class.) Anyway, off the top of my head, I was at a loss. I mostly cover energy, an area that obviously has seen tremendous growth in the past few years, but I doubted his son would be interested in moving to North Dakota or Texas to work on an oil rig. So I told him I'd look up what the fastest-growing job opportunities were in the country. Each year, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects which occupations it expects will see the greatest growth in the next few years. The results you get depend on whether you're looking at absolute or percentage growth. But, as I discovered, both tell depressing stories. First, on a rate basis, there's basically only one sector in the economy in which labor demand is growing at a steady clip: health and medical (21 out of 30 of the occupations listed in the table below are in this field). Besides that, you can maybe get away with some construction stuff. But the apparent demand for both physical and mental therapy in the U.S. is enormous: BLS On an absolute basis, the data is miserable: The table consists of stuff like secretaries, food workers, and caretakers. The median salary for the fastest-growing raw-numbers occupations, shown in the table below, is $30,000. Compare that with the average first-year-out-of-college salary of $45,000.BLS What's more, most of these jobs don't even require a college degree.  The scene in New York seems, at first glance, a bit better. The institutions with the most job openings — NYU, Columbia, North Shore-ILJ Health System, and Bank of America — have more than 2,000 combined. And a search on jobs site Indeed for entry-level jobs in NYC turns up 1,000 results — in the grand scheme of things, not many, but nothing completely galling. Overall, this remains an extremely difficult labor market to navigate, especially for someone without a clear idea of what they want to be doing, which probably includes most 18-year-olds.   FREE AppDownload
The stench from a brush fire in southern New Jersey has spread all the way to New York City, creating a haze in some areas and a noticeable smoky smell throughout the city. The fire, which was about 90 miles from Manhattan, burned about two square miles in Wharton State Forest on Sunday, according to the Associated Press.  Check out some of the photos: Large brush fire in South Jersey creating a large plume of smoke pic.twitter.com/ULhfvN6Gqq Smell smoke? Likely from #brushfire at Wharton State Forest. MORE PHOTOS&gt;&gt; http://t.co/JgGig5zbGP pic.twitter.com/4Y52c8wJYs #NewsCopter7 and @ChopperDanRice are live over the 4 alarm brush fire in #NewJersey! pic.twitter.com/Po8SOs5mgU This is what that brush fire has done to NYC pic.twitter.com/CEgiB6a0YF Visible smoke haze over Brooklyn from that brush fire 90miles away. You can see it and smell it on Wall Street too pic.twitter.com/XGKi3qYUK4 The smell should lift in about eight to 12 hours, according to NBC. Smoke could be seen for miles. The fire has been contained but is not yet completely extinguished. It's so far unclear what caused the fire. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman/Business InsiderA lot goes into creating an amazing steakhouse experience. It's not just the cuts that have to be cut above the rest, it's the martinis, the atmosphere, the raw bar... Some places do one thing better than another. Finding out who does what right is like cracking a code – it's a steakhouse hack. A month ago we asked our readers to vote for their favorite steakhouses in NYC across ten categories, including best cut of steak, best power lunch, and best overall. Roughly 650 Business Insider readers took the survey and determined the best of the best. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingSears shares are down around 19% today, but Sears investors aren't exactly losing the much wealth right now. On Friday, CEO Eddie Lampert spun off the Lands' End business and gave shares in that new company to existing Sears shareholders.  Here's the press release: HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill., April 4, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Sears Holdings Corporation (SHLD) today announced that its pro-rata spin-off of Lands' End, Inc. ("Lands' End") from Sears Holdings closed on April 4, 2014. Lands' End has now been separated from Sears Holdings and its common stock is expected to begin regular-way trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol "LE" on April 7, 2014. Sears Holdings will continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "SHLD." Sears Holdings received aggregate gross proceeds from the spin-off of $500 million, consisting of a cash dividend paid by Lands' End prior to the spin-off to a subsidiary of Sears Holdings. In the spin-off, Sears Holdings distributed a total of approximately 32 million shares of Lands' End common stock to the holders of Sears Holdings common stock as of 5:30 p.m. Eastern time on March 24, 2014, the record date. Each share of Sears Holdings common stock outstanding as of the record date entitles the holder thereof to receive 0.300795 shares of Lands' End common stock, except that holders of Sears Holdings' restricted stock that was unvested as of the record date will receive cash awards in lieu of shares. Fractional shares of Lands' End common stock will not be distributed. Instead, fractional shares that Sears Holdings stockholders would otherwise have been entitled to receive after application of the foregoing ratio will be aggregated and sold in the public market by the distribution agent and the aggregate cash proceeds of these sales, net of brokerage fees and other expenses, will be distributed pro rata to those stockholders who would otherwise have been entitled to receive fractional shares. In addition, as part of the spin-off, Lands' End entered into an asset-based senior secured revolving credit facility, which provides for maximum borrowings of approximately $175 million with a letter of credit sub-limit, and a senior secured term loan facility of approximately $515 million. The proceeds of the term loan facility were used to pay the $500 million dividend to the Sears Holdings subsidiary and to pay fees and expenses associated with the foregoing facilities of approximately $10 million, with the remaining proceeds to be used by Lands' End for general corporate purposes. The shares of common stock of Lands' End were distributed by the distribution agent for the spin-off by way of direct registration in book-entry form. No physical share certificates were issued. "Sears is getting rid of all the good stuff and leaving bondholders with the underperforming assets," Mary Gilbert, an analyst with Imperial Capital LLC, a boutique investment bank, told WSJ's Suzanne Kapner.  In the past three years or so, Lampert has sliced off $2.3 billion in assets. The retailer is also closing its flagship Chicago store. FREE AppDownload
In searching for explanations for the steep decline in the labor force participation rate analysts have rightly stressed the importance of retiring baby boomers. This trend appears to be the single most important factor depressing participation over the last six years. However, we have been surprised in recent conversations with investors about the limited agreement on another important driver: the steady increase in the share of workers leaving the labor force due to injuries or other serious disabilities. The rise in the so-called disability share—the percent of the adult population out of the labor force due to disability—has also contributed to the structural weakness in the U.S. participation rate, and this colors our interpretation of current labor market statistics. Workers leave the labor force for a variety of reasons, including disability, retirement, education and discouragement about job prospects. For the labor force as a whole, disability is the third most common cause of nonparticipation, accounting for 16% of the working age population outside the labor force. However, disability accounts for a much larger share of nonparticipation for certain age groups. For workers in their 40s and 50s, almost half left the labor force because of injury or other disabilities (helpful charts here). In addition, disabled workers have accounted for a rising share of persons outside of the labor force in recent years. Disabled workers are eligible for federal benefits through two sources: social security disability insurance (DI) and the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program. As of 2012, 7.9 million persons received DI benefits only, 1.4m received SSI only, and 3.5m received benefits through both programs (including dependents of disabled beneficiaries). After reforms to federal disability benefits in the mid-1980s the US disability share steadily increased (Figure 1). Columbia Management When workers leave the job market because of injury or disability they reduce the labor force participation rate. Thus, along with the surge in retirements, growth in disability could help explain the falling participation rate and historically low employment-to-population ratio. There are two main sources of disability statistics: (1) the Current Population Survey (CPS), which is the same underlying data used to calculate the unemployment rate, and (2) disability benefit recipient data from the Social Security Administration. The two measures are not exactly the same, and the CPS does not use DI or SSI benefits to determine disability status. However, we believe both sources capture the same basic economic phenomenon (nonparticipation due to disability), and in any case the numbers are in the same ballpark. The table below summarizes the key data. From the end of 2007 through the end of 2013, the number of workers outside of the labor force due to disability increased by around 2 million (CPS data are from Fujita (2014)). As a share of the working age population, the increase ranged from 0.6%-points to 0.9%-points. Over this period, the labor force participation rate fell by 3.2%-points. Thus, these figures suggest that growth in disability accounted for 19-28% of the total decline in participation. By comparison, retirements account for about 45% of the decline in the participation rate since 2007. Columbia Management Academic research points to three broad explanations for the growth in the disability share: 1. Demographics. An aging population puts upward pressure on the disability share because disability is more prevalent among older workers. Thus, there has been a natural tendency for disability claims to increase as baby boomers age. In addition, more women are now eligible for DI benefits due to rising labor force participation prior to the last 15 years. Daly (2013) estimates that these types of structural factors accounted for 35% of the increase in the disability share through 2011. 2. Benefit and program changes. Most research finds that the attractiveness of benefits has played a role in program growth. For instance, Autor and Duggan (2003) explain that the DI benefit formula, combined with a widening income distribution, caused an increase in the earnings replacement rate for the DI recipients. The increase in the real value of Medicaid benefits may also have contributed to program growth. Separately, reforms passed in 1984 (the Disability Benefits Reform Act) relaxed eligibility rules and allowed more disabled workers to qualify. According to CBO (2012), these changes “led to a substantial expansion in the share of DI beneficiaries with mental or musculoskeletal disorders, many of whom enter the program at younger ages than do people with other types of disabilities and many of whose applications are largely judged by using subjective criteria”. 3. Weak economy. DI and SSI make up a part of the nation’s social safety net (see Burkhauser et al (2013)), and just like other social programs, demand tends to rise during economic downturns. The correlation between DI applications and the unemployment rate is evident in the data (Figure 2), but there is also a large body of research more carefully demonstrating the cause/effect relationship—such as Black et al (2002), who study DI and SSI growth in regions that experienced booms and busts in the coal industry. Columbia Management The sizable increase in disabled workers as a share of the population should affect how analysts interpret current labor market statistics, in our view. By definition, DI and SSI recipients are not able to work and therefore rarely return to the labor market (according to Stapleton et al (2010), only 4% of a sample of DI recipients in the 1990s had returned to work after ten years). Thus, the trend increase in the disability share has likely permanently lowered the labor force participation rate and employment-to-population ratio. Indeed, when we adjust the employment ratio for the effect of disability and retirements it looks broadly similar to other labor market statistics—a point made in a speech earlier this year by San Francisco Fed President Williams (Figure 3). Columbia Management Looking ahead, we expect that growth in the disability share will slow. First, DI applications have already declined sharply, possibly due to improving economic conditions. Second, as disabled baby boomers move into their mid- to late-60s, benefits will shift from the DI program to standard social security (self-reported status in the CPS data tends to shift from disabled to retirement categories at this time as well). Lastly, after the latest increase, the U.S. disability share is more in line with OECD norms. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeJan Peter SchmittmannA former top Dutch bank CEO and his wife and daughter were found dead this weekend, Bloomberg News reports. Jan Peter Schmittmann, 57, the former head of ABN Amro Group NV, and his wife and 22-year-old daughter were found dead inside their family home on Saturday morning, according to a police statement (via Google Translate). "The police have the strong suspicion of a family drama," the translated statement read. A family acquaintance alerted authorities that something might be wrong inside the family's Laren, Netherlands home, the police report said. Another daughter was not at the home. The police investigation is still ongoing.   Schmittmann worked at ABN Amro until 2010.  FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceEveryone's talking about the stock market's "internal correction": investors have been dumping high-beta, momentum stocks for low-beta, value names. Facebook is among the stocks that are down more than 20% during the period. Investors who are broadly diversified aren't doing too terribly. The S&amp;P 500 is just 1.6% from its all-time high of 1,897. But the Nasdaq has tumbled by more than 5%.  According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, the big hedge funds are among the investors exposed to these losers. "These high growth/high multiple stocks feature prominently on our list of “stocks that matter most” to hedge fund performance," noted Kostin. "Having outperformed by 230 bp through February, our VIP basket dropped 2% in March while S&amp;P 500 climbed 0.8%. Long positions trail by 98 bp YTD. Short holdings created problems by rising 130 bp more than S&amp;P 500 YTD." Google, Facebook, and Amazon.com are on the top ten list of stocks that matter most to hedge funds. And unfortunately, it's not just the momentum names. Other stocks on the list include General Motors, which has been getting slammed by recalls, and Citi, which tumbled after being one of a few banks that failed the Federal Reserve's latest stress tests. Here's a list of the top stocks on Goldman's "stocks that matter most" to hedge funds list. Note: these are based on holdings as of December 31. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
If you experienced an emergency and needed to come up with $2,000, could you? A study conducted in 2012 by FINRA asked exactly this question. Professors Amir Sufi and Atif Main looked at this data for their work on household debt and came up with this chart. Nearly 40% of Americans are unlikely to be able to come up with $2,000 if need be. Less than 40% are certain they would be able to come up with the money. House Of Debt Other questions and responses were equally grim. The majority of respondents, for example, say they do not have enough money to cover a three-month jobless stint. And of the respondents who don't have much in emergency funds, the plurality say they believe they have too much debt. This lack of a cushion for so many Americans helps explain the wave of foreclosures and defaults seen during the crisis. Partly they were the result of inflated home values coming down, but another big aspect was the fact that for many Americans, losing their job means an instant inability to pay bills. Check out the full post from Amir and Sufi here &gt;   FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesBrent crude futures are down more than 1% this morning on reports Libya plans to open four oil terminals that had been shuttered over territorial disputes. 200,000 barrels will be released immediately, the Wall Street Journal's Cassie Werber reports. The release date on the other two terminals is still under negotiation. June contracts were down to $105. Three-quarters of Libya's 1.4 million barrel a day production capacity had been taken out of circulation as the country continues to settle out following the 2011 revolution. Here's what it had been looking like until today: UBS FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCredit Suisse officials are sworn in at Senate Homeland and Governmental Affairs Investigations Subcommittee ZURICH (Reuters) - Credit Suisse faces the threat of a new investigation into its role in helping wealthy Americans avoid paying taxes after New York state's top financial regulator requested documents from the Swiss bank. Switzerland's second-largest lender had raised expectations it was putting the long-running American tax controversy behind it when it set aside an extra half a billion dollars last week to deal with a U.S. Department of Justice probe into its involvement in offshore tax evasion. But Benjamin Lawsky, New York's financial services superintendent, is now examining whether the bank lied toNew York authorities about creating tax shelters, raising the prospect of a new probe, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters. Shares in Credit Suisse dropped 2.2 percent to 28.82 Swiss francs in Zurich on Monday as investors digested the possibility of a costly investigation. "There is still a lot of uncertainty around all these legal issues at Credit Suisse. Nobody can tell how much it will really cost in the end," said Peter Stenz, portfolio manager of Swiss equities at Swisscanto, one of the 50 largest stakeholders in Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse has so far set aside 895 million francs ($1 billion) to deal with tax and securities law matters in theUnited States, above the $780 million Swiss rival UBS paid in 2009 to settle charges it sheltered U.S. citizens from the taxman. After years of stalemate as Bern and Washington clashed over a wider tax dispute, there have been recent signs that Credit Suisse was closing in on a deal with U.S. authorities. In February, the bank reached a 196 million franc settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissionin a related tax dispute and a few days later Chief Executive Brady Dougan apologized to U.S. senators for the bank's misconduct but blamed it on a small group of rogue bankers and said it stopped in 2008. While the Department of Justice has considered a deferred-prosecution agreement that would suspend any indictment in exchange for a large cash penalty, it is also pushing for a guilty plea from a Credit Suisse subsidiary, according to a New York Times report on Sunday. The cash penalty is expected to be more than the $780 million fine UBS paid in 2009, the newspaper said. While the Department of Justice has been criticized in Washington for the slow pace of its inquiry into Swiss banks, Lawsky, a former federal prosecutor, has a track record of going his own way and getting results. Last year, he extracted $250 million from the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ over sanction violations, far higher than the $8.57 million the Treasury Department settled for. Lawsky also played hardball with Standard Chartered over sanctions violations, threatening to revoke its state license, and stopped working with other agencies which were also pursuing the bank. Standard Chartered later agreed to pay New York $340 million and settled with other agencies for $327 million. Credit Suisse's litigation headaches come as the bank is buffeted by a slowdown in fixed income sales and trading, putting CEO Dougan under pressure to accelerate a pull-back from riskier areas of investment banking that are expensive to run. The U.S. pursuit of tax dollars sheltered in offshore accounts has piled pressure on Swiss banks. Credit Suisse said in February it had lost over 35 billion francs in withdrawals from western Europe, as clients, spooked by the probe, pull out. Amid the U.S. scrutiny, Credit Suisse, like UBS, is leaning more heavily on its private banking franchise to compensate for the drop in investment banking returns. More than a dozen Swiss banks, including Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and the Swiss arm of Britain's HSBC are under criminal investigation in the United States while scores of smaller banks have agreed to work with U.S. authorities to cap penalties they might face. ($1 = 0.8935 Swiss francs) (Reporting by Silke Koltrowitz and Oliver Hirt; Additional reporting by Joshua Franklin in London; Writing by Carmel Crimmins; Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hosam KatanMen rescue a boy from under the rubble after what activists said was explosive barrels dropped by forces loyal to Syria's President Bashar Al-Assad in Al-Shaar neighbourhood of Aleppo April 6, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Markets down. S&amp;P 500 futures point to a negative open for U.S. stocks and indices across Europe are in the red, with the German DAX retreating the most, down 1.2%. Russian stocks are down more than 3% and the ruble is down sharply against the dollar today following an outsized rally that has boosted the currency since mid-March. In Asia, the Japanese Nikkei closed down 1.7%, and the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.6%. In the risk-off environment that is ushering in the trading week, U.S. Treasuries are getting a small lift. Earnings season. Q1 earnings reporting season kicks off this week when aluminum giant Alcoa releases results on Tuesday after the closing bell. Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and Family Dollar Stores report on Wednesday, and JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo report on Friday. "The Estimize community is forecasting $1.44 EPS and $24.701 billion [in revenue] this quarter, which would represent year over declines of 9.4% and 1.7% respectively," says Leigh Drogen, founder and CEO of Estimize, a platform that crowdsources earnings estimates. "Throughout the quarter we have seen downward analyst revisions from both Wall Street and Estimize which can be a bearish indicator." Supply in focus. The U.S. Treasury will auction $64 billion of 3-year, 10-year, and 30-year notes this week. "Providing a meaningful offset however will be $50.4 billion of maturities; rollover demand should be strong and net new cash needed is just $13.6 billion — less than $5 billion when accounting for the Fed’s buybacks," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "The absence of any major economic data this week and the tone set in the wake of Friday’s NFP report leave the auction process as the most compelling series of tradable events. The one notable exception to the dearth of incoming new information will be Wednesday’s FOMC minutes." Record money in ETFs. $11 billion of investor funds flowed into exchange-traded products in March, bringing global industry assets under management to a new all-time high of $2.45 trillion, according to data from ETFGI. "In Q1 2014, ETFs/ETPs have gathered net inflows of $33.0 billion, which is significantly below the $73.1 billion at this time last year," said the research firm in a press release. "Fixed income ETFs/ETPs gathered $17.8 billion — the largest net inflows YTD — followed by equity ETFs/ETPs with $8.4 billion, while commodity ETFs/ETPs experienced the largest net outflows YTD with $207 million." Euro zone confidence. A measure of euro zone investor confidence produced by German research firm Sentix rose to 14.1 in April from March's 13.9 reading, marking the highest level since 2011. However, confidence in the German economy fell. "The Sentix economic index (composite index) for Germany falls in April for the third time in a row," said the firm in a press release. "While 6-month expectations have been dragging down the indicator over the past months, it is now also the assessment of the current situation which is not lending support to the composite index anymore. The German economy thus loses steam. The big question now is how the euro-zone economy will react to this. Still, it is looking robust: The composite index for the euro area increases, once more, slightly." German industrial production. Industrial output expanded at a faster-than-expected 0.4% monthly pace in February, but January's 0.8% rise was revised down to 0.7%. The numbers were better than the consensus 0.3% advance expected by market economists. On a workday-adjusted basis, production was up 4.8% year over year, slowing from 4.9% in January. Consumer credit. The only U.S. economic release on the calendar today is monthly consumer credit data, due out from the Federal Reserve at 3 PM ET. Economists predict total credit rose by $14 billion in February after advancing $13.7 billion in January. Nigeria eclipses South Africa. Over the weekend, Nigeria's statistics office released rebased GDP figures that propelled it to the top spot as Africa's biggest economy, and the world's 24th-largest. "The dramatic increase in GDP was largely due to services, which increased more than threefold in nominal terms," says Yvonne Mhango, an economist at Renaissance Capital "Services' share of GDP jumped to 53%, vs 29% previously. This is partly due to the surge in telecoms' contribution, to 9% of GDP, vs 1% previously, and the emergence of a new sector, 'Nollywood' (1.2% of GDP). As we expected, agriculture’s share declined to 22% (vs 35%). The threefold increase in manufacturing/GDP, to 7% (vs 2%), was countered by the fall in oil and gas/GDP to 14% (vs 33%), which explains the decline of industry/GDP to 25% (vs 36%)." Unemployment benefits in Congress. The Senate will likely vote to extend emergency unemployment benefits this afternoon, but Chris Krueger, a D.C.-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities, says the measure "has virtually no chance" of getting through the House of Representatives. "The ~$10 billion bill would retroactively restore for five months long-term unemployment benefits that expired on Dec. 28 (they would expire at the end of May). The program pays ~$300 per week to the long-term unemployed who had previously exhausted the 26 weeks of state-sponsored unemployment insurance. If passed into law, this bill would generate a retroactive payment of ~$4,000 to ~1.3 million Americans who lost their emergency unemployment benefits on December 28 and would then pay them the ~$300 per week until the end of May." Hedge funds not advertising yet. Research firm Preqin says the alternative asset management industry hasn't yet taken advantage of new advertising rules. "Preqin's recent survey of more than 150 private equity and hedge fund managers reveals that these firms have been slow to take advantage of the marketing opportunities presented by the JOBS Act, which allows them to advertise and perform general solicitations to showcase their funds to a larger number of potential investors," said the firm in a press release. "Only 4% of hedge fund managers and 5% of private equity managers surveyed said they have registered to market under the JOBS Act." *** Later today, Business Insider will publish its quarterly chartbook, "The Most Important Charts In The World." The book contains submissions from more than 100 of our favorite analysts, traders, and economists across the Street. Below is a submission from former UBS chief economist George Magnus. Stay tuned for more. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Masaharu HatanoTraders jostle to a trading counter at the Tokyo Stock Exchange February 1, 1994.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are talking about today: Good Morning!  US Futures are under pressure to start the week, with the pressure continuing in Tech shares – S&amp;P is marked down 30bp, while Nasdaq is marked off 70bp.  Some crowded HF names are diving into bear-territory, with ZNGA, P, TWTR, NFLX, AMZN and FB all off 20%+ from their peaks.  The Tech selloff is global, with Tencent, the largest holding in the SOCL, losing 4.5% in Hong Kong - South Korea’s Naver, which owns another Asian messaging app, lost 6.5% - and Chip companies weighted heavy on FTSE.   We will see how Biotech acts, with QCOR getting a take-out bid (#23 holding IBB at 1%).      Over in Europe, the DAX is marked off 1%, but overseas volumes are light with the FTSE trading 30% below 20day averages, Eurostoxx 15% below and DAX 10% below.   Chinese markets were closed for Holiday – but Tech-Heavy Nikkei led the region’s declines, losing almost 2%.  Much Asian Focus on the BoJ kicking off their 2day meeting as the new Sales tax takes hold.   Globally, Tech is under sharp pressure, with Banks and Consumer stocks right behind.   Keep an eye on the Dividend names, they seem to be picking up a lot of the flows, and the miners closed green down in Aussie, adding to last week’s 3% pop.   Early this AM, I’m seeing N, DDD, TSLA, SCTY, FB and GOOD all marked 1% lower – while ZNGA, P, QCOM all marked up 1%+.The 10YY in the USA rests near 1week lows on the 200dma at 2.71%.  We are seeing the DXY under pressure, as the € is popping off 6week lows, and the Yen has a slight bid into the BOJ.  Despite the tailwind of the falling $, we have most commodities in the red – Platinum and Silver are nearing down 1%, while gold does not seem to be attracting haven flows.   Brent is off 1% as Libya nears a deal to re-open ports, and maintenance season collapses demand from EU refiners.  Coffee is your best performer, adding 4% as drought concerns weigh on global crop prospects.   Scheduled catalysts today include the ECB annual report at 9, a small POMO at 11, Fed’s Bullard (centrist) to Speak on Monetary Policy at 11:45, and watch the Credit cards into Consumer Credit data at 3pm.   Finally, keep an eye on AA, which kicks off earnings season tomorrow - The expectations for the S&amp;P 500 companies are low. Profits are expected to contract in the first quarter by 1.2%, according to FactSet Research, the first contraction since the third quarter of 2012. FREE AppDownload
Tensions are rising in Ukraine today. There are two significant developments: The Russian stock market is tanking, with the MICEX down 2.6%. MICEX FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frank PolichNEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has put together a dedicated group to examine private equity and hedge funds, after the 2010 Dodd-Frank law required the funds to be regulated, according to people familiar with the matter. The examiners will look at areas including how private equity and hedge funds value their assets, disclose their fees, and communicate with investors. The SEC regularly examines a wide range of financial institutions including brokerages and clearing houses to ensure compliance with federal securities laws. But the regulator's exams have been criticized for missing big violations such as the Ponzi scheme at Bernard Madoff's asset management arm. The agency has responded by adding more specialist examiners, covering areas ranging from financial markets to derivatives, and coordinating among examiners nationally. The SEC already has examiners who specialize in funds, but historically the agency has focused on public asset managers such as mutual funds that have been highly regulated since 1940. Dodd-Frank required most midsize and large private equity and hedge funds to register with the SEC. Many hedge funds and private equity firms hold complex and illiquid investments that are harder to value than those at traditional asset managers. This has spurred the need for specialist SEC examiners. Also, these funds can have complex fee structures that are harder for investors to understand. Ensuring transparency in these funds is a top SEC priority. The SEC has asked Congress for more resources for fund inspections. SEC Chair Mary Jo White told a U.S. House of Representatives appropriations panel last week that the regulator examined only about 9 percent of registered investment fund advisers in the last fiscal year. In its fiscal 2015 budget request, the SEC is seeking to add 316 staff to its examination program in the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, where the new unit is based. It currently has about 450 examiners, accountants, and lawyers in 12 offices focusing on investment advisers and companies. "There is an immediate and pressing need for significant additional resources to permit the SEC to increase its examination coverage of registered investment advisers so as to better protect investors and our markets," White said in prepared testimony to the committee on April 1. The SEC's new private fund unit is co-chaired by Igor Rozenblit and Marc Wyatt, the sources said. Rozenblit joined the asset management unit of the SEC's enforcement division in 2010 and is a former private equity professional. Wyatt is a hedge fund veteran who joined the SEC in 2012 as a private funds examiner. Initially, the private fund unit will comprise existing staff in four of the SEC's regional offices that will work part-time with Rozenblit and Wyatt on fund examinations, one of the sources said. If successful, the SEC plans to expand the unit over the course of the next six to 12 months to more regional offices, that source added. The SEC declined to comment. Some regulatory experts said the new unit could help the SEC better understand private funds. "I'm optimistic that the new unit will benefit the private funds industry by bringing together the knowledge and experience that now resides in different places in the organization," said Marc Elovitz, who chairs law firm Schulte Roth &amp; Zabel LLP's investment management regulatory and compliance group. The SEC has a separate team that investigates asset managers in its enforcement division. That group was formed in 2010. (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York and Sarah Lynch in Washington, D.C.; Editing by Dan Wilchins and David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
APTAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp posted a first-quarter loss that was wider than analyst estimates, after ineffective marketing resulted in weak sales of its former flagship model. The HTC One spent its year at the top of the product line receiving rave reviews but was undermined by advertising widely criticized as confusing, sending the company's market share into freefall. HTC was once a firm third to Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, selling 10 percent of smartphonesglobally two years ago, but it ended 2013 with a market share of just 2 percent, showed data from researcher Strategy Analytics. The company started 2014 by booking a net loss of T$1.88 billion ($62.06 million) for January-March. That compared with a mean loss of T$1.59 billion estimated by 18 analysts polled by Reuters, and profit of T$85 million logged a year earlier. Revenue fell 22.6 percent to T$33.12 billion, the company said in a statement on Monday. HTC, however, broke 28 months of on-year revenue declines with a rise of 2.16 percent in March, and said it expected to return to profit in the second quarter thanks in part to the late-March release of its upgraded flagship, the HTC One M8. Shares of HTC have fallen 38 percent over the past year, compared with a 12 percent rise in the Taiwan Stock Exchange Weighted Index. Ahead of the release, they closed up 3.6 percent versus the benchmark's 0.1 percent loss. The former contract manufacturer released a series of mid-range smartphones in recent weeks, predicting cheaper phones in emerging markets will help it return to profit this year. It has also launched a partnership with search engine giant Google Inc to manufacture smart watches. But it is the new flagship HTC One M8 that the company hopes will help it reestablish itself as a challenger to market leaders Apple and Samsung. "The M8 is good, but it's not as revolutionary as the previous flagship," said Yuanta Securities analyst Dennis Chan. "Everyone is watching the second quarter to see how it sells." Tech website CNET.com awarded the phone four and a half stars out of five, calling it "a stunning sequel" to last year's HTC One - a phone whose equally strong reviews were not matched by marketing and so did not translate into strong sales. The new flagship could be in for a similarly rough sales ride as smartphone growth globally is likely to slow this year to 19 percent from 39 percent in 2013, and taper off over the next few years, showed data from researcher IDC. As smartphones mature and technological upgrades become more incremental, analysts say even more importance will be placed on marketing and brand image - an area Chairwoman Cher Wang admitted HTC "didn't do well" last year. To distinguish itself to trend-conscious consumers, HTC must learn from Apple, whose innovative brand image and marketing strategy has won plaudits, said Taipei-based brand consultant Mark Stocker. "Mimic them, but figure out what your brand stands for," said Stocker. "If Apple is Mercedes Benz, try to make yourself BMW." (Reporting by Michael Gold; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock The fate of the Chinese economy continues to be of major concern to investors all around the world. The country is a major driver of global demand for various goods, but there are growing fears that China is experiencing a "Minsky Moment" and that it will have a financial crisis or a severe slowdown, as the credit-driven growth model hits a wall. Right now, the world is watching Chinese leadership attempt to manage the tricky task of maintaining economic growth (which is crucial) while simultaneously reforming the economy away from overinvestment, debt, and bubbles. Morgan Stanley economist Joachim Fels recently visited China — as he describes in his Sunday Star note – and after meeting with leaders and investors there he came back with three important observations. Here's a shortened version: First, everybody I met now agrees on the diagnosis: there is a serious debt problem and deleveraging is inevitable. This may seem obvious, but (believe me) it was different on earlier trips. The days of ‘debt denial’ are definitely over.  ... Second, I strongly believe that if anyone can deflate a credit bubble gently, it is China. Why? (i) The debt is all internal as China’s capital account is (relatively) closed. There are no foreign creditors that can withdraw from one minute to the next, and the domestic creditors cannot easily send their funds abroad. (ii) A large chunk of the debt is within the public sector – extended by state-controlled banks to state-owned enterprises or local public authorities. This makes it easier to “extend and pretend”. (iii) The central government is in good fiscal shape and, if needed, has access to the central banks’ printing press. ... Third, the Chinese authorities’ response to the recent sharp slowing of growth is unlikely to be massive but rather selective and targeted. So there IS a problem, China might be able to pull off a reform without a collapse, and stimulus will be targeted, not broad-based FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
So-called “momentum stocks” such as Twitter and Facebook were hit with a huge sell-off at the end of the trading week in the US on Friday, as we noted this morning. It was ugly, with LinkedIn down 13%, and Facebook and Twitter losing 5.4% and 8.8% respectively. It’s all about risk aversion, and it looks like it’s spreading to Australia. CMC Markets chief markets strategist Michael McCarthy explains that local tech stocks are down today, following last week’s leads from Wall Street. “Dramatic losses in tech and bio-med stocks in US trading have reminded local investors of the dangers of stocks on high earnings multiples. “IT companies Xero and iProperty are down 8-10%, and the sector is off more than 1% in an otherwise flat market. The downdraft is extending to internet based consumer stocks, with REA group shedding more than 5%. The weakness in former market darlings is offset by an appetite for the dour and reliable. Property trusts and utilities are the best performing sectors as investors turn to reliable earnings streams and humbler multiples. Wesfarmers is driving a solid performance for consumer staples, rising more than 1% on confirmation of the $1 billion sale of its insurance arm.” Here’s the Australian tech stocks taking a hit: The ASX200 closed down 0.17% today. It’s important to note US stocks are close to all-time highs, and a lot of investors will be watching to see if this is the start of a broader risk aversion, or simply a brief period of jitters. Here’s a whole-year chart for the big US tech stocks, from Arab Bank’s David Scutt: David Scutt Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Australia and Japan have finally agreed to a free trade deal. This new arrangement will mean billions of dollars to the economy as Australian exports of dairy, beef, wine, and a range of services are freed up. On the other side, Japanese cars, cameras, televisions and other high-tech goods will be cheaper for consumers here as Australia eases tariffs. Trade Minister Andrew Robb said it had been tough getting the deal done. “After seven long years of negotiation, this historic agreement has been concluded,” he said in Tokyo, according to Fairfax Media. “It is an agreement which is a historic one in its extent of liberalisation that Japan has concede to. It will benefit greatly Australian businesses, Australian jobs and Australian consumers, with cuts in car prices of up to $1500 on the average car. “I don’t want to pre-empt the formal conclusion of this negotiation by our two prime ministers in a short while, but just want to say what an honour it is to be involved in this historic agreement.” Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
David AndolfattoOne of the funny things about Bitcoin is the way its terminology seems rooted in ancient monetary history. First of all, there's the fact that it has "coin" in its name, harkening back to an increasingly irrelevant aspect of the monetary system. And then there's the fact that to obtain coins you have to "mine" them by having your computer expend tons of electricity on seemingly pointless tasks. It seems very barbaric and ancient. And it's one reason that Bitcoin has gotten a lot of criticism. But maybe the terminology is bad and the criticism is unwarranted. David Andolfatto is an economist with the St. Louis Fed who recently made a presentation all about Bitcoin. Our Rob Wile interviewed him, and at one point, Andolfatto articulated something on the above matter better than pretty much anyone we have heard: BI: How have your opinions on Bitcoin evolved since that first post? DA: Early on, I thought, 'This was kind of silly,' and I kind of questioned the role of the miners, these miners who are mining bitcoin. And it led to the analogy of people mining for gold. I recall reading a blog post by Paul Krugman, who criticized Bitcoin. He was saying exactly what I was thinking: that this intensive effort to mine for gold ...We don't need more physical commodities. All that has to happen is the price level has to adjust. Economic theory says that kind of mining is inefficient. I shared in that opinion, but I continued to read about it, and it struck me that that analogy was incorrect — that in fact what these miners were, was mislabeled. They were performing a communal service, a record-keeping service which is critical to any money system. Mining was a red herring, it's just one way to reward record keepers for their service, and that protocol could function even with constant supply. This is really deep on multiple levels. First of all, he's correct that mining is a flawed analogy. "Miners" are being rewarded for performing a task of network administration and transaction verification. One beauty of the system is that it doesn't need a centralized authority to confirm transactions because the computers on the seem are incented to take on that role. And the last point is key too: There's actually no need for "more" coins. The creation of coins serves as a way of giving a fee to the miners (transaction verifiers) but it's not like a real commodity where you could ever have a true shortage that would require you to dig up some more. Bitcoins are infinitely divisible, and the price could rise infinitely, so there's plenty to work with. The only limiting factor is the amount of outside money people are willing to devote to it. Bottom line: Andolfatto doesn't just understand Bitcoin well for a mainstream economist. He gets it and can articulate it better than even many Bitcoin advocates.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
U.S. Navy photo by Petty Officer 2nd Class Ryan J. Mayes Good morning! After Friday's stock market drubbing — largely concentrated in momentum stocks — everything's lower again today. The selling began in Asia, where the Nikkei lost 1.69%. Stocks are lower across the board in Europe. Germany's DAX is down 1.5%. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 is down 0.7%. US futures are all lower, with the NASDAQ, once again, taking the worst of it, pointing to a decline of 0.8%. The big story of the morning is rising tension in Ukraine. A Ukrainian soldier what shot dead by a Russian soldier. And pro-Russian activists in various eastern regions stormed government buildings. In Donetsk, Russian activists proclaimed the region's independence. This tension has had a big negative effect on Russian equities, with the MICEX down about 3%. FREE AppDownload
