Khairul Hazwan Rashid via YouTubeA suitor must choose between three caskets to win Portia's hand in The Merchant of Venice FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Reasons Lower Stock Correlations Don't Necessarily Make A Stock Pickers Market (Vanguard)  Some argue that lower stock correlations make a better environment for active managers. But Jim Rowley, a senior investment analyst in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, doesn't think this is necessarily the case for three key reasons. 1. "Correlation shows directional movement of stocks, not the magnitude of movement."2. "No matter the correlation environment, it’s still a zero-sum game."3. "Active management has the potential to add value in up or down markets." What Investors Should Consider Before Taking On Strategy ETFs (Morningstar)  In the past year we've seen a rise in Strategy ETFs. These differ from others by offering "an alternative exposure that tries to beat the market or offer some kind of enhanced exposure," according to Sam Lee, a strategist and also the editor of Morningstar ETFInvestor. So how do you know if these are right for you? "I think it depends on how strongly you believe in these factor-tilt ETFs, or strategy ETFs, because if you are comfortable owning actively managed mutual funds in your portfolio as your core holdings, as many investors do, then there's nothing that would prevent you from owning these factor or strategy ETFs as your core holdings," says Lee.  "The way I think about it is many of these ETFs are dirt-cheap or the best ones are dirt-cheap. So, even if they don't work out, so that is the supposed advantage isn't realized going forward, you haven't lost anything, if at all because these, especially iShares ETFs, charge close to passive management fees." The Single Most Important Observation For Anyone Who Buys Stocks Based On Value (Morgan Stanley)  The most basic measure of stock market value is the price-earnings multiple. And "market multiples rarely trade at average levels," writes Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. This is crucial for anyone that looks at valuations before investing. The stock market rally in 2013 was largely driven by multiple expansion not earnings growth. So one shouldn't short the market just because the multiple is above its mean or vice-versa.   Morgan Stanley Why A Blanket Ban On Commissions Won't Empower Investors (CFA Institute) 70% of respondents of a new CFA Institute study said "inappropriate remuneration structures biased towards volume sales or specific products," are the main cause of mis-selling. 46% said the main consequence of banning commissions is that distributors  will shrink their pool of offerings to those that they continue to get fees for. "Transparency should be part of any solution aimed at addressing mis-selling because simplified disclosures would give investors the information they need to make informed decisions," Matt Orsagh, director of Capital Markets Policy at CFA Institute said. "It is also important to pursue uniformity in fee disclosures across jurisdictions to allow comparability of fees across markets, especially in the EU, where manufacturers can sell investment products across borders."  "Our survey results indicate that CFA Institute members believe a ban on commissions will result in an investment landscape with less choice for investors and a market that under-serves, or does not serve, smaller clients." The Global Stock Market: 1899 Vs. 2013 (Credit Suisse) The global economy and global stock markets have changed a lot in the last century. Credit Suisse is out with a chart that shows the relative market caps of global stock markets at the end of 1899, and at the end of 2013. "Markets that are not included in the Yearbook dataset are colored black. As these pie charts show, the Yearbook covered 98% of the world equity market in 1900 and 91% at end-2013." Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
A lot of new investors assume that managing money is like golf — where Tiger Woods whips the amateur who steps out on the course with him 100 times out of 100. But it’s not like that at all. In investing, unlike golf, the amateur can crush the pro for an appreciable period of time. That’s one of the most wonderful things about the game and one of the most frustrating things about the game, all at once. In addition, the professional golfer gets to keep his trophies and wins regardless of the subsequent decline in his skills. In contrast, the professional investor’s average or below-average years will dilute the benefit of his “winning” years as mean reversion knocks his lifetime track record back down to earth. Peter Lynch must have known this when he retired in 1990 at the top of his game — he left the magic intact before reality and probability could strip him of it. Randomness and Time team up to take almost all of us down, one way or the other. Here are three charts from a recent presentation from Towers Watson on equity investing that show this phenomenon graphically (emphasis mine): Past performance in particular can sound a plausible basis upon which to form an opinion. This is because we are programmed to recognize patterns in nature and to extrapolate what we believe we have observed. However, studies have shown that there is a high degree of randomness in relative investment returns and that to be statistically significant, a performance record should be intact for nearly 15 years. Few investors meet this criterion. Fewer still meet this requirement and have not experienced other changes which have a direct impact on future performance, such as staff turnover or growth in assets under management which can affect portfolio construction. Consequently, we strongly believe that — considered in isolation – past performance is a poor basis for assessing investment skill. Josh here — in other words… Excess returns can show up anywhere, in any portfolio, and are randomly achieved in aggregate: eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAny schmuck can hang with the pros, for a long time, and beat a skilled investor for years before his information disadvantage becomes apparent. And the skilled managers are very capable of underperformance as well, Towers Watson notes that even Warren Buffett recorded two three-year rolling periods of negative relative-performance, despite his 45-year marathon track record of outperformance:  eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAnd finally, we are all, in the end, victims of our own success. Identifying a manager with durable skill and a sustainable investing process only assures one thing — that others will discover that manager as well and pour their dollars in. And then, like hearing your favorite indie band on Top 40 Radio, you’re totally grossed out and uncomfortable. And with good reason – your alpha is now dust in the wind. Nothing ruins an outperforming investor or an indie rock band like mass appeal: eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAfter seeing these charts and this evidence of futility, you might be asking yourself the following: If anyone can win and anyone can lose at any time in the markets, why bother trying at all? Fair question. But I submit to you that successful investing is a lifetime pursuit, and in the end, it’s the pursuit itself that offers the rewards along the way. The destination was never the thing — most of us aren’t meant to end up as Peter Lynch or Warren Buffett. No, it was what you learned on the way there that made all the difference. As the poet C.P. Cavafy reminds us: Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.Without her you would not have set out. A lifetime of outperforming the markets is unattainable for most. But a lifetime of self-improvement and the acquisition of skill and knowledge — that’s available for anyone who’s willing to go for it. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/lazyjones27This is Coca-Cola's "BreakMate," the company's first at-home soda brewer. Coca-Cola's plan to create a an at-home soda dispenser with Green Mountain Coffee sent the Keurig-maker's shares flying earlier this month.  But this isn't Coke's first foray into the home-brewing market. The company's first personal soda brewer, called the BreakMate, was introduced to test markets in 1985, and hit the national market in 1988. Coke marketed the 60-pound machine, which initially cost $1,799, to small offices. Coke executives lauded the machine as a game-changer for the beverage industry.  "This is the largest development project we have ever undertaken," W. Andrew Harvill, then of Coke's fountain sales department, told the Los Angeles Times in 1988.  Within a decade, the company expected the machines to generate roughly 2% of the company's sales, or the equivalent of 20 million gallons of Coca-Cola concentrate each year, according to the Times. "If you make Coke available," Harvill said at the time, "then people will drink it." Coke pitched the machine to office managers as a way to increase employee productivity. Without a BreakMate, a Coke brochure read, employees "are forced to spend valuable business time leaving their immediate work area . . . to find the nearest available soft drink source." The BreakMate, manufactured by German company Siemans, held three refillable liters of syrup that had the capacity to produce 31 6.5-ounce servings or 20 10-ounce servings.  Take a look at the unwieldy predecessor to the SodaStream: Here are the syrup liters, which were hidden under a plastic flap on the front of the machine: YouTube/Med Maj At 22 inches wide and 18 inches high, the machine took up a fair amount of counter space: YouTube/Med MajThe machines were plagued with operational problems, however, and people soon realized that buying two-liter bottles cost less than brewing it on their own. There were also concerns about product consistency and cross-contamination, according to VendingMarketWatch.com. Coca-Cola eventually stopped making the machines and in 2007, the company stopped all product support, Coke spokesman Petro Kacur told Business Insider. Mark Swartzberg, a Coke analyst at Stifel, has predicted that the soda giant's new at-home brewer could suffer a similar fate.  "The opportunity is small... and carries significant execution risk," Swartzberg wrote in a recent client note, according to the Wall Street Journal. "In our opinion, one of Coke's problems ... is not routes-to-market but innovation in the bottle." Watch how the BreakMate worked:   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSClerks relay orders from traders on the trading floor behind them during a frenzy of activity in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange May 15, 2001.Here's a remarkable statistic — right now just 25 stocks on the S&amp;P 1500 index have a consensus analyst rating of "sell" or "underweight," according to FactSet. Sure, investors are generally bullish about 2014, but only 25 stocks? History repeats. Business Insider's own Henry Blodget wrote in Slate way back in 2004 about the same problem. He highlighted a few points worth paraphrasing again: Read Henry Blodget's full piece at Slate » FREE AppDownload
WikipediaVerbier, SwitzerlandLast month’s snowstorm and polar vortex left New York City’s streets unusually empty as tourists and natives alike remained inside, huddled up by their radiators — or fireplaces if they were lucky. But the savviest New Yorkers don’t sit by idly, suffering cabin fever. They “winter.” So it’s the ideal time to assess the second-home markets — from Miami to Mexico, and from Aspen to the Swiss Alps — that so many New Yorkers flock to. This month, The Real Deal did just that, rounding up some of the most popular winter getaway destinations. Andrew Heiberger, the founder and former CEO of Town Residential, is one of the many who has switched his vacation destination allegiance in recent years. Heiberger, who has vacationed in Miami every winter since he was a child, bought a unit in the Setai, a luxury hotel and condominium in South Beach in 2002. He sold that unit in 2009, and — although he still visits South Florida yearly — he recently began wintering on the exclusive island of St. Barts, which is part of the French West Indies in the Caribbean. “It’s a beautiful island; it’s luxurious; the food is excellent,” Heiberger said. Still, it isn’t all about the sun. Cosmopolitan New Yorkers are also big buyers in Vermont ski towns, in France, and in a number of other winter getaway destinations. Read on for a look at some of the locations where Gothamites are helping to boost the market. ShutterstockZermatt, Switzerland The Swiss Alps may be one of the most exclusive second- (or third-) home markets in the world, but the dramatic mountain region is no less desirable for it. Brokers say buyers from around the globe, including from New York, flock there year-round looking to get a piece of Switzerland’s ever-tightening inventory in resort towns like Villars, Verbier, and Zermatt — proximity to Geneva being key. And the market is only getting more competitive. Last year, Switzerland banned the construction of new vacation homes, which prevented about 50 new units from coming to market in Verbier alone, according to Simon Malster, managing director of Investors in Property, a London-based firm that specializes in marketing ski chalets in the Swiss Alps. And with only a few new construction properties available to foreigners in the resorts of Zermatt and Saas-Fee remaining, Malster predicted that in two to three years that there won’t be any new homes available. That, he said, could send prices soaring. While overarching market statistics were not available for the region, Malster said prices range from around 6,000 Swiss francs per square meter (or about $1,875 per square foot) in the new under-construction Titlis resort in Engelberg to 25,000 francs per square meter (or $7,812 per foot) in the über-luxurious Verbier village. And New Yorkers are among those buying. “New Yorkers account for roughly 50 percent of our inquires,” Malster said, adding that he regularly flies to New York because of the high demand for Swiss properties among New Yorkers. Among the high-profile vacationers in the region are singers Tina Turner and Shania Twain. Most recently, one of Malster’s New York clients, a banker, paid $3.3 million for a top-floor apartment in the Garden Golf, a ski resort in Crans-Montana. “It offers a secure environment in the center of Europe, and the Swiss franc is one of the strongest currencies in the world,” Malster said. “These properties are not expensive to run [because] taxes are cheap, and buyers may be able to borrow up to 70 percent of the purchase price from a Swiss bank at around 1.5 percent.” But secure and cheap money doesn’t make buying in the Swiss Alps easy. Swiss laws regulating the second-home market limit vacation homes owned by non-permanent residents to roughly 2,200 square feet, according to John Stephenson, a London-based “negotiator” with brokerage Knight Frank who specializes in the Swiss and French Alps. So for buyers who can’t close a deal in the Swiss Alps, the French Alps are a good alternative. “The French Alps tend to be better value for money,” Stephenson said, “and the market is completely non-restrictive in comparison to Switzerland.” Shutterstock.comAnguilla Surrounded by tranquil Caribbean water and white-sand beaches, St. Barts has become a popular winter getaway for New Yorkers in the know. Famous for its top-notch restaurants, celebrity vacationers like Paul McCartney and Ryan Seacrest, and New Year’s Eve yacht parties, real estate on the island is naturally in high demand. Yet the destination has less than 100 sales per year, according to data from Knight Frank. Back in 2009, Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich reportedly purchased a 70-acre estate on the island for more than $90 million. The neighboring villa is currently on the market for $60 million. But growing demand has strained the small island’s limited inventory, reducing the number of sales, driving average prices into the $5 million-plus range and forcing most visitors to rent, explained Robson Zanetti, international sales director at Town Residential. However, a few high-end property sales helped push total sales volume on the island over $100 million in 2013, doubling the roughly $50 million in deals that the island saw the year before, said Zanetti, who is based in New York but refers clients internationally. “Homes on St. Barts only come to market for one of two reasons. An extremely wealthy person decides to move to an even more exclusive island, or a couple gets divorced,” Zanetti said. Meanwhile, St. Barts’ neighbor Anguilla offers much of the same luxury and tropical beauty at a more reasonable price, making it an increasingly popular vacation home market for New Yorkers. “Anguilla is enormously popular with New Yorkers,” said Naomi Cambridge, sales director at Zemi Beach Resort &amp; Spa, a newly developed 115-unit beachfront resort in Anguilla with 87 hotel rooms and 28 condo units that range in price from $2 million to $3 million. “Like everyone else, we are still recovering from the recession, but interest has been growing steadily.” Shutterstock.com Why fly to the Alps when there’s Aspen and Vail stateside? The two Colorado ski destinations have long been popular winter getaways with New Yorkers. But the Western markets are currently undergoing a dynamic shift, according to Susan Hershey, an Aspen-based broker with Sotheby’s International Realty. “New Yorkers treat Aspen like the Hamptons,” Hershey said, “and increasingly they are making commitments for weeks or even months.” While resorts such as the Viceroy Snowmass, developed by the Related Companies, and the Residences at the Little Nell, developed by a joint venture called CWA Development, remain popular with New Yorkers, Hershey said there’s been increased interest in buying large single-family homes in areas like Red Mountain and the West End. In fact, the Aspen market saw 431 sales in 2013, a 27 percent increase from 2012, according to a fourth quarter report by Tim Estin, a broker at Aspen Snowmass Sotheby’s International. Sales at the Viceroy alone were responsible for 63 percent of ski-in/out unit sales in Snowmass Village. Overall, the average price per square foot of single-family homes in Aspen fell 12 percent to $938 in 2013’s fourth quarter year-over-year. However, the price per square foot of condos grew 2 percent to $1,000. Meanwhile, in Park City, Utah, the winter vacation market is also booming. The Stein Eriksen Lodge, a five-star resort developed by Los Angeles-based Regent Properties, is debuting the Stein Eriksen Residences this month. The 16-home, 38-condo development is located in Deer Valley, a mile outside of Park City, and prices range from $2 million to $7 million. Sources said about 20 percent of owners in the Stein Eriksen Lodge hail from New York. Keep reading at The Real Deal &gt; FREE AppDownload
Foursquare user/ Neil S. The Electric Room at the Dream Downtown in ManhattanBanker Julia Kadioglu was arrested last month for allegedly hitting a guy on the head with a beer bottle in an NYC night club, the New York Post reports citing unnamed police sources. According to the report, Kadioglu's date Till Bechtolsheimer bumped into Daniel Kurkowski on the dancefloor. Kurkowski allegedly shoved Bechtolsheimer back before Kadioglu allegedly hit him with her Stella Artois bottle, the report said. The alleged incident happened at Dream Hotel's Electric Room in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood on January 19th. Kadioglu was taken out of the club in handcuffs, the report said.  Kadioglu's attorney told the Post that his client is innocent.   The Post report said that Kadioglu works at HSBC.  We tried emailing Kadioglu at her HSBC email address and received a delivery failure message. We also called Kadioglu's desk at HSBC and were told that she's no longer there. Kadioglu left the bank in the first half of 2013, Business Insider has learned.   HSBC declined to comment.  Kadioglu's Linkedin profile says that she works in derivatives and structured products at HSBC. FINRA records show that she's been employed by HSBC both in London and New York since 2005. She also attended the University of St. Andrews in Scotland from 2001 until 2005, the records show.  She was at the prestigious university during the same time as Prince William and Kate Middleton.  finra She's also a runner and a triathlete, race records on website Athlinks show. She has some pretty solid race times, too.  She also volunteers with the Bowery Mission.  FREE AppDownload
EPS for the fourth quarter came in at $1.28.  Sales for the quarter came in at $1.27 billion.   The stock is up more than 4% in after-hours trading following the earnings announcement.  Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss products, is one of the closely followed stocks on Wall Street these days. The company has been at the center of a huge hedge fund battle for over a year now.   In December 2012, Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, publicly declared that he was shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife.  His thesis is that the company operates as a pyramid scheme and that regulators, specifically the FTC, will be persuaded to investigate and shut down the company.  Right after Ackman publicly revealed his short, his arch-nemesis Carl Icahn piled on by amassing a huge long position. Icahn, who has made hundreds of millions on his position, has said that Ackman will be the victim of "the mother of all short squeezes." A number of other fund managers have gone long the stock, too.  Ackman has said that he will take his Herbalife short "to the end of the earth." Here's an excerpt from the Q4 earnings release:  LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported fourth quarter net sales of $1.3 billion, reflecting an increase of 20 percent compared to the same period in 2012, on volume point growth of 13 percent. Net income for the quarter was $123.5 million, or $1.15 per diluted share. On an adjustedbasis, adjusted1 net income for the quarter was $137.2 million, or $1.28 per diluted share, as compared to 2012 fourth quarter net income3of $112.2 million and EPS of $1.00. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, the company reported record net sales of $4.8 billion, an 18 percent increase, on 13 percent growth in volume compared to 2012. For the same period, the company reported net income of $527.5 million, or $4.91 per diluted share. On an adjusted basis, adjusted1 net income of $577.4 million, or $5.37 per diluted share, reflected increases of 24 percent and 36 percent respectively, over 2012 net income3 of $464.0 million and EPS of $3.94. "Herbalife delivered another year of record financial performance achieved through the consistent execution of key strategies to expand daily consumption of our products," said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife's chairman and CEO. "The global obesity epidemic continues to expand around the world, having an adverse impact on community health. Our independent Members are uniquely positioned, with education, coaching, and nutritious, industry-leading products to help their customers live healthier lives." For the year ended December 31, 2013, Herbalife generated cash flow from operations of $772.9 million, an increase of 36 percent compared to 2012; paid dividends of $123.1 million; invested $162.5 million in capital expenditures; and repurchased $297.4 million in common shares outstanding under our previous share repurchase program. Herbalife recently announced that the Board of Directors approved an increase in its share repurchase authorization to $1.5 billion. Following repurchases made in connection with the company’s recent financing transaction on February 7, 2014, the remaining authorized capacity under the repurchase program is $814 million. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderGone are the days when a hedge fund could go long the market, lever up to its eyeballs and watch the money roll in (at least for now). According to a report from research firm Prequin, hedge funds got spanked in January, returning an average -0.17% for the month. The firm hasn't reported negative numbers like that since August of 2013. Additionally, the strategies that ruled the year 2013 were some of the worst performers of January 2014. The reason for this is pretty clear, the market has taken a turn for the choppy since 2014 began. Last year the S&amp;P 500 was a money tree, climbing 30% and boosting up all kinds of stocks like ships in a rising tide. All that is over now. Long short funds, the second best performing strategy in 2013, got it bad in January 2014 returning -0.28%. Long biased funds got it even worse, returning -1.45% on average. Conversely, strategies that performed poorly in 2013 had their day. Relative value funds, for example, were at the bottom of the barrel in 2013, returning only a little over 5% in a year when the best hedge fund strategy (activist) returned slightly over 19%. In January, however, relative value led the pack, returning 1.43%. Another change in January — European hedge funds outperformed hedge funds in the United States and emerging market focused funds returned -2.27%. Who was last will be first, and who was first will be last. Here's are some more key points from Prequin's research: Be careful out there, things can change really fast. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Buddhika WeerasingheAn elephant destroys a minibus after throwing its rider and going on a rampage during Sri Lanka's sixth annual elephant polo tournament in Galle.Stocks didn't do a whole lot today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Flickr/RednuhtNovice investors are often held back by common misinformation.When fiascos like the Libor scandal, London Whale scandal, and analysts' conflict of interest occur, investor confidence can be at an all-time low. Many investors wonder whether or not investing in stocks is worth all the hassle. At the same time, however, it's important to keep a realistic view of the stock market. Regardless of the real problems, common myths about the stock market often arise. Here are five of those myths: This reasoning causes many people to shy away from the stock market. To understand why investing in stocks is inherently different from gambling, we need to review what it means to buy stocks. A share of common stock is ownership in a company. It entitles the holder to a claim on assets as well as a fraction of the profits that the company generates. Too often, investors think of shares as simply a trading vehicle, and they forget that stock represents the ownership of a company. In the stock market, investors are constantly trying to assess the profit that will be left over for shareholders. This is why stock prices fluctuate. The outlook for business conditions is always changing, and so are the future earnings of a company. Assessing the value of a company isn't an easy practice. There are so many variables involved that the short-term price movements appear to be random (academics call this the Random Walk Theory); however, over the long term, a company is supposed to be worth the present value of the profits it will make. In the short term, a company can survive without profits because of the expectations of future earnings, but no company can fool investors forever — eventually a company's stock price can be expected to show the true value of the firm. Gambling, on the contrary, is a zero-sum game. It merely takes money from a loser and gives it to a winner. No value is ever created. By investing, we increase the overall wealth of an economy. As companies compete, they increase productivity and develop products that can make our lives better. Don't confuse investing and creating wealth with gambling's zero-sum game. Many market advisors claim to be able to call the markets' every turn. The fact is that almost every study done on this topic has proven that these claims are false. Most market prognosticators are notoriously inaccurate; furthermore, the advent of the internet has made the market much more open to the public than ever before. All the data and research tools previously available only to brokerages are now there for individuals to use. Whatever the reason for this myth's appeal, nothing is more destructive to amateur investors than thinking that a stock trading near a 52-week low is a good buy. Think of this in terms of the old Wall Street adage, "Those who try to catch a falling knife only get hurt." Suppose you are looking at two stocks: X made an all-time high last year around $50 but has since fallen to $10 per share. Y is a smaller company but has recently gone from $5 to $10 per share. Which stock would you buy? Believe it or not, all things being equal, a majority of investors choose the stock that has fallen from $50 because they believe that it will eventually make it back up to those levels again. Thinking this way is a cardinal sin in investing! Price is only one part of the investing equation (which is different from trading, which uses technical analysis). The goal is to buy good companies at a reasonable price. Buying companies solely because their market price has fallen will get you nowhere. Make sure you don't confuse this practice with value investing, which is buying high-quality companies that are undervalued by the market. The laws of physics do not apply in the stock market. There's no gravitational force to pull stocks back to even. Over 20 years ago, Berkshire Hathaway's stock price went from $7,455 to $17,250 per share in a little more than five years. Had you thought that this stock was going to return to its lower initial position, you would have missed out on the subsequent rise to $170,000 per share over the years.We're not trying to tell you that stocks never undergo a correction. The point is that the stock price is a reflection of the company. If you find a great firm run by excellent managers, there is no reason the stock won't keep on going up. Knowing something is generally better than nothing, but it is crucial in the stock market that individual investors have a clear understanding of what they are doing with their money. Investors who really do their homework are the ones that succeed. Don't fret — if you don't have the time to fully understand what to do with your money, then having an advisor is not a bad thing. The cost of investing in something that you do not fully understand far outweighs the cost of using an investment advisor. Forgive us for ending with more investing clichés, but there's another old adage worth repeating: "What's obvious is obviously wrong." This means that knowing a little bit will only have you following the crowd like a lemming. Like anything worth anything, successful investing takes hard work and effort. Think of a partially informed investor as a partially informed surgeon; the mistakes could be severely injurious to your financial health. FREE AppDownload
The way investors think (and position themselves) with regard to potential big risks to the market has come a long way since the financial crisis. According to a survey of 222 fund managers responsible for a collective $591 billion in assets under management conducted by BofA Merrill Lynch between Feb. 7 and Feb. 13, 2014, investors now believe emerging markets present the biggest risk to global financial stability. Meanwhile, concerns about counterparty credit and default risk — a defining characteristic of the financial crisis — are practically nonexistent. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream "Five years ago, EM was 'safe' — banks were 'toxic'," says Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofAML. "In a complete reversal, EM is now the biggest risk to financial market stability, while DM counterparty and default risk is seen as minimal." In line with this thinking, fund managers have increased their portfolio allocations to global bank stocks to the highest level on record, according to the survey results. Meanwhile, allocations to emerging markets have fallen to the lowest level on record. The charts below show how positioning has evolved. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream FREE AppDownload
APA minimum-wage increase to $10.10 — the level advocated by President Barack Obama and Democrats — would cost about 500,000 jobs but raise earnings for more than 16.5 million low-wage workers by 2016, according to a report released Tuesday by the Congressional Budget Office. The CBO said in its report that there is a great deal of uncertainty associated with the projection. The office projected a two-thirds chance of the minimum-wage hike's effect being between a "very slight" reduction in jobs to about 1 million jobs. The 500,000 number is just the central estimate. House Speaker John Boehner's (R-Ohio) office pounced on the report to say that a minimum-wage increase would be a job-killer. "This report confirms what we’ve long known: while helping some, mandating higher wages has real costs, including fewer people working," said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Boehner. "With unemployment Americans’ top concern, our focus should be creating – not destroying – jobs for those who need them most." The CBO also said that 16.5 million people will see a rise in incomes as a result of the possible hike, something on which Democrats immediately seized.  A $10.10 minimum wage would lift 900,000 people above the poverty threshold of $24,100 a year for a family of four, according to the report — a number Democrats seized on. And families in poverty would experience about a $5 billion increase in real income.  "No matter how the critics spin this report, the CBO made it absolutely clear: raising the minimum wage would lift almost one million Americans out of poverty, increase the pay of low-income workers by $31 billion, and help build an economy that works for everyone," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement. The CBO also projected that some higher-wage workers would owe jobs and increased wages to the minimum-wage hike, as it would lead to increased demand for goods and services resulting from the increase. Here's a chart from the CBO that summarizes the effects of the possible minimum-wage hike to $10.10: CBO The current minimum wage is $7.25 an hour. A minimum-wage increase is set to be debated in the Senate as soon as next month. FREE AppDownload
Credit SuisseThe makeup of the global economy has evolved dramatically in the past century. The stock market has changed too. From Credit Suisse's Global Investment Returns Yearbook:: Figure 1 shows the relative market capitalizations of world equity markets at our base date of end-1899. Figure 2 shows how they had changed by end-2013. Markets that are not included in the Yearbook dataset are colored black. As these pie charts show, the Yearbook covered 98% of the world equity market in 1900 and 91% at end-2013. Being such a young economy with such a young stock market, it's little surprise that the U.S. wasn't the biggest market in the world in 1899. One thing these two pie charts don't capture is that the Japanese stock market was by far the world's largest during the late 1980s. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyCarl IcahnThe $25 billion deal for drug-maker Actavis acquiring Forest Laboratories is another massive win for billionaire investor Carl Icahn.  "We were extremely pleased with the announcement this morning that Forest Labs is to be acquired by Actavis in a transaction that values Forest at approximately $89.48 per share," Icahn said in a statement.  According to Icahn's latest 13F filing, he held 30,662,005 shares of Forest Labs as of December 31, 2013.  Today, the stock has risen more than 29%, or about $21, putting the stock price at about $92.43 per share.  So in just today's trading session, Icahn has made an additional $643.9 million since the opening bell rang. Overall, though, Bloomberg News' Miles Weiss estimates that he could make about $1.7 billion on this investment.  FREE AppDownload
Chinese consumer demand for gold was up 32% on the year in 2013, to 1,065.8 tonnes, according to the latest World Gold Council report. The value demand for gold in China was $51.6 billion. There was a surge in both jewelry and total bar and coin investment demand. This was the first time China bought over a thousand tonnes of gold and saw it oust India from its position of top gold consumer. This compares with 974.8 tonnes of consumer gold demand in India, which was up 13% from a year ago. "Higher import duties, strict import quotas and restrictions on gold-related lending and coin sales led to a contraction of supply to the domestic market as the government attempted to reduce the current account deficit," according to the report. Here's a look at the surge in gold jewelry demand in China that far surpasses India.: World Gold Council And here's an interesting anecdote that highlights growing demand from non-consumer gold demand in China: "The tremendous growth in vaulting capacity in China is also indicative of OTC investment and stock flows. The expansion of gold storage capacity both on the mainland and in Greater China, which has included the building of sizable new vaults, is in part a reflection of growing demand for gold which is not captured within the consumer categories of demand, some of which will be related to the pipeline stock build-up mentioned above. These flows of bullion above and beyond retail demand are therefore captured within the OTC figure." 2013 annual gold demand climbed to 3,756.1 tonnes. FREE AppDownload
For days Leopoldo Lopez, Venezuelan opposition leader and former Mayor of Caracas, has been wanted by the government for leading the student protests that have taken hold in cities all over the country for more than a week. Today, with the protestors still out in full force, Lopez turned himself in to Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro, Hugo Chavez's successor. Check out this picture of Lopez saying goodbye to his wife, tweeted out by Venezuelan paper, El Nacional. Momento en que Leopoldo López se despide de su esposa antes de entregarse a la GNB pic.twitter.com/T1aaPWXh8l (vía @crgomezp) #18F Reuters It also doesn't look like Lopez's absence will dishearten the opposition movement. More and more people are taking to the streets (check out the masses in the picture below) and other opposition leaders are still on the loose. For example, the man who came close to beating Maduro in Venezuela's elections last year, Henrique Capriles, joined Lopez's protest today and is tweeting his support for Lopez. Capriles has also joined student protestors in demanding that the media end its censorship of the demonstrations and pay attention to their cause. They've been taking to social media to get the word out. Apparently, though, it's working. Anything that takes over the streets of Caracas like this is pretty hard to hide anyway (photo from Reuters). Reuters   FREE AppDownload
In a new note to clients, Societe Generale charts out what hedge funds are into these days. Hedge funds are particularly positive on the Nasdaq and oil, but they're not feeling commodities like corn and wheat. With Japan pushing Abenomics, the yen is the currency everyone hates. Check out the chart from SocGen: SocGen FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyJames Stokes, banker and former U.S. ambassador, built this exquisite Georgian Estate back in 1912. After a million dollars of renovations, the 19,452 square foot mansion known as "Sunset Hall" is on the market for $5.7 million, the Wall Street Journal reports. Listed on The National Register of Historic Places, the home offers 11 bedrooms, 8 bathrooms, tennis courts, a heated pool, and separate guest quarters.  The house is listed last with Kathy Schmitt of Sotheby's International Realty. FREE AppDownload
Trading has been halted on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange... just kidding!    But really, Sports Illustrated swimsuit models are down there right now, so we can imagine it's pretty easy to get distracted.  It's also the 50th Swimsuit Issue for the sports magazine.  Check out the Tweets/pics from @NYSEcam. New career for @SI_swimsuit covergirl @ChrissyTeigen: #NYSE Trader? pic.twitter.com/m4stGKgwpC .@SI_swimsuit covergirls @ChrissyTeigen @NinaAgdal &amp; @LilyAldridge #suitup to visit the #NYSE pic.twitter.com/WUtMZSnClF #NYSE #selfie: @SI_swimsuit covergirls @ChrissyTeigen @NinaAgdal &amp; @LilyAldridge on @CNBC pic.twitter.com/iuWPxZfRZz The difference between @carlquintanilla &amp; me: He gets to intvw @SInow swimsuit models @NYSE , and I get @PeterPCosta pic.twitter.com/si1tB44lJl The @SI_swimsuit ladies, at @nyseeuronext. @CNBC @chrissyteigen @lilyaldridge @ninaagdal pic.twitter.com/vrjywsc7Xg FREE AppDownload
NBERThere's a general feeling among Americans that our good ole' technological ingenuity has been — and will continue to be — the catalyst for economic growth. But Northwestern University professor and famed bear Robert Gordon has a new paper arguing that technology will not improve economic performance in the next 50 to 100 years. And that, essentially, we are doomed. Gordon's paper is a response to the more bullish batch of "techno-optimists who currently believe that we are at a point of inflection leading to faster technological change." He argues that the United States has been on a slow productivity decline for some time, and we face strong headwinds in the next 50 (like an aging population, inequality, and debt). Here's Gordon's conclusion (via the Washington Post's Zachary Goldfarb): Techno-optimists remind us that much of the innovation that originates in the U.S. travels around the world with blazing speed through purchases of smart phones and the software that has been developed for them. But other countries can have the free lunch of enjoying American innovation including thousands of smart-phone apps without being saddled with American socio-economic decay, poor educational test scores, massive student debt, high school drop-outs, rising poverty together with explosive growth of incomes at the very top, and the need to reform entitlement programs that are in trouble in part because the U.S. has refused to make medical care a right of citizenship. Today we can only guess which nations will replace the U.S. and remove it from its potential position of leadership due both to the size of its population and its world-leading real GDP per capita. Gordon's key chart of American productivity is below. It divides the 122 years since 1891 into four intervals (the length of which is indicated by the width of the bars). The green bar is productivity, the red bar is output per capita, and the grey bar is hours per capita. NBER FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleNassim Taleb called it a "black swan." Donald Rumsfeld went with "unknown unknown." But in Wall Street parlance, the likelihood of a low-probability, highly-catastrophic event is known as "tail risk." Perhaps that's why Goldman Sachs embeds a tail-risk question in the interview process for an internship (which can often turn into a job), according to a new book by New York Magazine's Kevin Roose. In "Young Money," Roose follows a crop of would-be bankers and traders as they navigate post-crisis Wall Street. One lands an interview with Goldman, where he's asked this question: Here's a game I've just invented. The rules are that I flip a coin, and if it comes up heads, you pay me a dollar and the game is over. If it comes up tails, you flip again. If it comes up heads the second time, you pay me two dollars, and the game is over. If it comes up tails again, you flip again. Third time, you pay me four dollars for heads and the game is over, and you flip again for tails. And so on and so on, each time doubling the payout for heads, and flipping again on tails. How much would I have to pay you up front to play this game? As Roose notes, there's no real right answer, but it's a telling question nonetheless. What you say shows your risk appetite. It's a version of Martingale, an 18th century French betting game. In the wake of the financial crisis — the industry's most harrowing reality check since 1929 — understanding tail risk became increasingly necessary for Wall Street neophytes, lest they make the same mistakes as their subprime mortgage-happy predecessors. "A candidate who said he'd need only a dollar to play probably wasn't thinking through the tail-risk scenarios carefully," writes Roose. "While a candidate who answered with too big a number was being excessively cautious." You want to be right in the middle to land that Goldman Sachs gig. FREE AppDownload
NOTE: Originally, the UNODC website said the price of a gram of marijuana in Lichtenstein was around $1,020. This has since been corrected to a price of about nine Swiss Francs per gram, or about $10.13. With legalization efforts in the United States becoming ever more popular, the world marijuana market is evolving. We were curious about the current state of marijuana prices around the world. According to the UN Office on Drugs and Crime's 2013 World Drug Report, which was referenced in a new Tablet piece, marijuana prices are extremely low in Africa and South America — in most of these countries, marijuana is less than a dollar per gram. Pricey locales include Bermuda at $124 per gram, the United Arab Emirates at $110, Brunei at $80, and Japan at $75. The United States has a wide range of prices, varying from about 25¢ per gram (or $7 per ounce) to $63.50 per gram ($1800 per ounce). We made the following map using retail price data from the UN's report. Business Insider, data from UN Office on Drugs and Crime The full UN data set, along with a number of other drug-related charts and tables, can be found on the UNODC website.
Statigram/robingrt“It was great meeting you – we’ll get back to you in a few days!”The VP shakes your hand, and you turn around and leave the room. You walk out of the interview on top of the world. After studying technical questions for 143 hours and reciting your story so many times that you could walk through your resume in your sleep, you’re confident you knocked this one out of the park. You get back home and watch some TV to unwind… And then a day passes. You hear nothing. Another day passes. Still nothing. And then it’s a week… And before you know it, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, or even an entire month. And you never hear back from that bank. So what happened? Where did you go wrong? Does it mean you got rejected and they’re not telling you? Or are they just disorganized? And most importantly, what can you do to get a response? Why You Get the Silent Treatment Because you’re not the #1 candidate for the position. The bank has already given an offer to someone else, or it has already given out the “targeted” number of offers, and it’s waiting for people to respond. If candidates turn down their offers, the bank will approach candidates ranked lower on the list and start making offers to them. So it’s not that you “failed” the interview – it’s just that other people were more impressive or fit in with the group better. In some cases, this actually happens because the bank or group is so disorganized that they “forget” to notify you, which is why it’s critical to call back 2-3 days later AT MOST (and ideally before that). It could even be something stupid, such as the bank losing your contact information or recording the incorrect email address or phone number. But 90% of the time, it’s because you performed “on par” with other candidates – not poorly enough to receive an outright rejection, but not well enough to win an immediate offer. So What Happens in Real Life? Recruiting is at the bottom of the priority list for bankers – they are busy doing deals, winning clients, and otherwise making money. Sometimes, it’s even at the bottom of the priority list for HR because they’re busy with… afternoon tea time each day? I have no idea, but it sure seems like that sometimes. Let’s say you go in for Superday interviews with 10 other candidates, at a smaller, regional bank that’s looking to hire 2 interns for the summer. Here’s what might happen behind the scenes: The VP, MD, Associate, and 2 Analysts all like the same person the most and they decide to give him an immediate offer the day after the interview.Meanwhile, they’re divided on other candidates: the VP and MD like 2 other candidates the most and can’t decide between them, while the Associate and Analysts like 2 different candidates the most and rank them equally.And they all agree that the remaining 5 candidates were not nearly as good. The reason why one person was the “top candidate” could be completely irrational – he and the interviewers were in the same frat, they had a shared interest in whitewater rafting, or the bankers simply liked the socks he wore. Or it could be a more legitimate reason, such as having superior technical skills or having the exact deal and client experience the bank is looking for. In any case, though, HR gathers everyone after the interviews and they start debating who else should receive an internship offer… But 5 minutes into that discussion, the MD is pulled away because of a client emergency – a deal is falling apart at the last-minute due to a hostile offer made by an activist hedge fund. Then, the Analysts get yanked away by their VP to finish a pitch book for an IPO bake-off the next day. So that leaves the VP and Associate, who go back and forth but don’t reach a conclusion – but they’re leaning toward giving offers to 2 of the “4 remaining impressive candidates.” So, what happens next? In many cases, nothing at all! The bank would rather give out 1 internship offer and then sit around and wait on everyone else. In fact, they may not even deliver rejections to the 5 “not nearly as good” candidates. Bankers get distracted by fire drills so much that it’s hard to gather everyone together again, so HR has to run between different people to get their views… if they bother to do that at all. Each group works differently, but many offices would much rather hire 1 great intern than hire 1 great intern and 4 “OK” ones. Remember why companies hire you in the first place: to make money, save money, or make a process more efficient. They may not be paying you much money as an intern, but if they have to spend a lot of time answering questions and “training” you, that costs them time, which is equivalent to money. It takes them away from deals and clients, which is the last thing any senior banker wants. Why Not Just Deliver a Blunt Rejection? The reasons vary, but some banks believe – incorrectly? – that it may be a legal liability to give you a “no” answer upfront. Meanwhile, other people don’t like to deliver “bad news.” But the main reason is that it costs the bank nothing to put you on hold and wait for other candidates to respond. After all, if they give you an outright rejection, that’s it. But if they don’t get back to you, or they respond to your emails but don’t give you a direct answer, the doors are always open. And if the Top Candidate unexpectedly turns down his offer and can’t be persuaded otherwise, they’ll need to come back to you and everyone else on their list. Realistically, What Can You Do About This? The worst thing to do is to sit around, do nothing, and wait on a response from them. Undergrads are particularly terrible about this – 90% of our email volume on this question has come from university students asking, “So I interviewed 3 weeks ago but haven’t heard back yet. Should I do anything?” Yes, and you should have “done something” 2.5 weeks ago. If you don’t hear back within 2 days, email at least 1-2 of your interviewees to follow-up, thank them again, and express your continued interest in the firm (those exact words can almost be your email template). Send a similar note to HR. If they respond and they’re still communicating with you, you’re still in the running… whereas radio silence almost always means “no.” Once you’ve emailed everyone, there are only 3 things you can do to get a response from the bank (and ideally an offer): 1. Win Other, Exploding Offers and Let Them Know About Your Deadlines Just like the high school social scene, the job search process is also a popularity contest. The moment you get an offer from another bank, you immediately become more attractive to everyone else and you’re more likely to receive definitive responses. To turn a “maybe” or “soft no” into a “yes,” though, you need to be certain this bank really is your first choice – and then send a message like the following: “Hi [Name], Thanks again for taking the time to interview me last week. I enjoyed meeting everyone, and [Bank Name] is definitely my top choice. I just wanted to let you know that I received an offer from [Other Bank Name], and it expires on [Imminent Date] – if I received an offer at your firm, I would accept it right away, but I must respond to the other offer by [Imminent Date]. It would be great if you could let me know my offer status at your firm and what else, if anything, you need from me in order to make a decision. Thanks, [Your Name]” But this is easier said than done, and most likely you’re “on the fence” at a few firms. 2. Become a More Attractive Candidate So the Bank Reconsiders You This one is tougher because you probably can’t go from “OK” to “spectacular” overnight – but if some time has passed and you’ve genuinely improved, it can work. This works particularly well for lateral interviews, since there is no fixed timeline and the process tends to drag on and on and on and on. Example: One customer last year applied to a bank as part of the lateral hiring process, and made it through several rounds of interviews. Then they asked her to submit a sample financial model she had worked on before. She didn’t have any great examples due to lack of experience with integrated 3-statement projection models, so they gave her a “soft no” and said that they were some “concerns” over her technical skills. She then signed up for one of our courses, went through the whole thing, and got much better templates and examples to use – which she then used for a different company. She went back to the bank and said, “I know we spoke XX months ago and you felt my technical skills were not strong enough. Since then, however, I’ve taken several courses and sharpened my skills, and I’m attaching to this email an example of the work product I can produce.” Then, they responded and re-started the process, bringing her back for additional interviews. If they had concerns about something qualitative, like your communication or writing skills, you could attach a report, paper, or presentation you drafted recently. This is trickier to pull off if they gave you a “soft no” due to “lack of cultural fit” or something else that you cannot easily fix. But if it is something you can fix, and you’ve pinpointed exactly why they had reservations about you, it’s always worth a shot. 3. Keep Following Up to Ask Exactly Why They Said “No” Directly or Indirectly HR often gives useless responses, so you should go directly to the bankers you spoke with – and the Analysts and Associates are sometimes more upfront about why you were put “on hold.” This method also handles the case where something stupid or something beyond your control happened: they lost your contact information, they “forgot” to respond to you, there was a hiring freeze, or the group shut down. So you need to follow-up anyway – but many people hesitate to ask exactly why they did not receive an offer. Let’s say you email one of the Associates you spoke with and he says he doesn’t know what your status is… so you call him after another week passes. Associate: “Hey, I’m just not sure yet… did you ask HR?” You: “I did, and I’m aware I should go to them first, but I wanted to go directly to you and ask you for feedback since you interviewed me.” Associate: “OK… what would you like to know?” You: “I’m aware that I haven’t been officially rejected, but that other candidates probably performed better – I just wanted to know if you had any feedback on what I could do to improve, what would make me a more attractive candidate for your firm, and what would allow you to make a decision more quickly.” I’ve seen some suggestions that this approach is “too aggressive,” but I completely disagree – if you don’t ask, you’ll never know. And if it wasn’t an outright rejection, chances are they liked something about you. Once you get a hint of what went wrong, you can get to work on method #2 above and start fixing the issue – whether it’s your technical skills, a lack of enthusiasm, your communication abilities, or anything else. Overcoming the Silent Treatment Let’s return to that story in the beginning. Do you really want to spend 143+ hours preparing for interviews, and then fail to get an offer because you’re not aggressive enough with your follow-up afterward? I hope not. So right after that VP shakes your hand, don’t just meekly go home and wait weeks and weeks for a response. Follow-up with him and everyone else within 2 days, AT MOST, if you don’t hear back. And if they keep stringing you along even after several follow-ups, ask them directly what you can do to improve or what their specific concerns about you are – and then address them. Maybe you won’t have the time or resources to win the offer this time around… But you can always accept something else, fix those flaws in the meantime, and make another run at it next time around. Silence: it may not be golden, but it is beatable. FREE AppDownload
IvanpahLast week, dozens of people, including Google energy chief Rick Needham and Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, trekked out to the California-Nevada border in the middle of the Death Valley to dedicate what is believed to be the world's largest solar thermal facility in the world. At 392 megawatts, the Ivanpah solar thermal plant will be able to power 140,000 homes — the equivalent of all of Newark (averaging two people per household). We covered the project when BrightSource, the main developer behind the project, first put up a stunning 3-D tour of the site. But for all its scale and beauty, in terms of the future of renewables, Ivanpah is already irrelevant.   Solar thermal creates electricity by using mirrors to direct intense amounts of heat at a centralized collector, which is used to heat a substance like water to create steam power. Solar photovoltaic, meanwhile, directly converts solar energy into electricity through semiconductors. If solar thermal sounds unnecessarily complicated, you're right. Solar photovoltaic has seen explosive growth in the past few years thanks to plummeting material costs, state incentives, and eco-conscious homebuyers putting up panels on their roofs. But solar thermal growth has stalled, and is expected to continue to do so. Ivanpah cost $2.2 billion. Warren Buffett paid the same amount for the world's largest photovoltaic plant just up the road outside Bakersfield. That plant will generate 1.5-times as much power as Ivanpah.  As the New York Times' Diane Cardwell and Matt Wald wrote Friday, Ivanpah probably represents an end, not a beginning.  "When BrightSource and other companies asked [investor] NRG to invest in a second thermal project, said David Crane, NRG’s chief, he responded: 'We’ve got $300 million invested in Ivanpah — let me see that work for a few months and then we’ll decide whether we want to be involved in more.' " And here's what Lux Energy analyst Matthew Feinstein told them: “I don’t think that we’re going to see large-scale solar thermal plants popping up, five at a time, every year in the U.S. in the long-term — it’s just not the way it’s going to work... Companies that are supplying these systems have questionable futures. There’s other prospects for renewables and for solar that look a lot better than this particular solution.”  It's not that Ivanpah itself won't be cost-effective. BrightSource locked in a 20-year power purchase agreement with local utilities that includes fixed pricing, and the vast majority of costs were borne up front, according to Shayle Kann, director of GTM Research. That means the Energy Department, which lent the project $1.6 billion, and Google, which put up $168 million, will likely see a decent return.  "So it's not so much an issue for Ivanpah as it is for any future solar thermal project," he told us in an email. But it's a sign of how fast renewable energy technology is moving these days. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Willy WonkaI wish someone told me that sooner.The most basic measure of stock market value is the price-earnings multiple. To calculate it, you take the price and then divide it by the earnings, which is arguably the most important driver of stock prices. Over long-run, this market multiple has a tendency to revert to its mean. But in the short-run, it'll trend above and below the mean for long periods of time. "Market multiples rarely trade at average levels," said Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. It's an obvious observation, but it may be the most important observation for anyone who considers valuation before making investment decisions. Just because the multiple is above its mean doesn't mean you should start shorting the market like crazy. Similarly, just because the multiple is below its mean doesn't mean you should expect instant profits by buying stocks. In 2013, nearly 75% of the stock market rally was driven by the expansion of this multiple, not earnings growth. This is what almost every strategist on Wall Street got wrong in their initial forecasts. Investing based on value is a game of patience. "The market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent," said John Maynard Keynes. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Herbalife  Ltd. (HLF) is set to report FQ4 2013 earnings after the market closes on Tuesday, February 18th. Herbalife is a multi-level marketing company which sells nutrition, weight management, and skin-care products.  Last year Herbalife was the topic of the most entertaining segment in the history of CNBC. 2 billionaire hedge fund managers, Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman, were hurling insults at each other on live television.  The showdown began in the wake of Bill Ackman unveiling his short position and laying forth his argument that Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme, investor Carl Icahn who owned shares of the company was furious. Whether Herbalife is a scam or not, the company is making billions of dollars and expanding rapidly. Compared to last year Wall Street is expecting HLF to increase its quarterly revenue by over $200million or roughly 20%.  However, recently Senator Edward Markey has called for the SEC to investigate Herbalife on pyramid fears. Sen. Markey has indicated that he will give the company until February 28th to respond. Regardless of the accusations, Herbalife is set to report another great period of growth on Tuesday, here’s what investors are expecting.   The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize.com platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. (Click Here to see All Estimates for Herbalife ) The current Wall Street consensus expectation is for HLF to report $1.24 EPS and $1.269B revenue while the current Estimize.com consensus from 19 Buy Side and Independent contributing analysts is $1.26 EPS and $1.245B revenue. This quarter the buy-side as represented by the Estimize.com community is expecting HLF beat Wall Street on profit but report less than expected revenue.  Throughout the previous 5 quarters the consensus from Estimize.com has been more accurate than Wall Street in forecasting Herbalife’s EPS everytime and has been more accurate on revenue 4 times. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non professional investors Estimize has created a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but more importantly it does a better job of representing the market’s actual expectations. It has been confirmed by an independent academic study from Rice University that stock prices tend to react with a more strongly associated degree to the expectation benchmark from Estimize than from the Wall Street consensus. The magnitude of the difference between the Wall Street and Estimize consensus numbers often identifies opportunities to take advantage of expectations that may not have been priced into the market. In this case we are seeing a larger differential on revenue compared to most quarters. The distribution of estimates published by analysts on the Estimize.com platform range from $1.12 to $1.50 EPS and $1.180B to $1.350B in revenues. This quarter we’re seeing a large distribution of estimates for HLF. The size of the distribution of estimates relative to previous quarters often signals whether or not the market is confident that it has priced in the expected earnings already. A wider distribution of estimates signaling less agreement in the market, which could mean greater volatility post earnings. This quarter the Wall Street EPS consensus rose from $1.15 to $1.24 while the Estimize consensus decreased from $1.34 to $1.26, but increased at the end of the quarter. Over the same stretch of time Wall Street raised its revenue expectation from $1.219B to $1.269B and the Estimize community elevated its expectation from $1.232B to $1.245B. Timeliness is correlated with accuracy and rising analyst expectations going into an earnings report are often a bullish indicator. The analyst with the highest estimate confidence rating this quarter is WallStreetBean who projects $1.31 EPS and $1.275B in revenue. In the Winter 2014 season WallStreetBean is rated as the 20th best analyst and is ranked 10th overall among over 3,850 contributing analysts. Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. In this case WallStreetBean is expecting Herbalife to beat the Estimize consensus on both EPS and revenue.   This quarter contributing analysts on the Estimize.com platform are expecting HLF to report solid growth and beat Wall Street’s forecast on EPS. However, the Estimize community also predicts that Herbalife will fail to meet the revenue target set by the Street, something they haven’t done in the past 2 years. While the expectations for Herbalife’s growth are lofty, the pyramid scheme accusations may be the more important story to watch. Get access to estimates for HLF published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers and follow the rest of earnings season by heading over to Estimize.com. Register for free to create your own estimates and see how you stack up to Wall Street. FREE AppDownload
It won’t help to employ accountants to ask where the missing $5.4 million was originally trousered, if not the Pinchuk Foundation, then which branch of Pinchuk’s business. That’s because the Clinton Foundation’s auditors – an Arkansas firm called BKD – have turned up this much money in revenues, and also in expenditures, which the Foundation’s annual report inexplicably fails to report and regularly understates. The Pinchuk Foundation also refuses to answer questions about discrepancies in its annual accounts, whose auditors are reported by Pinchuk’s organization to be Ernst &amp; Young. Their signature is reproduced in the Pinchuk Foundation annual reports, although no copy of their financial reports and notes has been published. The question of the missing money could be related to a criminal case in Moscow for Russian prosecutors. This is because they are investigating how and where Pinchuk trousered the sum of Rb6.5 billion ($186 million) from his Russian auto insurance company, Rossiya Insurance Open Shareholding Company. The insurer’s licence was cancelled last October 23 by the Russian Central Bank’s insurance inspectorate. At the time, the liabilities of Rossiya were reported to be Rb2.3 billion ($72 million). Over the previous twelve months, Rossiya had defaulted on Rb4.5 billion ($141 million) in claims. In the Moscow Arbitrazh Court hearing on Rossiya last month, the bankruptcy trustee Yevgeny Zhelnin charged that Pinchuk had been using fraudulent reinsurance and other schemes to empty Rossiya’s treasury of its income from premiums, along with its reserves for payment of claims. The allegation against Rossiya and its proprietor is fraud on a grand scale. And that’s where the problem starts for Hillary Clinton (right), her husband, and daughter: Have they been on the receiving end of a money-laundering operation in which the proceeds from Rossiya became the income of Pinchuk’s foundation and were then spent on the Clinton Foundation? Pinchuk first acquired a 25% blocking stake in Rossiya through his EastOne holding company in 2007. In 2009 he bought another 25% plus one share to become the controlling shareholder, and by the end of that year, he had taken 100% of Rossiya. In a single-page summary of its annual balance sheets, purportedly endorsed by Ernst &amp; Young, the Pinchuk Foundation reveals that the year 2007 was a bonanza year. The money box started with a cash balance of just $63,947. It then filled up with what Ernst &amp; Young calls “contributions and charitable donations” totaling $15.7 million. The Foundation refuses to clarify the source of its donations. The balance-sheet claims the foundation spent $1.1 million on Pinchuk’s lobbying group for Ukrainian membership of the European Union, called Yalta European Strategy. Another half a million dollars went to a Washington, DC, lobbyist called Anders Aslund at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, and another $250,000 to the Brookings Institution, also a Washington institution lobbying for Pinchuk’s causes in the Ukraine. The Clintons claim to have collected $132.5 million in 2007, but they won’t say how much was from Pinchuk. Pinchuk won’t say if he gave them a penny that year. Pinchuk’s accountants don’t start revealing their spending on the Clintons until 2009, when the Pinchuk organization reports that $4 million was despatched and received. In the meantime, the motor and third-party liability insurance premiums rolled into Rossiya in Moscow – and the philanthropy was booming at the Pinchuk Foundation in Kiev. According to Ernst &amp; Young, Pinchuk’s donations in 2008 jumped 68% to $26.3 million. In 2009, as EastOne took over Rossiya entirely, the Russian economy was in trade-induced recession, car sales dropped, along with premium revenues at Rossiya. Pinchuk’s generosity dropped to $13.8 million, according to the foundation balance-sheet. Aslund’s stipend was cut by half to $100,000 for the year. Annus horribilis it might have been for philanthropy, but Pinchuk’s foundation paid itself $1.5 million in “administrative expenses” in 2009 – up from $1.4 million in 2008, and four times the $307,265 which running the show cost in 2007. Bill Clinton was paid to speak in January 2009 at what Pinchuk called his Davos Philanthropic Roundtable. In 2010, Pinchuk said he gave $1.1 million to the Clinton foundation; Clinton claims the amount was between $5 million and $10 million. In 2012, the Pinchuk Foundation says it gave $1 million; according to the Clinton Foundation that year the amount donated was between $5 and $10 million. The Clinton Foundation’s problems of accounting for its money are legion. Although it has been taking in about a quarter of a billion dollars per annum, it overspent its income in 2007 by $11.1 million; in 2008 the overspend was $13.8 million. In 2013 BBB, the American philanthropy watchdog, warned public donors that the Clinton operation failed to meet the required standard for public accountability and independent supervision; make that avoidance of conflict of interest, since most of the foundation’s staff have also been involved in the presidential campaigning of Mrs Clinton. The foundation claims to operate a New York City headquarters at 1271 Avenue of the Americas, according to the website; 55 West 125th Street, according to the telephone answering machine. Its press department is headed by Valerie Alexander, who ran the press operation for Mrs Clinton’s abortive presidential campaign in 2007; the organization identifies her deputy as Betsy Feuerstein. Neither answers the telephone; both refuse to answer email requests for clarification of the $13 million in receipts from Pinchuk. On February 12, a New York newspaper claimed the total was “roughly $13.1 million”, but failed to cite a source. The reporter, who did not check Pinchuk’s financial reports and court claim records, refused to answer questions. The newspaper reported a statement in support of Pinchuk by Aslund and the Peterson Institute without identification of more than a million dollars Pinchuk has paid the two of them. A cryptic note in the Pinchuk Foundation report for 2010 concedes that from “2009; all funding [for Clinton] was transferred through the accounts of the Foundation.” Open this link and go to page 61. That implies there was an agreement between Pinchuk and the Clintons, their foundations, and their lawyers that whatever conduit he had been using to pay them should appear from then on to be a channel between the two charities. But the Pinchuk report goes on: “Such additional funding is not transferred through the accounts of the Foundation, but is provided directly by the donors to the legal entities implementing the projects. Accordingly, such transfers are not included in the combined statement of cash receipts and disbursements.” This note becomes evidence for answering the question of the missing $5.4 million. But that question leads to bigger ones – what has Pinchuk been concealing of the origin of cash he has been giving the Clintons; what Pinchuk entities have been direct donors to Clinton entities off the foundation balance-sheets; and what have the Clintons suspected, or known, which led them to the charitable fix between the two foundations. There’s more – and it’s now up the Investigative Committee, the criminal prosecution branch of the Russian procuracy, to determine who is liable for the fraud, money laundering, and conspiracy in the case of Rossiya Insurance Company, and where the money went. That last question ought to be of interest to US prosecutors if they can get the Clintons to explain as much as they know – or ought to have known — about their receipts from Pinchuk. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The New York Fed just published its latest Quarterly Report On Household Debt And Credit. "As of December 31, 2013, total consumer indebtedness was $11.52 trillion, up by 2.1% from its level in the third quarter of 2013," said the NY Fed in a press release. "The four quarters ending on December 31, 2013 were the first since late 2008 to register an increase ($180 billion or 1.6%) in total debt outstanding. Nonetheless, overall consumer debt remains 9.1% below its 2008 Q3 peak of $12.68 trillion." "A couple of things stand out," say NY Fed researchers Andrew Haughwout, Donghoon Lee, Wilbert van der Klaauw, and David Yun. "First, overall growth in debt remains considerably more muted in 2013 than it was in 2006, with the exception of auto loans, where 2013 data continued to reflect the strong growth we have been seeing since mid-2011, and student loans. (In the case of student loans, the percentage growth has moderated since 2006, but since the outstanding balance has doubled, the lower percentage growth is associated with comparable dollar increases.) Mortgage and home equity line of credit (HELOC) balances, in particular, grew much more slowly in 2013 than in 2006. Second, for all loan types and in both years, balance increases were mainly driven by younger age groups. Again, though, student loans are an exception: even older student loan borrowers continue to increase their borrowing." Here are some of the highlights via the NY Fed: Here's the NY Fed's chart: NY Fed  FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesGary di Silvestri and his wife represent Dominica during the Winter Olympics opening ceremonyA former hedge fund manager from New York and his wife were set to compete in the Sochi Olympics as cross-country skiers for the tiny island nation of Dominica before they both ended up in the hospital according to UTSanDiego.com. Gary di Silvestri, who founded Deutsche Suisse Asset Management after graduating from Columbia's business school, developed "very strong abdominal cramps" after using Sochi's water to shower and brush his teeth. His Italian wife, Angelica Morrone di Silvestri, also ended up in the hospital after a crash during a practice run broke her nose. She needed three surgeries to repair her nose. The di Silvestris have been described by some as "classic Olympic tourists," a term for rich athletes that look for small countries to use as a backdoor onto the Olympic stage. According to a New York Times profile, the pair provided a "financial contribution" to the tiny Caribbean island of Dominica as part of the philanthropic efforts in the region. The country later granted the couple citizenship and approached them about trying to qualify for the Olympics. A representative of the Dominica Olympic Committee told the New York Times that the stunt was designed to promote tourism as well as to promote winter sports dreams for young children of Caribbean nations. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Qatar AirwaysQatar Airways is launching a new flight between its hub in Doha and London's Heathrow Airport, and there's no curtain dividing the haves from the have-nots. The entire Airbus A319 jet is dedicated to business class, with just 40 seats. Each seat, in rows of four, will fully recline and offer a big-screen entertainment system with more than 900 movies, TV shows, and video games to choose from. The airline already operates five daily flights between the cities, this service will bring its weekly frequency from 35 to 42 flights. The A319 already in use by Qatar seats 102 economy and 8 first class passengers, according to SeatGuru.com. Qatar Airways is young but growing fast, covering 134 destinations with 129 planes, and with nearly 300 more on order. In a press release, it said its "aggressive expansion programme" including new routes to Philadelphia, Istanbul, Edinburgh, Miami, and Dallas/Fort Worth. All-business class planes are not unheard of. British Airways offers service between New York and London with just 32 seats onboard. Until it cancelled the service in November 2013, Singapore Airlines operated the world's longest flight, from Newark to Singapore, on an all-business Airbus A340. Here's a look at the interior of the all-business class A319 that will run between Qatar and London: Flickr / Qatar Airways Flickr / Qatar Airways Flickr / Qatar Airways And the airport lounge in Heathrow's Terminal 4 is pretty swanky: Flickr / Qatar Airways Flickr / Qatar Airways Flickr / Qatar Airways FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Egyptian vulture.U.S. markets are open after a three-day weekend. And they're not doing much. The Dow is down 41 points (0.2%). The S&amp;P 500 is down 2 points (0.1%). The Nasdaq is up 7 points (0.1%). The unusually harsh winter continues to plague the economic data. The New York Fed's Empire State manufacturing index plunged to 4.58 in February from 12.51 in January.  The new orders sub-index fell from 10.98 to -0.21. "The decline only reversed the sharp increase seen last month," said Capital Economics' Amna Asaf. "The New York Fed didn't mention the weather as a factor behind the decline, but we suspect it played a role. The index still managed to stay above the boom-bust level of zero." The weak NY Fed number was followed by a horrific homebuilder sentiment report. The NAHB's housing market index fell ten points to 46 in February. “Significant weather conditions across most of the country led to a decline in buyer traffic last month,” said NAHB Chairman Kevin Kelly. “Builders also have additional concerns about meeting ongoing and future demand due to a shortage of lots and labor.” "The weakness were particularly pronounced in the Northeast and South, where the storms were acute," noted TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "This report is yet another indication of the profound impact that the cold and wintry weather is having on a broad swathe of the economy, and while we expect this hiccup to growth to prove temporary, it will be sometime before the data begin to show a meaningful rebound in activity." FREE AppDownload
Kevin RooseThink of it like 'Real World, Wall Street': One journalist followed around eight young strangers in their first years of banking. Then the journalist, New York Magazine's Kevin Roose, put it all together in a book. The book is called "Young Money, Inside the Hidden World of Wall Street's Post Crash Recruits," and it's out today.  Roose spent years interviewing his subjects, crashing parties and recruiting events, even taking an Excel modeling classes. The work shows. His book is an honest portrait of young kids who, like everyone else, are engaged in the arduous business of growing up. They just happen to have a weird environment in which to do it. It's clear from Roose's writing that you don't watch this sort of evolution without evolving yourself. That's why Business Insider caught up with him to get some answers about what he found — what is it that desensitizes kids when they get to The Street, how he found eight (eight!) young bankers who weren't too scared to talk to him, and more. Here's what he learned: Business Insider: What did you think about Wall Street before you started this project and how has that changed? Kevin Roose: To be honest, I don't think my opinions of "Wall Street," as an entity, have changed that much. I still think banks are too big; I still think greed and insufficient regulation are a problem; I still think the financial crisis was a terrible, preventable thing. What changed is how I think about bankers. I don't judge the young ones as a group anymore. There are good ones, and bad ones, and you kind of have to evaluate them on their individual merits, rather than writing them all off at once. BI: How could you tell when you found someone who would make a good subject? KR: I wanted to get a good cross-section of young Wall Street, so I had to make sure that in the group I chose, women would be represented, people of color would be represented, and they'd be spread out across Wall Street in terms of their firms and their job functions. Of course, the most important consideration was whether they were willing to be honest and real with me. If they just wanted to brag about how many beers they crushed last night or how many models they'd slept with, I wasn't that interested. BI: Now that you've done this, why do you actually think people go to Wall Street? KR: I think some people, especially people who come out of college with student debt, or whose parents are working-class, do it for the money. But other people do it because it's easy. If you go to Yale or Princeton, all your friends are going into banking, it pays well and gives you a prestigious launching pad and all you have to do is drop your résumé into a box to apply — a lot of kids say, why not? BI: What do all these kids have in common after their experience on the Street? KR: Gray hair. BI: In a sentence, what does Wall Street do to your brain? KR: Can I do it in a GIF? BI:  Do you think these kids got paid too much? KR: I mean, it's a lot of money. Most of them were making somewhere between $90,000 and $130,000 their first year, and more after that. I heard some of them say that if you calculate it hourly, based on how much they work, it's like $16 an hour. That's a good job! But it isn't as amazing as most people think. BI: Have any of the kids you followed who left Wall Street shed the habits that they picked up there, or are they forever changed? KR: I think a lot of the day-to-day habits are sheddable, especially if you get out within two years. But even the bankers who left finance told me that working on Wall Street had changed the way they thought about the world. It's a very strong belief system. I don't know if you can ever really leave it behind. BI: Did you ever for any moment during your research wish you had become a banker? Even a little bit? Why? Why not? KR: Nope! I'd be a terrible banker. I took an Excel boot camp, to learn how to make Excel models and stuff, and I think I came in last in the class on every exercise. And seeing how miserable my sources were at their jobs wasn't exactly a glowing testimonial. Also, I'm pretty sure I'm blackballed now, even if I did have a change of heart. BI: The bottom line is that a lot of the kids you wrote about weren't happy. How should schools or recruiting programs change so that kids who won't be happy on Wall Street don't end up there? KR: I think it's happening naturally as the industry's prestige wears off. It used to be that the kid at Yale who majored in archaeology would go into banking, just because that was the popular and cool thing to do. Now, that kid has more options, like going to Teach For America or Google. More of the students who are interested in Wall Street now are the ones who actually want to be bankers. There are fewer unhappy dilettantes who just do it because it's the next step on the path. BI: Did you ever get mad or frustrated at your subjects? And if so, why? KR: Once, I remember prodding a guy who was feeling sorry for himself. This guy was making something like $200,000 a year as a 24-year-old in private equity and he still wasn't happy, and he was pouring out his woes to me, and I kind of stopped him short. Like, do you know how lucky you are compared to the rest of the world? Most of the time, though, the bankers I followed had a good perspective on the relative size of their problems. BI: What was the most obnoxious thing you saw in your research? KR: I went to a Fashion Meets Finance dating mixer, which is where they put a bunch of Wall Street dudes in a room with a bunch of women who work in fashion. That was an atrocious party, just horrible. I actually heard a guy use the phrase "PJ," as in "private jet." BI: What is it about Wall Street that desensitizes people? KR: I think it's the pace. When you're 22 and working at a bank, you don't have much time to be sensitive and introspective. It's all about getting things done, avoiding mistakes, and impressing the boss. BI: Did any banks seem to have a better culture than others or were they all the same? KR: You know, I actually didn't see much of a difference between banks. I certainly think there are tendencies within the divisions of a firm — the stereotypical oil trader is a little more jock-like and macho than the investment banker at the same firm. But all the bankers I followed tended to have a fairly common set of experiences, no matter where they worked. BI: Do you know any adults who made it through Wall Street well adjusted? How do you think they did it? KR: I think it has to do with avoiding social isolation. If everyone you interact with all day is a millionaire or billionaire and works in finance, it warps your perspective. The people I know who work in finance and are the best-adjusted are the people who have diverse groups of friends — you know, they play pick-up basketball with cops, or they volunteer at a school one day a week. Their lives are bigger than just banking. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Gregory Bull)The NAHB housing market, a gauge of homebuilder confidence, tumbled to 46 in February. This was the biggest fall on record and the lowest reading since May 2013. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for homebuilder confidence to hold steady at 56. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. "Unusually severe weather conditions," and "continued concerns over the cost and availability of labor and lots" were blamed for the slump in homebuilder confidence. "Clearly, constraints on the supply chain for building materials, developed lots and skilled workers are making builders worry," NAHB chief economist David Crowe said in a press release. "The weather also hurt retail and auto sales and this had a contributing effect on demand for new homes." All three HMI components fell in February. "A report like this has been overdue, though it was impossible to know when it would come," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in a note to clients. "And the headline index still looks high relative to the recent new home sales data" He did however say that he doesn't think people have "abandoned" their plans to buy homes but have "merely deferred," their plans. "But things could get worse before they get better." The weather has been wreaking havoc on economic data. The blows to industrial production, retail sales (though in this instance non-store sales were down too), the ADP employment report, were all at least in part attributed to the extreme cold. Homebuilder sentiment has been decoupling from housing starts. But low inventory levels and rising demand should push housing starts higher in 2014. Economists expect the housing market to cool this year after home prices went on a tear in 2013. The impact of rising mortgage rates and the Fed's move to taper its monthly asset purchase program are expected to weigh on housing. Homebuilder stocks are also taking a beating on the report. ITB, an ETF of homebuilder stocks is down 2%. Toll Brothers, Lennar, and PulteGroup are all down. Here's a chart from Shepherdson that shows the decline in homebuilder confidence and its trajectory in relation to new home sales: Pantheon Economics FREE AppDownload
Facebook/StRegisNewYorkIn January 2012, then-Dealbook reporter Kevin Roose rented an ill-fitting tuxedo and crashed the secretive black-tie induction ceremony for exclusive Wall Street fraternity Kappa Beta Phi. Kappa Beta Phi has been around since before the 1929 stock market crash. It's an invite-only frat that includes some of the biggest names on the Street.   That frat also has some odd traditions. Their leaders have titles such as a "Grand Swipe," "Grand Smudge," "Grand Loaf," and a "Master at Arms." Billionaire investor Wilbur Ross was the Grand Swipe when Roose observed the fraternity up close. That night at the St. Regis Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, Roose witnessed some of Wall Street's biggest names wearing drag and performing skits making fun of Occupy Wall Street. Roose, who now writes for New York Magazine, left out some juicy details in his original article, though.  In his newly released book "Young Money" Roose explains how he eventually got caught for being a reporter. While filming one of the performances on his cell phone, Fortress Investment Group exec Michael Novogratz—a former Army helicopter pilot and college wrestler—demanded to know who he was.  Things got intense.  From Roose's "Young Money" [via Daily Intelligencer]:   Who the hell are you?” Novogratz demanded. I felt my pulse spike. I was tempted to make a run for it, but – due to the ethics code of the New York Times, my then-employer – I had no choice but to out myself. “I’m a reporter,” I said. Novogratz stood up from the table. "You’re not allowed to be here," he said. I, too, stood, and tried to excuse myself, but he grabbed my arm and wouldn’t let go. “Give me that or I’ll fucking break it!” Novogratz yelled, grabbing for my phone, which was filled with damning evidence. His eyes were bloodshot, and his neck veins were bulging. The song onstage was now over, and a number of prominent Kappas had rushed over to our table. Before the situation could escalate dangerously, a bond investor and former Grand Swipe named Alexandra Lebenthal stepped in between us. Wilbur Ross quickly followed, and the two of them led me out into the lobby, past a throng of Wall Street tycoons, some of whom seemed to be hyperventilating.  Read the full story and check out photos and audio clips at Daily Intelligencer » FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama will direct federal agencies on Tuesday to develop higher standards for medium-sized and heavy trucks over the next two years, another step in his efforts to reduce oil consumption and carbon emissions blamed for global warming. Obama will travel to Upper Marlboro, Maryland, to make his announcement at a distribution center for Safeway grocery stores. The Obama administration requires automakers to nearly double the average fuel economy of new cars and light trucks to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025 under rules that took effect in 2012. Obama will now direct the Environmental Protection Agency and Transportation Department to develop new rules for medium- and heavy-duty vehicle fuel efficiency by March 2016. The new rules will build on standards for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles that the Obama administration imposed on model years 2014-18 and will reach well into the next decade, according to details of the new plan released by the White House ahead of the announcement. Development of new truck fuel standards is another sign of Obama's increasing efforts to address climate change and convince Americans of the urgent need to take action. By ordering federal agencies to develop new standards, Obama is able to act on his own and sidestep Congress, which remains divided about what to do about a warming planet. Obama said in California's drought zone on Friday that a warming planet is intensifying the severity of droughts and other weather events. "Unless and until we do more to combat carbon pollution that causes climate change, this trend is going to get worse," he said. Obama will also renew his appeal for Congress to end $4 billion a year in subsidies to the oil and gas industry and urge lawmakers to establish a $2 billion "energy security trust" to support development of advanced vehicles that run on electricity, homegrown biofuels, hydrogen, and domestically produced natural gas. The $2 billion in spending would be drawn from revenues generated by federal oil and gas development. (Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
APDonald Trump has fired a top aide after a story by BuzzFeed's McKay Coppins didn't come out as flattering as Trump would have liked. The New York Post's Fred Dicker and Frank Rosario first reported Trump's firing of political consultant Sam Nunberg, who had pushed him to cooperate with Coppins on the story. Nunberg offered to resign, according to the Post, but Trump said he wouldn't accept his resignation. "Sam said to me, ‘This guy is a friend of mine. It’s going to be a great story. I have confidence it will be fair.’ So I actually did the interview as a courtesy to Sam," Trump told the Post. “But I said to Sam, ‘If this guy writes a fair story, that’s fine. But if he writes a wise-guy story, you’ll be fired.’ And I said to Sam, ‘OK?’ “And Sam said, ‘OK.’ ’’ The story attempts to get an answer to why Trump, who now says he is considering a run for governor of New York, frequently talks up possible potential political runs, only to inevitably remove his name from consideration. Coppins flew on Trump's private jet and interviewed him at the Mar-a-Lago, his estate in Palm Beach, Fla. Trump has been on a bizarre Twitter tear since the story — titled "36 Hours On The Fake Campaign Trail With Donald Trump" — was released late Thursday evening.  A dishonest slob of a reporter, who doesn't understand my sarcasm when talking about him or his wife, wrote a foolish &amp; boring Trump "hit" .@realDonaldTrump dude, still? Last week, before Trump spoke at the New York County Republican Committee's annual Lincoln Day Dinner, he chatted with a small group of reporters. Nunberg got Trump's attention, pointed to Coppins, and said, "Remember him?" "Is it going to be good or bad?" Trump asked of the story. "I think you'll like it," Coppins said. FREE AppDownload
Economists and demographers are increasingly concluding that the presence of large volumes of migration can be a boon to local economies.  It's obviously better if there's net migration coming in. But analysts also say that any migration at all — as long as it's not resulting in a large net loss — can be a good thing. Basically, it's a sign that people want to be where you're from, or that they possess the means, education and income to securely leave it. We've recently discussed where places stand according to moving volumes.  But there's another way to measure the phenomenon: percentage of residents born out of state. WBEZ Chicago's Robert Loerzel has pinpointed Census data to help answer this question. Here's what it looks like. Philadelphia has a huge percentage of homegrown residents. So does San Antonio. Cities like Phoenix and Los Angeles are much more populated by people who weren't born there. Rob Wile, data via Census/WBEZ And here is a map from the Census showing the breakdown for states, with the more dark purple states signifying a higher percentage of residents born in state. States like Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Michigan have tons of residents who were born there. States like Nevada, Arizona, and Colorado are much less populated by people born there. Census And finally...the full ranking:      FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshot"Bankers and lawyers said they inferred from the job ad that the company is getting ready for an initial public share offering (IPO), possibly next year," Reuters reported.Rumors of a Spotify IPO spiked over the weekend when Reuters noticed a peculiar job listing for the music streaming company. The job listing called for an External Reporting Specialist who could "prepare the company for international financial standards." "Bankers and lawyers said they inferred from the job ad that the company is getting ready for an initial public share offering (IPO), possibly next year," Reuters reported. Fox Business notes that the initial listing included language about SEC filings ("prepare the company for SEC filing standards. Set up all reports necessary to be SEC compliant”) although that line seems to have been removed from the job post.  Here's the job listing that has everyone speculating about Spotify's impending IPO: External Reporting Specialist — We are now looking for a person to be responsible for our External reporting, to join our Finance Team with placement at our Headquarters in Stockholm. Essential Functions: Minimum Education: Required experience: Preferred experience: FREE AppDownload
Tommy Humphreys/CEO.ca  The reality distortion field, made famous by Steve Jobs’ biographer Walter Isaacson, is a personal intensity and vision so powerful it bends people to your will, convincing them of a project’s higher purpose. Isaacson describes this capacity for influence as a notorious trait of Steve Jobs, who, as founder and CEO of Apple, managed to ship mountainous innovation that consistently redefined the relationship between art and technology. An interesting footnote here is the fact that Robert Friedland, one of the world’s most successful global resource developers, taught Jobs about the reality distortion field when Jobs was a college student in 1972. And he’s used it to promote a ton of successful mining ventures over the past 35 years—he’s found and developed them on nearly every corner of the globe. And became a multi-billionaire in the process. I was actually on a trip with Friedland last week, touring three of his latest mining projects in South Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). I didn’t realize how privileged I was to be included in the crew, which consisted of members of Friedland’s family and a few investors, until on his Gulfstream jet on the way there, his 39-year-old geologist son Govind looked at me puzzled, then joked to his dad, “What is a blogger doing here?” A good question. Friedland has for decades been reclusive—even combative toward the media. “I’ve been emailing your dad every two weeks for two years telling him that I look forward to joining him on a site visit in the near future, and that it’s going to be great!” I quipped. “Aha,” said Govind, “The reality distortion field.” The truth was that Friedland was headed to Africa to keynote the 2014 Mining Indaba in Cape Town—considered the biggest mining investment convention in the world—and had, finally, let me tag along. In Cape Town, Friedland told an audience of over a thousand high-level investors and government bureaucrats that Ivanhoe Mines’ has three world-scale mineral discoveries coming soon, “to a theatre near you.” We flew from the conference to Limpopo province in northern South Africa, where Friedland’s company spent nearly 20 years looking for platinum before finding arguably the best platinum ore body ever discovered: the Platreef project. Tommy Humphreys/CEO.ca A Japanese consortium gave Ivanhoe Mines $290 million for 10% of Platreef in 2010 and 2011. The first shaft is set to be sunk any day now, and once built, Platreef will be unlike all other platinum mines in South Africa. Platinum production is a mess in South Africa. Sure, 73% of the world’s platinum originates there, but the average mine is a kilometer deep, where underground workers mine ore bodies just a meter thick, in blazing hot temperatures upwards of 122ºF (50ºC). Conversely, the Platreef ore body is 24 meters thick on average—a freak of nature by platinum standards—which will allow for air-conditioned, mechanized labor. In fact, Friedland bets that most of the project’s underground workforce will be women; they are proven to be better at operating large mining machinery, he says. While Platreef waits on its Mining Right, which is expected in the next few months, the company plans to publish a Preliminary Economic Assessment by summer. Financing for the proposed mine will likely continue to come from Japan, which needs the metal for catalytic converters and other new technologies. Social license is the project’s biggest risk, but the company has devoted substantial resources on the communication, training and jobs creation fronts. Ultimately, Friedland is hopeful the project will get built for a 2018 startup. Mining operations could last 100+ years, as the 28.5-million-plus-ounce platinum, palladium, gold and rhodium deposit remains open to the West and South. Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caThis valley shows the Platreef project site. 800 meters below lies the flat, thick PGM orebody. After touring Platreef, we flew to Lubumbashi in the DRC’s Katanga province (AKA the land of copper). Katanga is lush green country with reddish brown soil. Shacks, French signage, and smiling children lined the unpaved roads on which our motorcade barrelled forward—Friedland, of course, was in VIP car #1. Not far from Lubumbashi is Ivanhoe’s Kipushi Mine, and when we finally arrived there, we were greeted by a full percussion band. “Promoting a stock is like making a movie,” Friedland once said. “You’ve got to have stars, props, and a good script.” The Kipushi Project is a sight to behold. With copper grades as rich as 35%, and zinc around 40%, it was the world’s richest copper and zinc mining operation for the better part of the last century. If you don’t know mining, understand: these are absurdly rich grades. Kipushi was abandoned in 1993, and flooded in 2011. During the same year, Ivanhoe bought it for $150 million from controversial Israeli businessman Dan Gertler, who was under pressure from the Congolese government to do something with it. Ivanhoe’s been dewatering the mine since; drilling is set to commence any day now from 1200 meters below surface, targeting the Big Zinc orebody, a potentially huge zinc deposit that is open at depth. It may also contain copper and precious metals. “This is a real zinc mine,” Friedland told investors at a Kipushi technical presentation, “and if we find high-grade copper down there as well, everything is paid for.” Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caAndre Zeelie, Govind Friedland, and Robert Friedland at Kipushi Five shafts are already built at Kipushi. #5 is still in excellent condition. “The heart of a mine is its main shaft,” said Andre Zeelie, Kipushi’s project manager and former Deputy Director of Mining at Oyu Tolgoi LLC. “This shaft would cost us a billion dollars today,” remarked Friedland. Standing atop the 17 story shaft #5 at Kamoa overlooking Shafts #1-4 in the D.R. Congo’s Katanga province. Early the next morning, we flew an hour west to Kolwezi, where Friedland’s crew had discoveredKamoa, the world’s largest undeveloped high-grade copper deposit. During the flight over, I quizzed Ivanhoe EVP of Exploration David Broughton, who, along with David Edwards, is credited with making the Kamoa discovery. Broughton explained Kamoa’s origin story: in 2004, an Ivanhoe contractor had surveyed the project, conducting soil samples and geochemistry tests that returned 500 parts per million copper. The figures weren’t nearly enough to get most explorers excited, but it was enough for Friedland to finance a drill program. In 2008, their drill cut through high grade copper. Incredibly, under the surface with a rail line over top it, lay the first major copperbelt discovery in the DRC since the early 1900s. “The one thing our group does is drill,” Friedland said. “We’re famous for it.” Today, the Kamoa camp is bustling, with some 300 local workers on site. The company aims for a 2018 start-up, but needs a financial partner, such as a sovereign or major miner, to come in with the cash. “This is a miner’s resource,” said Sam Riggall, Ivanhoe Mines head of strategy and project development. Assets like Kamoa—which might produce copper for generations—are long-term plays for the majors, hitting their sweet spot years after the beginning of operations. “The cream is over time, in the expansions,” Riggall added. “You simply cannot apply conventional DCF analysis to projects like Kamoa and expect to get a sensible answer on value.” Friedland expects to sell part of Kamoa to the Chinese or Koreans. Requiring a smelter in Phase 2, the project is a behemoth. But Friedland told me not to worry. “World class ore bodies finance themselves,” he said. “In fact, people fight to finance them.” “This is the world’s richest undeveloped copper resource. Come back in 10 years and it will happen. The world moves forward.” At the Kamoa camp, a South African mining analyst and I started talking to Friedland about his share price, which at the moment, was nearing all-time lows. “Why do you keep pressuring me to promote the stock?” Friedland gestured to me. He turned to the analyst, “It’s your job to find investors and if you don’t, it doesn’t change my life. This is getting built. Seven billion dollars for the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia and it was a thousand times tougher.” Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caRobert Friedland’s 100 kilogram baby, the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia, which started shipping concentrates in 2013. Ivanhoe Mines’ shares are so cheap, in fact, that the $2.9-billion implied valuation the Japanese placed on the Platreef project is more than three times higher than the market valuation of the entire company today. In effect, this means Ivanhoe investors get Platreef at a huge discount, along with Friedland, the team, Kamoa, and Kipushi, for free. On our final day of the trip, I sat at an analysts’ table during lunch and watched a heated debate over the company’s share price. One analyst was extremely negative. Others were more subdued. The consensus was that investors today are avoiding companies that will need more money and Ivanhoe undoubtedly will have to raise more cash to continue developing Platreef, Kamoa and Kipushi. This is why any investor considering the company should buy on a schedule, and be prepared to average down or participate in future financings by the company. I’d already bought Ivanhoe Mines five times before touring the site. I’ve come to terms with the fact that I may have to do the same several more times in the coming years. But I’m reminded the sector is deeply out of favor, and I’m convinced it’s the right speculation for any investor wanting a call on Africa, platinum, copper, zinc, and a winning management. Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caIVN has strong support near $1.50 with major upside resistance near the $2.00 level which was the price of the most recent private placement. Friday’s heavy volume ~8% rally was the most bullish trading session in IVN shares since September. (Stockcharts.com) Since I returned from Africa, everybody’s been asking me what Robert Friedland’s like in person. The 63 year old Chicago born, Singapore based financier radiates intensity. He thrives in front of an audience. It always seems like he’s in a hurry, and his staff know better than to make him wait. Despite his age and lean frame, he is intimidating physically, and has piercing blue eyes. He has been married to Darlene, who was with us in Africa, for 33 years. At the same time, he’s funny, sometimes goofy. He wears his hat backwards, uttering, “Be cool, be cool.” He makes a Japanese-style bow as he leaves the room. Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caFriedland poses at a piece of equipment called Funkey at the Kipushi mine On the long ride back to Vancouver from South Africa, I re-read Jacquie McNish’s book about Friedland, The Big Score. The first time I had read it, I was inspired to join the natural resources sector. But after spending time with Friedland, I realized the book fell short in its characterization of him. McNish paints a simple portrait of Friedland as a cunning stock promoter. I found him to be technically very astute on geology, and geopolitics, and more reluctant on the promotional front than I expected. Friedland has attracted an impressive team at Ivanhoe. Manning the helm of every project seems to be a leader with a long track record in mine building and community relations. The Ivanhoe Mines organization is surprisingly flat, and although Friedland is likely to interrupt his employees’ when they’re giving important presentations, they’re not afraid to tell him when he’s wrong. Robert Friedland made his fortune on quick flips, but has spent the past decade building mega-projects. My opinion is that he’s become more of a mine developer than a mining promoter. Building a mine is much more difficult than selling one undeveloped. I suspect he’s up for the task, for legacy reasons. “Robert is a complicated man,” Riggall tells me. “His only vice is that he works very hard.” At the Kamoa camp, as we are set to depart, Friedland shakes the hands of 300 workers and takes the mic to tell the men and women working there to make it happen. Tommy Humphreys/CEO.caRobert Friedland shakes the hands of workers at the Kamoa copper project, Feb 11, 2014 The reality distortion field is back in action. Would you bet against him? SIGN UP FOR CEO.CA’S FREE LIST  |  MORE PHOTOS  |  DISCLAIMER Note: Travel from Vancouver to South Africa and all accommodations were paid for by the author, however flights to Limpopo and DRC and some meals were provided by the company. Statements made by representatives of Ivanhoe Mines were made in a Forward Looking context. Please read Ivanhoe’s Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements carefully. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Ivanhoe Mines’ performance does not represent opinions, forecasts or predictions of Ivanhoe Mines or its management.   All facts are to be verified by the reader. This is not an investment recommendation or advice of any kind. Please read our full disclaimer. This article originally appeared at CEO.ca.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bernadett SzaboGeorge SorosOne day every quarter, the world's big fund managers reveal some of what they're buying and selling in their 13-F regulatory filings. Generally speaking, these revelations aren't taken too seriously as they are 45-day-old snapshots. But over the weekend, one gigantic $1.3 billion position raised some eyebrows. Soros Fund Management disclosed that it held put options on 7,090,000 shares of the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF (SPY) at the end of Q4. Puts protect the holder of the option from declining prices. Soros' position makes money if $1.3 billion worth of the SPY declines in value. And at $1.3 billion, this represents the largest position in the portfolio. After touching an all-time high of 1,850 in January, the S&amp;P 500 got hit with some volatility that brought the index down by around 6%. However, markets have been coming back, and now the S&amp;P is less than 1% away from setting a new high. This is not a totally new position for Soros. At the end of Q3, the fund held just 2,794,100 of these options. At the end of Q2, the fund held puts on 7,802,400 shares. Again, these 13-Fs reveal holdings as of the end of Q4. So, we do not know if and how that position has changed since then. SEC FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Hershorn The New York Fed's Empire State manufacturing survey fell to 4.58 in February, below Wall Street expectations. Economists expected that the New York area index dropped to 9.01 in February from 12.51 the month prior. "The Empire State headline index jumped over 10 points in January, and the new orders index escaped negative territory for the first time in two months," wrote Nomura's Lewis Alexander ahead of the report. He predicted a 10.0 reading.  "The increase in this new orders indicator is supportive of activity in February. However, we expect the continuous inclement weather to weigh on manufacturing sentiment in the Northeast region," Alexander wrote. Here's a chart from the report: New York Fed Click here for the full report » FREE AppDownload
A man jumped off of JP Morgan's Hong Kong headquarters to his death, according to George Chen of the South China Morning Post. JP Morgan has confirmed that the man who jumped was a 33 year-old employee at the firm with the last name Li. He was a junior banker in operations. This comes at a delicate time for the financial industry, when a spate of deaths — mostly in London — have alarmed observers. Last month, a 39-year-old JP Morgan vice president died after falling from the roof of the bank's European headquarters in London. And right before that, a former Deutsche Bank senior executive was found dead in his London home after an apparent suicide. Witnesses say that police tried to stop Li from jumping from the 30 story building, 10 floors of which are used by JP Morgan, around 2:00 or 3:00 pm, but to no avail.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe Apple logo hangs in a glass enclosure above the 5th Ave Apple Store in New York, September 20, 2012. Apple's iPhone 5 goes on sale tomorrow. Brandirectory has released its list of the world's 500 most valuable brands, which is measured by estimating the future revenue attributable to a brand and determines the value a company would be willing to pay to license its brand as if it did not own it.  In terms of individual countries, U.S. brands occupy 185 of the 500 spots, including 9 of the top 10. Japan is second as the brand value of its three biggest brands — Toyota, Mitsubishi and Honda — increased in value by more than 30%.  The survey notes that Germany, France, and the UK complete the top 5 while China, the world’s second biggest economy, comes in 6th in terms of total brand value as its brands are still developing. Notable rises from last year include Verizon (from 10 to 5), Nike (60 to 35), and Allianz (75 to 38) while drops include Shell (from 12 to 18), Home Depot (18 to 25), and Marlboro (57 to 81). Check it out: brandirectorybrandirectorybrandirectoryBrandirectoryBrandirectoryCheck out all 500 &gt; FREE AppDownload
"2013 proved to be the year of the consumer, with gold jewellery demand close to pre-crisis levels and investment in small bars and coins hitting a record high," said the World Gold Council in their new Gold Demand Trends Report. "The result was annual gold demand of 3,756.1 tonnes, valued at US$170bn. However, outweighing the impressive consumer demand were the effects of ETF outflows and lower central bank buying, resulting in 2013 demand 15% below the strong volumes recorded in 2012." Indeed, the dumping by the investor/trader class was blamed for the nearly 30% price decline in the yellow metal. "Chinese consumers set a new annual record, while India was resilient in the face of import restrictions," the WGC added. "The sharp fall in the gold price in the second quarter elicited a strong and swift response from consumers in Asia and the Middle East, an effect that extended out to western markets in the final quarter of the year." World Gold Council FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The year started with quite a bit of market volatility. Turmoil in the emerging markets was blamed for a 6% sell-off in the S&amp;P 500. However, markets have recovered dramatically and the S&amp;P 500 is just half a percentage point from its all-time highs. The battered emerging market currencies have come back a bit to. But for the most part, they are still in the red. "Emerging market currencies have improved following the recent rally in Europe and stateside," noted Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus in a new note to clients. "The Indonesian rupiah leads the currency basket with a YTD gain of 3%. The Argentine peso remains strained as Argentina’s economy continued to face economic and currency headwinds." Here's a look at the year-to-date performance of every major emerging market currency against the dollar. Oppenheimer FREE AppDownload
King.com / YouTube King, the maker of the popular mobile game Candy Crush, just filed to raise $500 million in an IPO. Here's the F-1 filing. Their growth numbers are insane. Here are the key numbers. Note the revenue chart. In Q4 2012, total revenue was $71 million. A year later, that jumped to $632 million. And the margins are big. On that $632 million in revenue, they booked $269 million in profit. It's worth noting that several metrics actually show a tiny dip in Q4 vs. Q3 of last year, which might raise an eyebrow. SEC These infographics from the filing also give some information: King King Meanwhile, you should read their risk factors. The basic gist is that the company's growth is insane, but that it's basically a one-hit wonder, and it may be hard to keep that up. We have experienced significant rapid growth in our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will effectively manage our growth. We have experienced a period of significant rapid growth and expansion in our operations that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. For example, our staff headcount and the scope and complexity of our business have increased significantly, with the number of employees increasing from 144 as of December 31, 2011 to 665 as of December 31, 2013, and we expect headcount growth to continue for the foreseeable future. Since October 2011, we have also opened five more game studios in Europe to support our growth and game development. The growth and expansion of our business and headcount create significant challenges for our management and operational resources. We cannot assure you that this level of significant growth will be sustainable in the future. In the event of continued growth of our operations, our information technology systems or our internal controls and procedures will need to be scaled to support our operations. In addition, some members of our management do not have significant experience managing a large global business operation, so our management may not be able to manage such growth effectively. We also recently hired our Chief Financial Officer in October 2013. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operational and management processes and systems, and identify, hire, integrate, develop and motivate a large number of qualified employees. If we fail to do so, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. As our organization continues to grow, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the benefits of our corporate culture, including our ability to quickly develop and launch new games. This could negatively affect our business performance. A small number of games currently generate a substantial majority of our revenue. In the fourth quarter of 2013, our top three games Candy Crush Saga, Pet Rescue Saga and Farm Heroes Saga accounted for 95% of our total gross bookings (across the web and mobile channels in the aggregate), with Candy Crush Saga accounting for 78% of our total gross bookings (across the web and mobile channels in the aggregate) or 86% and 58% of our mobile channel and web channel gross bookings, respectively. During 2013, we had fewer games launched on the mobile channel than on the web channel. In future periods, we expect Candy Crush Saga to represent a smaller percentage of our total mobile channel gross bookings as we diversify our mobile game portfolio. If the gross bookings of our top games, including Candy Crush Saga are lower than anticipated and we are unable to broaden our portfolio of games or increase gross bookings from those games, we will not be able to maintain or grow our revenue and our financial results could be adversely affected. Read the full thing &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Olivier Anrigo The King of Carnival float makes it way through the crowd during the Carnival parade in Nice February 15, 2014. The 130th Carnival of Nice runs from to March 4 and celebrates the "King of Gastronomy". Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog Several times in the past, I’ve referred to Fed Governor Janet Yellen as the Fairy Godmother of the bull market. I supported this notion with a chart showing that the S&amp;P 500 has tended to rise more often than not after she gave a speech on the economy and monetary policy. Now that she is the Fed chair, she did it again last Tuesday with her congressional testimony. She suggested that the consensus opinion of the members of the FOMC is that the economy should continue to do well enough to justify tapering QE by $10 billion per meeting: “If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings.” Investors have gotten over their taper tantrum of last summer. Now tapering is bullish because it shows the Fed’s confidence in the economy. Either that or it shows that the FOMC has lost confidence in the efficacy of QE and would rather replace it with ultra-easy forward guidance about the federal funds rate. That’s my assessment of what’s driving the Fed. Both stock and bond investors seem to be adjusting to more forward guidance with vanishing QE. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / phillytalesThe yield on a US 10-year bond is about 2.72%. The yield on an Italian 10-year bond is considerably higher, at 3.61%. That huge gap would seem to make sense. After all, Italy has a massive amount of debt, doesn't control its own currency, and its government is ridiculously unstable. But investors are rapidly abandoning the idea that any European country will default. That story is fading into the past. The new story is that Europe has Japan-like economic characteristics; that growth and inflation are falling, and that the ECB isn't doing much about it. Furthermore, Italy is seen as being an exceptionally problematic country economically, with characteristics much worse than the US'. If you completely took credit risk off the table, Italy should probably have lower borrowing costs than the US based on the fundamentals of their respective economies. So watch this spread. It's already narrowed a ton. If the US economy accelerates, and interest rates rise, and Italy continues to sink deeper into the muck, it would not be surprising to see Italy borrow at a lower level than the US at some point in the not-so distant future. FREE AppDownload
Alexander Hassenstein/Getty ImagesThe latest ZEW survey of economic sentiment is out. The numbers show sentiment deteriorating: Economic Expectations for Germany have declined in February 2014. The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment has decreased by 6.0 points and now stands at a level of 55.7 points (historical average: 24.5 points). The cautious expectations in this month’s survey are likely to be caused by some uncertainties which came to the fore recently. Weak employment figures as well as some damped leading indicators have, for instance, caused concern in the US that the current economic upswing could lose momentum. Furthermore, the volatile capital markets in some emerging economies reflect uncertainties regarding their economic prospects in the medium term. Download the full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Way back in 2006 I disagreed with some analysts on the outlook for the Inland Empire in California. I wrote:  As the housing bubble unwinds, housing related employment will fall; and fall dramatically in areas like the Inland Empire. The more an area is dependent on housing, the larger the negative impact on the local economy will be. So I think some pundits have it backwards: Instead of a strong local economy keeping housing afloat, I think the bursting housing bubble will significantly impact housing dependent local economies. And sure enough, the economies of housing dependent areas like the Inland Empire were devastated during the housing bust. The good news is the Inland Empire is now recovering. This graph shows the unemployment rate for the Inland Empire (using MSA: Riverside, San Bernardino, Ontario), and also the number of construction jobs as a percent of total employment.The unemployment rate is falling, but still high at 8.9% (down from 15.0% in 2010). And construction employment is still near the lows.Overall the outlook for the Inland Empire is much better today. Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Both the December and January Non-Farm Payrolls reports were pretty weak, and there's been a lot of debate about whether this was all about the weather. In his latest note to clients, Citigroup currency specialist Steven Englander produces this chart, which compares the change in non-farm payrolls (dark blue line) to the change in non-farm payrolls across 9 warm states that haven't been affected by weather much. Unfortunately, the state-by-state data isn't available for January yet, but just based on December, it does appear that there was a break and that the warm states didn't drop by as much as the rest of the country. Citi Englander writes: If we use employment in these States to predict December national employment, we would have a prediction of 184k, very close to what market analysts were looking for. Playing with lags and the States that we treat as weather unaffected we can get anywhere from 138k to 210k as a ‘weather unaffected’ national forecast. If we use only contemporaneously State data we get a forecast for December payrolls ex-weather of around 140k but the regression prefers having a couple of lags and including these lags we are in the 180-200k range. The actual print was 74k so weather probably accounted for at least half the disappointment in the print. Again, it's just one month, and soon we'll be able to test this against January data, and hopefully soon the weather will be a non-issue in any of the data coming up. But if you're looking for some evidence either way on this debate, then this is an interesting thing to consider.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoPeople look at the prices of tickets outside a ticket shop at the Ginza shopping district in Tokyo, October 31, 2013.Good morning! US futures and European stocks are generally going nowhere right now. But it was a monster session in Japan. The Nikkei gained over 3%, bringing its annual market losses for the year to just around 8% (very recently it had been 14%). The market was helped by what SocGen's Kit Juckes calls a mini-ease: The yen remains the centre of attention in FX. The BOJ, as expected, made no change to the speed at which it buys assets, or to rates, but it did double the size of two existing lending facilities. It was just a minor tweak aimed at boosting credit demand and supply, but enough to send a message to the market that they are willing to ease further. The Nikkei has reacted positively and the yen is weaker. While USD/JPY remains in this year's range, a break above 103 would break the downtrend of recent weeks and probably suck in yen sellers. Those yen bears on the sidelines looking for USD/JPY under 100 before buying will start to get edgy. The main datapoint coming out in the US today is the February Empire Fed manufacturing report, which will be closely watched. FREE AppDownload
