KTKR in Houston(Reuters) - Cathy Smith, Wal-Mart Stores Inc's &lt;WMT.N&gt; finance chief for the international division, will leave at the end of the month to take a "leadership position" at an unidentified company, The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday, citing internal company memos. Smith also leads the international division's strategy. The division generated $135 billion in sales in 2013. Before joining Wal-Mart in 2010, Smith had been executive vice president and chief financial officer at GameStop Corp &lt;GME.N&gt;. Brett Biggs, who is executive vice president and chief financial officer for Walmart U.S, is slated to replace Smith at Walmart International, the WSJ said. The Journal said the Wal-Mart memos were sent on Thursday. Biggs was senior vice president of operations for the company's retail warehouse chain, Sam's Club, before he became CFO of Walmart U.S. Wal-Mart spokesman Kevin Gardner could not be reached immediately for comment. (Reporting by Zeba Siddiqui in Bangalore; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarJob seekers stand in line to meet with prospective employers at a career fair in New York City.As we reported earlier (and have been for the past three years), there is a reason why the media prefers not to talk about the quality aspect of US job gains, and instead focuses on the seasonally adjusted quantity: there simply is no "quality." Take today for example, when we learned that more than half of the 74K jobs gained in the month of December were temp jobs (which mysteriously were not affected by the weather: only the high paying ones somehow got crushed by snow in December), and when adding the lowest paying retail and wholesale trade jobs, one got nearly 50% more than all the job gains for the past month.  Perhaps the only good news in today's job report is that it is now in the past, because absent from some inexplicably respected so-called pundits doing the most idiotic thing imaginable, and saying to just ignore this report, there was absolutely nothing good one could say about the lowest monthly job gain since January 2011 (driven by temp and retail workers) at least until it is revised several times over the next 3 years when we ultimately learn that today's noisy jobs print was really a gain of 500K jobs. Of course by then, there will be far bigger problem to deal with. However, while December is in the past, the future still remains. And it is here that we have some good and bad news. According to the just released Occupation Outlook Quarterly (OOQ) looking at the period from 2012 to 2022 released by the BLS, in the future the US will be in a significant need of jobs, which is good for all those worried that the economy is grinding to a halt, or those demoralized from not having a job for months on end and unsure if this will ever change. That's the good news. The bad news is that as in the case of today, the vast majority of future jobs will pay absolutely miserable salaries. The chart below shows what we are talking about: it lays out the job categories for the 20 occupations with with the highest projected numeric change in employment. Alas, of the Top 10 highest growing jobs, 9 out of 10 will pay less than $35,000 a year.  Furthermore the composition of where the job growth is expected tells us much about where the government see this nation in the year 2022. Take for example personal-care aides which will be the fastest growing job from 2012 to 2022, among categories with more than 25,000 positions, the Labor Department said in a new report. The field will grow by nearly 50% to 1.8 million jobs. This is how the OOQ describes this job group: Personal-care aides help clients "with self-care and everyday tasks, and provide companionship," the newly released Occupational Outlook Handbook said. The job requires no formal education, but most aides have a high school diploma. Workers in the field earned an average annual income of $19,910. “As the baby-boom population ages, there will be an increase in the number of clients requiring assistance,” the handbook said. What else is expected to soar? Registered nurses, retail salespeople, home health aides and ... fast food workers. That's the sad future of the US: a nation made up of old people desperate for nurses, and paid companions, who go out shopping and eating fast food. Ok, it is not surprising that the most jobs will go to the unqualified, uneducated, and unmotivated. Is there any hope for higher paying jobs according to the BLS? Some more good news: the answer is yes!  Actually, considering the most in demand higher paying job will be lawyers, forget what we said about good news. Finally, looking purely at the bad news, all workers in the government, postal service, animal production and newspaper industries have something to look forward to: a pink slip.  Source FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/GettyJeff ZuckerCNN chief Jeff Zucker unloaded on Fox News and its chairman Roger Ailes Friday, saying that the network is essentially a front for the Republican Party in response to a question about Gabriel Sherman’s explosive new Ailes biography – which Zucker has yet to read. “Clearly all I can say at this point, without having read it, is from what I understand it confirms, basically, what we’ve known all along, which is that the Republican Party is being run out of News Corp headquarters, masquerading as a cable channel,” Zucker told the audience at the Television Critics Association winter press tour. Also read: Roger Ailes Biography: 5 Explosive Allegations From Gabe Sherman’s Tell-All The president of CNN Worldwide said comments from Ailes in aHollywood Reporter interview this week that CNN announced they were “out of the news business” were simply meant as a distraction from the details of Sherman’s unauthorized biography, “The Loudest Voice in the Room,” which will be released on Jan. 14. “I think that criticism is obviously meant to deflect your attention from the book this weekend,” Zucker said in defense of his own comments from last summer. “[Ailes] doesn’t do an interview in a long time and then does it the week that the book comes out? He’s trying to deflect attention. Clearly there’s probably no other network in American television that is covering news in such a substantial and serious way than CNN.” Also read: Fox News Denies Roger Ailes’ Sexist, Racist, Volatile Behavior Detailed in New Biography A Fox News spokesperson told TheWrap that contrary to Zucker’s suggestion, the Hollywood Reporter interview took place in mid-December and had been in the works for months; the timing of its release was not in Fox’s control. But Zucker didn’t stop there, and had many more choice words for Fox News as well as mutual rival MSNBC. “We happen to be in the news business as opposed to some other fair and balanced networks,” he said, borrowing Fox’s slogan. “Obviously Fox and MSNBC have partisan political viewers,” Zucker added. “When you watch those channels, you only hear what you want to hear. But if you only hear what you want to hear, you miss the whole story. And I think that – I think where [CNN] can be is providing the whole story.” To fill that role, though, Zucker said anchors need to display more “passion” along with asking the tough questions about both sides. Also read: The Year in Cable News: CNN Weathers Turbulent 2013 With New Leadership and Stable Ratings Zucker also reiterated his new vision for CNN, which includes more original series programming and a robust CNN Films slate of both produced and acquired documentaries. “We also recognize that [straight news is] not a growing niche and that there are many places to get that kind of news and information,” Zucker said. “One of the ways we want to continue to try to remain relevant is to – in addition to the news that we will continue to cover on a daily basis – is supplement that with the series and films that we’ve added to the lineup.” That includes eight series in 2014 – up from three last year, and 30 to 35 hours of self-produced and acquired films. Thursday’s 9 p.m. airing of CNN Films’ “Sole Survivor” was the networks’ second highest documentary premiere after “Blackfish,” Zucker said, but Nielsen ratings show the offering came in a distant third place in both total viewers and the key 24 to 54 demographic for the 9 and 10 p.m. hours. FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Van SmitInvestment advisor and photographer Jonathan van Smit is one of the few foreigners who ever sees the dark side of Hong Kong. The New Zealander tells us by email: "I know some Western expats who never eat Chinese food, and who rarely venture outside their expat communities. They're here to make money not to experience a different culture. They live in a largely expat world, their kids go to international schools, their maids do the housework, cooking and shopping. I imagine that the more local parts of Hong Kong are completely alien to many of them." The level of inequality can be shocking: "Hong Kong is either heaven or hell depending on who you might ask. It has the [developed] world's highest Gini score with Singapore 2nd and the USA 3rd. Over in Kowloon you'll find so-called 'cage people', residents living in cages or ultra small dwellings, barely able to make ends meet and end up begging in the busy streets or living off meager social assistance if they can get it. Food and rent are expensive so losing a job can be a matter of life and death." Van Smit gave us permission to publish this set of photos from 2012. (See his latest work at his site and Flickr.) Courtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van Smit FREE AppDownload
In the first full week of trading of 2014, the stock market's performance was less than dazzling. While the S&amp;P 500 (SNPINDEX: ^GSPC  ) and Nasdaq (NASDAQINDEX: ^IXIC  ) both finished in the plus column, the Dow Industrials (DJINDICES: ^DJI  ) finished down for the week. Friday's monthly jobs report left some wondering if the U.S. economy was weaker than previously thought. While the consensus estimate for December's jobs was 200,000, only 74,000 jobs were added for the month. In this segment from Investor Beat, Motley Fool analyst Ron Gross analyzes the macroeconomic landscape, and shares why he's still optimistic about America's economy.  There’s a huge difference between a good stock, and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and it’s one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report: "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just click here to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company.   Chris Hill has no position in any stocks mentioned. Ron Gross has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Four Reasons Everyone Should Stop Comparing 2014 To The Late 90s (BMO Capital Markets) After a stunning runup in the late '90s, the stock market ended with a tech bubble. While many are comparing 2014 to the bubblicious late 1990s, "when the market went on its unprecedented performance run leading to the tech bubble finale," Brian Belski of BMO Capital Markets thinks these comparisons are unwarranted for four key reasons.  1. Market performance history — 2014 is likely to be a "tamer year" because it's "exceptionally rare" to have six straight years with no losses, and market returns struggle after consecutive years of double digit returns. 2. Investor participation — "Strong and lasting bull markets require significant individual investor participation. Until recently this group had been aggressively selling stocks." 3. Economic backdrop — "The economic backdrop is the most obvious difference to us when comparing the current environment to the late 1990s. Broader economic measures are still well below the healthy levels exhibited back then." 4. Proximity to last major bear market — In the '90s investors were about 20 years away from the last bear market. This time around, however, investors have suffered two major bear markets in the last ten years and this is still fresh in the mind of investors. Vanguard Warns Investors Looking To Load Up On Stocks (ThinkAdvisor)  A poll during a Vanguard webinar showed that more than half of Vanguard investors wanted to increase their equity holdings this year. Thirty-three percent said they were "somewhat likely to" and 24% said they were "very likely" to increase their equity holdings. But Tim Buckley, CIO at Vanguard, warned that "often, after great returns … people chase them and risk getting in after a run-up." He warned investors against over-allocating to stocks. Buckley pointed out that valuations are "getting pricey" and  CEO Bill McNabb warned of surprises in markets this year in terms of changes in Fed policy and quantitative easing, reports Janet Levaux at ThinkAdvisor. Global Bond Funds Draw $5.3 Billion (Reuters) Investors pumped $5.3 billion into global bond funds in the week ended Jan. 8, according to the latest report from Bank of America. This was the biggest inflow since May 2013. Meanwhile, investors pulled $400 million out of equity funds. Global bond funds pulled in just $1.4 billion in new cash in 2013 after seeing constant redemptions on concerns about the Fed taper, reports Sam Forgione at Reuters. How Advisors Can Give Their Clients Access To Structured Credit (The Wall Street Journal) Rates of return on structured credit — securities made up of different kinds of debt — are nearly double that of corporate credit, writes Brian Walsh, chairman and CIO of Saguenay Strathmore Capital in a new WSJ column. Naturally, this could pique investor interest, but how can an advisor access it for their client?  "In our opinion, hedge funds are by far the best avenue for accessing structured credit. Their professionals have the modeling expertise to extract value from these assets. However when you access structured credit through hedge funds, the opportunity is limited to clients whose income or net worth meet the fund's prescribed thresholds. Unless your client has a net worth of $5 million or more, structured credit isn't an opportunity that's available to them. "But if your clients do have the means and the interest and you have a relationship with a hedge fund adviser or consultant, the upside of structured credit is, in our opinion, better than just about anywhere in the credit universe right now." FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Van SmitInvestment advisor and photographer Jonathan van Smit is one of the few foreigners who ever sees the dark side of Hong Kong. The New Zealander tells us by email: "I know some Western expats who never eat Chinese food, and who rarely venture outside their expat communities. They're here to make money not to experience a different culture. They live in a largely expat world, their kids go to international schools, their maids do the housework, cooking and shopping. I imagine that the more local parts of Hong Kong are completely alien to many of them." The level of inequality can be shocking: "Hong Kong is either heaven or hell depending on who you might ask. It has the [developed] world's highest Gini score with Singapore 2nd and the USA 3rd. Over in Kowloon you'll find so-called 'cage people', residents living in cages or ultra small dwellings, barely able to make ends meet and end up begging in the busy streets or living off meager social assistance if they can get it. Food and rent are expensive so losing a job can be a matter of life and death." Van Smit gave us permission to publish this set of photos from 2012. (See his latest work at his site and Flickr.) Courtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van SmitCourtesy of Jonathan van Smit FREE AppDownload
As we enter 2014 this is definitely one of the big things on my radar. From where I’m sitting, it just seems that everyone is convinced that rates are going higher. And maybe they are. But when everyone is this sure of something, I really enjoy taking a closer look at the other side. Today we’re looking at 10-year yields. I don’t want to get into a whole philosophical conversation about QE or Bernanke or Yellen. I can’t worry about any of that stuff. In my opinion, we need to look at how the market feels about all of that. You see, a lot of people say a lot of things; there’s a ton of noise out there, but price is the only truth that I feel comfortable enough to trust. Rates are at a very critical level right now. Take a look at the sentiment data, I’ve been talking about it here over the last month. The consensus view is that rates rise. That makes me wonder what would happen if they don’t….Here is the 10-year Treasury Yield Index. We’re looking at a line chart going back to the 2008 highs. It’s not the cleanest trendline (are they ever?) but we are running into an important downtrend. Also, the December highs were not confirmed by momentum. The most recent highs in rates coincided with the second lower low in momentum last year. The one positive thing I can say about this weekly chart is the overbought conditions reached in momentum in 2013. As rates fell the last 6 years on this chart, the only extreme readings came from oversold conditions, which is typical of bearish trends. These are the first overbought readings on a weekly time frame since June of 2007. That’s the one good thing I can say about this one. So that’s the long-term view, mostly bearish. I think where things really get interesting is on a daily time frame. Long time readers of the blog know that my favorite setup is the old overshoot of resistance (or support). In other words, from false moves come fast moves in the opposite direction. We see it all the time in all asset classes on all different time frames. And this one is definitely a candidate.Look at the highs in rates in early September. Now look how we rallied into the Fed Taper last month and have essentially gone no where since. In fact, we briefly exceeded the September highs in the 10-year right around the holidays before rolling over. Reminds me of a false breakdown in Gold &amp; Silver around the holidays a couple years ago, right before a nice rally in precious metals. Here is what the 10-year yield chart looks like using daily bars: I also want to point to the lack of overbought readings on the most recent highs. This bearish divergence makes me even more bearish on rates. For me to change my mind, I would really want to see the recent highs get taken out combined with some overbought conditions in momentum (I use a 14-period RSI). If that occurs, I’ll ease up on my bearishness (bullishness for bonds). And let’s remember the way investor sentiment works. They love them at tops and hate them at bottoms. We see this time and time again. When rates rise, bonds sell-off and when rates drop, bonds rally. With that in mind, as we entered 2009 everybody loved US Treasury Bonds. The extreme bullish readings were off the charts. The result was close to a 30% decline in $TLT over the next 6 months. Sentiment towards bonds then plummeted to extreme bearishness that summer and bonds proceeded to rallied of course.  As we entered 2011, they hated bonds once again. Extreme bearishness was again the consensus. No one wanted to buy bonds…..What happened? 30% in 6 months and a total 50% gain during the next year and a half. We’re seeing the same amount of hate for bonds today. And one last thing, just for fun. After that 50% rally in bonds from 2011 lows, guess what the consensus sentiment was in the summer of 2012? You guessed it – they absolutely loved them. Extreme bullish readings for bonds never seen before in the Barrons Consensus Inc. data published weekly. And you know what happened? Bonds have been selling off ever since, down over 23% into the recent lows.Now they hate the bonds once again. Do you hate them as well?  Tags: $TLT $TNX $ZB_F $ZN_F FREE AppDownload
The world doesn't end with a bang, as T.S. Eliot wrote, but with a whimper, and thus it is with the U.S. job market. The brutally disappointing employment report released by the Labor Department Friday showed that just 74,000 new jobs were created in December, far below the 196,000 predicted by economists. The unemployment rate fell to 6.7 percent, from 7 percent, but that was less about job creation than about people, fed up or unsuccessful in their job searches, dropping out of the labor force. Following the trend through most of the past year, that rate fell for the wrong reasons. This number should be a wake-up call because of what it represents: the slow, steady erosion of our job market. It is time to face facts: Neither the ailment nor the cure has worked and this patient, our job market, is dying before our eyes. The ailment was the Great Recession, which brought our economy to near collapse and put millions out of work. But the cure hasn't been effective either. The heavy spending on social programs succeeded in providing a safety net to keep many people out of poverty, but it has done nothing to spur job creation. In fact, it may well have hurt, since the higher taxes needed to pay for those programs have placed an unnecessary and punitive burden on small and medium-sized businesses, which, in turn, have stifled their ability to hire workers. Related: Entrepreneurship, Not Socialism, Is the Answer to Economic Problems What has been the result? People who want to work have become dependent on government assistance -- as evidenced by the huge battle over the decision to not extend benefits to the long-term unemployed. Putting government social policy over the interests and needs of businesses has been a disaster for the American worker. That argument should be flipped. Using the savings from those benefits to reinvest in American business -- of all sizes -- through reduction in taxes (and, since we're making the argument, reducing some of the regulatory burden to boot) would help business owners to grow their operations, increase sales and, yes, hire workers.  Is there short-term pain in this approach? Absolutely. But avoidance of pain is not causing recovery, but rather a slow death for our workers and our country. Given December's number from Labor, the U.S. economy averaged job growth of 183,000 per month in 2013. It averaged the same number in 2012. We are not in a recession, so you can't blame the economy for this stagnation in growth (which, not incidentally, doesn't keep up with immigration and new entries in the workforce, so it essentially means job erosion). You have to, then, blame policy, and the fundamental policy approach over the past five years has been to spend more on social programs and government assistance, all at the cost of America's businesses, the small business owners and our most successful earners. The villains have not been the policymakers who have bungled this economy, but rather the Wal-Marts, the Burger Kings and the Ubers of the world.  Related: Preaching the Morality of Capitalism In crisis, it is difficult to look at issues philosophically, but this is an economic no-brainer, known well by entrepreneurs and business leaders. The path to success in this country lies in seizing opportunity. There are jobs to be found. If those are found wanting in pay and benefits, they can be used as a ladder to rise up to something better. This is the only country in the world where individual freedom, ingenuity, drive and ambition can allow someone to pave her own way in life. That is the beauty of American capitalism, that, with all its faults, it still offers the opportunity for the best outcomes. But it takes work, it takes drive, it takes innovation. For the past several years, those traits have been devalued, and, instead, we have seen a steady stream of people simply fade away from the workforce, thus making their needs and lives the burden of others. Policy and politics has failed, and defenders of more government intervention or safety-net expansion cannot look to the job market for data to support their case. The path to success is a reinvigoration of entrepreneurial drive. That means people starting their own businesses, or applying their skills and knowledge in the companies for which they work to better both that enterprise and their own situation. The freedom to choose to apply our labor in the best possible way, within the framework of a free market, can only lead to success. If more people changed their economic philosophy to embrace that, we would yield a bumper crop of jobs. If America's job market and economy are to be saved, it will be by the choices of the free man and individual, not the stumbling bureaucracy of government. Related: Raising the Minimum Wage Ins't a Magic Bullet Editor's note: Meet Ray, see him moderate the PR panel at Entrepreneur's annual Growth Conference on Jan. 22, 2014, in New Orleans. Attendance is free, but register now to save your spot. You'll learn success secrets from Ray and other thought leaders in nearly a dozen hands-on seminars.  FREE AppDownload
Denis Charlet/Reuters So far, French President Francois Hollande is having a horrible 2014. The economy is in the pits, his popularity continues to set record lows, and a Dutch newspaper even made fun of the fact that no one seems to want to shake his hand. What can Hollande, dubbed "Mr Normal" in his election campaign, do to get out of this jam? Perhaps the most unlikely plan would be to get photographed allegedly riding a motorbike across the city to spend the night with a 41-year-old actress — a 41-year-old actress who is not the 48-year-old journalist you live with — and then having your "bodyguard" photographed delivering croissants to the apartment in the morning. This is what Closer Magazine, a French publication best known internationally for publishing pictures of a topless Kate Middleton, alleges to have captured with a seven-page photo spread published today. Rumors had been swirling about a possible affair between Hollande and Julie Gayet, and Hollande has a complicated romantic history. While he has never married, his current partner is Valerie Trierweiler, whom he hooked up with after having four children with politician Segolene Royal. While in other countries allegations of an affair might spell political doom, in France things are a little more complicated. For one thing, it's a pretty common occurrence — Closer Magazine itself notes that Valérie Giscard d'Estaing, François Mitterrand, Jacques Chirac, and Nicolas Sarkozy have been accused of having affairs. France also has different ideas about the level of privacy offered to public figures — it's notable that rather than denying the allegations of an affair, Hollande has claimed that his privacy has been invaded, and Closer Magazine seem to have acquiesced, as they now say they will be removing the report from their website. The report may even engender some sympathy for Hollande. "It shouldn’t undermine his presidency," Philippe Marliere, a professor in French politics at UCL London, told the Local today. "He is already a very unpopular president. People might even look at it and say 'wow, she’s very pretty, how did he do that.'" Of course, not everyone agrees. On Closer's website, a poll about the scandal suggests that 78% of readers think that Hollande's credibility will suffer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe December jobs report was a colossal disappointment, with the U.S. labor market adding 74,000 workers to nonfarm payrolls, well below the consensus estimate of 197,000. But some sectors suffered more than others. Every month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics breaks out the report in a series of sector-by-sector charts. At 55,000 jobs, retail trade added the most to payrolls in December, bolstered by job growth in automobile, food and beverage stores, general merchandise stories, and clothing stores. Other sectors, like construction and information, showed a loss. FREE AppDownload
The Wolf of Wall Street might be Martin Scorsese's raunchiest film yet. But why waste three hours slogging through the whole thing when you could spend 4 and a half minutes just watching all the f-words? Here it is, courtesy of Slacktory. "While editing this, our contributor Zach Prewitt counted 522 audible, intelligible fucks, the highest count in any major non-documentary feature," says Slacktory's Nick Douglas. "'The Big Lebowski' only had 260." The audio is most certainly NSFW. So is the video.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Olivia HarrisEesh.The U.S. economy added a measly 74,000 jobs in December. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
At a New York City steakhouse, you're not supposed to get through a plate of oysters, three sides, a steak, and dessert without any of it leaving a single impression on your mind aside from, 'I just ate and it was good.' It happened last night at American Cut in Tribeca. This fall Marc Forgione, the winner of the third season of Iron Chef, opened the restaurant to much anticipation. There was already an Atlantic City outpost of the spot at Revel casino, and steakhouse aficionados thought the NYC location might give favorites like Wolfgang's and Sparks a run for its money. So we had to check it out. That kind of talk is basically like sending a steak scented invitation to Wall Streeters, asking them to come on in and have a seat. Plus, the restaurant's not far from Goldman Sachs HQ. As I ordered my mandatory martini (gin, up with a twist) at the bar, it was clear that the bankers had RSVP'd yes. The guy standing next to me wearing a suit (no jacket) with a fleece vest ordered a Ketel and tonic and immediately started complaining about working too hard. How was the martini? Fairly solid. And that could be said for the experience in general. The oysters were good, but I've had brinier. The creamed spinach was good, but it was just standard. The wild mushrooms, twice baked truffled potatoes with cheddar, the wild mushrooms — standard, standard and standard. Linette Lopez, Business InsiderI was told to have the $10 carrot side too. It's just two carrots, glazed. They're big. I guess if you're impressed with big things, that's cool. But I'm a New Yorker, I'm used to big things. In fact, in this town, big is where you begin. After that there is still much more to do. That brings us to the matter of the steak. It was delicious. But steak is delicious. If you put a cigarette in a cow's mouth and then microwaved the animal its steak would still taste delicious (at least that's what I've told every vegetarian I've ever known). There are two things that make a steakhouse great — the food and the vibe. We've talked about the first, so lets get to the second. Vibe can be everything. You can argue all you want about whether or not Sparks has the greatest steak, but it was once the scene of a Gambino crime family hit, and that makes it legendary. In fact, that makes it great. End of story. You can also argue all you want about how great Del Frisco's steak is, but the fact that former NY Knick Jeremy Lin got a standing ovation from the entire restaurant when he was snuck in there one rainy night tells you everything you need to know about the spot — it's a great hang. That makes it great. End of story. Linette Lopez, Business InsiderAmerican Cut is a gorgeous restaurant, but as yet it is not a great hang (could be in time, but not right now). I will remember Art Deco lamps better than I will remember the steak. And our sommelier — I'll remember her. She was great. That said, I'll never complain about the number of steakhouses in this town. You can never have too many steakhouses.   FREE AppDownload
Today's jobs report was not good, despite the unemployment rate falling to 6.7%. What this report masks is that we don't have an unemployment problem. We have a long-term unemployment problem. In a response to today's jobs report, Jason Furman, the Chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisors, included this graph that shows the share of unemployment benefits going to long-term unemployed workers (those out of work more than 27 weeks) and short-term unemployed workers. Check it out: Council of Economic Advisers The regular programs offer benefits to those Americans who have been out of work up to 26 weeks. The red are emergency programs that Congress passes during recessions, which allow workers to collect benefits for a longer time. As you can see, the share of short-term unemployed workers receiving jobless benefits is lower than any point in the past 25 years. That's because we have so many people who have been out of work for more than six months.  He also sent out this graph that shows the long-term and short-term unemployment rate over the past few years and how they compare to their 2001-2007 averages: Council of Economic Advisers Dylan Matthews also made this point last September when he noted that short-term unemployment is lower than it was in 2007. Congress needs to pass targeted programs to help these workers. In National Affairs, Michael Strain proposed a couple of good ideas including relocation assistance and wage subsidies while allowing firms to pay the long-term unemployed less than the minimum wage. Proposals such as approving the Keystone XL pipeline may create jobs, but they are not targeted towards the long-term unemployed. The same is true of infrastructure projects. If we want to help the long-term unemployed find jobs and stop them from becoming permanently unemployable, Congress needs to pass programs targeted at them. Neither party is doing that right now. FREE AppDownload
Before "Duchess of Ray Ridge" Nadine Caridi became real "Wolf of Wall Street" Jordan Belfort's second wife, the future Mrs. Belfort was a model who appeared in several Miller Lite ads. Nadine, who is played by Margot Robbie in the Scorsese film, was even featured in some of the popular Miller Lite Monday Night Football commercials in the 90s. Watch carefully to see Nadine in action below:  Now check out the real Nadine, with Belfort's father, at one of the former stockbroker's infamous parties:  While Nadine and Jordan divorced after seven years of marriage and two children in 1998, the former couple are reportedly on good terms and co-parent in Manhattan Beach. FREE AppDownload
Fox BusinessCharlie Gasparino takes no prisoners on Twitter.There's nothing quite like a Twitter missive from Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino, the bomb-throwing print reporter-turned-anchor.  Gasparino is lambasting his former employer, The Wall Street Journal, for failing to give FBN credit for a story about the case of Jordan Belfort, the real life "wolf" of Wall Street. The "rats" at the WSJ lifted FBN's story without the requisite props, which wouldn't have happened in Gasparino's Journal days, he said. This isn't the first time Gasparino has gotten into a Twitter scrap, but we always seem to admire his tenacity. Especially this time, considering that The Journal is owned by News Corp. (and the former iteration of the company owned both the WSJ and Fox). But Gasparino never pulls punches.  "There was a time when i worked at the WSJ when if u got beat u put ur head down and gave the other guy credit," Gasparino tweeted. Here it is in all its glory: @wsj folos @FoxBusiness on prosecutors warring with #wolfofwallstreet bums; dont know whats worse belfort or wsj failing to give FBN credit there was a time when i worked at the @WSJ when if u got beat u put ur head down and gave the other guy credit what clowns at the wsj; cant bring themselves to give @FoxBusiness credit for breaking this first: http://t.co/rh20e3UjsN @hblodget @WSJ they just ripped us off without crediting us on this story: http://t.co/elizHWD4wY @hblodget @WSJ pathetic im gonna borrow an acronym from @hblodget's analyst days to describe the WSJ rip-off artists: #POS there was also a time when i worked at @WSJ when u didnt get beat all that much which might be why they dont give credit to @FoxBusiness for the record, here's the story the rats at @wsj lifted: http://t.co/eDc2lI9O0r and taking @hblodget 's advice i have this to say: fuk'em @CGasparino @mbaram @hblodget @WSJ Charlie didn't you see @marykissel interview him last week? http://t.co/dzY7cimgRX @FreemanWSJ @mbaram @hblodget @WSJ @marykissel what we reported was the CURRENT battle w eastern district which THIS friggen ripoff foloed will be interviewing mike bowe atty who deposed stevie cohen on FBN at 320pm memo to @WSJ: we get done around 330 call him then heres how lame the @WSJ has become: theyre trying to take credit for story cause they interviewed the OLD usatty like others #lame i'm trying to write a haiku on what dirt bags the @wsj has become the funniest thing today is that @FreemanWSJ and @marykissel have now conceded the news hacks watch @FBN more than the opinion journal btw i really like @FreemanWSJ and @marykissel FREE AppDownload
John Gress/Getty Images French President Francois Hollande threatened legal action Friday over a magazine report saying he is having a secret affair with an actress, the latest breach in the French media's practice of turning a blind eye to presidential love affairs. Rumors have long circulated that the 59-year-old Hollande might have a lover. The magazine Closer published images Friday showing a bodyguard and a helmeted man it says is Hollande visiting the apartment of Julie Gayet, 41, a moderately known French actress who appeared in a clip for his 2012 presidential campaign. French media faces strict privacy laws, as well as a longtime tradition of ignoring the private lives of public figures. Former President Francois Mitterrand had a daughter with his lover that the French media knew about but never revealed, until the president himself appeared publicly with his daughter coming out of a restaurant. But the publication marked the latest incursion into the once-sacred private lives of French politicians. The tradition of keeping private lives private has been chipped away since Hollande's predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy divorced his wife Cecilia, who was having an affair, and remarried model and singer Carla Bruni. Bloggers, tweeters and other online sources have tapped into public curiosity and pushed the borders of French privacy. Closer last made a splash when it published topless photos of British Prince William's wife, Kate. Hollande said in a statement he "deeply deplores the attacks on respect for privacy, to which each citizen has a right." He is weighing possible action, including via the courts, it said. He did not address the alleged affair. Hollande, who was dubbed "Monsieur Normal" by French media, has never married. He had four children with politician Segolene Royal, 60, and has been living in recent years with his partner, journalist Valerie Trierweiler, 48, considered France's first lady. APGayet's lawyer and agent did not return phone and email messages Friday about the Closer report. The actress, who has performed in nearly four dozen films and sometimes appears on talk shows, praises Hollande in the campaign spot for his humility and character, and says he is someone who "really listens." In 2003, Gayet married a filmmaker Santiago Amigorena, but they are no longer together. Closer published images it says show one of Hollande's bodyguards at the door to Gayet's building, and a motorcyclist arriving to drop off a helmeted man on the night of Dec. 30 and escorting him away the next morning. Closer magazine told The Associated Press it has refused requests to withdraw the story. "He's a normal president, a normal person. He's a president who fell in love... We've really got to get less dramatic over these pictures," magazine editor Laurence Pieau told Europe-1 radio. The magazine, known for suggestive photos and gossip, says the alleged affair raises questions about the president's security, if he is sneaking out with a single bodyguard and traveling exposed on the back of a motorcycle. It is unclear how a potential romantic scandal might affect Hollande's presidency. Hollande's popularity is already very low, largely over voter frustration at his failure to reduce unemployment and get the economy growing. Some French have passed the report off with nothing more than a Gallic shrug. "Julie Gayet, I don't even know who she is. I am not interested," said 65-year-old Monique Beco. "He can do what he wants. He is not married." "Gets my attention? No. Shocks me? No. It's his private life," said 48-year-old Paula Douarte. Last year, according to French media reports, Gayet filed a lawsuit accusing some websites of invasion of privacy over reports on the alleged affair. Her lawyer issued a statement to Agence France-Presse at the time saying that she was targeting "a rumor spread on the Internet that attributes to her, without any basis, a romantic relationship with the president." The magazine says it conducted an investigation and claims that "there is, between Francois Hollande and Julie Gayet ... a true passion that has turned their hearts upside down, rocked their lives and made them take foolish risks." It says the apartment is in the same Paris district as the president's palace, and is Gayet's but registered in the name of actor friends. It says the pair has been meeting there secretly since June.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Tonight at 9:00 PM/EST Bloomberg will air an extra special episode of "Political Capital with Al Hunt," his guest is none other than Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and she had some fairly blunt things to say about JP Morgan's CEO, Jamie Dimon. Warren was elected on crusading against Wall Street malfeasance, and JP Morgan is Wall Street's bad boy right now. The bank has paid $20 billion in legal fees to the government over the last year — that's enough to pay the New York Yankees for 2o years — and just this week paid out $1.7 billion for failing to alert authorities of  their former client, Bernie Madoff's infamous decades long Ponzi scheme. What's more, knowing that Madoff was a fraud, JPM got rid of their $275 million exposure to Madoff shortly before he was arrested in December 2008. When asked whether or not Jamie Dimon should be replaced as a result of these issues, Warren said: "Look, the real question is, do you have somebody who has shown they understand there were problems in the past and that they have a different plan going forward? What JPMorgan Chase and the other large financial institutions have done is they have continued to get bigger and bigger and load up more and more on risk...I'm waiting for him to demonstrate that understanding… And he's had a long, long time." One thing Dimon can understand, however, is the health of his bank. JPM's shares are up 28 percent over the last 12 months, and analysts expect the bank to have pulled in $23.4 billion in revenues when it reports Q4 earnings next week — a small improvement from Q3, and more than any other big bank. So JPM can handle the lawsuits in stride, but Warren cannot. Just this week, after JP Morgan's settlement, she teamed up with Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) to introduce a new bill called the Truth In Settlements Act. Basically, it would require the Justice Department and other agencies handling settlements against corporations to be transparent about their negotiations, and make agreements easy to find online (you can watch a video of her speech on the floor of the house below). Under this new law, regulators and law enforcement agencies would still be able to use confidential settlements, but companies would have to disclose how often they are used and why. Now, since the Justice Department has said that it's going to continue going after not just JP Morgan, but also other Wall Street banks for issues dating back to the financial crisis, it's easy to see where Warren's coming from with this bill. The New York Times reported this week that Wall Street banks could pay up to $50 billion to "buy peace" with the government. "When you dig below the surface, settlements that seem tough and fair can look like sweetheart deals," said Warren. "If we expect government agencies to hold companies accountable for breaking the law. Then we the public must be able to keep agencies accountable for enforcing the law. We can't do that if we're kept in the dark." Watch the video of her presenting the bill below:  FREE AppDownload
As we begin a new year, the earliest business surveys have confirmed the rising optimism of forecasters about the UK economy, though they have eased from their highest levels in late 2013. More and more forecasters are expecting real GDP growth somewhere between 2pc and 3pc this year, with some brave souls thinking we might get more than 3pc. For most people, the significance of growth is linked to their own circumstances: do they have a job; how secure is it; how well does it pay and what is their disposable income after taxes and the general cost of living? At the core of the political debate is the fact that, unless more jobs are created and incomes keep pace with the cost of living, then the recovery will effectively be dependent on fresh borrowing from consumers. By definition, this makes the recovery itself vulnerable. Another possible cause for concern is the possibility of a widening external deficit on the balance of payments, despite the recovery. As I have touched on in a number of articles, and in my Radio 4 documentary series, MINTs: The Next Economic Giants, the UK’s exports need to become much stronger relative to other parts of the economy. It is in the likes of the MINT countries – Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey – along with China and the other so-called BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia and India – where there is the greatest potential for export growth prospects. Even though there are reasonable signs of recovery in most of the eurozone, these countries are not going to be great export markets for us, even if they are currently the largest markets in absolute terms. Beyond their own challenges of sustaining domestic demand, most of them have just as strong a need as the UK to export elsewhere in the world. In addition, while there are more and more signs of a sustainable recovery in the US, it isn’t going to be the great importer that it once was. One of the most remarkable statistics I have seen recently was that in the 12 months to Q3 2013, the US balance of payments current account was “only” 2.2pc of GDP – not far off a third what it approached in its pre-crisis highs. This means that the US recovery is taking place but not sucking in imports as it has done in the past. For the rest of the world, the US isn’t likely to be the same easy export market it once was. What the US is demonstrating to the likes of the UK and all the other countries so eager to export (and reduce their imports) is that it is possible to do it in today’s world. Indeed, for the US to achieve this scale of external improvement over the past five years must be a good sign for the world. I keep talking about the need to export more and import less and it is really important for the UK’s macro sustainability this decade. Beyond its contribution to the balance of payments, an improved relative export-import balance would be likely to contribute to stronger fixed investment for the economy, too, which itself would lessen the dependency on the leveraged consumer. It would probably also make the balance of regional growth around the UK somewhat more feasible and reduce the dependency on the seemingly endless rise of London and the South East. Saying this is not necessarily another call for the resurrection of manufacturing at the expense of services. Exporting to the rest of the world in this era is more complex than that. It is also probably the case that, in many basic manufacturing industries, the UK and other developed countries are never going to be able to compete with the lowest labour-cost producers, who will inevitably be in the developing world somewhere. Exporting more value-added parts of manufacturing goods, as well as exporting value-added services to the rising number of affluent consumers in the emerging world, are areas where we can excel. So, beyond traditional products such as cars, other areas where we should expect to do well include tertiary education and bio-medical sciences. This also means that the sorts of investments we might be hoping for as part of the sustainability of the recovery could be different from the past. Expecting massive Lowryesque factories to be built is probably not very wise. Investment linked to our universities and other centres of technological excellence is probably more realistic. Away from issues related to exports, investment and the regional economic balance, there are huge issues about our infrastructure challenges, including the degree of our genuine national ambition, the raging debate about immigration, whether inflation can remain under control and what happens to those areas of the economy that will be sensitive to higher interest rates as and when that day emerges – all topics for further pieces. Jim O’Neill’s new book, The BRIC Road to Growth, is available from The London Publishing Partnership  FREE AppDownload
The unemployment rate is not always the best way to look at the economy since it doesn't include workers who have dropped out of the labor force. Instead, analysts often use the employment-to-population ratio or the labor force participation rate.  But those numbers can be deceiving too since they can mask whether changes are driven by a weak recovery or demographic changes. Even without the recession, the employment-to-population ratio and labor force participation rate were both likely to fall as baby boomers retire. Thus, we shouldn't expect either to return to the pre-recession peak so comparing them to that is a bad way to grade the recovery. Today, Calculated Risk posts a graph that looks at the employment-to-population ratio and participation rate for workers aged 25 to 54. Unlike those rates for the entire population, the employment ratio and participation rate for those workers should return to their pre-recession levels. There isn't any reason that a smaller share of workers aged 25-54 should be working. Unfortunately, the graph shows that we still have a long way to go: Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
AP"I'm gonna tweet that."Every millisecond matters in the modern trading paradigm, with market news consumers hungrier than ever for fast and reliable information. It's why a terminal from Bloomberg — whose reporters are financially incentivized to break market-moving news — costs over $20,000. Or why Reuters let elite traders pay to receive data two seconds early. Two seconds is everything! Now Dow Jones, the wire service that owns The Wall Street Journal, has filed a lawsuit against RANsquawk, a British "squawk" service that provides traders with breaking news. DJ argues that RANsquawk essentially lifts their headlines within seconds. Interestingly, as GigaOM's Mathew Ingram notes, DJ isn't suing RANsquawk for copyright infringement. They're suing them under an arcane 1918 Supreme Court ruling regarding "hot news" — which, as Ingram writes, is "the kind whose value rapidly diminishes over time." Well, the value of market news rapidly diminishes over time, for fairly obvious reasons. What "edge" do you have once everyone knows the information on which you are trading? So it's no surprise that financial wire news services are particularly touchy about the aggregation of their content. Maybe that touchiness is passé by 2014 standards, as the twitterfication of news "game-changes" the industry in real time. People don't know where their news is coming from. They just want it. Ingram argues DJ's case is more or less futile. Breaking news is already broken, he writes. From GigaOM: The reality, as I’ve argued before, is that Twitter is the news-wire for a growing number of people now, and the life-span of a so-called news “scoop” continues to dwindle rapidly. Dow Jones may not want to believe it, but there are plenty of legal ways that Ransquawk — or anyone else, for that matter — can find out market-moving information within seconds or minutes of Dow Jones moving it on the wire. Suing every provider like Ransquawk is like closing the barn door after the horse has long since moved on to greener pastures. "We will continue to aggressively pursue the news and produce a world-class product, as we’ve done for nearly 125 years," said DJ's Jason Conti. "And when others improperly try to take that product, we’ll aggressively pursue them, too." FREE AppDownload
With great cinema comes great YouTube trailer mashups. We've already seen The Wolf of Wall Street intercut with Frank Capra's classic It's a Wonderful Life, so how about another one that will redefine your childhood? Here we have it. The Wolf of Sesame Street, complete with Liam Neeson and Katy Perry cameos. Enjoy:  (Disclosure: I found this trailer because I wanted to make a "Wolf of Sesame Street" joke on Twitter and I was sure somebody else already had).  FREE AppDownload
  WARNING: A goat is slaughtered in this video. At Madani Halal, a pick-your-own slaughterhouse in Ozone Park, Queens customers can choose their livestock or poultry which is killed on site, butchered and packaged to be brought home all within a twenty minute timeframe. Imran Uddin is not your typical halal slaughterhouse owner. He used to work in advertising at McCann-Erickson before taking over his father's business in the early 2000s. His decision to do so was captured in the documentary 'A Son's Sacrifice.' These days Uddin's modern approach to traditional halal slaughter practices translates beyond his loyal, local immigrant customer base and has attracted top tier chef in New York from restaurants such as the Breslin, M. Wells, Fedora and Left Bank. He also has a growing numbers of hipsters coming in who are interested in digging deeper into the question of where their food comes from. The term 'halal' which means permissible or lawful in Arabic is used to describe not just the slaughtering practice, but the lifestyle itself. Uddin is discerning in determining where he sources his animals from. His preference is pastured raised, organic and he works primarily with farms in Lancaster, PA. He also takes great care to ensure that his slaughtering techniques have the least impact on the animals themselves. After reading Temple Grandin, he's tried her cradling techniques to calm goats and lamb. For many Muslims, attending the slaughter of the animal before it's consumed is a family affair as was the case the day we visited. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow us on YouTube &gt;
To the untrained eye, there was one seemingly bullish nugget in today's otherwise lackluster December jobs report — the unemployment rate dropped to 6.7%. That's the first time we've seen the unemployment rate under 7% since November 2008, when the U.S. was in the throes of a financial crisis that would cripple the economy. Good news, right? Meh. As we've explained before, the unemployment rate has ticked down recently thanks to the decreasing labor force participation rate, not an overwhelming boost in jobs. Economists have a few different explanations for the phenomenon, but the two competing theories have to do with aging versus a crappy economy. Americans are getting older and retiring out of the work force, which naturally decreases labor force participation. When a bunch of people leave the labor market, the unemployment rate drops, making it a pretty silly indicator for the health of the labor market. As Wonkblog's Brad Plumer noted in November, economists disagree on how much the graying population is tampering with the rate drop — somewhere between one fourth and a lot. Take a look at this Reuters chart via Twitter user/trader Reinman_MT. When you combine the unemployment rate with the 30 year average labor force participation rate, it shows a vastly worse employment situation (10.8% unemployment!). It's not age-adjusted, so we can't tell how much has to do with demographics versus the economy. It's still a sobering chart for anyone getting too jazzed about the recovery. Check it out: Twitter.com/reinman_mt FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, the White House announced that President Obama will nominate Stanley Fischer, Lael Brainerd, and Jerome Powell. Axel Merk of Merk Investment just Tweeted this chart illustrating where all of the current members and nominees stand in terms of dovish versus hawkish monetary policy.: @AxelMerk
Billionaire hedge fund manager Stanley Druckenmiller, the founder of Duquesne Capital Management, is still supporting Gov. Chris Christie despite the whole "Bridgegate" debacle.  Druckenmiller told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle that Christie is a "once-in-a-generation leader" and that he admires him.   "The country thirsts for a great leader. A leader's actions in crisis are revealing," Druckenmiller told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle.  "Governor Christie's actions yesterday reinforces my admiration for him.  I believe Chris Christie is a once-in-a-generation leader.  He has long demonstrated that leadership on policy.  And he is showing essential executive skills as a manager: ensuring accountability and taking responsibility."  Emails and text messages published this week showed that a Christie aide knew about a controversial plan to close two traffic lanes on the George Washington Bridge back in September.  It was believed that the traffic lanes were shut down in an effort to punish Fort Lee's Mayor Mark Sokolich (D) because he didn't endorse him for re-election.  Christie apologized during a press conference yesterday saying he was "embarrassed and humiliated." He also said he fired Bridget Anne Kelly, the deputy chief of staff, who was involved in those email discussions with a couple Port Authority officials. A bunch Republican hedge funders and bankers we spoke to considered the whole "Bridgegate" scandal to be a non-event. Many of them plan to support him if he decides to run for president in 2016. Here's the Bloomberg clip:   FREE AppDownload
The New York Department of Financial Services just emailed the full information for their upcoming hearings about Bitcoin. No one is under investigation — it's more of a fact-finding type of thing so the state can figure out whether and how to regulate digital currencies — something some say is necessary to help them become more mainstream, though some oppose as contrary to their decentralized spirit. Check it out: **** Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, today issued a notice that the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) will hold a public hearing on the regulation of virtual currencies on January 28 and 29 in New York City. In August 2013, NYDFS announced that it had launched an inquiry into the appropriate regulatory guidelines for virtual currencies. As part of an ongoing fact-finding effort informing that inquiry, NYDFS subsequently announced its intention to hold a public hearing on this issue, including the potential NYDFS issuance of a ‘BitLicense’ specific to virtual currencies. The hearing is open to the press and public, however, space is limited. Members of the media and public interested in attending the hearing should RSVP no later than January 27 at 2:00 PM to Caitlin.Ferrell@dfs.ny.gov. Additional details on the hearing, including witness lists and the timing of specific panels, will be announced in the near future. The witnesses providing testimony at the hearing are expected to include a broad cross-section of industry participants, investors, academics, and other individuals involved in the virtual currency industry. Logistical Details Time:                 Tuesday, January 28 (Expected Start Time: 10:00 AM) Wednesday, January 29 (Expected Start Time: 10:00 AM) Location:         90 Church Street4th Floor Board Room New York, NY  FREE AppDownload
The puzzling part relates to both the huge shortfall relative to expectations and, more importantly, the inconsistencies with other recent economic data releases. At just 74,000, December monthly job creation came in at its lowest level since January 2011. Even after adjusting for the upward revision (38,000) in the November estimate, the total job change is just half of consensus expectations of some 200,000. This reported shortfall in job creation runs counter to quite a wide range of recent data releases – all of which speak to a steadily strengthening economy. The worrisome part speaks to some of the other numbers in this morning’s report.  For those employed, earning growth was worrisomely stagnant. At 37.7%, long-term joblessness continues to account for an alarmingly high portion of the reported unemployed. Meanwhile, labor participation fell to its lowest level since February 1978, accounting for two-third of the decline in the unemployment rate to 6.7%. It will take time and lots of more detailed analysis to sort out the exact mix of puzzlement and anxiety. Indeed, unusual weather is likely to play an important role in this analysis. Pending such analysis, we should be careful in allowing today’s employment report, as shocking as it may seem, to materially alter views of the economy and policy. In addition to weather effects, economists and statisticians will tell you that the monthly job numbers are normally subject to significant estimation errors, and for good reasons. Moreover, this snapshot of the labor market is only one part of a much bigger and complex economic picture. So, putting all this together, today’s report does not change our view of a gradually improving U.S. economy in 2014 (the good news), but one that still fails to attain escape velocity during the course of this year (the less good news). It also does not alter our expectation that the Fed will continue to taper its purchases of securities throughout this year, and will likely be out of the QE business by the end of the year – all this while maintaining floored interest rates for longer, strengthening  forward policy guidance, and evolving its use of unemployment and inflation thresholds. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/justine.kLost in all of the chatter over the U.S. employment report released this morning — which estimated that only 74,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in December, well below the 197,000 consensus prediction — was Canada's jobs report, which was released at the same time and was actually worse than its U.S. counterpart. Data from Statistics Canada estimate that 45,900 jobs were lost in December, well below the consensus forecast for a 14,100 gain. In November, the Canadian economy added 21,600 jobs. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate shot up to 7.2%, well above the consensus forecast for a reading unchanged from November at 6.9%. "While the U.S. dismal December nonfarm payroll report can largely be dismissed due to the impact of bad weather, Canada can only wish they had such an excuse," says Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities. Miller chalks up the report as the latest evidence of headwinds to Canadian economic growth. "The reality is that it is difficult to assess the weather hit from the underlying trend, but it feeds quite neatly into the Canadian dollar bearish theme," says Sebastien Galy, a senior forex strategist at Société Générale. "Housing prices are slowing in Canada, with large amounts of supply coming to the market in Canada. It’s all pre-sold, the consumers or investors bought it, and it's guaranteed by a Canadian authority..." FREE AppDownload
The stock was last trading down more than 13% in the early session.  This isn't good news for billionaire hedge fund manager Eddie Lampert who has spent years trying to turnaround the embattled big-box retailer. Lampert, who runs Florida based ESL Investments and is the chairman/CEO of Sears, is the largest individual shareholder the retailer. Lampert personally held 25,120,220 shares, or about 23% of the company's stock, securities filing data compiled by Bloomberg shows.   Shares of Sears closed at $42.57 a share yesterday.  This morning they were trading around $36.91 per share. That means Lampert has about $142,180,433 in paper losses on his Sears investment since yesterday's close.   What's more is last month, Lampert's hedge fund cut back its stake by more than 7 million shares in an effort to meet some redemption requests, Bloomberg News reported.  RBS Partners, which is managed by ESL Investments, last held 26,168,272 shares, or 24.84 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The hedge fund's stake has about $148,082,419 in paper losses on Sears since yesterday.  Lampert has been involved in Sears Holdings for several years.  He's struggled to turnaround the big-box retailer.  Jobs have been shed. Stores have been closed. And real estate has not sold off.  Here's a chart of the stock from around the time of the completion of the Sears/Kmart merger in 2005:  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan HatziusToday's jobs report was ugly all around. U.S. companies added just 74,000 new payrolls. The unemployment rate fell to 6.7% from 7.0%, but that was due to the labor force participation rate falling to 62.8% from 63.0%. "The December employment report was broadly weaker than expected, although some of the disappointment was likely due to bad weather," said Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. "[F]rom the household survey, the number of individuals who reported not being at work due to bad weather was 273k, above the December average of 138k, and consistent with a negative weather impact in the report," he added. "This estimate, however, is very likely larger than the true weather impact on payroll employment." While the report was not good, Hatzius didn't announce any change in its outlook for the economy or monetary policy. "The information in today's employment situation report does not change our expectation that the Fed will continue to taper its asset purchases by $10bn at the January meeting," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeThe December jobs report missed expectations with only 74,000 workers added to non-farm payrolls in December. This missed expectations for 197,000 workers added to non-farm payrolls. The unemployment rate however fell to 6.7%, from 7%. Immediately after the report we saw futures tumble and stocks are now in the red. The S&amp;P 500 is now down 0.2%. The Dow Jones is down 41 points to 0.25%. And the Nasdaq is down 0.2%. Meanwhile precious metals are rallying. Gold is up 1.2% to $1,244 an ounce and silver is up 2% to $20.09 an ounce. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gregg NewtonStanley Fischer.President Obama nominated Stanley Fischer, Lael Brainard, and Jerome Powell to the Federal Reserve today. Fischer, the former governor of the Bank of Israel, is Obama's choice for Fed vice chairman. Powell already serves on the Fed's board of governors, but his term expires January 31. Lael Brainard served in the Obama administration on the United States Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs until she stepped down in November. "These three distinguished individuals have the proven experience, judgment and deep knowledge of the financial system to serve at the Federal Reserve during this important time for our economy," Obama said in a statement. Below is the full statement from the White House. --------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 10, 2014 President Obama Announces his Intent to Nominate Three to Serve on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate three individuals to serve on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  The President announced his intent to nominate Stanley Fischer to serve as Vice Chairman and Governor, Lael Brainard to serve as Governor, and announced his intent to nominate Jerome Powell for a second term as Governor.  President Obama said, “These three distinguished individuals have the proven experience, judgment and deep knowledge of the financial system to serve at the Federal Reserve during this important time for our economy. Stanley Fischer brings decades of leadership and expertise from various roles, including serving at the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Israel.  He is widely acknowledged as one of the world’s leading and most experienced economic policy minds and I’m grateful he has agreed to take on this new role and I am confident that he and Janet Yellen will make a great team.  Lael Brainard has served as one of my top and most trusted international economic advisors during a challenging time not just at home, but for our global economy as well, and her knowledge of international monetary and economic issues will be an important addition to the Fed. I’m also thankful that Jerome Powell, who has proven to be an effective and wise voice at the Fed, has agreed to serve a second term.  I’m confident that these individuals will serve their country well.”    President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today: Stanley Fischer, Vice Chairman and Governor of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (To represent the New York, NY region; term ending January 31, 2020) Dr. Stanley Fischer served as the Governor of the Bank of Israel from 2005 to 2013, where he successfully navigated Israel’s economy through the global financial crisis.  Prior to joining the Bank of Israel, Dr. Fischer was Vice Chairman of Citigroup from 2002 through 2005.  From 1994 to 2001, he was the First Deputy Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), addressing the Asian, Russian, Brazilian, and other financial crises of the late 1990s.  Before he joined the IMF, Dr. Fischer was the Killian Professor and Head of the Department of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).  From 1988 to 1990, he was Vice President, Development Economics and Chief Economist at the World Bank.  From 1973 to 1994, he taught economics at MIT.  Dr. Fischer was Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics at the University of Chicago.  He received a B.Sc. and an M.Sc. from the London School of Economics and a Ph.D. from MIT. Lael Brainard, Governor of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (To represent the Richmond, VA region; term ending January 31, 2026) Dr. Lael Brainard most recently served as the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Under Secretary for International Affairs from 2010 to 2013, where she was responsible for currency policy as well as for coordinating with G20 central banks and finance ministries to arrest the European financial crisis and institute fundamental financial reforms.  She was awarded the Alexander Hamilton Award for her service as the Administration’s chief economic diplomat.  Prior to joining the Administration, she was Vice President and the Founding Director of the Global Economy and Development Program at the Brookings Institution.  During the Clinton Administration, she served as Deputy National Economic Adviser and Deputy Assistant to the President for International Economics, addressing challenges such as the Asian financial crisis and the Mexican financial crisis and China’s role in the global economy.  Previously, Dr. Brainard served as Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.  Dr. Brainard has also worked at McKinsey &amp; Co. advising corporate clients on strategic challenges, and she has worked in the field of microfinance in West Africa.  She received a B.A. from Wesleyan University and an M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard University.    Jerome H. Powell, Governor of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (To represent the Philadelphia, PA region; term ending January 31, 2028) Jerome H. Powell is a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, a position he has held since 2012.  Prior to serving on the Board of Governors, he was a visiting scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center.  From 1997 to 2005, he was a partner at The Carlyle Group.  Mr. Powell previously served as an Assistant Secretary and an Under Secretary of the Treasury at the Department of the Treasury under President George H.W. Bush.  He worked for many years prior to that as a lawyer and investment banker in New York City.  Mr. Powell received an A.B. from Princeton University and J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
I have recently noted that I am concerned about the level of stock prices these days. The main reason for this concern is that every predictive valuation measure (emphasis on predictive) I look at suggests that stocks are drastically overvalued. As many smart analysts have pointed out, valuation is useless as a near-term market-timing tool: It tells you nothing about what stocks are going to do next. But some valuation measures are very useful in predicting what stocks are going to do over the long haul, say 7-10 years. And the valuation measures that have been predictive in the past suggest that stock returns from this level over the next 7-10 years are likely to be lousy. Today, I would like to draw your attention to one more valuation indicator that tells the same story. It is often described as "Warren Buffett's favorite stock valuation indicator." I have no idea whether it is actually Warren Buffett's favorite indicator, but he has indeed praised it in the past. This indicator compares the value of all publicly traded stocks with the size of the economy (GDP). When this ratio is over a certain level, as it is now, the stock market is deemed expensive. An excellent market analyst named Doug Short recently made two versions of the "Warren Buffett Indicator." They use different measures of "market value of all equities," but they show essentially the same thing: Stocks are really expensive. The second one, which uses the value of the Wilshire 5,000, a very broad index of stocks, suggests that stocks are more expensive than they were in 2007 (pre-crash) and almost as expensive as they were in 2000 (pre-crash). Doug ShortRatio of market value of stocks to GDP (Click for details) Doug ShortMarket value of the Wilshire 5000 to GDP (Click for details) SEE ALSO: I Don't Know What The Market Is Going To Do! FREE AppDownload
Abercrombie and Fitch shares are up more than 12% this morning after the retailer raised its full-year earnings outlook to a range of $1.55 to $1.65 from $1.40 to $1.50 prior. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had forecast $1.47 a share, according to Marketwatch. It was a solid piece of news for CEO Michael Jeffries, whose head has been called for by some investors after a year of disappointing figures and insensitive remarks. As BI's Ashley Lutz writes: Jeffries has also been criticized this year for his comments about only wanting "cool kids" to wear the brand's clothes. Business Insider was the first to report that the company didn't offer larger sizes for women.  After the backlash, the company announced it would start offering larger sizes.  Shares are now about 30% below their 52-week high.  Chart: FREE AppDownload
The U.S. economy added just 74,000 jobs in December, which was much worse than the the 197,000 expected. The November number, however, was revised up to 241,000 from an earlier estimate of 203,000. Interestingly, the unemployment rate plunged to 6.7% from 7.0% last month. This improvement came as the labor force participation rate fell to 62.8% from 63.0%. All of this reminds us that the U.S. labor market remains anemic. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. "The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession — worse than any other post-war recession — and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesSears Holdings is down 15.8% to $35.89. Shares were down 11.4% in pre-market trading, and were down as much as 15% after the bell on Thursday. The stock took a beating after warning of Q4 losses. Sears has shuttered hundereds of stores in recent years and a large part of its failure has been attributed to CEO Edward Lampert's decision to merge two struggling retailers, Sears and Kmart. Lampert has over 25 million shares in Sears as of December 31, 2013. FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressI have recently expressed a cautious view of the stock market. Specifically, I've said I think the odds of a sharp decline ("crash") are increasing. And I think the odds are very good that stocks will provide lousy returns from this level over the next 7-10 years. Well, most people are bullish about the stock market these days (because the market has done so well for so long), and anytime you say something bearish when most people are bullish, you get pelted with rocks and garbage. Specifically, you get told: I would like to respond to each of these assertions. First, my successful commute into work today would suggest that I am not yet brain dead (lots of cognitive decisions and motor movements!), but anything's possible. Second, I actually am a money manager! I manage money for one client. I know this client's objectives, risk tolerance, and investment time horizon very well. And I try to do an excellent job for him. (That client is me.) Third, yes, I do not know what the market is going to do. In my defense, however, I will point out something: No one else knows what the market is going to do, either. Fifteen years ago, when I was a Wall Street stock analyst, I initially assumed that there were smart people who actually knew what the market was going to do. For close to 10 years, I kept waiting to meet these people. As I worked my way up the food chain, and gained more market experience myself, I began to realize that the smart folks I initially assumed knew what the market was going to do were wrong about the market just about as often as everyone else. When I learned that, I assumed that I just hadn't met the right smart people yet. So I kept working up the food chain. And, eventually, when I became a famous stock analyst myself, I got to meet just about everybody, including some of the most legendary stock-market wizards in history. And what I finally realized was that even these folks, as super-smart as they were, didn't know what the market was going to do. They were right about the market slightly more often than all the thousands and thousands of average smart people — and, importantly, they bet big when they thought the odds were very much in their favor. But they didn't know what the market was going to do. This was a revelation for me. When I finally realized that no one knows what the market is going to do, I developed a very different philosophy about money management — including, importantly, the management of my own money (some of which I had vaporized by overestimating my own odds of knowing what the market was going to do). That new philosophy — own a diversified portfolio of low-cost index funds and rebalance when the asset weightings get out of whack — was more humble, simpler, safer, and wiser than my prior philosophy (stockpicking, market timing). And it has also been vastly more successful. When you finally accept and embrace the idea that no one knows what the market is going to do — when you stop looking for that one brilliant fund manager or advisor or analyst who is finally going to make you rich without accidentally making you poor — you will be able to easily outperform the vast majority of other investors, including professionals, with a lot less time, stress, and hassle. And, more importantly, you will be able to radically reduce the odds that, when your manager-du-jour reveals that he or she, too, does not know what the market is going to do, their mistake (and your misplaced trust) will leave you destitute. So, anyway, yes, I do not know what the market is going to do. For many reasons, which I have articulated in detail here, I believe the odds of a sharp pullback are increasing. And, as I said earlier, I think the odds are very high that stock performance from this level will be lousy over the next 7-10 years. But, importantly, as I have also said, I am not selling my stocks or going short the market. First, as I just conceded, I don't know what the market is going to do. (It could theoretically double or triple from here without so much as a 5% dip.) And I would hate to sell out now, pay capital gains taxes, and watch the market blast off to the moon without me. Second, I have a balanced portfolio and a long investment horizon — by design. If stocks crash 50% over the next couple of years, which I think is possible (though probably not likely), I will be okay. Not happy, but okay. With stocks at half the level of today's prices, the dividends that are being automatically reinvested will buy me twice as many new shares, which will turbocharge my portfolio's performance when the market finally recovers. And, because I also have some cash and bonds, I will be able to rebalance into the stock market at much lower prices. Third, if I sell out now, even if the market does drop sharply (meaning that I have miraculously timed it correctly), I will have to figure out when to buy back in. If the market drops 10%, I will have to wonder and fret about whether that's the bottom, or whether it will drop another 10%. If I assume it's the bottom, and buy, and the market drops another 10%, I'll feel like an idiot. And same for a 20% drop, a 30% drop, a 40% drop, and so on. (If the market does drop 30%, I will start buying regardless). In short, market timing is really hard and really dangerous. Everyone gets it right sometimes, but few people get it right frequently. And if your investment strategy is based on your being able to make correct timing calls frequently, you're asking for trouble. And what if the market crashes 50% or 80% and never recovers? What if this is 1929... except with no recovery in the 1930s and 1940s? Well, then, I'll be screwed. But if that happens, I'll have more to worry about than the fact that I've lost a lot of paper money. Because the only way stocks will drop 50%-80% and stay down forever is if this country and world go completely off the rails. (The Russian market went to zero after the revolution in 1917, and it never came back. People who owned stocks and other things just lost them — forever. But you can't live without risk. And if this country and society get dissolved by a communist revolution, or a comet impact, or some other catastrophe, we will all have more important things to worry about than stock prices). SEE ALSO: Sorry, Folks, It's Time To Warn You Again That Stocks Might Crash FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Jason ReedOne would assume the first thing you learn in politician school is the art of taking credit for things you are or are not responsible for. But that hasn't been the case with the economic "recovery," the biggest economic story right now. Both Democrats and Republicans have been shying away from the recovery story, writes Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. Even though this morning's job report disappointed, the unemployment rate did drop to 6.7%. It may be partially for the "wrong" reasons (a decrease in the labor force participation rate), but you'd think Democratic politicians would have seized on the narrative by now. The deficit continues to shrink and stocks gallop to record highs. You wouldn't necessarily know that from the vibe in Washington. From Valliere's morning note: The Republicans have a credibility problem.  They continue to rant about the disastrous Obama economy, even though their governors -- who dominate the Midwest -- are enjoying an economic revival.  And they continue to spread a false narrative of out-of-control deficits, when they're obviously plunging. Why don't Republicans take credit for the falling deficit?  Their fiscal restraint played a major role in this great improvement. The Democrats don't dare to declare victory; it would hurt their quest for more jobless aid and other social spending.  And God forbid they should celebrate the stock market recovery; the markets are only for the elites, right?  We understand the aversion to repeating George W. Bush's "mission accomplished" blunder on Iraq, but the Democrats' refusal to even acknowledge this recovery also is a political blunder. The bottom line, Valliere writes, is that "the biggest domestic story of the year is going to be the strength of the recovery and all of the attendant plusses, such as a plunging deficit... yet this city refuses to see it." FRED FRED FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderWe just got a bad and noisy jobs report.  The economy added just 74,000 payrolls in December. Part of the noise came from unusually low temperatures — as a result of which, 1.7 million workers took part-time instead of full-time jobs. That's according to Mesirow Financial economist Diane Swonk: Weather: 1.7 mil took part-time instead of full-time bc weather Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said that even taking into account the effects of weather, the report was "still a fairly sizable disappointment," and "definitely weaker beyond that factor," according to Bloomberg. Hatzius also says that because the decline in labor force participation rate accounts for the entire decline in the unemployment rate, it shows how "relatively poor" an indicator of labor market conditions the headline unemployment rate actually is. Here's the full part-time break down: BLS BI's Sam Ro has the full breakdown of what weather may have done to the numbers. To be sure, weather can't explain all the other bad stuff going on. But it's something to keep in mind.  FREE AppDownload
Lots of people believe Bitcoin is impregnable.  Yesterday showed it may not be. GHash.io, the world's largest collective of bitcoin miners, gained control of more than 42% of all of the computer processing that powers the Bitcoin network. (Because of the expense now involved for a single miner to create bitcoin, lots of people now pool their computing power.) It's the first time they came close controlling more than 50% of the entire network. Were that 50% threshold ever crossed, a host of problems have the potential to occur. We'll get to what those are in a moment. Bitcoin miners exist to make a buck. But the price they pay to do so is to confirm other people's transactions. This makes sure the same bitcoins, which of course don't physically exist, aren't spent twice.  When they perform such a confirmation, by unscrambling an encrypted string of letters and numbers, they're rewarded with bitcoins. This is what the "Confirmations" button you see in your Bitcoin wallet after you've made a transaction refers to. Here is one of the larger ones: Blockchain.info Below the 50% threshold, there are enough independent miners who can separately confirm whether your transaction is legit. But a collective that breaks the 50% threshold would have the ability to confirm all Bitcoin transactions on their own — and thus the capacity to start messing with the transactions' reliability. For instance, they could send out false confirmations, reverse the direction of transactions, or block them from occurring entirely. And you wouldn't even know it was happening.  As soon as the Bitcoin community realized what was happening at GHash, "independent" miners who'd subscribed to the collective removed their computers from the pool. Plus GHash, despite its opaque management (its equipment is rumored to be sited in Ukraine, but no one knows much about its leadership), later released a statement saying they would "take all necessary precautions to prevent reaching 51% of all hashing power, in order to maintain stability of the Bitcoin network." Quartz' Chris Mims was the first to report the story.  Indeed, getting to more than 50% without anyone noticing is quite difficult. Blockchain.info, the principal site tracking the Bitcoin network, keeps a running tally of which groups have what share of the system. GHash's share has come back down to 40%. But it jibes with a chart we recently published showing control of bitcoin wealth is heavily concentrated. Here's what the network control chart looks like now: GHash still enjoys the plurality of all hashing power: Blockchain.info Bitcoin observers agree that there wouldn't be more than a temporary disruption to the network once 50% was breached. As soon as anyone realized this had occurred, most people would stop using Bitcoin, sending prices crashing and making it unprofitable for the "bully pool" to maintain majority control. But there are even more extreme scenarios. Benjamin Gorlick, the COO of Cloud Hashing, a collective recently profiled in The New York Times, did not rule out the possibility that some unknown group could one day take control of the entire network with a giant leap in processing power. "If someone was developing the technology behind the scenes, then launched it all at once, it would be bad," he told us by phone recently. That remains a remote possibility, he said, since the Bitcoin community remains small enough that someone would eventually take notice. This is not the first time a mining collective has approached the 51% threshold. Last spring, the Reddit community went ballistic after a group called BTC Guild, which at the time controlled many of the most powerful miners in existence, called ASICs, nearly hit the figure.  BTC Guild owner Michael Marsee told us in a note today that the problem has not become any less acute since then. While many pools consist of a large majority of "independent miners" not directly affiliated with the pools' founder, GHash was heavily weighted toward its own proprietary miners. "It almost happened to BTC Guild in the early days of ASIC mining, where almost all existing ASICs were on my pool because it was the only one that worked for them," he said. "GHash.io's problem is different in that half of their speed is owned by themselves. It's self-inflicted, and without that private speed they would not even be the largest pool, let alone near 51%." The Bitcoin community remains convinced that anyone who participates in Bitcoin automatically has its best interests at heart.  But this kind of power concentration would seem to strike at the heart of the Bitcoin mission. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiHmm...The commentary is pouring in from Wall Street strategists and economists about today's release of the December jobs report, which estimated that only 74,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls last month — well below the consensus prediction of 197,000. Here is what they are saying: Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank: "One of the most confusing employment reports in quite a while. Most of the report is very weak, with the notable exception of the most important single variable, the unemployment rate. It does seem like weather influence in the report, most obvious in the fall in construction, that is likely representative of negative weather effects elsewhere. Most sector payrolls were weak, with the exception of retail trade — that bodes well for the strength of the consumer. The data will make both policymakers and the market take a pause for thought. Since bond bears were obviously dominant, it is no surprise to see a large positive Treasury bond response. However, in most markets I would expect limited follow-through from here, since it is extremely doubtful that the 87,000 private payrolls number is anywhere close to representing the underlying growth picture, while the 6.7% has again been achieved in the main by a slide in the participation rate and probably overstates strength. Nonetheless, in coming months, it is the faster unemployment rate downward trend that is likely to be sustained, much more than weak payroll growth." Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs: Even taking into account the effects of weather, Hatzius calls the report "still a fairly sizable disappointment," and the report is "definitely weaker beyond that factor," according to Bloomberg. Hatzius also says that because the decline in labor force participation rate accounts for the entire decline in the unemployment rate, it shows how "relatively poor" an indicator of labor market conditions the headline unemployment rate actually is. David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital: "A weak gain of course, with the oddity of the drop in the unemployment rate a function of a drop in labor participation, so people leaving labor force, and so not a strong sign. The Fed recognizes this, and while 6.5% might be the threshold idea, we can offer that as the drop is due to participation, the Fed will offer a lower threshold de facto. Weather clearly had an impact, with 273,000 out due to weather, really twice the norm, and so seasonals are a function here. Still, drop in work week and soft wage gains are there. Bottom line — taper is a bit up in air, but we think they will taper at a soft level (no more than $10 billion) as weather is such a factor. Our odds have shaved down from near 100% to more like 70%, however. They won't accelerate, of course. Note market bid but inhibited by the last FOMC day's closing levels (our target you may recall)." Ted Wieseman, economist at Morgan Stanley: "Weather was an important contributor to the softness in December payroll job growth, but not enough to explain all of the softness. Construction payrolls fell 16,000, which we estimate is consistent with about a 30,000 weather drag (note that ADP, which has trouble with short-term disruptions, badly missed this, forecasting a 48,000 construction job gain). Leisure and hospitality, which includes some weather-sensitive outdoor areas, rose a sluggish 9,000, reflecting perhaps a 10,000 weather drag. Other weather impacts in less directly impacted areas may have brought the overall weather drag to 50,000 to 75,000. There was major confusion in the market after the report in interpreting the BLS' count of people not at work because of bad weather. This is a measure in the household survey that is indicative — and only indicative — of weather impacts on the report. 273,000 people with jobs didn't work in the December survey week because of the weather. Note that THESE PEOPLE HAD JOBS. So obviously this household survey gauge can't just be subtracted from the establishment payroll count. Also, that number is always high in December: 273,000 compared with a 20-year average of 135,000. Our past work has indicated that amount of elevation versus average in this HOUSEHOLD SURVEY gauge of PEOPLE WHO HAD JOBS is consistent with roughly a 50,000 to 75,000 weather drag on ESTABLISHMENT SURVEY growth in NET NEW JOBS."  Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at Barclays: "Adverse weather can affect both employment and hours, as severe weather can both reduce hours worked during the pay period and prevent workers from showing up to work and receiving pay. Average weekly hours did fall to 34.4 from 34.5 during the week, although hours have been bouncing between 34.4 and 34.5 hours per week for some time. According to the BLS, employees who are not at work and without pay during the pay period would not be counted on payrolls. The BLS estimates that slightly more than 20 percent of all employees in the payroll survey sample have weekly pay periods; therefore, it is conceivable that adverse weather could cause a decline in payroll employment if these workers were unable to work and did not receive pay during the survey period. Employees who receive pay for any part of the pay period would be counted on payrolls. In the household survey, however, persons who miss work for weather-related reasons are counted as employed whether or not they are paid. The 143,000 gain in household employment, which should be devoid of adverse weather-related distortions, is more consistent with the modest payroll growth we were expecting. We also do not find it plausible that adverse weather accounted for the decline in the participation rate to 62.8% from 63.0% in November. To be counted as in the labor force, one needs to be employed or have looked for work during the four weeks preceding the survey week. Therefore, it is unlikely that weather would significantly disrupt estimates of the size of the labor force in the same way it might for workers with weekly pay periods." Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ: "Net net, it is a complicated report today. It is likely to be read as disappointing for Fed policymakers, but our first look at the data is to take the three-tenths drop in unemployment as news that the labor market is still moving forward. We are not sure the household survey is back to normal from what looked to be federal government shutdown distortions a couple of months back. There are big revisions coming to both payroll jobs and the unemployment rate in the next report on February 7, so let’s not panic and all rush to the exits on the fear the economy is slowing. All eyes are on the Fed, and if they don’t taper $10 billion on January 29, then this will be a sign they are once again concerned about the economic outlook. Stay tuned. It may be better than you think, but today’s report is mixed on the outlook." Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics: "The payroll numbers are the wildest of wild cards in recent memory and make no sense in the context of all the other labor market data. Weather effects may account for some or even all the shortfall, with the household survey reporting the the biggest number of people unable to work due to the weather in December since 1977, but note this number — 273,000 — is not seasonally adjusted and cannot just be added to payrolls to derive an ex-weather payroll number. Taking into account the upward revisions we think payroll growth is now trending at more than 200,000 per month and we have to expect a big catch-up number for January. The drop in the unemployment rate reflects a modest 143,000 rise in household employment and a 347,000 plunge in the labor force, so participation fell 0.2 percentage points to a new low of 62.8%. On a month-on-month basis, these data are not to be taken seriously but the drop in headline unemployment, if sustained, will further embolden hawks to push for faster tapering, fearing rising wage pressure. So far, the wage data show no sign of movement, but we do expect a clear acceleration over the course of the year. Note the annual household survey revisions were trivially small. Bottom line: The Fed will ignore the wild payroll number and taper again on January 29." Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities: "Despite the disappointing performance in December, the U.S. economy recorded a very robust 2.2 million jobs gain in 2013, adding to a similar increase the year before, and with other indicators of economic health posting to continued upside momentum in activity, we view this report as more an anomaly in an otherwise uptrend in employment activity. In fact, while we believe that the Fed will be more cautious going forward on their tapering agenda, they are unlikely to be dissuaded from ending the QE3 program this year." Emad Mostaque, strategist at NOAH Securities: "Today’s weak payroll numbers in the U.S. (74,000 vs 197,000 expected) were a surprise (although margin of error is +/- 100,000!), but the more pertinent data point in my opinion was a fall in the U3 unemployment rate from 7% to 6.7% — despite this weak payroll number — driven entirely by a fall in the labor force participation rate from 63% to 62.8%. This drop in the labor force participation rate was, as noted last month, likely pushed by expiration of extended unemployment benefits in December and we should see the rate continuing to fall in January, with payrolls feeling the pressure from it being too cold to hire people in the states at the moment (last month's payrolls impacted by drop in seasonal footfall in retail). However, January should mark what is likely to be a low in the labor force participation rate, which may well then stabilise and rise, causing huge headwinds to headline U3 figures approaching anywhere near what the Fed needs to hike rates." Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities: "Now the head-scratching report is being attributed to weather, at least we are, as the Labor Department reported 273,000 people could not get to work in December due to weather, the largest since 1977. So, while the bond market’s rally following a weak report is holding, at least temporarily, equity futures seem to have gotten it right in that an initial sell-off has almost reversed. As it relates to using this data as an input in figuring out the Fed’s next move, we would advise throwing the report out as the results deviate significantly from other jobs-related data, (ADP, weekly claims and ISM employment component) that suggest a labor market that is building momentum. Also, while we maintain the labor market is indeed improving, as evidenced by the sizable upside revision to November’s NFP data and other anecdotal evidence, there remain many structural issues that need to be addressed. Also, until we receive data that is appreciably stronger than we have seen of late and with throwing out the December NFP report, we expect the Fed to maintain its $10 billion per meeting cut in asset purchases."  Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics: "We suspect that the unexpectedly weak 74,000 gain in nonfarm payrolls in December is largely explained by the unseasonably severe winter weather last month. Under those circumstances, we still expect the Fed to reduce its monthly asset purchases by a further $10 billion at the upcoming FOMC meeting later this month, particularly with the unemployment rate dropping to a five-year low of 6.7%." Andrew Wilkinson, chief market analyst at Interactive Brokers: "Companies added a mere 74,000 to payrolls to conclude the year and by less than half its expected gain of 195,000. That number was looking decidedly low following the earlier ADP report showing 238,000 jobs were added last month. Given the discrepancy, the easy option is to blame the weather. The BLS report today highlighted that adverse weather conditions had kept the most people at home since 1977 (more than one quarter of a million). It feels increasingly at odds with reality to point to the silver lining of a declining unemployment rate when job growth stalls as was the case in December. The headline rate slid by 0.3% as it did in November to 6.7%. But before sounding the warning bells over an economy falling off the cliff at year end, look at the chart of retail employment. Some 55,000 of the net 74,000 came from retail — a sign that retailers are finally accepting that they need bodies on the shop floor and in warehouses and perhaps that they are warming to future prospects. Jobs were lost in government (-13,000), healthcare (-6,000), IT services (-12,000) and construction (-16,000 — owing to cold weather and at odds with ADP data) in December." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zoran MilichThe December jobs report was much more disappointing than expected. U.S. companies added just 74,000 payrolls. Economists were looking for 197,000. It appears that the unusually cold weather played a big role. Here's Bloomberg's Shobhan Chandra: "More than a quarter million Americans were not at work because of inclement weather, the most for any December since 1977, the Labor Department said. Employers may be awaiting further evidence that the economy is accelerating before they step up the pace of hiring... Inclement weather may have played a role in depressing payrolls during the month. The figures showed 273,000 Americans weren’t at work because of weather." While December was unusually cold, it was also unusually dry. As a result, economists were divided on whether weather would play a major role in hiring. On Wednesday, the ADP employment report showed a surprisingly strong construction labor market that added 48,000 jobs. However, today's BLS report showed that the sector actually lost 16,000 positions. It seems we'll have to wait for upcoming revisions to see exactly what happpened in December. The Wall Street Journal's Phil Izzo tweeted this historical look at the weather's impact on the BLS numbers. @PhilIzzo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsThe Jobs Report just came out and it was very bad. The 74K new jobs was much worse than the 200K that was expected. But at the same time, there was a HUGE drop in the unemployment rate, from 7.0% to 6.7%. There was also a big drop in the Labor Force Participation Rate, which helps the unemployment rate to fall. So now Janet Yellen has a slightly tricky position. This number does not suggest an economy that's hitting "escape velocity." But on the other hand, we're getting closer to unemployment levels where the Fed might be inclined to tighten. But on the third hand, we don't know how "clean" that unemployment number is because of the ongoing decline in Labor Force Participation Rate. So things just got a bit trickier for Janet Yellen, who now doesn't have a smooth path out of the current plan. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Octavian CantilliThe December jobs report is out, and average hourly earnings grew 0.1% month over month and 1.8% year over year. Analysts were expecting 0.2% MoM growth and 1.9% YoY. Only 74,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in December, a huge miss from the consensus estimate of 197,000. Still, the unemployment rate dropped to 6.7% from 7.0%. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kin CheungThe December jobs report is out. Only 74,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in December, according to the report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, well below the consensus estimate of 197,000. The number represents a sharp decline from November's payroll figure, which was revised up to 241,000 from 203,000. Strangely, despite the weak payrolls number, the unemployment rate plunged to 6.7% from 7.0%. The report said 87,000 workers were added to private-sector payrolls last month, well below the consensus estimate of 200,000, and also well below data released from payroll-processing firm ADP earlier this week, which estimated that 238,000 workers were hired in the private sector in December. The labor force participation rate fell to 62.8% from 63.0%. 273,000 Americans were unable to work due to bad weather — the highest number since 1977 — during what was the coldest December since 2009 last month. According to Bloomberg, "Bad weather affects the payroll count if employees didn't receive compensation for the entire pay period that included the 12th of the month." The table below breaks down payroll gains by industry. Click here for the latest commentary from Wall Street strategists and economists on today's numbers » BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerNo amount of value or convenience will attract customers if they think their personal information is at risk of being stolen. Target just updated us on the recent customer data breach, which they're telling us includes personal information stolen from up to 70 million individuals. And the announcement caused sales to fall. Management estimates comparable store sales fell 2% to 6% during the fiscal fourth quarter after they announced the data breach. This is troubling for investor as Q4 is the busiest season for retailers. Management expects to report $1.20 to $1.30 in earnings per share for the quarter, down from a previous estimate of $1.50 to $1.60. Here's the relevant excerpt from Target's press release. ---------- The Company also provided an update to its expected fourth quarter 2013 financial results. In its U.S. Segment, Target now expects fourth quarter 2013 adjusted EPS of $1.20 to $1.30, compared with prior guidance of $1.50 to $1.60. This outlook anticipates a fourth quarter 2013 comparable sales decline of approximately (2.5)%, compared with prior guidance of approximately flat comparable sales. The updated sales expectation reflects: FREE AppDownload
Creative ToolsTwitter is bullish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is 220,000, above the Wall Street consensus estimate of 197,000. The mean estimate is 224,000, and the standard deviation is 37,308. These numbers were calculated from 175 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 7:58 AM ET this morning. The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
APTarget is out with an update on its big data breach from before the holidays, and it turns out that much more customer information was compromised than the company originally thought. Target initially said 40 million customers' credit and debit card data was stolen, but now that number has risen to 70 million. The company also announced that it's not just credit and debit card information that was stolen, but customers' names, mailing addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses as well. The breach affects customers who shopped at Target in the U.S. between Nov. 27 and Dec.15. Stolen card information includes customers' names, card numbers, PIN data, and three-digit security codes. Sales have fallen at Target since the company announced the data breach. Target is now offering free credit monitoring and identity theft protection to its customers. Details about how to enroll will be announced next week. The press release is below. -------------------------------------- Target today announced updates on its continuing investigation into the recent data breach and its expected fourth quarter financial performance. As part of Target’s ongoing forensic investigation, it has been determined that certain guest information — separate from the payment card data previously disclosed — was taken during the data breach. This theft is not a new breach, but was uncovered as part of the ongoing investigation. At this time, the investigation has determined that the stolen information includes names, mailing addresses, phone numbers or email addresses for up to 70 million individuals. Much of this data is partial in nature, but in cases where Target has an email address, the Company will attempt to contact affected guests. This communication will be informational, including tips to guard against consumer scams. Target will not ask those guests to provide any personal information as part of that communication. In addition, guests can find the tips on our website. "I know that it is frustrating for our guests to learn that this information was taken and we are truly sorry they are having to endure this," said Gregg Steinhafel, chairman, president and chief executive officer, Target. "I also want our guests to know that understanding and sharing the facts related to this incident is important to me and the entire Target team." Guests will have zero liability for the cost of any fraudulent charges arising from the breach. To provide further peace of mind, Target is offering one year of free credit monitoring and identity theft protection to all guests who shopped our U.S. stores. Guests will have three months to enroll in the program. Additional details will be shared next week. To learn more, please go to target.com/databreach. FREE AppDownload
Margin CallGood morning!  Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which traders are chatting: Good Morning, and welcome to Jobs Friday!   The S&amp;P 500 rallied after the past eight straight jobs reports, a streak unmatched at least since 1998, and Stocks have risen following 12 of the past 13 jobs reports since the end of 2012.  US futures are paying attention, with SPX up 30bp and NDX up 50bp early.   Strong gains overseas, with Germany adding 1% as S&amp;P affirms AAA, but volumes have slid off slightly.  Eyes are on Portugal, where the street is expecting a possible upgrade announcement – EU Fins are up 1% as Yields are dropping.   Japan markets were up small, having their worst week since October on profit-taking - Slowing Exports in China weighed on Emerging Asian markets – with Korea, Thailand and Malaysia all in the red.   Commodity players have been focused on Aussie’s market as Australia was one of the worst performing markets over the week, off almost 2% as the CRB rests on 18month lows - Aussie miners were hit for almost 4% this week (BHP – 3.6%, RTP for 7%, Fortescue for 11%) – Junior miners were hit a lot worse.   Single Stock movers in the US include ANF (+15% on earnings), MSFT (+1% on Barc u/g) and AA (-7%, Impairment charge). A basket of Biotech names are continuing Yesterday’s rally as well.. Heading into our Payroll print, the US 10YY is off small, resting near Yesterday’s lows as Yields gave back all of the ADP gains – The DXY has some upward momentum, most of the gains coming against Yen – So we have a headwind on commodities – but most have a upward trajectory, driven by China trade data – Copper is up 40bp, but WTI is leaping 1% after touching multi-month lows yesterday - China's crude-oil imports in December rose to a record high on a daily basis.   Gold is adding another 40bp as US Inflation expectations have popped again in the last 24 hours – and eyes will be on the WASDE report at Noon as many AG commodities have been crushed of late.  NFP at 8:30, Lacker speaks at 8:45, Wholesale Inventories at 10, The week’s biggest POMO operation at 11, WASDE data at 12, and Bullard is speaking on the economy at 1. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniMolten bronze is poured into molds of "The Actor" statuettes during a media event on the production of the statuettes for the 20th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards at American Fine Arts Foundry in Burbank, California January 9, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  — The economy added just 74,000 payrolls in December, an enormous miss against expectations of 200,000. The unemployment rate fell to 6.7%, but the labor force participation rate fell to its lowest level in about 35 years. 273,000 Americans were unable to work due to bad weather — the highest number since 1977 — during what was the coldest December since 2009 last month. According to Bloomberg, "Bad weather affects the payroll count if employees didn't receive compensation for the entire pay period that included the 12th of the month." — China's export data disappointed, growing just 4.3% YOY in December versus a 12.7% jump in November and casting doubt on the recovery in Europe. WSJ: "China's traditionally important export sector faces a range of challenges, from higher labor and land costs to an appreciating currency that eats into its competitiveness. As the U.S. and Europe regain economic momentum, experts expect China to benefit from better export demand. But the slow pace of improvement in December was a letdown for many. 'The lift from developed markets has not been as strong as expected," said Junwei Sun, an economist at HSBC Holdings. 'This year might be a better year [for exporters], but the pace of improvement could be very modest.'" — Still, data show China overtook the U.S. as the world's largest goods trader last year. The FT says that the total value of China’s imports and exports in 2013 was $4.16 trillion, a 7.6% jump from 2012 on a renminbi-adjusted basis, according to figures released by the Chinese government on Friday. Although U.S. data for 2013 has only been released through November, it is nearly mathematically impossible for December data to push the country to China's level. The U.S. still leads China in services trading. — Speaking of, at 10 a.m. we get U.S. wholesale trade data. Consensus is for a 0.5% increase in inventories. — New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo wants to give renters a tax break. NYT: "As part of his sweeping package of tax cuts announced this week, the governor is proposing a new tax break for tenants making less than $100,000 a year. Nearly 80 percent of the 3.3 million renter households in New York State would benefit, saving more than $400 million a year, state officials said." — Sears shares crashed more than 15% in after-hours trading yesterday, and are off more than 13% this morning, after the retailer, announced a Q4 adjusted loss of $2.01-$2.98. Analysts were looking for earnings of $0.26 per share. Quarter-to-date comparable store sales are down 7.4%. Year-to-date sales are down 3.9%. For the full year ending February 1, 2014, managements expects net loss will be between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion. — Abercrombie and Fitch shares are soaring nearly 16% pre-market after that retailer raised its full-year earnings outlook to a range of $1.55 to $1.65 from $1.40 to $1.50 prior. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had forecast $1.47 a share.  — Markets in Asia saw mixed gains. European markets and U.S. futures were higher across the board. — The Indian diplomat arrested in New York on visa fraud charges and whose claims of harsh detention spark a diplomatic spat was indicted but granted diplomatic immunity and subsequently expelled from the country. Devyani Khobragade was also charged with lying to authorities about how much she had been paying her maid, and it seems this ought to have been the real focus of the story. Reuters: "As well as this treatment of Khobragade, India was angered that the United States took it upon itself to fly the nanny's family out of India. The prosecuting attorney, Preet Bharara of Manhattan, an ethnic Indian, said attempts were made in India to 'silence' Richard and compel her to return home. While much of the focus has been on Khobragade, the cause of the nanny, Sangeeta Richard, has been taken up by a non-government organization called Safe Horizon, which campaigns for victims of abuse." — BI's Steve Kovach explains why he's finally settled on T-Mobile as his mobile service provider after cycling through AT&amp;T and Verizon. "If you switch to T-Mobile from Verizon, AT&amp;T, or Sprint, T-Mobile will now pay the early termination fee (ETF) carriers charge you to cancel your contract, up to $350 per line. You're also required to trade in your old smartphone, which T-Mobile will pay you for so you can buy a new one. That means there's no risk for me to abandon my contract from Verizon. T-Mobile will foot the bill. And T-Mobile's plans are cheaper. I can pay $65 per month for 2.5 GB of data and unlimited calling/texting. Unlike Verizon, T-Mobile doesn't charge you extra if you go over your data allotment. Instead, it slows your data down a bit until the next billing cycle starts. Assuming I get a new iPhone 5S, I'll also be paying $25 per month for my phone. (T-Mobile sells you an iPhone 5S for $0 down plus $25 per month for 24 months. You also have the option to pay off the phone in full right away if you'd like.)." Macroeconomic Advisers, one of the most reliable forecasters, is now quite bullish on 2014. Here are the bullet points from their latest note: FREE AppDownload
The VergeLAS VEGAS/SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Despite the hoopla, wearable gadgets like wristwatches for checking your text messages or eyeglasses that capture video are unlikely to make a splash with consumers anytime soon, given the clumsy designs, high prices and technological constraints of many of the current offerings. That is the conclusion drawn by many industry executives and analysts who trolled the vast exhibition halls of the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week. Most of the wearable products on display at the industry's premier showcase looked like awkward attempts toshoehorn technology into new forms without an original or compelling benefit for the wearer, skeptics say. Stacy Rasgon, a semiconductor analyst at Bernstein, spent a day at CES busily snapping photos of every fitness band, watch and other wearable device he came across. "I have 20 different photos, but if I look at the pictures I couldn't tell you which product is from which vendor. They all look the same," Rasgon said. "Wearables sound like a great idea and there's going to be a lot of experimentation. People are throwing spaghetti against the wall to see what sticks." Sony Corp &lt;6758.T&gt;, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd &lt;005930.KS&gt; and Qualcomm Inc &lt;QCOM.O&gt; showed off new or recently launched smartwatches, most of which act as extensions to cellphones, letting users check messages and appointments. Wristbands - like the popular Fitbit that tracks physical activity - also accounted for a big chunk of the devices on display at CES. "For wearables to finally match up with the hype, (they have) to be a true solution, where it isn't about the technology - it's about what the technology enables you to do, something you couldn't do before," said Mike Bell, the senior executive leading Intel Corp's &lt;INTC.O&gt; wearables push. "The function, form and experience have to be as important as the parts you slap inside," he said. Intel this week unveiled its take on wearables that Bell believes serve a clear purpose and could catch on, including prototype earbuds with a built-in heart rate monitor that changes the music on a smartphone to keep pace with a workout. It also announced a collaboration with luxury department store Barneys New York to develop smart bracelets intended to look like they were dreamed up by a fashion designer - not an engineer. The wearables mania gripping the industry is in part a response to slowing smartphone and tablet markets. After growing 39 percent in 2013, global smartphone shipments are forecast to expand by just 18 percent annually through 2017, with prices steadily falling, according to market research firm IDC. Tablet shipments are seen up 22 percent this year, compared with 54 percent in 2013. Tech executives say many consumers are intrigued by the potential for wearable gadgets, but they are also cautious. A survey by research company Yankee Group in December found less than 10 percent of respondents planned to pay $200 or more for a fitness wellness device. A survey by Wakefield Research, commissioned by U.S. cloud-services company Citrix Systems &lt;CTXS.O&gt;, last November found 91 percent of respondents were excited about wearables, but 61 percent said they had no plans to purchase one. Simon Randall, whose British-based OMG Life Plc makes a wearable camera called Autographer, is not surprised. He recalls the lukewarm reception when Nokia &lt;NOK1V.HE&gt;, his employer at the time, introduced camera-phones more than a decade ago. "New things take time to be broadly adopted but if there's an intrinsic benefit at the heart of them they'll prosper," Randall said. Samsung's $300 Galaxy Gear may have had the biggest launch of any wearable so far - but it was panned by reviewers. It shipped an estimated 800,000 of the watches in the two months since it was introduced in September, a figure that pales in comparison to the millions its smartphones manage. Some experts said Apple &lt;AAPL.O&gt; may have the best chance of developing a gadget that will propel the wearable category into prime time, given its track record in consumer devices. "2014 will be more a year of attempts than of successful products. And for a lot of manufacturers it will be a matter of waiting to see what Apple does," said Carolina Milanesi, a consumer tech analyst at Kantar Worldpanel. While the electronics show lacked sure-fire winners, some offers were definitely intriguing and drew crowds. Epson &lt;6724.T&gt; unveiled a $700 pair of eyeglasses that allow the user to simultaneously view data about objects they are looking at. Sony's prototype glasses can display captions and information about programs a viewer is watching on TV. Another offer was a bracelet made by Netatmo embedded with a sensor that looks like a jewel and which measures exposure to sunlight, helping the wearer decide when to put on sunscreen. Even Qualcomm, one of the largest companies now touting the impending wearable device revolution and purveyor of the "Toq" smartwatch, acknowledges the hurdles ahead. Raj Talluri, who oversees the design of its Snapdragon smartphone processors, wants to add the same chips to watches and apparel to let them handle much more sophisticated functions. But more work needs to be done on power consumption. "The power consumption of processors really needs to get an order of magnitude less," Talluri said. "People's expectation in wearables is not that they have to charge them every day. They want to wear things for weeks." (Additional reporting by Michael Gold in Taipei; Editing by Edwin Chan, Tiffany Wu, Frank McGurty and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
AP/Jacquelyn MartinA quick note on why today's Jobs Report matters. The monthly Non-Farm Payrolls number is always an exciting number, in part because jobs are the economic datapoint that people care about the most. The unemployment rate (and the pace of job creation more broadly) is also extremely important to the Fed which has a mandate of promoting stable employment through monetary policy. This brings us to one of the most important stories in the market right now, which is that traders are testing the Fed. Matthew Boesler has written a ton about this, but the basic gist is that traders are increasingly placing bets that the Fed will do its first rate hike prior to when the Fed currently indicates that it will. In other words, the Fed has indicated through language that it will keep rates essentially at zero for a long time. But traders are thinking that with the economy finally breaking out, the Fed will be forced to raise rates sooner. If today's jobs report is a monster — and it could be — then that story line will some sharper into view, as traders keep pushing that bet that the Fed will relent sooner than it currently anticipates. FREE AppDownload
LONDON/ANKARA (Reuters) - Iran and Russia are negotiating an oil-for-goods swap that would let Iran lift oil exports substantially, in defiance of the Western sanctions that helped force Tehran in November to agree a preliminary deal to end its nuclear program. Three Russian and Iranian sources close to the negotiations said final details were in discussion for a barter deal that would see Moscow buy up to 500,000 barrels a day of Iranian oil in exchange for Russian equipment and goods. "Good progress is being made at the moment with strong chances of success," said a Russian source. "We are discussing the details and the date of signing a deal depends on those details." It is not clear whether the deal would be implemented before the details of November's nuclear agreement in Geneva between Iran and six world powers, including Russia, are finalized. Technical talks between Iran and the European Union on the nuclear deal started on Thursday. The November Geneva deal was designed to halt Iran's nuclear advances for six months to buy time for a final settlement by May. U.S. and European sanctions have cut Iran's oil exports by more than half over the past 18 months to about one million barrels a day. Russia has no sanctions on Iran. Russian purchases of 500,000 bpd of Iranian crude would lift Iran's oil exports by 50 percent and provide a major fillip to its struggling economy. At current oil prices near $100 a barrel Iran would earn about an additional $1.5 billion a month. No details were available about the equipment and goods on offer from Russia. Given Russia is a major oil and gas exporter, the Iranian oil would likely be exported from Iran on Russia's account, with Russian goods and equipment bartered in exchange. Most Iranian oil current goes to Asia. Iran's biggest oil buyer is China, importing about 420,000 bpd in 2013, little changed on the year. Other major Asian buyers of Iranian oil including Japan, South Korea and India have cut purchases sharply under pressure from Washington. Turkey and South Africa also have reduced or eliminated imports. (Editing Richard Mably) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Really not sure what the point of this is, but a bank made a 1-ton gold coin.  FREE AppDownload
China came out with fresh trade data today. The insta-summary is that export growth was weak while import growth was solid. Here are Nomura's bullets describing the numbers: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Today is the best day of the month: Jobs Day! Analysts expect around 200K new jobs, but there's a growing sense that today could be bigger — much bigger. Writing in POLITICO's Morning Money, Ben White writes: "Recent data including the ADP payroll report suggest the jobs number could top 200,000 today (and maybe get closer to 300,000) with the unemployment rate possibly falling below 7 percent for the first time since November of 2008." Indeed, as this table from Deutsche Bank shows, there's been a slow of data indicating that December was a very strong month for the jobs market. Deutsche Bank Looking specifically at the employment sub-index of the non-manufacturing ISM, it's easy to see us getting a number in the high 200s. FRED There are some concerns about bad December weather, but so far the evidence has been quite scant that there's been any impact at all. Of course, a super-strong number will feed two narratives. One will be that the economy is finally (finally) starting to breakout. The other narrative is the most interesting story in the market, and that concerns the increasing tendency of traders to question whether the Fed will really stay on hold for a long time. We'll be covering the number LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeGood morning! Markets around the world are on the rise ahead of today's Non-Farm Payrolls report. U.S. futures are up to the tune of 0.2%. Germany is up by 0.6%. Same with Italy. Japan rose 0.2%. The big economic news overnight was Chinese trade data, which showed some unexpected deceleration in exports. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we get, as noted, the jobs report. Analysts expect 200,ooo new jobs? FREE AppDownload
