The ConnaughtLondon is the most expensive city in the world, so it's no surprise that its hotels are also pricey. Our friends at Hotels.com put together an exclusive list of the 20 most expensive hotels in London, based on base-level room rates. These hotels may cost a lot, but hey, don't we all deserve marble bathrooms, scheduled tea times, and butler service once in a while?  FREE AppDownload
When Mark Cuban took the stage Wednesday at Inc.'s GrowCo conference in Nashville in front of 900-some attendees, Inc. President and Editor-in-Chief Eric Schurenberg re-confirmed an agreement the two had made before the interview: It was going to be a no holds-barred conversation. More than an hour later, after Cuban had touched on everything from what the sharks of "Shark Tank" are really like off camera and why he thinks of himself as a bigot, it's clear no such agreement was necessary. In case you missed the streamed interview live with the outspoken uber-entrepreneur, here are some of the highlights: "Oh, hell no. I make sure I don't pinch myself so I don't wake up. All the time I say to myself, why me? Some things are random." Cuban is most well known for his tech companies but his first business was decidedly low tech. As a junior in college--and at the age of 20--he took his student loan money and bought a nearby campus bar. It quickly became the hottest spot in the area because it was notorious for not really checking IDs. Everything went swimmingly until the bar held a wet t-shirt contest. When the local newspapers covered the event, they eventually ID'd one of the contestants as a 16-year-old girl. "But she was on probation for prostitution! That got us closed down," Cuban said. Cuban's first big startup success was an early software company called Micro Solutions, which he started for $500 and sold seven years later for $6 million. "I learned to party like a rock star," Cuban says. (That's when he traded his lifetime airline pass and bought a private plane for $41 million--still the record for the largest purchase ever online.) But Cuban hit it even bigger with Audio Net, a startup that figured out how to stream audio online before the Internet really even had audio or video. It involved encoding an eight-hour VCR tape and streaming replays of radio casts to see if anyone really cared. It turns out people did care--a lot. "It was like the YouTube of the start of the Internet. Soon they had deals with radio stations and sports teams. In 1999, at the height of the Internet bubble, Cuban sold the company to Yahoo for $5.7 billion. When Cuban picked up the Dallas Mavericks, they had been voted the worst team in the league. But Cuban, a self-professed "basketball junkie" was a season-ticket holder. He went to the first game of the 1999-2000 season and it didn't sell out. "We were undefeated--it was the first game of the season. That's the time to be excited." But fans were not. So Cuban bought the team and immediately set out to change the culture. "I had to explain to the team and to the NBA what business we were in," he says. "It's not the basketball business. It's the business of creating experiences and memories." "I think [NBA Commissioner] Adam [Silver] had to do it. There's a lot at stake for the NBA--it has to be a leader in the culture… but it's a slippery slope."You can't keep that ugliness out of the league. There's no law against stupid--I learned that a long time ago," Cuban said. Cuban also admitted that prejudice is something everyone has to fight. "I know I'm bigoted in a lot of different ways. If I see a black kid in a hoodie and it's late at night, I'm walking to the other side of the street. And if on that side of the street, there’s a guy that has tattoos all over his face--white guy, bald head, tattoos everywhere--I'm walking back to the other side of the street," he says. "No one has pure thoughts… but it's about recognizing when you have thoughts that aren't right." (For an exclusive interview where Cuban elaborates, check out this Inc. video). "I'd get rid of software patents altogether." "I'm a dick. Ha. Not really… I micromanage you until I trust you. It a back and forth continually… If I send you 30 emails I expect quick responses and direct action. Then we'll go to weekly reports. And I want the bad news first. I want to read, 'God dammit, we lost this sale.' I want to know the setbacks so that I can help you." "People expect them to be the same off camera. Kevin is a jerk on camera, but he's an even bigger jerk off camera. He has his own way of doing business… There's a lot of tension on air… after 10 hour days and 10 days of shooting, you really feel like you want to knock this motherf*cker out." "There are so many, I can't begin to count. There are a lot of things I suck at. I'm not organized. I have to have partners and people around me who dot my i's and cross my t's. I'm sloppy. I'm a ready-fire-aim guy. I need to have people around me who aren't." FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoHSBC China flash PMI climbed to a five-month high of 49.7 in May. This beat expectations for a rise to 48.3. This is up from 48.1 in April. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. "The improvement was broad-based with both new orders and new export orders back in expansionary territory,” said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China, in a press release. “Disinflationary pressures also eased over the month and output prices increased for the first time since November 2013.” The manufacturing output index hit a four-month high of 50.3 and is now in expansionary territory.  The employment sub-index however fell further and at a faster rate to 47.3, “which implies that this month's uptick in sentiment has not yet filtered through to the labour market,” Qu said. Beijing announced a mini-stimulus to help stabilize growth. That along with lower borrowing costs have helped business sentiment. But the cooling property market continues to pose a risk. Here's a look at the summary of PMI report: Markit Economics/HSBC And here's a look at the trajectory of Chinese manufacturing PMI:Markit Economics/HSBC FREE AppDownload
DisneyWelcome to your smart, fast start to the day. First, the markets: 1. Australian stocks are set to open higher today after both had a better night after the Fed intimated they are unconcerned about inflation which gave stocks in the US a lift. SPI 200 futures are signaling a 23 point lift but with thoughts of an RBA rate hike receding and Iron rallying today, the ASX might do better than that. 2. In Asia it is very much range trading with the Nikkei managing to hold above the recent lows over the past three days. Even though it closed down 0.24% at 14,042, it was actually up from the open and then the midday lows. In Hong Kong, stocks barely moved while Shanghai rose 0.84% to 2025. All eyes today will look to the HSBC Flash Manufacturing PMI release. 3. Tony Abbott has apologized for his lewd wink during an on-air interview with a sex hotline worker yesterday. Abbott winked at 774 talkback host Jon Faine when 67-year-old caller Gloria told him what she did for a living, but was caught on camera. “I shouldn’t have done it, Karl,” he told the Today Show host this morning. 4. Businessman David Gonski isn’t happy about the Abbott Government all but ripping up his blueprint for school funding, written for the former Labor Government. He came out strongly against projected $5 billion per annum cuts in a speech last night, saying in 2017 “the concept of aspiration ends”. 5. Where have all the anti-frackers gone? While in Australia, there’s still plenty of heat in the CSG debate, US leaders have shown virtually no interest in slowing the oil shale boom. That’s not entirely surprising – Rhodium Group’s Trevor Houser says it’s “worked like a government stimulus”, but without anyone in Washington having to get involved. 6. If you hate Twitter, you’ll love actress Emma Thompson. She gave the massively popular microblog and pretty much all of social media an almighty serve overnight, saying people who use it are part of “the lemming generation”. Here’s a taste: We invent stuff, we just fling it out there, we let anyone use it. A three-year-old could f—— be on Twitter. A three-year-old! And then they go on and on and on about everything that there is. 7. There’s a group of sea-faring Southeast Asian nomads called the Bajau Laut who survived the 2004 tsunami because they were in tune with the ocean. They live their entire lives on it and this slideshow captures both the beauty and dark side to their lives. 8. China has jumped in and started building its own jet airplanes. It tried and failed in the 70s, but yesterday rolled out the first of an estimated need for 650 planes to service a $780 billion industry. Yes, that’s $780 billion. 9. If you ever wanted to know what it’s like to be Roger Federer playing tennis, Google Glass can show you. Be warned: Running around chasing a tennis ball makes for some shaky footage. Don’t watch if you’re susceptible to any kind of motion sickness. BONUS ITEM: Star Wars Episode VII filming is under way in Abu Dhabi and director JJ Abrams just gave fans their first look at the set and an alien character. Along with the chance to be in the movie itself. Here’s how you can live that dream:  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Some People Are Wondering If Obama's MyRA Could Mean The End For 401ks (Nerd's Eye View) Defined benefit plans (pension plans) — which are paid in addition to an employees' salary — have been declining, as defined contribution plans (like 401k plans) have been on the rise. But now Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View is asking whether MyRa — a program of small Roth IRAs for those who do not have access to company retirement savings plans introduced by president Obama during his State of the Union address — could signal the "beginning of the end of 401ks." "What’s significant about the MyRA is that it provides the mechanism for employees to someday be defaulted into automatic enrollment (or controversially, potentially even mandatory enrollment) and automatic escalation of future contributions, just as is now available with 401(k) plans," writes Kitces.  This he says is intended to bring the two more in lock-step, "yet the IRA/MyRA version would be more easily portable (as it’s not tied to the employer in the first place), and the only material difference would be the contribution limits (which can be changed). …Employers may simply be able to pay their employees a full salary, and let the employee decide whether and how much to allocate to everything from health insurance to retirement contributions and anything else." Investors Should Be Willing To Modify The 4% Rule (FA Mag)  The 4% rule says investors can withdraw 4% of their savings in the first year of their retirement and then increase it each year in keeping with inflation.  Katherine Roy, J.P. Morgan Asset Management's chief retirement strategist, however thinks investors should be willing to modify this, and instead advisors should help clients adjust their spending when portfolio returns are lower and vice-versa, reports Debbie Carlson at FA Mag. Everything You Thought You Knew About The 10-Year Is Wrong (Business Insider) Economics 101 teaches that recoveries are accompanied with rising rates, but in recent history it's been hard to see this. "Bonds tend to have a hard time selling off if central banks are not tightening," Jan Loeys of JP Morgan writes. "The steadily lower growth rates over the last 3 recoveries have induced steadily lower policy rates, which in turn have created faster and a greater number of asset bubbles that have been imploding before inflation has a chance to accelerate and central banks can move into a tight stance." JP MorganAdvisors Should Familiarize Themselves With HSAs (The Wall Street Journal)  Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) are tax deductible savings accounts associated with plans that have high deductibles and Louis Kokernak at Haven Financial Advisors thinks investors and advisors should look into these. "The HSAs can be used as a tax shelter to build long-term savings for medical expenses in the future," he writes in the WSJ.  "Like a 401(k), the contributions you make to an HSA are tax deductible. And like a Roth IRA, the distributions are tax free, as long as the money is spent on qualified medical expenses. HSAs truly offer the best of both worlds," he writes. That being said HSAs don't make sense for people with chronic conditions and that don't have job security. 2014 Is Still Really Dark For Hedge Funds (Business Insider)  Hedge funds continue to have a rough year. A new report from Preqin shows that the best-performing strategy isn't up even 1%. Event driven funds, the best performing strategy in April was up 0.6%, while the worst-performing strategy, long/short is down an average of 0.42%. Preqin FREE AppDownload
Equity markets are heading into mid-year with lackluster gains. While few investors have been thrilled with this year’s performance, it could be much worse. We have yet to see a significant correction, equity markets remain within a few percentage points of all-time highs and volatility remains low. Many clients have been asking: What could change? Or put differently, what could lead to a more severe market correction? So, I figured it was time for my annual look at the market risks that keep me up at night. While there’s a long list of things that could go wrong, here are four that I would focus on for the summer. To be sure, I do expect equities to move higher over the course of the year. But as I’ve discussed previously, given last year’s extreme multiple expansion, 2014 was always going to be a more difficult year for stocks. Any of the above could quickly turn a difficult year into a bad one. Sources: Bloomberg, BlackRock research Russ Koesterich, CFA, is the Chief Investment Strategist for BlackRock and iShares Chief Global Investment Strategist. He is a regular contributor to The Blog and you can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
ValueWalkChinese e-commerce company JD.com has priced its IPO at $19 per share, above the expected $16-$18 that the company outlined in its filing with the SEC, reports The Wall Street Journal. JD.com's IPO comes on the heels of disappointing earnings out of from Weibo (WB) after the close. Weibo said it expects revenue in its second quarter to come in between $74 million and $76 million, below expectations for $77.85 million. Shares of Weibo are down more than 8.5% in after hours trade.  JD.com's pricing, along with Weibo's report, come ahead of a much-anticipated debut from Alibaba, which filed with the SEC earlier this month.  Shares of JD.com will debut on the Nasdaq tomorrow under the ticker 'JD'. FREE AppDownload
Jon Gambrell/APA soldier looks out from under the brim of his helmet in Maiduguri, Nigeria,Nigerian markets remain resilient despite much media attention on the violent actions of Boko Haram, the militant group responsible for killing more than 30 people in attacks on two villages on Wednesday and bombing in the city of Jos that killed 118 people on Tuesday. Foreign direct investment has been driving economic growth in Nigeria, now the continent’s biggest economy. While the violence may scare off new prospects, most long-term investors understand that while recent acts of violence in the country’s northern region are tragic, it’s not new, and won’t likely affect business in the industry-rich south. “To be honest it’s still business as usual,” said Anna Rosenberg, sub-Saharan Africa specialist at Frontier Strategy Group, an advisory for multinational companies.  “It’s horrible what’s going on but that’s not impacting them at the moment,” said Rosenberg, who explained that Nigeria has always been relatively volatile, but companies have known that going in, and continue to work amid the instability. “A lot of investments are still going into Nigeria, they’re not dissuaded by what’s going on.” Geography is an important part of this. Most firms based in Nigeria work out of Lagos, the commercial capital, which for now remains far removed from the violence in the north, where Boko Haram operates. “The impact on the economy has actually remained muted given that the violence did not spread to Lagos or the oil-rich Niger Delta,” wrote Samir Gadio, emerging markets strategist at Standard Bank, in an email to IBTimes. “Portfolio investors appear to largely discount the security issues associated with Boko Haram while there has been very little FDI in this part of Nigeria anyway.” The northern region has seen ever-increasing poverty and unemployment rates in recent years, a far different economic environment than the industry-rich south, which has benefited the most from Nigeria’s exponential economic growth and has the most influence on the markets. Nigeria has been one of the largest recipients of FDI in Africa, with inward FDI flows climbing to $9 billion in 2013, up 28 percent since the year earlier, according to Gaimin Nonyane a senior economic specialist at Ecobank Ernst &amp; Young ranked Nigeria third after South Africa and Kenya as the “most attractive investment destinations in sub-Saharan Africa,” according to its recent Africa Attractiveness Report for 2014. These three countries account for more than 40 percent of the total FDI projects in sub-Saharan Africa between 2007 and 2013. In Nigeria, the number of projects has increased 19 percent during this time period. “The economy has weathered the impact of the recent terrorist attack reasonably well,” Nonyane said, citing stable stock prices and a strong currency.   Though the naira’s value fell quickly following news that former central bank Governor Sanusi was stepping down in February, it has remained stable even after news of the kidnapping. On April 13, the day of the kidnapping, the Naira was at 160.8 per U.S. dollar and actually increased by 1.06 percent to 162.5 during the following week. Despite a dip to 158.9 on May 5, it closed today at 162. 1. “This highlights ongoing strong investor confidence in the economy, underpinned by still strong [foreign exchange] reserves, benign inflation and an expanding non-oil sector,” Nonyane said. Meanwhile, investors are aware that, beyond the recent media attention, this kind of violence is far from unprecedented. “One important thing to remember regarding Boko Haram is that this is not a new issue,” said Shilan Shah, Africa economist at Capital Economics. Formed in the early 2000s, the group has slowly gained power thanks to donations from abroad, as well as trade in arms and drugs, along with robberies and extortion. In 2009, the group turned more violent than ever in the country’s predominantly Muslim northern region, and in May 2013 Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in three states to help stem the problem. “Its activities have gained more mainstream media attention in the past few weeks but it's actually been operating for almost 15 years and commits acts of terrorism almost daily,” said Shah. “My sense is that anyone who has investment in Nigeria will already have been aware of the threat that Boko Haram poses,” he said, adding that this is probably why the markets have been relatively stable. However, increasing violence could “dent investment interests of new investors looking to take advantage of the country’s new status as Africa’s largest economy,” according to Ecobank’s Nonyane. But he doesn’t think veteran companies will succumb to that fear. “The effect on investment plans of foreign companies already operating in the country is likely to be muted,” he said. “So far, there are no indications of plans for a mass exodus by Western companies operating in the country." General Electric Co. has been operating in Nigeria for more than 40 years, and currently employs 250 people and operates offices in Lagos and Abuja. The company signed a memorandum of understanding with Nigeria in March, pledging to invest $10 billion in new power plants in addition to other massive projects in the country, and their strategy has remained the same. “GE’s plans in Nigeria have not changed. We are still investing,” said Patricia Obozuwa, communications representative for GE Africa. “The recent incidents have been terrible and our thoughts are with all who have been affected and their families,” she said, adding,  “We believe that continuous investment in infrastructure to grow the economy and create jobs is probably the biggest deterrent to this kind of violence in the long run.”  FREE AppDownload
APWarren Buffett (L) with BYD Chairman Wang ChuanfuIn 2013, Warren Buffett-backed BYD Auto (pronounced Bee-Yeah-Dee) sold more cars than any other Chinese domestic brand, according to China Auto Web. In that same period of time, BYD generated an $89 million profit. Since Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway made a $230 million investment in BYD for a 10% stake in 2008, the automaker has been propelled by the success of the compact F3 sedan, of which it has sold more than 1 million vehicles.  First introduced in 2008, the F3 and its budget-friendly $8,800 price tag have been popular with cab companies and first-time car buyers. As a car, the F3 is for the most part unremarkable; however, its styling has an immediate sense of familiarity.  Even though many modern car designs are derivative, BYD's designers seem to have taken this to the extreme by cobbling together something that looks like the front end of a Toyota Corolla and the rear end of a Honda City sedan. Drive Arabia called the car "insultingly similar" to the Corolla and City, and The Truth About Cars noted, "BYD’s F3 received worldwide acclaim for being a Corolla ripoff." Indeed, the F3's front bears a striking resemblance to the Corolla E120 model, with matching headlight clusters and grill. Check out a comparison, with the 2003-2006 Toyota Corolla on top and the 2012 BYD F3 on bottom:Toyota/Youtube In addition to the front of the car, BYD's F3 interior is similar to Corolla's, complete with matching dashboards, center consoles, HVAC controls, and vents. Here, the 2012 BYD F3 is shown on top, and the 2003-2006 Toyota Corolla is on the bottom.Youtube/ToyotaThe rear end of the F3 looks strangely similar to the Honda City sedan sold in Asia from 2002-2008. The F3 and the City appear to have matching curved tail lights, each with a white dual-element inlay. The two cars also share similarities in the design of their deck-lids and trunk latch handles. Here, a 2012 BYD F3 is show on top, and a 2002-2008 Honda City is shown below.Youtube/Wikimedia CommonsFor propulsion, BYD turned to Mitsubishi's workhorse 4G-series four-cylinder engines for early version of the F3, while later models use the company's own engine designs.  As a consumer product, the F3 is far from polished. While the automaker can imitate Toyota's design, it can't match the Japanese auto giant's high-quality execution. According to The Wall Street Journal, J.D. Powers gave BYD products a "below industry average" ranking. In fact, consumer backlash over quality control problems at the BYD partly caused the company's profit tumble in 2012 before rebounding a year later. Recently, BYD designers got a little more original with the reveal of the all-new 2014 F3. As the production lifecycle of the existing F3 winds down, the new F3 (shown below) will soon take over as BYD's volume sales leader.REUTERS/Jason Lee FREE AppDownload
(AP Photo/Muhammed Muheisen)In the first four months of this year, housing starts in China fell by 25 percent from a year ago, the amount of homes sold fell by 8.6 percent, and home price appreciation has clearly slowed, adding to concerns of property sector weakness. While Chinese policymakers are curbing the growth of shadow banking, some highly leveraged developers have been unable to repay loans or start new projects because the availability of credit has tightened. Some fear this could lead to a crisis akin to the U.S. financial collapse of 2008. Real estate investment accounts for about 12.5 percent of China’s economic activity, making it vitally important to investors and Beijing. Still, a slowing property market can be managed. Alarm bells warning of China’s coming real estate meltdown sound very similar to worries about Europe’s commercial real estate debts a few years ago. In 2010, there were huge concerns over the billions of euros of commercial real estate loans on the books of European banks. With many of those loans needing to be refinanced by 2012, some feared a terrible reckoning resulting from high loan-to-value ratios, loans being under water, and broken loan covenants. While there were some localized disturbances, these were largely contained and a full-blown European real estate crisis never materialized. Anyone who understood the European system could see that this was never likely to bring the banking system down and the same goes for China today. Chinese real estate is problematic, but not catastrophic. Chinese loan-to-value ratios on residential real estate loans are in the 50-60 percent range -- much lower than typical leverage ratios in the United States, which are currently 78.3 percent. Prices are certainly high, but Chinese policymakers have been guiding housing price appreciation to zero over the past few years, and therefore, I do not see housing falling off a cliff. A potential fix would be for Beijing to let inflation rise to 5-7 percent for three or four years and grow out of the problem. A Chinese slow-growth scenario where nominal GDP doubled over five years or so would eliminate the housing problem with little pain. Investors wondering if 5-7 percent inflation is acceptable should remember we have been there twice in the past decade and with China’s housing market an important pillar of its economy, we may be headed there again. Chart of the Week Concerns of a Chinese housing market collapse have mounted recently, with home price appreciation moderating and new construction plunging. Any housing slowdown would weigh on consumer wealth gains and damage household balance sheets but would be unlikely to cause a full-blown banking crisis. Real estate lending is a much smaller portion of banking activity in China than in the United States, suggesting any negative impact from a housing slowdown would be manageable. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Matthew LynleyZendesk may have helped tech investors get back to workZendesk (ZEN), the Software-as-a-Service platform operator, has seen its shares gain more than 50% since their debut on Thursday of last week.  And while a sharp rally after a public debut is not uncommon, Zendesk's IPO comes amid a terrible market for cloud and internet stocks.  Cloud and internet stocks that became momentum darlings for investors, such as FireEye (FEYE) and Workday (WDAY), lost as much as 60% peak-to-trough from February to May. Even technology stalwarts like Amazon (AMZN) and Google (GOOG) saw their shares drop considerably from late-winter through the spring.  And Box Inc., which offers cloud storage services, has reportedly delayed its own much-anticipated IPO.  But after the sharp dives that have been seen in these tech issues, Zendesk may be providing investors with a glimmer of hope. Zendesk's IPO benefitted from what was seen as unaggressive pricing. The $9 share offering price  compared to a $12.08 valuation that had been implied in stock options granted to employees on March 12, according to the company's S-1.  Zendesk  has also steadied the IPO waters after slides following the notable debut of 'Candy Crush' maker King Digital (KING), which has fallen since pricing its IPO at $22.50 per share. King shares are currently trading just north of $16.  And while Zendesk has endured losses in each of its years since inception, investors may also see Zendesk as a potential takeover candidate for a larger tech company looking to bolster its cloud presence, like Microsoft (MSFT) or Oracle (ORCL).  Editor's Note: A previous version of this story misstated the change in shares of GrubHub (GRUB) since that company's IPO. Shares of GrubHub have gained 20% since their April debut, not declined as was previously stated.  FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesLast night, the LA Times' Louis Sahagun reported a piece of data dynamite the Energy Information Administration plans to detonate under California next month: There now appears to be just 600 million barrels of recoverable tight oil in the state's vast Monterey shale play — a downward revision of 96% from the agency's 2011 estimate.  The revision seems to have been predicted in a report from geoscientist J. David Hughes, best known for his work on Canadian oil formations, and published by the Post Carbon Institute in December. Hughes warned that Monterey's geology, while superficially similar to marquee tight oil plays in Texas and North Dakota, actually contains an enormous number of irregularities that would make it difficult to ever successfully extract the resources. "The target strata in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford plays are less than a few hundred feet inthickness and are flat-lying to gently dipping," the report said. "The shale deposits of the Monterey are much thicker and much more complex, with target strata up to 2,000 or more feet in thickness, and atdepths that can range from surface outcrops to more than 18,000 feet within a span of fortymiles or less."  The EIA did not respond to requests for comment. BI had previously talked with experts who said there were so many unknowns about the Monterey that it wasn't really on anyone's radars as a potential new chapter in the Great American Shale Boom. "It is not a focus right now," ITG's David Howard told us in December. "The market has moved away from really paying attention California unconventional and I follow the market." So, it's debatable whether it can reasonably be called "a blow to the nation's oil future," as the LAT's Sahagun put it, since no one was really factoring it into that future in the first place. But it certainly makes things extremely awkward for California. The state had pinned its hopes on a March 2013 USC study that argued tapping the Monterey could create up to 2.8 million jobs by 2020 and add up to $25 billion to state and local tax revenue. "Californians drive 332 billion, that's billion miles a year, fed almost entirely by oil products, so we have got to start hammering at the demand, as well as the sources of fossil fuel," California Governor Jerry Brown told CNN Sunday. In September 2013, Brown — often labeled as having a thumb as green as Shrek's — signed into law a bill that allowed the small-scale fracking that already occurs in to continue, with a view toward one day tapping what was thought to be Monterey's vast and accessible deposits.  Brown's office had no comment Wednesday.  The good news is that outside California, the findings may not mean all that much. The most recent revisions to the country's marquee shale plays like the Bakken have actually gone upward. Reached by BI Wednesday, Hughes said his analysis of other mega American shale plays don't differ greatly with the EIA's.  "So far I don't see any kind of radical downgrade that might occur," he said.  But for the Golden State, the second coming of a black gold rush looks to have been a mirage all along.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Red Robin on FacebookIn times when big global chains such as McDonald's and Burger King are having a hard time trying to generate sales growth, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers is truly firing on all cylinders and outgrowing its bigger competitors by a considerable margin. Importantly, the company still has a lot of room for expansion. Mouthwatering resultsRed Robin operates somewhere between fast-casual and casual dining, striving for quick customer service but offering superior quality and fresher ingredients than fast-food companies at higher prices. The business has been booming lately; the company reported better-than-expected earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 on Tuesday, and the stock jumped by almost 12.5% in response. Sales during the quarter ended on April 20 increased 11.1% to $340.5 million, versus $306.3 million in the same quarter during the prior year, and the number was comfortably above analysts estimates of $334.8 million. Comparable-restaurant sales increased 5.4% during the period on the back of a 0.5% increase in guest counts and a 4.9% rise in the average guest check. Restaurant level operating margin was 22.4%, a 90-basis-point increase versus 21.5% in the first quarter of 2013. While cost of sales as a percentage of revenues increased 20 basis points to 25.1%, Red Robin delivered growing profitability as the company benefited from a lower impact of fixed costs on revenues and efficient labor management during the quarter. Healthy sales growth and expanding profit margins are a winning combination for Red Robin: Net income increased by 26% to $11.9 million, while net earnings per share jumped 24.2% to $0.82, materially better than the $0.72 per share that Wall Street forecast on average. As of the end of the last quarter, there were 362 company-owned Red Robin restaurants, five Red Robin's Burger Works, and 129 franchised Red Robin restaurants, for a total of 496 locations. The company plans to open 20 new Red Robin restaurants and five Red Robin's Burger Works during 2014. Red Robin also acquired four franchised restaurants in New York state for approximately $8 million in March, and the company has a deal to acquire 32 franchised restaurants in the U.S. and Canada for approximately $40 million, which is expected to close in late summer. Room for growthRed Robin is materially smaller than industry juggernauts such as McDonald's and Burger King, and that means it's easier for the company to generate growth. In addition, customers seem to be more than willing to pay a few extra dollars in exchange for superior products and a better customer experience, since the fast-casual category has been materially outgrowing traditional fast-food chains lately.  Red Robin is positioned on the right side of the trend when it comes to customer tastes, and the company has a lot of room for growth if it continues gaining market share versus bigger rivals. McDonald's has delivered disappointing performance over the past several quarters. The company announced an annual increase of only 0.5% in global comparable revenues during the first quarter of 2014, while sales in the U.S. were particularly weak, with a decline of 1.7% in comparable sales in the country. April performance is looking moderately better for McDonald's, as the fast-food giant delivered a 1.2% increase in global comparable sales, and comparable sales in the U.S. were flat during the month. Still, it's far too soon to identify any signs of a sustainable turnaround at McDonald's, and the company is clearly no match to Red Robin when it comes to growth. Burger King is doing better than McDonald's on the international front, but the company is still generating stagnant sales in the United States. Burger King announced a 2% increase in global comparable sales excluding currency fluctuations during the first quarter of 2014, but comparable sales in the U.S. and Canada grew only 0.1% during the period.  Successful menu innovations and a restructuring of its store base have been smart moves by management, and Burger King is outgrowing its main competitor, McDonald's. Still, Burger King pales in comparison with the level performance at Red Robin. Foolish takeawayRed Robin Gourmet Burgers delivered extraordinary performance during the last quarter, especially in comparison with much bigger players such as McDonald's and Burger King. The company has abundant room for growth if it continues gaining market share versus the competition, so this premium burger chain looks well positioned to capitalize on its appetizing growth opportunities in the years ahead. Andrés Cardenal has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Apple, Burger King Worldwide, and McDonald's and owns shares of Apple. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevork DjansezianHero cat Tara, held by owner Roger Triantafilo (R), licks its whiskers as it is surrounded by news media after throwing the ceremonial first pitch before the Bakersfield Blaze and Lancaster Jayhawks Single A baseball game at Sam Lynn Ballpark in Bakersfield, California May 20, 2014.The stock markets recovered yesterday's losses and then some. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveNarendra Modi will be sworn in as India's new prime minister on May 26. As Indian GDP growth slumped to a 10-year low, Modi won the 2014 general election, framing his campaign on promises of better governance and economic growth. Indian stocks have had a good run in recent months on expectations that Modi would come to power. India saw $3.5 billion in foreign direct investment (FDI) equity flows in March, up 41% from a year ago. His win also prompted many economists to raise their growth forecasts. Once Modi gets his Cabinet together, the pressure will be on for him to start delivering on his campaign promises. CLSA analyst Mahesh Nandurkar identifies the first thing Modi should do. "Accelerating [the] project-approval process will be a low-hanging fruit," writes Nandurkar. India has $150 billion worth of stalled projects in its pipeline as of March 2014. "Assuming even half of them were to get moving, then assuming a four- to five-year average execution period, same can add US$15-20bn to India’s GDP," writes Nandurkar. "This will imply a c.75-100bps impact on GDP." One of the key choke points has been environmental clearance (EC). The average time it takes for EC has climbed from eight months in 2007 to 30 months today. Meanwhile, the approval rate has fallen from over 400 per quarter in 2007-2008 to 100 per quarter in 2012-2013, even as the flow of proposals has been steady. The government can also work to revive the public-private partnership (PPP) project award program. "Rationalization of ministries and appointment of the right people (including technocrats) will likely accelerate this process," writes Nandurkar. This chart from Morgan Stanley shows that projects under implementation has been declining. Morgan StanleyTwelve of 25 CEOs surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of the election results said reviving stalled projects should be the top focus. And seven of 11 economists surveyed said this should be the top task. There are other key reforms that analysts are expecting as well. Modi will need to push reforms to drive manufacturing growth, develop infrastructure, reform the tax code through the goods and services tax (GST), drive an agricultural revolution through irrigation like he did in Gujarat, and federal reforms which give greater power to states and demand more accountability from them. Of course, the 29-party National Democratic Alliance (NDA), of which Modi was just named leader, has won 63% of seats in Lok Sabha (or the lower house) of parliament, but has only 24% of seats in the Rajya Sabha (upper house). Nandurkar writes that this means that over the next two years passing new bills won't be easy, but that the NDA should get more seats as members of the upper house slowly retire and new ones are elected by Members of the Legislative Assembly. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyA condo penthouse in Brooklyn Heights just went on the market for a whopping $32 million, the highest asking price ever in Brooklyn.  The sellers are Stuart Leaf, founder of Cadogan Management hedge fund, and his wife, Claire Silberman Leaf, a philanthropist and former lawyer, according to The Brooklyn Eagle. The home was originally three units that the Leafs renovated and turned into one massive home.  The 11,000-square-foot penthouse has 14 rooms, including six bedrooms and six full baths — most with views of the Brooklyn Bridge Park, Statue of Liberty, and downtown New York City. If the home sells for anywhere near its asking price, it will easily surpass Brooklyn's current most expensive home sale, the $12.5 million Truman Capote home at 70 Willow Street.  The home is listed by Sotheby's International Realty. 
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet YellenThe Federal Reserve just released the minutes from its April 29-30 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. While the Fed's April 30 statement came with no big surprises (interest rates were unchanged and quantitative easing was tapered by another $10 billion), Fed-watchers continue to be curious about the Fed's view on the inflation, unemployment, and the economy as a whole. In particularly, everyone wonders how the Fed views the risk of inflation as it keeps monetary policy loose in its effort to stimulate job growth. Here's a relevant excerpt from the minutes: In discussing the effect of labor market conditions on inflation, a number of participants expressed skepticism about recent studies suggesting that long-term unemployment provides less downward pressure on wage and price inflation than short-term unemployment does. A couple of participants cited other research findings that both short- and long-term unemployment rates exert pressure on wages, with the effects of long-term unemployment increasing as the level of short-term unemployment declines. Moreover, a few participants pointed out that because of downward nominal wage rigidity during the recession, wage increases are likely to remain relatively modest for some time during the recovery, even as the labor market strengthens. It was also noted that because inflation was expected to remain well below the Committee's 2 percent objective and the unemployment rate was still above participants' estimates of its longer-run normal level, the Committee did not, at present, face a tradeoff between its employment and inflation objectives, and an expansion of aggregate demand would result in further progress relative to both objectives. As the economy improves, the Fed will have to begin executing its monetary policy exit strategy. Generally speaking, members agreed that testing the tools, planning early, and communicating clearly were key. From the minutes: ...Participants generally agreed that starting to consider the options for normalization at this meeting was prudent, as it would help the Committee to make decisions about approaches to policy normalization and to communicate its plans to the public well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate. Early communication, in turn, would enhance the clarity and credibility of monetary policy and help promote the achievement of the Committee's statutory objectives. It was emphasized that the tools available to the Committee will allow it to reduce policy accommodation when doing so becomes appropriate. Participants considered how various combinations of tools could have different implications for the degree of control over short-term interest rates, for the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and remittances to the Treasury, for the functioning of the federal funds market, and for financial stability in both normal times and in periods of stress. Because the Federal Reserve has not previously tightened the stance of policy while holding a large balance sheet, most participants judged that the Committee should consider a range of options and be prepared to adjust the mix of its policy tools as warranted. Participants generally favored the further testing of various tools, including the TDF, to better assess their operational readiness and effectiveness. No decisions regarding policy normalization were taken; participants requested additional analysis from the staff and agreed that it would be helpful to continue to review these issues at upcoming meetings. Bottom line: "No decisions regarding policy normalization were taken." Here are the full minutes: April 29-30, 2014 A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, April 29, 2014, at 10:30 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, April 30, 2014, at 9:00 a.m. PRESENT: Janet L. Yellen, Chair William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman Richard W. Fisher Narayana Kocherlakota Sandra Pianalto Charles I. Plosser Jerome H. Powell Jeremy C. Stein Daniel K. Tarullo Charles L. Evans, Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee James Bullard, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively ... Monetary Policy Normalization In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, meeting participants discussed issues associated with the eventual normalization of the stance and conduct of monetary policy. The Committee's discussion of this topic was undertaken as part of prudent planning and did not imply that normalization would necessarily begin sometime soon. A staff presentation outlined several approaches to raising short-term interest rates when it becomes appropriate to do so, and to controlling the level of short-term interest rates once they are above the effective lower bound, during a period when the Federal Reserve will have a very large balance sheet. The approaches differed in terms of the combination of policy tools that might be used to accomplish those objectives. In addition to the rate of interest paid on excess reserve balances, the tools considered included fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase (ON RRP) operations, term reverse repurchase agreements, and the Term Deposit Facility (TDF). The staff presentation discussed the potential implications of each approach for financial intermediation and financial markets, including the federal funds market, and the possible implications for financial stability. In addition, the staff outlined options for additional operational testing of the policy tools. Following the staff presentation, meeting participants discussed a wide range of topics related to policy normalization. Participants generally agreed that starting to consider the options for normalization at this meeting was prudent, as it would help the Committee to make decisions about approaches to policy normalization and to communicate its plans to the public well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate. Early communication, in turn, would enhance the clarity and credibility of monetary policy and help promote the achievement of the Committee's statutory objectives. It was emphasized that the tools available to the Committee will allow it to reduce policy accommodation when doing so becomes appropriate. Participants considered how various combinations of tools could have different implications for the degree of control over short-term interest rates, for the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and remittances to the Treasury, for the functioning of the federal funds market, and for financial stability in both normal times and in periods of stress. Because the Federal Reserve has not previously tightened the stance of policy while holding a large balance sheet, most participants judged that the Committee should consider a range of options and be prepared to adjust the mix of its policy tools as warranted. Participants generally favored the further testing of various tools, including the TDF, to better assess their operational readiness and effectiveness. No decisions regarding policy normalization were taken; participants requested additional analysis from the staff and agreed that it would be helpful to continue to review these issues at upcoming meetings. The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet The manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Committee met on March 18-19, 2014. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. By unanimous vote, the Committee agreed to renew the reciprocal currency arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Mexico; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994. In addition, by unanimous vote, the Committee agreed to renew the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank. The votes to renew the Federal Reserve's participation in these arrangements were taken at this meeting because provisions in the arrangements specify that the Federal Reserve provide six months' prior notice of an intention to terminate its participation. Staff Review of the Economic Situation The information reviewed for the April 29-30 meeting indicated that growth in economic activity paused in the first quarter as a whole, but that activity stepped up late in the quarter; this pattern reflected, in part, the temporary effects of the unusually cold and snowy weather earlier in the quarter and the unwinding of those effects later in the quarter. In March, payroll employment increased further, although the unemployment rate held steady and was still elevated. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, but measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. The unemployment rate stayed at 6.7 percent in March, but both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio increased slightly. The rate of long-duration unemployment declined somewhat, but the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons moved up; both of these measures were still well above their pre-recession levels. Initial claims for unemployment insurance remained low over the intermeeting period. Although the rate of job openings moved up in February, the hiring rate was flat and continued to be subdued. Following a rebound in February that was partly weather related, manufacturing production rose further in March and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization increased. The production of motor vehicles and parts declined in March, but factory output outside of the motor vehicle sector expanded. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies in the coming months would be similar to the level in March. However, broad indicators of manufacturing production, such as the new orders indexes from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels consistent with moderate increases in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) expanded slightly less rapidly in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter. After moving roughly sideways, on net, in January and February, the component of nominal retail sales used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to construct its monthly estimate of PCE rose briskly in March, in part because the weather returned to more seasonal norms. Recent information on several important factors that influence household spending was positive. Real disposable income continued to increase in the first quarter, further gains in house prices likely bolstered household net worth, and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved, on balance, in March and April. The pace of activity in the housing sector remained soft, as real expenditures for residential investment decreased again in the first quarter. Starts of new single-family homes increased in March. However, permits for single-family homes--which are typically less sensitive to fluctuations in the weather and a better indicator of the underlying pace of construction--remained below their fourth-quarter level and had not shown a sustained improvement since last spring, when mortgage rates began to rise. Sales of both new and existing homes decreased in March of this year, but pending home sales rose. Real private expenditures on business equipment and intellectual property products declined in the first quarter. However, nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft rose in February and in March, and new orders were somewhat above the level of shipments, pointing to modest gains in shipments in the near term. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, were also consistent with increased outlays for business equipment in the coming months. Real spending for nonresidential construction was about flat in the first quarter after declining in the fourth quarter, while real inventory investment moved lower. Business inventories in most industries appeared to be broadly aligned with sales in recent months. Real federal government purchases rose slightly in the first quarter, as the increase from the reversal of the government shutdown in the fourth quarter was mostly offset by the ongoing downtrend in purchases. Real state and local government purchases decreased somewhat in the first quarter, as state and local construction expenditures declined. The U.S. international trade deficit widened in February as exports fell and imports rose. The export declines were concentrated in aircraft and petroleum products, while exports of consumer goods rose. Rising imports of services and automotive products offset declines in imports of oil and capital goods. In the advance release of the national income and product accounts, the BEA estimated that net exports subtracted substantially from real gross domestic product (GDP) growth in the first quarter. U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, rose at a slow rate in the first quarter, though somewhat faster than the pace posted in the fourth quarter, and were about 1 percent higher than a year earlier. After falling in the fourth quarter, consumer energy prices increased markedly in the first quarter as natural gas prices moved higher on a sharp decline in inventories during the unusually cold winter months. The PCE price index for items excluding food and energy rose at the same rate in the first quarter as in the previous one and was around 1-1/4 percent higher than four quarters earlier. Both near- and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were unchanged in March and April. Over the 12 months ending in March, both the employment cost index for private-sector workers and average hourly earnings for all employees increased only a little more than consumer price inflation. Indicators of foreign economic activity suggested continued expansion in the first quarter but at a rate somewhat below that in the fourth quarter. The deceleration was concentrated in emerging market economies (EMEs). Real GDP growth slowed markedly in China, largely reflecting lower investment growth and exports. Weaker exports also restrained economic activity in other emerging Asian economies. In Mexico, indicators of activity suggested some improvement from a lackluster fourth quarter. By contrast, economic growth remained near its solid fourth-quarter pace in the advanced foreign economies (AFEs). In the euro area, the United Kingdom, and Canada, average industrial production in the first two months of the year was up moderately from the fourth quarter; in Japan, industrial production rose robustly, and consumer demand was boosted by anticipation of the April increase in the consumption tax. Inflation developments were mixed. Inflation rebounded in Canada but remained very low in the euro area. In China and India, inflation fell in the first quarter, largely because of lower food prices. Monetary policy remained highly accommodative during the intermeeting period in the AFEs and also in many EMEs, although monetary policy in Brazil was tightened to contain inflation pressures. Staff Review of the Financial Situation Despite some volatility in certain asset prices, financial conditions did not change appreciably, on net, over the intermeeting period. Asset prices moved in response to economic data releases that were, on balance, a little stronger than expected and to Federal Reserve communications. The anticipated path of the federal funds rate moved up somewhat, as did intermediate-dated Treasury yields, while corporate bond spreads narrowed and the S&amp;P 500 increased slightly. The foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed. Federal Reserve communications garnered significant attention from market participants over the period but appeared to have only a modest net effect on their expectations for monetary policy. The communications following the conclusion of the March FOMC meeting were interpreted as somewhat less accommodative than expected. However, subsequent communications--including the release of the minutes of the March FOMC meeting--appeared to mostly reverse the earlier change in expectations. Yields on short- and medium-term nominal Treasury securities rose, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In contrast, yields at the long end of the curve declined, continuing a downward trend evident over much of this year. Market participants cited a number of factors as contributing to the drop in long-term yields so far this year, including portfolio reallocation by large institutional investors, the trading strategies pursued by some investors, and safe-haven flows. Some market participants reportedly also revised down their estimate of the average real federal funds rate over the longer term, reflecting in part changes in their assessments of long-run economic conditions. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were little changed. Conditions in short-term funding markets remained fairly stable over the intermeeting period. Take-up in the Federal Reserve's fixed-rate ON RRP exercise continued to be sensitive to the spread between market rates and the rate offered in the exercise, with higher take-up occurring on days when the market rate on repurchase agreements was close to or below the ON RRP rate. As has been the case since the ON RRP exercise began, money market funds increased their usage at quarter-end; take-up reached a record level of about $240 billion at the end of March. Part of the increase in ON RRP usage at the end of March relative to the end of December likely reflected higher counterparty allotment limits, which were raised from $3 billion to $7 billion during the first quarter. The allotment limit was subsequently increased to $10 billion per counterparty in early April. The seasonal paydown of short-term Treasury debt following the April tax date was accompanied by a notable pickup in participation at ON RRP operations, but Treasury repo rates generally remained very close to the ON RRP rate of 5 basis points. The S&amp;P 500 increased a bit, on net, over the intermeeting period, but broader stock market indexes edged down. The prices of social media and biotechnology stocks, which had risen substantially faster than the broader market over the previous year, fell sharply over the intermeeting period, leaving the gains on these shares about in line with those on broader indexes over the past 12 months. Some initial public offerings were reportedly put on hold as prices of small-capitalization stocks declined. By contrast, stocks that generally have more stable dividends, such as those of utility and telecommunications companies, advanced. First-quarter earnings reports for large banking organizations were mixed, and the stock prices of such firms generally underperformed broad equity indexes. Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained robust, on balance, notwithstanding subdued bond issuance in April that was attributed to typical constraints on issuance during the period when many firms are reporting their earnings. The growth in commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets remained robust, consistent with the increase in loan demand by large and middle-market firms reported in the April Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS). Institutional issuance of leveraged loans continued at a brisk pace amid reports of an ongoing gradual easing of credit terms and deal structures. Financing conditions in the commercial real estate (CRE) sector improved further. In the first quarter, commercial mortgage loans held on banks' books continued to grow solidly. According to the April SLOOS, banks again eased standards on CRE loans during the first quarter; they also reported an increase in loan demand, especially for construction and land development loans. In contrast, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities in 2014 has been a bit slower than last year's pace. Mortgage credit conditions generally remained tight over the intermeeting period, though signs of easing continued to emerge amid further gains in house prices. In particular, the April SLOOS indicated a net easing of banks' credit standards for home-purchase loans to prime customers in the first quarter. Mortgage interest rates and their spreads over Treasury yields were little changed over the intermeeting period, and applications for refinancing and purchase mortgages remained tepid. Conditions in consumer credit markets continued to be mixed. Student and auto loans expanded at a robust pace, while credit card debt outstanding stayed flat, as it had been in recent months. Financing conditions in the consumer asset-backed securities market remained favorable, and issuance continued to be solid. Most foreign equity indexes rose over the period despite a global selloff of technology-related stocks, and 10-year sovereign bond yields in Canada, Germany, and the United Kingdom were nearly unchanged on net. Yield spreads on peripheral euro-area debt over German bonds of similar maturity continued to narrow. The broad nominal exchange rate index for the dollar was about unchanged, as the dollar appreciated against the euro, yen, and renminbi but depreciated against most other currencies. Investor sentiment toward EMEs continued to improve over the period despite incoming data that were somewhat weaker than expected. Increasing tensions between Ukraine and Russia, as well as the lowering of Russia's sovereign debt rating by Standard &amp; Poor's, contributed to a rise in Russia's 10-year sovereign bond yield and a sharp decline in its main equity index. Outside of that region, however, these building tensions left little imprint on global financial markets. The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability concluded that the vulnerability of the financial system to adverse shocks remained at moderate levels overall. Relatively strong capital profiles of large domestic banking firms, low levels of aggregate leverage in the nonfinancial sector, and moderate use of short-term wholesale funding across the financial sector were seen as the primary factors supporting overall financial stability. However, the staff report also highlighted valuation pressures in some segments of the equity market, continued strong demand for corporate debt instruments and associated pressures on underwriting standards, and liquidity risks associated with fixed-income mutual funds. Staff Economic Outlook In the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the April FOMC meeting, real GDP growth in the first half of this year was somewhat slower than in the projection for the March meeting. The available readings on net exports and, to a lesser extent, residential investment pointed to less spending growth in the first quarter than the staff previously expected. However, the staff's assessment was that the unanticipated weakness in economic activity in the first quarter would be largely transitory and implied little revision to its projection for second-quarter output growth. In addition, the medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was essentially unrevised. The staff continued to project that real GDP would expand at a faster pace over the next few years than it did last year, and that it would rise more quickly than the growth rate of potential output. The faster pace of real GDP growth was expected to be supported by an easing in the restraint from changes in fiscal policy, increases in consumer and business confidence, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and a pickup in the rate of foreign economic growth. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce resource slack over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate. The staff's forecast for inflation was basically unchanged from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. The staff continued to forecast that inflation would remain below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be subdued, and slack in labor and product markets anticipated to diminish slowly, inflation was projected to rise gradually toward the Committee's objective. The staff viewed the extent of uncertainty around its April projections for real GDP growth, inflation, and the unemployment rate as roughly in line with the average over the past 20 years. Nonetheless, the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were viewed as tilted a little to the downside, especially because the economy was not well positioned to withstand adverse shocks while the target for the federal funds rate was at its effective lower bound. At the same time, the staff viewed the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, meeting participants generally indicated that their assessment of the economic outlook had not changed materially since the March meeting. Severe winter weather had contributed to a sharp slowing in activity during the first quarter, but recent indicators pointed to a rebound and suggested that the economy had returned to a trajectory of moderate growth. However, some participants remarked that it was too early to confirm that the bounceback in economic activity would put the economy on a path of sustained above-trend economic growth. In general, participants continued to view the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. However, a number of participants pointed to possible sources of downside risk to growth, including a persistent slowdown in the housing sector or potential international developments, such as a further slowing of growth in China or an increase in geopolitical tensions regarding Russia and Ukraine. Participants noted that business contacts in many parts of the country were generally optimistic about economic prospects, with reports of increased sales of automobiles, higher production in the aerospace industry, and increased usage of industrial power; in addition, a couple of firms with a global presence reported a notable increase in demand from customers in Europe. Contacts in several Districts pointed to plans for increasing capital expenditures or to stronger demand for commercial and industrial loans. In the agricultural sector, the planting season was under way, but there were concerns about the effects of drought on production in some areas. Most participants commented on the continuing weakness in housing activity. They saw a range of factors affecting the housing market, including higher home prices, construction bottlenecks stemming from a scarcity of labor and harsh winter weather, input cost pressures, or a shortage in the supply of available lots. Views varied regarding the outlook for the multifamily sector, with the large increase in multifamily units coming to market potentially putting downward pressure on prices and rents, but the demand for this type of housing expected to rise as the population ages. A couple of participants noted that mortgage credit availability remained constrained and lending standards were tight compared with historical norms, especially for purchase mortgages. However, reports from some Districts indicated that real estate and housing-related business activity had strengthened recently, consistent with the solid gains in consumer spending registered in March. Conditions in the labor market continued to improve over the intermeeting period and participants generally expected further gradual improvement. Participants discussed a range of research and analysis bearing on the amount of available slack remaining in the labor market. A number of them argued that several indicators of labor underutilization--including the low labor force participation rate and the still-elevated rates of longer-duration unemployment and of workers employed part time for economic reasons--suggested that there is more slack in the labor market than is captured by the unemployment rate alone. Low nominal wage inflation was also viewed as consistent with slack in labor markets. However, some participants reported that labor markets were tight in their Districts or that contacts indicated some sectors or occupations were experiencing shortages of workers. Another participant observed that labor underutilization, as measured by an index that takes employment transition rates into account, was consistent with past periods in which the official unemployment rate had reached its current level, and had declined about as much relative to the official unemployment rate as it had in previous economic recoveries. In discussing the effect of labor market conditions on inflation, a number of participants expressed skepticism about recent studies suggesting that long-term unemployment provides less downward pressure on wage and price inflation than short-term unemployment does. A couple of participants cited other research findings that both short- and long-term unemployment rates exert pressure on wages, with the effects of long-term unemployment increasing as the level of short-term unemployment declines. Moreover, a few participants pointed out that because of downward nominal wage rigidity during the recession, wage increases are likely to remain relatively modest for some time during the recovery, even as the labor market strengthens. It was also noted that because inflation was expected to remain well below the Committee's 2 percent objective and the unemployment rate was still above participants' estimates of its longer-run normal level, the Committee did not, at present, face a tradeoff between its employment and inflation objectives, and an expansion of aggregate demand would result in further progress relative to both objectives. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective over the intermeeting period. Many participants saw the recent behavior of the prices of food, energy, shelter, and imports as consistent with a stabilization in inflation and judged that the transitory factors that had reduced inflation, such as declines in administered prices for medical services, were fading. Most participants expected inflation to return to 2 percent within the next few years, supported by highly accommodative monetary policy, stable inflation expectations, and a continued gradual recovery in economic activity. However, a few others expressed the concern that the return to 2 percent inflation could be even more gradual. In their discussion of financial stability, participants generally did not see imbalances that posed significant near-term risks to the financial system and the broader economy, but they nevertheless reviewed some financial developments that pointed to potential future risks. A couple of participants noted that conditions in the leveraged loan market had become stretched, although equity cushions on new deals remained above levels seen prior to the financial crisis. Two others saw declining credit spreads, particularly on speculative-grade corporate bonds, as consistent with an increase in investors' appetite for risk. In addition, several participants noted that the low level of expected volatility implied by some financial market prices might also signal an increase in risk appetite. Some stated that it would be helpful to continue to explore the appropriate regulatory, supervisory, and monetary policy responses to potential risks to financial stability. It was noted that the changes to the Committee's forward guidance at the March FOMC meeting had been well understood by investors. However, a number of participants emphasized the importance of communicating still more clearly about the Committee's policy intentions as the time of the first increase in the federal funds rate moves closer. Some thought it would be helpful to clarify the reasoning underlying the language in the FOMC's postmeeting statement indicating that even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. In addition, a few participants judged that additional clarity about the Committee's reaction function could be particularly important in the event that future economic conditions necessitate a more rapid rise in the target federal funds rate than the Committee currently anticipates. A number of participants suggested that it would be useful to provide additional information regarding how long the Committee would continue its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction and reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. Committee Policy Action Members viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as indicating that economic growth had picked up recently, following a sharp slowdown during the winter due in part to unusually severe weather conditions. Although labor market indicators were mixed, on balance they showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remained elevated. While household spending appeared to be rising more rapidly, business fixed investment had edged down and the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, but the extent of that restraint had diminished. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity would expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions would continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate. Moreover, members continued to see risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective and was seen as posing possible risks to economic performance, but members anticipated that stable inflation expectations and strengthening economic activity would, over time, return inflation to the Committee's 2 percent target. However, in light of their concerns about the possible persistence of low inflation, members agreed that inflation developments should be monitored carefully for evidence that inflation was moving back toward the Committee's longer-run objective. In their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, members noted that there had been little change in the economic outlook since the March meeting and decided that it would be appropriate to make a further measured reduction in the pace of asset purchases at this meeting. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that, beginning in May, it would add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $20 billion per month rather than $25 billion per month, and would add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month. Members again judged that, if the economy continued to develop as anticipated, the Committee would likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, members underscored that the pace of asset purchases was not on a preset course and would remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of purchases. The Committee agreed that no changes to its target range for the federal funds rate or its forward guidance were warranted at this meeting, aside from removing a short paragraph that was added when the forward guidance was updated at the March meeting and which noted that the change in the Committee's guidance did not signal a change in the Committee's policy intentions; members deemed this language no longer necessary. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, Charles I. Plosser, Jerome H. Powell, Jeremy C. Stein, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: None. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, June 17-18, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 10:55 a.m. on April 30, 2014.   FREE AppDownload
Roy Luck/flickrEmpty cars head back to North Dakota for more Bakken crude.Where have all the anti-frackers gone? You may have noticed we haven't heard too much lately from groups opposed to the drilling practice, which involves sending millions of gallons of water and chemicals into the ground to free up oil and natural gas deposits trapped in rocks. Their last big push seems to have come last year, with the film "Gasland II," about the possible ill effects that fracking Pennsylvania's Marcellus shale could pose to the Delaware River basin at the vanguard. But since that time, we have only seen more development. Oil production is now at a 28-year high, while gas production is at all-time highs. There are now even plans to snake a new natural gas pipeline under the west side of Manhattan.  There is a lot of evidence natural gas production harms the areas around where it occurs. Last month, a Texas jury awarded a suburban Dallas family $3 million for health effects suffered as a result of natural gas production activity near their home. Countless other families have privately settled with drillers over similar claims. Scientists say injecting fracking waste water into the ground probably causes earthquakes. And the oil and gas boom has also led to an increasing number of literal booms on trains transporting crude, as well as ruptured pipelines.  Despite all this, it is now safe to say the debate is basically over: Fracking has won. At Energy Intelligence and the FT's Oil and Gas Strategies Summit Wednesday in Manhattan, Rhodium Group's Trevor Houser contended that the Great American Shale Boom has been America's best economic story, adding up to 50 basis points of growth since 2008, and with the potential to add a further 20 bps through 2020 through lower energy prices, capital investment and jobs. "It's worked like a government stimulus, " he said, but without anyone in Washington having to get involved.   EIAAnnual U.S. natural gas production. The Obama administration has recognized as much. Though the president has proclaimed an "all of the above" energy development strategy, the FT's Ed Luce argued this weekend that it's really been about "one of the above": gas. With the exception of stalling approval of the Keystone Pipeline — the debate around which is largely symbolic, and the importance of which the market is now finding ways to reduce — the administration has done nothing to impose federal regulations on fracking. What's more, the EPA's new carbon dioxide (CO2) regulations take direct aim at U.S. coal production, natural gas' main rival for electricity output. Combined with overall declining energy consumption and intensity in the U.S., coal production has declined 16% since 2008. Though the administration has vowed to revive nuclear, there have been more plant retirements than new plants built. Renewables have surged, but that's mostly been thanks to factors that either predate or have nothing to do with the Obama Administration.  Obama can reasonably argue that allowing the natural gas boom to unfurl is part of his plan to fight climate change. For all its apparent ill effects locally, most experts agree the rise of natural gas has lowered CO2 emissions by displacing coal. While there remains some debate about whether methane leaks from gas wells ultimately cancel out the coal displacement effect on the environment, many scientists now advocate the expansion of natural gas production technology, and natural gas exports, to places like China as a means of helping to end their coal. The debate over fracking is still simmering in some states. In New York, the oil and gas industry continues to urge Gov. Andrew Cuomo to open up the state for drilling. In Colorado, environmentalists are urging Gov. John Hickenlooper to impose a moratorium. But the issues have been before both leaders for years, and neither has shown much interest in making a decision either way — meaning New York remains the lone victory anti-fracking groups can point to. Even in California — where the EIA just slashed estimates of recoverable oil by 96% — Governor Jerry Brown, not exactly known for his ties to the oil and gas industry, was ready to allow fracking to proceed.  The EIA projects natural gas production to continue well into the future, though there's more uncertainty about how long the shale oil boom can continue, given outstanding questions about prices, demand, and depletion rates. (And some groups do question the EIA's gas production estimates.)  Either way, as long as the booms are able to last, the country seems to have decided that it is willing to tolerate their local impacts for their apparent greater benefit.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff poses with workers during the opening ceremony of the Beira-Rio stadium in Porto AlegreRIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - When Adilson Ferreira hoped for big crowds during the World Cup, this wasn't what he had in mind. Starting last June, protesters angry about the money Brazil is spending to host the soccer tournament have regularly marched outside the small restaurant he manages in downtown Rio de Janeiro. One night, they smashed the windows and even destroyed the espresso machine. Instead of hiring extra workers during the Cup, as he once planned, Ferreira is now focused on how to limit the damage. "We need the World Cup to be a success on and off the field so everyone can win from this," he said. Expectations that the World Cup might bring a big boost to Brazil's economy have been replaced by more sober forecasts and fears that street demonstrations and other problems could chase away business and tarnish the country's image among investors. President Dilma Rousseff's government estimates the month-long event, which starts on June 12 in Sao Paulo, could add over half a percentage point of economic growth this year and more than half a million jobs. Economists are, on average, more conservative. They see a boost closer to 0.2 percentage points, according to a recent Reuters poll. The economy is expected to grow just 1.6 percent this year, putting pressure on Rousseff as she seeks re-election in October. "It would be worse if we didn't have the Cup, but the tournament will not save our economy from a pretty bad year," said Fabio Bentes, economist with the National Confederation of Commerce, which represents retailers and service companies. It's a long way from the euphoria of 2007, when Brazil was awarded the right to host the tournament, which its team has won a record five times. Back then, politicians said the Cup would showcase Brazil's long-awaited arrival as a major economic power and provide a good reason to completely transform its dilapidated airports, highways and other transport infrastructure. However, only about $7 billion of the $11.7 billion in planned investments for the Cup have been executed, according to the Office of the Comptroller General, a shortfall that most analysts blame on poor planning and red tape. Nationwide only 36 of 93 major projects have been finished, says Sinaenco, a trade group of engineers and architects. The chances are still good that Brazil will host a successful tournament for soccer fans and if the national team wins it for a sixth time - and the first on home soil - there will be wild celebrations. But instead of emphasizing its strengths, the event now risks reinforcing Brazil's image as a country that doesn't invest enough, lacks the political will to undertake big projects and overall has failed to live up to the promise it showed during a long boom last decade. Anger over politicians' broken promises was the main reason why protests broke out during a warm-up tournament in June 2013. As TV images were broadcast around the world of shops on fire and clashes between police and masked demonstrators, the effect on the economy was chilling. Consumer confidence plummeted, and the economy contracted during the ensuing quarter for the first time since the depths of the 2008-09 global financial crisis. Demonstrations since then have been smaller, but still frequently violent. Students, union workers and homeless groups have been organizing even bigger marches for when the World Cup starts, hoping to broadcast their cause to the more than 1 billion spectators around the world. "We are demanding that authorities provide more security," said Antonio Joao Teixeira, an executive with a car dealership chain in Belo Horizonte that suffered $678,000 in damages and lost sales from last year's protests. "This was supposed to be a party," he said. "But it's turning into a real problem for us." Accounts differ widely on whether tourists have been scared off by the threat of renewed unrest. The face of Brazilian soccer, three-time World Cup winner Pele, warned on Monday that the fears have already caused about 25 percent of foreign tourists to cancel their plans to attend. But FIFA, world soccer's governing body, has said it had record demand for World Cup tickets. As many as 600,000 foreign tourists are expected to come to Brazil during the event. The money they spend, along with Brazilian travelers, should add up to about $3 billion, the tourism ministry says. Brazilian officials say the Cup will have an even bigger long-term economic impact because of improvements they've made to infrastructure. Even though many projects fell short, new airport terminals have opened in Sao Paulo, Brasilia and elsewhere, and some road and rail projects were built. Even the 12 soccer stadiums built or renovated for the tournament, widely derided here as symbols of waste, could end up attracting more fans to local games, officials say. Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo has said the Cup could add about 0.4 percentage points of economic growth each year till 2019. Private-sector economists say that figure is overinflated, and point to other side-effects that could slow the economy down. Some hotel and airline executives say demand during the tournament has not been as high as expected. Productivity will also fall as some cities decree public holidays and many private businesses close down for a few hours when Brazil's team is playing. By far the biggest risk, however, is on the streets. "I'm very worried about the country's image. We cannot run the risk of losing any investment at a time that our economy is underperforming," said Antenor Barros Leal, head of the Rio de Janeiro's Chamber of Commerce. "Any sign of instability could scare off investors who were ready to put their money in Brazil." (Editing by Brian Winter and Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
People who enjoy booze may have a little more luck in the online dating world than people who don't. Online dating site AYI.com shared data with Business Insider from a study they did of their members' drinking habits. AYI members have the option of indicating whether they never drink, drink rarely, drink socially, or drink often, and the study looked at various aspects of their members' drinking behavior. While a majority of AYI's members either drink socially or drink often in each state, there is some variation across the country. Only 52.9% of Utahn singles drink frequently, while 68.0% of North Dakotans do: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com AYI also looked at drinking rates for 31 cities across the country. In Salt Lake City, 55% of singles drink socially or often, and in Miami, a full 70% of AYI's members like to drink: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Frequent drinkers are a little bit more likely to get responses to their messages than non-drinkers or members who only drink rarely. This is especially true for women: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com AYI also found that drinking tied into number of Facebook friends. For members under thirty, people who drank rarely have the smallest median number of friends, while people who drink often have the largest number. For members over thirty, the more you drink, the more friends you have: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Fewer than half of users making less than $20,000 per year drink socially or often, while 73% of members making between $80,000 and $150,000 drink frequently, with a small decrease in the highest income group: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com Drinking rates rise sharply for users in their 20s, maxing out in their early 30s, and declining slowly for older users: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AYI.com For more insights on drinking and online dating, check out AYI's blog post on their study. All data for this post comes from AYI.com, owned by SNAP Interactive, a publicly-traded company. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jayanta ShawJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in the eastern Indian city of Kolkata August 23, 2007.NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe follows only three people on Twitter: his outspoken wife, a scandal-tainted politician and India's prime minister-in-waiting Narendra Modi. Modi and Abe are two assertive nationalists who came to power on platforms pledging economic revival. They share a keen interest in neighbor China's growing regional ambitions. Mutually appreciative messages have pinged back and forth on the micro-blogging platform since Modi won a landslide victory in India's general election on Friday. "Personally, I have a wonderful experience of working with Japan ... I am sure we will take India-Japan ties to newer heights," Modi said in one of several tweets, the most effusive of his replies to foreign leaders who congratulated him. Abe replied cheerfully on Tuesday from his @abeshinzo account: "@narendramodi Great talking to you, Mr. Modi. I look forward to welcoming you in Tokyo and further deepening our friendly ties." Relations between India and Japan have gone from strength to strength in recent years, with cooperation on infrastructure projects, trade and defense that is watched closely by China. Japan ranks 13th among India's top trading partners. Official data showed trade between the countries was worth $18.5 billion in 2012/13, up from $13.7 billion two years earlier. But it is still far behind China, with which India shared $65.8 billion in trade in 2012/13. During a January visit to New Delhi in which India and Japan agreed to crank up maritime security cooperation, Abe said their ties had "the greatest potential of any bilateral relationship anywhere in the world." Advisers to 63-year-old Modi say growth is likely to accelerate after he is sworn in as prime minister on Monday. Relations between the leaders go back at least seven years. As chief minister of the western state of Gujarat, Modi met Abe when he visited Japan in 2007 and in 2012 - when the Japanese leader was in opposition. Later that year, Modi called Abe to congratulate him on his return to office. "Modi's victory is likely to turn Indo-Japanese ties - Asia's fastest-developing bilateral relationship - into the main driver of India's 'Look East' strategy," Indian security analyst Brahma Chellaney wrote in a newspaper column this week. Other than Modi, Abe follows his wife, Akie Abe, and Naoki Inose on Twitter. Inose is an author-turned-politician who was forced to resign as governor of Tokyo last year after being caught up in a financial scandal just three months after he helped his city win a bid to host the 2020 Olympic Games. (Additional reporting by Linda Sieg in TOKYO; Editing by Douglas Busvine and Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/StringerParaguayans celebrate Antolin Alcaraz's goal against Italy during their 2010 World Cup Group F soccer match, in Asuncion June 14, 2010.Ten of the 11 "most positive" countries in the world are in Latin America, according to a new report from Gallup. The polling firm asked 1,000 people in 138 countries whether they had experienced various "positive" emotions the previous day.   Overall, most respondents felt some level of positivity in their lives. They were asked whether they experienced enjoyment, laughed or smiled, felt well-rested, were treated with respect, and learned or did interesting things. Paraguay topped the list for the third year in a row, with 87% of respondents there saying they had experienced positive emotions the previous day. "That so many people are reporting positive emotions in Latin America at least partly reflects the cultural tendency in the region to focus on the positives in life," Gallup's Jon Clifton wrote. Syria came in last, with just 36% of respondents there reporting some positivity. "This marks an all-time low for any country Gallup has measured," Gallup noted. "Fewer than one in three Syrians report feeling well-rested (31%), feeling enjoyment (31%), or learning or doing something interesting (25%) the day before." Here are the most positive and negative countries:Gallup Levels of positivity have remained largely consistent since Gallup started tracking results eight years ago. Gallup And here's the full index, with all 138 countries: Gallup FREE AppDownload
Things are still miserable for hedge funds. 2014 started out as their worst year since 2008, and according to a report by research firm Preqin, it's not getting any better. The best-performing strategy isn't even up an average of 1%. After last year when the S&amp;P climbed over 30%, this performance is like getting dunked in an ice cold lake. Even David Tepper, king of the CNBC appearance rally, warned a room full of hedge fund managers at SALT 2014 last week that he's nervous. "I think we're OK. But, listen, there's times to make money and there's times not to lose money," said Tepper. "... you're supposed to think about preserving some of your money ... I think you can still be long, but I think you're supposed to have some cash now." In April, the best-performing strategy — event driven funds — were up a mere 0.60% on average. The worst-performing strategy — long/short, the original hedge fund game — is down an average of -0.42%. The worst region to be in is Asia, where funds are down an average of -0.52%. The best spot — if you can even call it that — is the developed world where funds are up an average of 0.92%. As Tepper said: "I'm not saying go short. Just don't go too friggin long." FREE AppDownload
Sandy Huffaker/Getty ImagesAll three levels of the dreaded Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam will be administered on June 7. That means those test-takers will probably be spending their Memorial Day weekend doing some last-minute cramming.  The CFA curriculum, which consists of three levels, is considered to be the hardest test on Wall Street. To put it in perspective, fewer than 20% of candidates pass all three on the first try. The average test-taker also spends a solid five to six months preparing for the CFA. And every test-taker hopes things go smoothly and according to plan on exam day. But we've heard some crazy horror stories ranging from bathroom disasters to concentration-breaking distractions. We've included them here.  Make sure this doesn't happen to you.  Also, if you have a CFA horror story to share, feel free to email jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We'll keep you anonymous.  FREE AppDownload
1Oak1Oak, a trendy club in New York City's Meatpacking District.Talk about a tough door. The doorman to the celebrity-studded club 1Oak was allegedly beaten by a group of seven men early Monday, including two members of the mixed martial arts group Gracie clan. Craig Molesphini, the doorman, claims Renzo Gracie and his cousin Igor, along with five other men, launched a "premeditated attack" after he didn't let some members of the group in. He described the scene as something out of the Bruce Lee film “Enter the Dragon,” according to The New York Post. He told The Post, “In my entire 14-year career, I have never seen anything like this. At 1:30 a.m. a gray van pulled up, parked in the middle of the street, seven men exited the vehicle and started creating mayhem, screaming, pointing, starting to pick fights with the security guards. One man, [who] I later learned was Renzo, came in my direction, threw the velvet rope on the floor, ran straight into my chest and knocked me back onto the concrete floor onto my elbow. He was on top of me for 20 seconds, trying to punch me, but I wrapped both my arms around his neck so he couldn’t hit me, before somebody pulled him off.” The seven men were charged with gang assault. Molesphini suffered a "suspected fractured elbow and shoulder," according to The Post. The Gracie clan is the famous Brazilian family who started the Ultimate Fighting Championship. The pair were released on $10,000 bail. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleSir Nicholas Winton poses in front of the Winton train at Liverpool Street station in central London in 2009. The historical train departed from Prague on Tuesday to re-trace the original route from Prague to London with several survivors and descendants of 669 so-called "Winton's children" on board. On Dec. 3, 1938, a British stockbroker made the impromptu decision to cancel his skiing vacation and join his friend Martin Blake in Prague, who had desperately asked for his help. The decision changed his life and saved the lives of 669 people in the process. Nicholas Winton turned 105 years-old on Monday, celebrating his birthday at the Czech embassy in London with a cake with 105 candles. The Czech officials surprised Winton with the news that the Czech Republic will award him the Order of the White Lion, the country's highest honor. Czech Republic President Milos Zeman will present the Award to Winton in a ceremony in Prague this October. Winton, who is of German Jewish ancestry,  had heard of the violence against Jewish communities in Germany and Austria, especially the infamous Kristellnacht. After hearing about the Kinderstransport, an effort of British Jewish agencies to bring 10,000 Jewish children to Great Britain, Winton knew he had to arrange a similar operation in Czechoslovakia. Winton explained how the operation got started in The Power Of Good: Nicholas Winton, a documentary on his efforts: "I found out that the children of refugees and other groups of people who were enemies of Hitler weren't being looked after. I decided to try to get permits to Britain for them. I found out that the conditions which were laid down for bringing in a child were chiefly that you had a family that was willing and able to look after the child, and £50, which was quite a large sum of money in those days, that was to be deposited at the Home Office. The situation was heartbreaking. Many of the refugees hadn't the price of a meal. Some of the mothers tried desperately to get money to buy food for themselves and their children. The parents desperately wanted at least to get their children to safety when they couldn't manage to get visas for the whole family. I began to realize what suffering there is when armies start to march." Winton set up his rescue operation at his hotel in Prague, taking applications from parents and registering the children. The response was huge, with thousands of parents lining up. Surprisingly, Winton recieved little resistance from the Nazis on his effort to move the children out of the country.  "We were getting rid of those people Hitler wanted to get rid of," Winton told ABC News in 2008. "I mean, you even had the Gestapo at Wilson Station helping the children onto the trains." After a few weeks, Winton left Trevor Chadwick in charge of the Prague operation and returned to London to negotiate where the children would go. Only Great Britain and Sweden agreed to take the children.  REUTERS/Toby Melville Original legal documents for entry into Great Britain are held by one of the so-called "Winton's children.” To get foster families willing to pay the £50 fee for each child, Winton advertised in newspapers, churches, and synagogues with pictures of the children. The effort worked.  The last train of children left Prague on August 22, 1939. By the time it was all said and done, he had saved 669 children.  His greatest regret is that he could not save more. There was to be another train of children on September 1st, but Hitler’s Germany invaded Poland that day. All borders were closed. The children were never heard from again. Winton never told anyone of his mission, not even his wife, Grete. 50 years later, in 1988, his wife found a scrapbook with photos, documents, and the list of children. She brought it to a Holocaust historian, who arranged for Winton’s story to appear on BBC’s That’s Life. Unbeknownst to him, the audience at the taping was filled with his “children.” You can see his emotional reaction here:   During an interview in 2008, Winton told a Slovakian teenager his philosophy on life: “You need to be prepared always to help other people if there is an opportunity to do so.” “Winton’s children,” as they are called, have gone onto extraordinary lives. Here are just a few:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen waves to the crowd after receiving her honorary doctorate degree from New York University (NYU) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx borough of New York May 21, 2014.Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen gave the commencement speech to NYU's graduates today from Yankee Stadium. For anyone looking for hints about monetary policy, look elsewhere. Yellen, however, did speak about the quality of "grit," something Bernanke demonstrated. And it's something that all young people whould try to demonstrate. From Yellen's speech: ...One aspect of grit that I think is particularly important is the willingness to take a stand when circumstances demand it. Such circumstances may not be all that frequent, but in every life, there will be crucial moments when having the courage to stand up for what you believe will be immensely important. My predecessor at the Fed, Chairman Ben Bernanke, demonstrated such courage, especially in his response to the threat of the financial crisis. To stabilize the financial system and restore economic growth, he took courageous actions that were unprecedented in ambition and scope. He faced relentless criticism, personal threats, and the certainty that history would judge him harshly if he was wrong. But he stood up for what he believed was right and necessary. Ben Bernanke's intelligence and knowledge served him well as Chairman. But his grit and willingness to take a stand were just as important. I hope you never are confronted by challenges this great, but you too will face moments in life when standing up for what you believe can make all the difference... Here's the full text of her speech: Commencement Remarks Thank you, President Sexton. On behalf of the honorees, let me express my thanks to NYU. And congratulations from all of us to you, the Class of 2014, and to your families, especially your parents. This is a special day to celebrate your achievements and to look forward to your lives ahead. Your NYU education has not only provided you with a foundation of knowledge; it has also, I hope, instilled in you a love of knowledge and an enduring curiosity. Life will continue to be a journey of discovery if you tend the fires of curiosity that burn brightly in all of us. Such curiosity led Eric Kandel, here at NYU, to his lifetime goal, to discover the chemical and cellular basis of human memory. A few years after his graduation, he was doing research on cats. But he had the idea of focusing on an animal with a simpler, more fundamental brain: the California sea slug. His colleagues all but ridiculed him for the idea. They "knew" that the study of the lowly sea slug was irrelevant for understanding human memory. Kandel's surgically-skilled collaborator deserted him. To get up to speed on sea slugs, he had to go abroad to study. But Kandel persisted and, in 2000, his curiosity won him the Nobel Prize. It was, as you must have guessed, for deciphering the chemistry of memory in humans, as revealed by his research on sea slugs. Kandel's life, I believe, demonstrates how a persistent curiosity can help us reach ambitious goals, even with great roadblocks in the way. A second tool for lifelong intellectual growth is a willingness to listen carefully to others. These days, technology allows us access to a great breadth of perspectives, but it also allows us to limit what voices we hear to the narrow range we find most agreeable. Listening to others, especially those with whom we disagree, tests our own ideas and beliefs. It forces us to recognize, with humility, that we don't have a monopoly on the truth. Yankee Stadium is a natural venue for another lesson: You won't succeed all the time. Even Ruth, Gehrig and DiMaggio failed most of time when they stepped to the plate. Finding the right path in life, more often than not, involves some missteps. My Federal Reserve colleagues and I experienced this as we struggled to address a financial and economic crisis that threatened the global economy. We brainstormed and designed a host of programs to unclog the plumbing of the financial system and to keep credit flowing. Not everything worked but we kept at it, and we remained focused on the task at hand. I learned the lesson during this period that one's response to the inevitable setbacks matters as much as the balance of victories and defeats. There is an unfortunate myth that success is mainly determined by something called "ability." But research indicates that our best measures of these qualities are unreliable predictors of performance in academics or employment. Psychologist Angela Lee Duckworth says that what really matters is a quality she calls "grit"--an abiding commitment to work hard toward long-range goals and to persevere through the setbacks that come along the way. One aspect of grit that I think is particularly important is the willingness to take a stand when circumstances demand it. Such circumstances may not be all that frequent, but in every life, there will be crucial moments when having the courage to stand up for what you believe will be immensely important. My predecessor at the Fed, Chairman Ben Bernanke, demonstrated such courage, especially in his response to the threat of the financial crisis. To stabilize the financial system and restore economic growth, he took courageous actions that were unprecedented in ambition and scope. He faced relentless criticism, personal threats, and the certainty that history would judge him harshly if he was wrong. But he stood up for what he believed was right and necessary. Ben Bernanke's intelligence and knowledge served him well as Chairman. But his grit and willingness to take a stand were just as important. I hope you never are confronted by challenges this great, but you too will face moments in life when standing up for what you believe can make all the difference. Having dwelt for a moment on failure and grit, let me turn to the deeper meaning that underpins grit and can carry us beyond failure. The hard work of building a life that makes a difference is much easier to sustain when you are passionate about what you pursue. When I first came to the Federal Reserve 37 years ago, I was struck by the passion of my colleagues for the mission of the Fed. And these many years later, each day at work, I see the importance of that passion to carrying out the Fed's duties effectively. If there is a job that you feel passionate about, do what you can to pursue that job; if there is a purpose about which you are passionate, dedicate yourself to that purpose. Finally, I hope that you can find joy in the lives you choose. You are completing one important phase of your life today and embarking on an amazing new adventure. Serious decisions about life surely lie ahead, but take the time to savor the joys, large and small that come along the way. Share those joys with others, and share a laugh when you can. In closing, thank you again, on behalf of myself and the other honorees. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. Congratulations and good luck to the Class of 2014. It's not unusual for sitting Fed Chairs to give commencement speeches. Here's an excerpt from Ben Bernanke's speech to Bard College graduates in 2013: ...The history of technological innovation and economic development teaches us that change is the only constant. During your working lives, you will have to reinvent yourselves many times. Success and satisfaction will not come from mastering a fixed body of knowledge but from constant adaptation and creativity in a rapidly changing world. Engaging with and applying new technologies will be a crucial part of that adaptation... These words couldn't be more universal. They were certainly true for the Fed as it deployed extraordinary and unconventional monetary policies in its effort to stimulate the economy. FREE AppDownload
Mercedes-BenzTo cheer up supercar fans mourning the demise of Mercedes' beloved SLS AMG, the German auto giant has released the first official images of its replacement, the 2015 Mercedes-AMG GT. For the last year, pictures of camouflage-clad Mercedes-AMG GT prototypes have popped up various places on the internet, but this week's release gives the public a preview, albeit a shadowy one, of the new supercar's sheet metal. Mercedes has also posted a brief trailer (below) that gives a fleeting glimpse of the car in action. Based on the photo and video, the GT seems to have retained many of its predecessor's styling cues like a wide aggressive stance, a long sloping hood and short overhangs. However, there is no word yet as to whether the new GT will retain the SLS's trademark gullwing doors.  Performance details for the latest supercar offering from Stuttgart have been few and far in between, but Auto Week reported that "AMG brass" said the GT would come with a 4-litre V-8 putting around 500 horsepower. Official pricing for the Mercedes-AMG GT have not been released, but it is expected to be around the $160,000 mark when it debuts this fall, according to Auto Week. Take a look at the Mercedes-AMG GT in action:   FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderOn a clear day last October, Bloomberg TV anchor Matt Miller stood on the corner of York Avenue at 79th Street, staring across the stream of traffic at the spot where five months earlier he had nearly died. “Crazy,” he muttered, limping back to the curb. The 40-year-old looked the part of a television personality: He wore a camel sport coat over a Brooks Brothers shirt, tennis racket cuff links, and Diesel jeans with an alligator belt. Only the hiking boots seemed off. “I need them for ankle support,” Miller said. A former anchor of Rewind on Bloomberg TV, Miller covers business (and increasingly Bitcoin). He is also an automotive-industry reporter, a gig with serious perks. He is rarely without a luxury sedan or sports car — think Aston Martins, Bentleys, and Ferraris — provided by the automakers for his segments. Weekends often find him test-driving these vehicles at the Monticello racetrack in New York and at Lime Rock in Connecticut. Last week, he raced Lamborghini Aventadors at the New Jersey Motorsports Park, and rode every model of Ducati motorcycle in the Catskills with the company’s head of North American sales. This week, he’s heading off to California to race Audi R8s against the U.S. CEO. Given Miller’s predilection for high-speed hobbies, the disaster that befell him on May 29, 2013, when a white pickup t-boned his Ducati motorcycle in a Manhattan intersection, may seem unsurprising. About 6:30 pm, Miller was commuting home to Bronxville on his Ducati 1199 Panigale, when a white Ford F-250 pickup made an illegal U-turn and collided with his bike. His left leg was instantly crushed. The driver of the pickup fled the scene, and although authorities believe they may have a suspect, the investigation is ongoing. Miller spent almost a month in the hospital, much of it in unbearable pain. After skin grafts, three surgeries, and a grueling program of physical therapy, he is on his way to a full recovery.   The psychological effects may be more long-lasting. A certain penchant for risk-taking was evident to me when Miller and I first met years ago on Fire Island, where our parents owned adjacent summerhouses. Even as a 10-year-old, I was well aware of my 20-something neighbor’s boisterous personality and appreciation for bourbon and German beer. Matt MillerMiller with Mike "The Situation" Sorrentino at a Victoria's Secret show in 2010.Now 15 years later, Miller’s accident appears to have interrupted a tailspin of malaise that had begun to affect his life and career. The lasting effects of his accident — psychologically and physically — are difficult to parse in a life filled with near misses, serendipitous happenings and audacious gambles that have always seemed to come out in his favor.   Raised in Granville, Ohio, by a professor mother and lawyer stepfather, Miller dropped out of Granville High School in 11th grade, in 1991. It was the sixth school he’d tried since age 13. Despite being a gifted student, he hated being in the classroom. His mother, Gill, a professor at Denison University, gave him an ultimatum: If he really wanted to drop out, he would have to go to three psychiatrists; she would pick one, he would pick one, and they would both pick the third. If all three said it was OK for Miller to quit, then he could. “I didn’t want him to be sitting on a shrink’s couch at age 40, blaming me for letting him drop out of school,” she says. All three doctors told Miller that he should drop out of school. He got his GED and took the ACT and SAT. His SAT scores — in the 1500s — earned him a scholarship from the state of Ohio. Miller tore up the letter and, after a brief stint at Denison, declared he would never set foot in a school again. When Gill moved to New York City, bringing Miller’s two younger stepbrothers with her, Miller followed. “He would go out all night,” she says. “He’d be getting in at 6 when I’d be waking up to work, and would get annoyed when I’d turn the light on.” Eventually, she says, she had no choice; she kicked him out, “with no money in his pockets.” Miller drifted among friends, sold tickets to comedy shows, and worked as a door-to-door salesman. He eventually found a steady gig at a record store in Greenwich Village called Generation Records. Meanwhile, he fell into a social scene he feels lucky to have survived. “I was in a dark, dark place,” he says. “A lot of partying, a lot of punk rock, a lot of death metal.” He had a tongue piercing until a Bloomberg producer recently made him remove it. One Christmas, in 1994, after getting a raise from $8.40 an hour to $9 an hour, he asked Gill and his stepfather, Dixon, about trying out college after all, eventually winning a spot at Antioch in Yellow Springs, Ohio. “That’s where I got my first footing in Austrian economics,” Miller said. “The true basis of capitalism.” Matt MillerMiller with friends at the Corps Burussia fraternity in Tübingen in 1999.While attending an economics course at Tübingen University in Germany during his junior year, Miller developed an interest in a bizarre and little-known facet of German cultural history — the fraternal institutions as Verbindungen. Private student groups that date to the 12th century, they are now viewed by many Germans as archaic institutions steeped in racism, sexism, and elitism. Among their more controversial practices is an ancient tradition called Mensur, a form of fixed-stance ritual dueling with swords. Fighters, clad in full body armor, endeavor to lacerate their opponent’s face, while a doctor stands ready to administer first aid. A scar from such a match, called a Schmiss, is considered a badge of honor. After Miller and a friend began visiting the Corps Borussia fraternity as part of a research project, he saw his first duel. The doctor was the father of one of the participants. After the son’s ear was severed by his opponent, he asked his father to reattach it. Instead, the man squished it beneath his boot and said, “Was ist verloren, ist verloren” (“What’s lost is lost”). Convinced he’d finally found his niche, Miller soon moved into the Borussia house and began dueling. During his second and last bout, he won by slitting his opponent across his entire forehead. The wound began spouting blood, and the fight was halted. “After, we had a beer and became friends,” Miller recalls. “He still says, ‘Miller, every time I look in the mirror I think of you.’ It really builds character, because after that, you can pretty much face any kind of physical danger.” Miller says wistfully that nobody had ever cut him deep enough to give him a Schmiss of his own. Miller credits his experience in Germany — holing up in a castle with the children of the country’s elite, having drinking competitions and sword duels and going on ice-climbing expeditions in the Alps — with straightening him out. “It was the beginning of my drive to be somebody,” he says.   After graduating, Miller interviewed at several banks in Frankfurt and tried for a trading position at Commerzbank. Then a Bloomberg reporter and old friend, Katherine Snyder, suggested he check out Bloomberg. “He was too big a risk-taker to become a trader,” Snyder says, mentioning the mock trades Commerzbank asked him to make as part of one interview. He started at Bloomberg as a print reporter in Frankfurt in January 2000, going on to cover telecoms at the height of the internet bubble, when companies like Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone were making major acquisitions. On Sept. 11, 2001, as the terrorist attacks reverberated around the world, Bloomberg decided to get a correspondent in every foreign bureau to report on live television. The headquarters in New York called the Frankfurt print bureau asking who wanted to go on TV, and nobody spoke up — except Miller. He proved to be a natural, and Bloomberg soon began to send him to report from the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. Eventually, they asked him to come to London to sub for a European correspondent who was on vacation. On Nov. 5, 2003, his birthday, Bloomberg moved Miller to London and onto television full time. Soon after, he got his first bike, a Vespa 125. “I was living in Chelsea and I was working in the city. It was this 45-minute commute on the Underground that would just suck the life out of anybody,” he says. “When I got my Vespa, it changed everything because I would wake up in the morning and I would be excited because I got to ride my scooter to work.” The Vespa was Miller’s gateway drug. Soon, it led to a Ducati Monster 620 he picked up on eBay. The seller delivered the bike, gray with red wheels, to Miller’s office, and he drove it home, unlicensed, in his loafers. “It was terrifying at first,” he says. “But by the time I got home, I was a master.” In 2006, Bloomberg brought Miller to New York to groom him as an anchor, giving him a two-hour midday slot anchoring a newsmagazine as a sub for Deirdre Bolton, who was out on maternity leave in 2007. He started covering the automotive beat as a side project.Matt MillerMiller in a favorite T-shirt.  “Nobody cared about cars in 2008 and 2009 — except to cover the bankruptcy, which was from a financial perspective,” Miller says. “For me, it started when I was able to shift people away from the Greek debt crisis for a moment to check out this hot new BMW. Or away from Christine Lagarde or Dominique Strauss-Kahn for a minute to look at this sexy new Porsche four-door.” As car companies rebounded and began to spend more money on advertising, Bloomberg’s relationship with them grew. Miller’s first coanchor, Carol Massar, recalls their easy chemistry. “Broadcast is a funny thing,” she said. “Some relationships you just can’t fake. He remembers things. He’s wicked smart. Matt can just wing it.” She adds that women often trigger his provocative nature and penchant for mischief. “Ask me about the time he did a piece on Victoria’s Secret and brought me ‘presents’ on air.”   By early 2013, Miller was anchoring two shows, Rewind and Street Smart, and producing his own segments in the field several times a week, from playing squash with hedge-fund managers to visiting tailors for new suits. On the air all day, he systematically covered the car industry in Detroit and the New York Stock Exchange from opening to closing bell. He would leave his house at 7 a.m. to be on air from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m., after Rewind. But these responsibilities soon began to overwhelm him. He had been battling depression for almost a year and was still suffering from recurring effects of Lyme disease he had contracted in November at a friend’s farmhouse in Connecticut. Street Smart had been reassigned to Trish Regan and Adam Johnson in 2012, leaving Miller to focus on Rewind and his other segments. Miller’s bosses cancelled Rewind in 2013, replacing the show with Bloomberg West and Mark Crumpton’s Bottom Line. “I think they totally sensed I was overwhelmed,” Miller says. “I mean, I was skating on thin ice in a number of different ways.” Matt MillerMiller on a BMW R1000 at home in Bronxville with his dog, Steve.Finally, by May, Miller had just begun putting his life back together. “It was like someone let me off my leash,” he says about losing Rewind. “That really improved my outlook at work.” He began to focus his energy on covering Detroit and building better relationships with auto executives like Alan Mulally, Bill Ford, and Mark Reuss of General Motors. He felt better thanks to the help of antibiotics, a gluten-free diet, and a new psychiatrist who prescribed him an antidepressant. “Plus, it was summer,” he says. “I was loving riding the bike.” On May 29, 2013, Miller changed into leather pants and a motorcycle jacket that hardens on impact and put on his boots. Helmet in hand, he walked through the space-age lobby of Bloomberg’s Lexington Avenue headquarters, past a gauntlet of eye-rolls at his excessive gear. It was about 6:30 p.m., and he had a date that night with a new girlfriend, Mariu Tena, a pretty 22-year-old Spanish college student. In the parking garage, Miller hopped on his Ducati and began his commute home, heading north on York Avenue. As he crested a slight hill before the 79th Street intersection, a cab made a left turn without signaling, and he swerved right to avoid it. At that moment, a white Ford F-250 pickup truck heading south made an illegal U-turn into the intersection. Miller caught the truck in his peripheral vision; he veered to the right and clutched his brakes, causing his front tire to lock up and his rear one to lift into the air. The bike rotated clockwise slightly, and the truck struck Miller on the left side, crushing his left leg between the two vehicles. His helmet slammed into the truck. Matt MillerMiller with Ford's Alan Mulally at the Dearborn Truck Plant. At that moment, Jake Cohen, a college freshman, was staring out the window of his parents’ nearby apartment. He watched the white pickup make an “erratic turn” and slam into Miller. “There was a very loud crashing noise,” he says. “As soon as he hit him, he stopped for a minute. He obviously recognized that he hit somebody. Then he took off in the opposite direction.” People began to gather around Miller, who kept trying to stand up, all the while yelling obscenities at the fleeing pickup. Another witness recorded the license plate and described the driver to the police as a black male, bald, in his 30s or early 40s with a medium build and wearing a white shirt. Before long, paramedics arrived on the scene. They took off Miller’s helmet and jacket, then took out a pair of scissors to remove his boots and pants. “No, no, no! These pants cost, like, 500 bucks!” Miller protested, to little effect. As he was loaded into the ambulance, he fretted about his date, his career, and, finally, his leg. Next thing he knew, he was in the trauma center at New York Presbyterian, his head and neck rigid in a brace that made him feel paralyzed, an IV drip in his arm. Miller’s brother, Stewart, soon arrived at the hospital and began making calls. First he called Mariu, Miller’s girlfriend, then his mother, Gill. Meanwhile, as the drugs started kicking in, Miller began joking with the nurses. “You all deserve raises,” he told them, promising to do a story on what heroes they were.   Dr. Dean Lorich, an orthopedic trauma specialist, operated on Miller’s leg the day after the accident. After the leg began to swell uncontrollably, he told Gill and Stewart that there was a 50% chance it would have to be amputated. Better not to mention that to Matt, they decided. Matt MillerMiller in the hospital, shortly after his accident.By Thursday night, Miller was in so much pain that he was writhing, begging the nurses for more morphine. Eventually, the swelling in Miller’s leg reduced enough to permit a second surgery. Miller would keep his leg. On June 9, a plastic surgeon closed the final fasciotomy incision, which had grown to about three inches wide, with skin grafted from his upper left thigh; he expressed gratefulness that they didn’t take his tattoo of Skinny Puppy, the Canadian electro-industrial band, from his other thigh. His wounds now closed, Miller began gradual physical therapy. Therapists used a Continuous Passive Motion machine to bend his leg. He had to practice climbing stairs; on his first attempt he froze in terror, sat, and slid down the steps. On June 15, after almost three weeks in the hospital, Miller was discharged. Back in Bronxville, he worked to regain his independence. Two nurses made sure the house was handicap-accessible, and determined that he didn’t need any additional help. His family catered to his every need. The Millers also began working with a lawyer, Andrew “Duke” Maloney III — a former criminal prosecutor and a motorcycle rider himself — to track down the driver of the white pickup. Maloney was critical of the lack of progress the NYPD had made. It took him just a few hours to run the plate on LexisNexis research database. The vehicle’s owner was Osbourne Karl Henriques, 66. However, Henriques was in Federal custody in North Carolina at the time of Miller’s accident, awaiting a psych evaluation to stand trial for possessing with intent to distribute more than 200 kilos of marijuana. Maloney discovered that Henriques lived with two adult children and a grandchild in Queens. One, a 35-year-old son with the same name had served nine years in prison for attempted murder and intimidating a witness, before being released in 2011. On Google Maps, Maloney saw a white Ford pickup parked in the younger Henriques’ driveway. Despite these breakthroughs, the investigation stalled. Police contacted the younger Henriques, but he simply denied he had been behind the wheel. The traffic camera hadn’t been checked in time and the recording was taped over, Maloney says. Without proof, there could be no criminal liability. “Unfortunately, I don’t believe the NYPD put the resources and time and effort into the matter,” he says. “And I think if they had, there might have been a different result.” As for insurance liability, the most Maloney could get from the elder Henriques’ Geico policy was $50,000 — which Miller chose not to accept, opting to fight the insurance companies for more. “The irony is, when people get themselves insufficient insurance, they essentially make themselves judgment proof,” Maloney says. Meanwhile, Miller went to physical therapy up to three times a week for four months. His treatment included cryotherapy, massages, muscle stimulation, moist heat, whirlpools, isometrics, stationary bike, treadmill, swimming, and elliptical. He meticulously dressed his gaping wound, spreading moisturizer over his skin graft. By the end of July, he could walk with crutches and had returned to work. His camera angles were set up to allow him to wear shorts on the air. By October, after months of recovery and rehab, he was finally able to walk without a cane.   One Jan. 13, the sun has yet to rise as Miller stands in his hotel room, preparing to cover the first day of press week at the North American International Auto Show. He puts on a pair of business shoes for the first time since the accident eight months earlier — a small but telling symbol of a return to normalcy. “Alden Cordovan loafers,” he says. “The Wall Street kind.” His hotel room is tidy, but stacks of car magazines — Truckin’, Motor Trend, Automobile, and Road &amp; Track — litter nearly every surface. The Auto Show is his Super Bowl, he says with a smile, that’s why he can’t wear his hiking boots. He wears a blue suit with no tie and eye-searing red socks. He will be one of 5,212 journalists covering the event, more than the actual Super Bowl. Matt MillerAt the auto show.Miller is most excited to see the reveal of the new Ford F-150. “We’re interviewing Bill fucking Ford today,” he says. “Last year it was the Corvette, now it’s all about the truck.” At 5:23 a.m. Miller climbs into a 2013 F-150 Raptor, a loaner from Ford for his stay in Detroit, for the trip to the Cobo Center. “If you look at the accident as the worst thing that’s happened to me in the last year, this is the best,” he says. “I love these people. And I love Detroit, even though it’s fucking bombed out.” As downtown Detroit begins to stir, Miller explains the significance of the new truck, the future of Detroit, and what’s going to happen when he gets to the convention center (his producers are basically going to yell at him for a while). "That’s the fist sculpture from the movie '8 Mile,'" he says, pointing at the local landmark. Bloomberg didn’t spring for parking passes this year, and finding a spot for the massive truck proves difficult. At one garage, an attendant shakes his head. “You too big,” he says. “That’s what she said!” Miller shouts. Once inside the show, Miller interviews Bill Ford Jr., an exclusive for Bloomberg, and the chairman seems impressed by his knowledge. Miller spends the next hour inspecting the new Fords, opening car doors and checking out the ramps in the new pickups. He stands on a ramp. His height now significantly increased, he’s directly in the shot as CBS tries to interview Alan Mulally about 50 yards away. He waves at Ray Day, Mulally’s vice president of communications. “Come on, Matt!” barks Dan Barbossa, a PR manager for Ford. Later, Steven Curtis, who does PR for Toyota, strikes up a conversation with Miller. They talk in hushed tones about the new sports car that will be revealed today. The FT-1 will be a throwback to the Supra, connecting Toyota with its sporty heritage. “Is it gonna steal the show?” Miller asks. “Yeah right, Mr. Twitter!” Curtis responds. Off the record, Miller says. “I just want to know!” Later that morning, Miller, waiting to interview Mulally, explains his accident to a cameraman. “I got hit by a truck, dude,” he says. “Like one of these?” says the cameraman, pointing to the new F-150. “Actually, it was an F-250.” Mulally walks up to Miller, entering the circle of cameras and equipment with two directors' chairs in the center for the interview. “What’s happening?” the Ford CEO asks Miller with a smile, and then bows, reenacting the “I’m not worthy” shtick from the movie "Wayne’s World." The cameras roll. The interview goes well; it flows by, unforced, like a well-rehearsed dialogue, just a couple of gearheads shooting the breeze. Mullaly wants to know what Miller thinks of the F-150. “What do you think?” he asks. “You know trucks.” “I have to have an unbiased opinion as a journalist,” Miller says. “But I’ll say I’m incredibly impressed.  Obviously 700 pounds of weight saving. And you have built-in motorcycle ramps, which is a huge bonus for me.” “It’s all about you, Matt,” Mullaly says. Later, Mulally sings the anchor’s praises to Business Insider. “He’s true north,” Mulally enthuses. “We love him because he knows and loves automobiles, and we like to make him smile.” Miller’s producers give him an hour for lunch, begging him to be back at 11:30 and not to run off. Admitting he has a tendency to “get crazy and annoy people,” he asks if he’s doing OK. Assured that he’s doing fine, he rushes out for a pair of Detroit’s beloved Coney dogs. At 1 p.m., Miller is sitting in the front row at the Fiat press conference, where CEO Sergio Marchionne will announce the finalization of the Chrysler acquisition. Reporters barrage Marchionne with big questions about the acquisition, where the headquarters will be, and international ramifications of the deal. Then Miller chimes in. “I am old enough to remember lusting after Alfa Romeo Spyders when I was in high school,” he says. “You aren’t that old,” Marchionne interrupts with a smile. “When you came in and bought Chrysler,” Miller says. “I was so excited.” He asks Marchionne when Alfa Romeos will be reintroduced in America. “2014,” Marchionne says. “Then you can stop lusting after them, and redirect it for better uses.” “He has no problem doing that,” one of his producers says. Later, Miller slips away without Marchionne noticing. Another reporter asks a question about the international potential of Alfa Romeo. “I lost my guy,” he says about Miller. “The one with the hormonal imbalance. What word did he use?” “Lust,” says the crowd in unison. “Oh, he’s gone,” Marchionne says, with a touch of self-pity. “I feel used!”   A couple of weeks later, Miller steps into his driveway wearing a Held motorcycle suit — similar to the one that saved his life — and a gleaming white helmet. “Daddy’s going for a ride, Steve,” he says to his undersize rottweiler smiling from behind a wrought-iron fence. He stands confidently on both legs. If he didn’t eagerly tell you how he’d been hit by a truck, or proudly show you his 11-inch scar resembling, he says, a part of the female anatomy, you would have no idea that two titanium plates and 13 screws hold his left leg together. Bloomberg TVMiller on Bloomberg.Miller’s taking a ride along the Hudson Valley’s hairpin roads to Bear Mountain to take his bike to family-owned Rockwell Cycles in Fort Montgomery, New York, his favorite shop. He punches in the code and his garage door opens. Pausing a moment, he admires his red-and-white Ducati Multistrada Pikes Peak edition standing in its wheel chock. “Isn’t she beautiful?” he says, throwing a leg over the bike. With the help of “Duke” Maloney, he’s still pursuing Osborne Henriques to pay his medical bills, but the legal case seems a distant concern as the engine starts with a high-pitched whine. Miller backs the bike cautiously out of his driveway and into the street. He rolls through the first stop sign because nobody is ever there, but stops completely at an intersection. On a ramp for the Sprain Brook Parkway, he leans forward, tucking in his elbows, and takes off.   Ben Yeager is a recent graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism. He will head up to Alaska this month to report for the Cordova Times. He can be reached via Twitter @benbiggsyeager. Read more of Business Insider's long-form features » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The major stock market indexes are each higher after selling off yesterday. The Dow is up 125 points (0.7%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 10 (0.5%), and the Nasdaq is up 24 (0.5%). The economic calendar was light this morning, with U.S. mortgage data showing applications grew 0.9% over the preview week, better than the modest decline that had been expected. Two economic events are set for later today, with Janet Yellen set to speak at NYU's commencement at 11:00 am, and the minutes from the latest FOMC meeting set for a 2:00 pm release.  Equity Movers: FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Skye GouldWomen are having a bigger effect on our world than ever before. In the past year, women have taken on serious new leadership roles around the world: Janet Yellen became chair of the Federal Reserve, Park Geun-hye became president of South Korea, and Angela Ahrendts was tapped to become the head of Apple's retail stores. These moves are redefining women's roles and empowering younger generations of women to step up. From tech to finance to retail, we've found the 30 women who are changing the world. Melia Robinson contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/iamknownIt's been a decent morning for homeowners. The Mortgage Banker's Association reported that mortgage applications on a seasonally adjusted basis increased 0.9% from the prior week. This increase was bolstered by mortgage refinances, which grew 4%. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage also fell 6 basis points to 4.33%, its lowest levels since October. Homeowners looking to lower their mortgage payments should benefit.  Refinance activity still remains more than more than 70% from its levels last year. Check out this historical chart from Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk Blog This data also comes on the heels of earnings reports from home improvement retailers Home Depot (HD) and Lowe's (LOW). Within the last day, both companies reported earnings, and while their first quarter results came in a bit mixed, their outlooks for the rest of the year were both upbeat.  Yesterday morning, Home Depot reaffirmed its fiscal 2014 sales outlook and raised its profit view, though the company's earnings per share are expected to be bolstered by $3.75 billion in share repurchases expected during the rest of the year.  Lowe's this morning reported first quarter sales that disappointed, but the company's quarterly earnings and fiscal year outlooks were in-line with expectations. Lowe's CEO Robert Niblock, “[p]erformance has improved in May which, together with our strengthening execution, gives us the confidence to reaffirm our sales and operating profit outlook for the year." Lowe's also said it expects operating profit margin to improve 65 basis points. Lowe's shares opened fractionally lower, while Home Depot stock opened a bit higher. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
There have been news reports the past few days about how former Chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank Ben Bernanke has been going around giving speeches in private to hedge funders and getting paid gobs of money. Obviously a lot of the focus has been on the fact that Bernanke is getting paid more per speech than his annual salary as head of the Federal Reserve. But a chart sent out to clients this morning from Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok sheds a different angle on what's going on. The chart shows, essentially, that for the past several years, interest rates have been entirely driven by Fed communications. Rates fall when it looks as if the Fed will stay low for a long time. Rates rise when the Fed hints that a rate hike might come sooner. Deutsche BankWhat's really interesting, though, is the final arrow in the chart: "Bernanke dinner talk." One of the things Bernanke has been saying, reportedly, is that we'll be in a low-rate environment for an extremely long time. And alas, rates have been falling again. If the primary mechanism of the Fed is communication — and it is, since interest rates are at zero and they can't be cut further — and Bernanke's communications are still influencing the market, then it stands to reason that we have something of a shadow Fed chair, who's still conducting monetary policy in secret meetings with wealthy investors. FREE AppDownload
Accidentally Domesticated via TumblrPet supplies retailer PetSmart is tumbling in pre-market trading after cutting its fiscal year 2014 outlook. PetSmart cut its profit outlook to earnings of $4.29 to $4.39 per share from $4.42 to $4.54, and also slashed its comparable store sales growth outlook to "relatively flat" from up 2% to 4%.  For the first quarter, PetSmart reported earnings per share that beat estimates, while sales grew 1.1% to $1.7 billion, lower than the 3.7% growth analysts had been expecting. In its earnings press release, PetSmart CEO David Lenhardt said that a, "challenging and volatile consumer environment and a competitive market" held the company back from meeting its sales goals. PetSmart is down more than 7% in pre-market trading. PetSmart fell 4.7% yesterday amid a tough day for retail stocks.  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderJPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon sat down with the Today show's Matt Lauer to announce that his bank will make a $100 million investment in Detroit over the next five years. Detroit, which filed for bankruptcy in July 2013, has an unemployment rate of 14% and is $19 billion in debt. "I think we could make this our finest moment," Dimon told Lauer. He was talking about regular Americans — firefighters, small-business owners, law enforcement, and more.  But Lauer was blunt. He asked if a cynic might think that Dimon was really hoping this would be JPMorgan's finest hour, especially after a rough year of paying fine after fine for its own malfeasance. "The cynic would be wrong," Dimon responded. "We invest and develop communities around the world. And we've been doing this since our heritage started 200 years ago...So that's what banks do. They do it commercially. They do community development." JPMorgan was the only bank that didn't need a government bailout after the financial crash of 2008. Back then, he was bold in calling for "Old Testament Justice" for those who destroyed the economy. That basically cemented his status as Wall Street's Captain America ... until it didn't. Since 2009, his bank has paid $31 billion in government fines related and unrelated to the crisis. So perhaps Dimon wants a little of his shine back — maybe he wants to sit closer to Obama at the table again. Either way, this sounds like a good deal for Detroit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent Bonnafe(Reuters) - U.S. authorities are seeking more than $5 billion from BNP Paribas SA to settle federal and state investigations into the French lender's dealings with sanctioned countries, Bloomberg reported, citing a person familiar with the matter. Discussions about the penalty amount are continuing and the final amount could change, the report said. (http://r.reuters.com/tac59v) BNP Paribas, France's biggest bank, was in talks with U.S. authorities to pay more than $3 billion to resolve probes into whether it violated U.S. sanctions on Iran, Sudan and other countries, Reuters reported last week citing people familiar with the matter. The bank warned last month it faced fines in excess of $1.1 billion over the matter, but declined to provide a specific number. The probes are being conducted by the U.S. Justice Department, the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan, the U.S. Treasury Department, the Manhattan District Attorney's office, and the New York Department of Financial Services. The settlement could be announced as early as next month, the Bloomberg report said. BNP Paribas, the U.S. authorities were not immediately available for comment outside regular business hours. (Reporting by Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Patrick Hoesly / Flickr, CCTarget's Q1 financial results are out, and the numbers are a little light. Q1 adjusted earnings fell 13.9% year-over-year to $0.70 per share versus expectations for $0.71 per share. Management also reduced its full-year adjusted earnings guidance to $3.60-$3.90 per share from $3.85-$4.15 per share. The good news is that sales appear to be stabilizing. Comparable store sales declined by just 0.3% during the period. Analysts were forecasting a 1.1% drop. Target has been struggling to restore the trust of consumers after around 40 million credit card numbers were stolen by hackers. "While we are pleased with this momentum, we need to move more quickly," said CEO John Mulligan. "As a result, we have made changes to our management team and are investing additional resources to drive U.S. traffic and sales, improve our Canadian operations and advance our ongoing digital transformation. We have updated our 2014 earnings expectations to reflect the impact of these investments and believe that they position Target for accelerated profitable growth as a leading omnichannel retailer." The stock is modestly higher in pre-market trading. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogAccording to Oil Market Intelligence (OMI), world crude oil supply rose to a record 90.2mbd on average over the past 12 months through April. The price of a barrel of Brent crude oil has been remarkably flat (with some volatility) around $110 since early 2011. World oil supply has been well balanced with world oil demand at this price. Let’s review some of the highlights of the latest demand data compiled by OMI through April using 12-month averages to smooth out seasonal volatility: (1) World. World crude oil demand rose to a record 91.7mbd last month. However, the growth rate has slowed from a recent high of 1.5% y/y during September 2013 to 1.0% during April. This suggests that the global economy is growing, but at a relatively slow pace. (2) Emerging countries. Most of the recent slowdown is attributable to emerging economies. The OMI data show that the growth rate among non-OECD countries is down from 3.7% a year ago to 1.9% currently. Among the 34 advanced economies of the OECD, oil demand growth is close to zero on a y/y basis, but that’s an improvement from negative readings during 2012 and 2013. (3) China &amp; India. Oil demand rose sharply in China from 2009 through mid-2013. Since then, it’s been flat around a record 10mbd, confirming that the country’s economy is in the midst of a significant slowdown. On the other hand, India’s oil demand rose to a record high of 3.8mbd last month, up 3.8% y/y. (4) Europe. I have often shown that oil demand is a useful indicator of economic growth. In addition to suggesting a significant slowdown in China, it is confirming that the Eurozone’s economic recovery is very weak. Oil demand in Germany has been flat around 2.4mbd since 2010. Demand in France, Italy, and Spain remains on a downtrend that’s been going on for over five years. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Oil Story. (1) Regina and Saskatoon. (2) Bigger than Saudi Arabia. (3) Counting rigs. (4) National oil companies seeking experienced Western partners. (5) $110 a barrel remains the right price for now. (6) Global oil demand at record high, but growing slowly. (7) Emerging economies are slowing. (8) China’s oil demand has been flat for a year at record high. (9) Eurozone oil demand confirms weak economic recovery. (10) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy sector. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
The pour-over coffee is one of the freshest brews around, and it's popularity is rapidly growing despite its higher cost and longer brew time. Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Dado RuvicA flood-damaged Opel Astra is seen in Topcic Polje, May 20, 2014. At least 40 people have died in Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia, after days of the heaviest rainfall since records began 120 years ago caused rivers to burst their banks and triggered hundreds of landslides. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. EIA Cuts California Shale Estimate. The L.A. Times reports the EIA is cutting the estimate of recoverable shale oil in the state's Monterey play by 96%. Now it says it has about as much as Bolivia.  Yellen And Fed Minutes. The latest Fed minutes will be released at 2 p.m. this afternoon. Meanwhile Janet Yellen will speak at NYU's graduation. The KC Fed's Esther George and Minneapolis' Narayana Kocherlakota also speak today.  China And Russia Pipeline. Russia's Gazprom and China's China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) have signed a historic 30-year contract to supply natural gas to China, according to Russia Today and confirmed by Bloomberg. UK Retail Sales Explode. Retail sales jumped 1.3% in April from March, and 6.9% YOY. It's the highest year-on-year growth in the quantity bought since May 2004 and continued a pattern of year-on-year growth since early 2013. Tiffany's Beats. Tiffany &amp; Co. said same-store sales were up 11%, beat on top and bottom lines, and boosted its fiscal 2014 outlook.  Lowe's Winter. The home improvement giant said same-store sales climbed 0.9%, missing expectations for 5%, but the retailer topped earnings estimates and it raised forecasts. Mortgages. MBA Mortgage Apps  climbed 0.9% week-on-week, while the mortgage purchase index, which includes all mortgage applications for purchases of single-family homes fell 2.8%, compared with a decline of just 0.1% a week ago. Top JPM China Banker Arrested. JP Morgan's former head of China investment banking has been arrested by Hong Kong’s anticorruption agency, the New York Times said.  BOJ Does Nothing. The Bank of Japan held rates the same and said the economy "has continued to recover moderately," the same words it used a month earlier, the FT noted. Markets. U.S. futures were higher. Stocks in Europe were mixed. China's Shenzhen composite was up 1%. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It by William C. Dear In an exhaustive new book titled "O.J. Is Innocent And I Can Prove It," private investigator William C. Dear details his 18-year investigation of the June 12, 1994, murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Dear concludes that O.J. didn't kill his wife and her friend — but he did visit the scene of the crime shortly after it occurred — and that evidence suggests his son Jason (who was 24 at the time) did it in a rage killing. Dear made a list of all potential suspects, visited the crime scene and other relevant places, conducted interviews, established a clear timeline of events, debunked alibis, collected evidence and generally aimed to subvert false assumptions made by the LAPD. Dear's goal is that the information "will lead to the convening of a special grand jury, an arrest, and a conviction for these senseless murders." To most of those who watched the famous "white Bronco" low-speed chase and trial after the killings in 1994, it will likely seem inconceivable that someone other than Simpson committed the murders, but Dear cites some compelling evidence to support his case. At the very least, it seems Jason Simpson should have been considered a suspect, which he never was. (And if there is any conceivable explanation for OJ's bizarre behavior after the murders other than that he killed his wife, it is that he knew that his son had killed his wife and wanted to protect him.) Importantly, this is not the first time Dear has investigated a murder. He used the same method to solve the murder of an Ohio man named Dean Milo, which resulted in 11 people (including Milo's brother) being sent to jail. We've pulled out the biggest reasons why Dear considers OJ's son a major suspect. FREE AppDownload
BerkeleyThe EIA has cut its original estimate of recoverable shale oil reserves in California's much-hyped Monterey shale play by 96%, the L.A. Times' Louis Sahagun reported late Tuesday.  The agency now says there are just 600 million barrels of recoverable crude — as much as Bolivia. Previously the agency had said there were up to 13.7 billion recoverable barrels.  The new estimate is expected to be released next month. Sahagun quotes EIA analyst John Staub: From the information we've been able to gather, we've not seen evidence that oil extraction in this area is very productive using techniques like fracking...Our oil production estimates combined with a dearth of knowledge about geological differences among the oil fields led to erroneous predictions and estimates. In December, the Post Carbon Institute published a report calling into question the EIA's initial estimate, noting that the Monterey's geology, while superficially similar to the country's marquee shale plays like the Bakken and Eagle Ford, contained unusual characteristics that would make it more difficult to access. In a statement last night the group said, “The oil had always been a statistical fantasy. Left out of all the hoopla was the fact that the EIA’s estimate was little more than a back-of-the-envelope calculation.” Since the report was published in California, lawmakers have been under tremendous pressure to allow fracking to proceed. Staring them in the face was an estimate that the Monterey shale could create up to 3 million jobs. Governor Jerry Brown had previously said fracking the Monterey presented "a fabulous economic opportunity," and last fall signed into law regulations that would allow the practice to continue in the state. Now all that seems to be derailed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongRussia's President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, shake hands in Shanghai on May 21, 2014. Russia's Gazprom and China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPC) have signed a historic 30-year contract to supply natural gas to China, according to Russia Today and confirmed by Bloomberg. The total value of the contract is $400 billion, Gazprom CEO Aleksey Miller told RT, although the price in the document remains a "commercial secret." Negotiations have been ongoing for more than a decade.  The deal would send 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas to China each year, starting in 2018, with the potential to expand the annual capacity to 61 billion cubic meters. The gas will be sent through a new eastern pipeline linking the countries. Reuters reports that Russia will invest $55 billion in gas exploration and pipeline construction and Beijing will give roughly $20 billion to Moscow as part of the agreement. China consumed about 170 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2013 and set a target of up to 420 billion cubic meters a year by 2020. Europe is Russia’s largest energy importer as it bought more than 160 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2013, but tensions and sanctions over Putin's meddling in Ukraine have Russia looking elsewhere. Consequently, the deal is huge for the Kremlin since natural gas represents nearly 60% of Russia's total exports. That said, the amount of gas is still only about a fifth of what Russia sends to Europe. Here's a look at the major gas pipelines between Russia and Europe: 
Thomson ReutersYekaterina Len, 61, cries outside her destroyed house following what locals say was overnight shelling by Ukrainian forces, in SlavianskMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian troops that took part in military exercises in three provinces bordering Ukraine have packed up and are preparing to return to their permanent bases, the state-run news agency RIA cited the Defense Ministry as saying. The Kremlin said on Monday that Putin had told his defense chief to order troops back to their bases after drills in the Rostov, Belgorod and Bryansk regions, but NATO and the United States have said they saw no signs of a withdrawal. A ministry statement said the units in question had spent 24 hours dismantling field camps, packing and preparing military vehicles and were now "moving toward train stations and airfields," RIA reported. (Writing by Steve Gutterman, Editing by Thomas Grove) FREE AppDownload
More very strong data in the UK: This time it's retail sales that are coming in well above expectations. From the UK's Office of National Statistics: -- In April 2014, the quantity bought in the retail industry increased by 6.9% compared with April 2013 and by 1.3% compared with March 2014. This was the highest year-on-year growth in the quantity bought since May 2004 and continued a pattern of year-on-year growth since early 2013 -- The underlying pattern, as expressed by the rolling three month on three month growth rate, was one of growth, with the quantity bought increasing by 1.8%. This was the highest since March 2004 and was the 14th consecutive month of three-month-on-three month growth in the quantity bought. -- With the exception of petrol stations, all stores saw year-on-year increases in sales volumes. Notably the food sector posted its strongest year-on-year growth since January 2002, increasing by 6.3%. Feedback from food store retailers suggested that a better than expected Easter and better weather conditions helped to boost sales. Meanwhile, the pound is on an absolute tear. It's been surging all morning (in part, perhaps, due to the BOE minutes, which just came out, indicating a more balanced view on future rate hikes). FinViz Obviously the market is expecting faster growth and eventually higher rates in the UK. FREE AppDownload
Just passing long an interesting data point via Ice Cap Asset Management.  They highlight the fact that we’re getting pretty long in the tooth for secular bull markets that haven’t experienced a 20% correction: PragCap FREE AppDownload
Kevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesGood morning! Markets in Europe are in the green, and US futures are slightly higher. As it stands now, this is a turnaround from yesterday's losses. Things remain quite quiet this week. There's very little going on on the corporate, central bank, or economic fronts. Asian markets were a bit weaker, though not dramatically so. Today at 2 PM we get FOMC Minutes, which should be interesting. FREE AppDownload
