TO FIND OUT how much energy security has mattered in the Pacific's recent history, ask the Japanese. At the museum of the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which honours the country's war dead (sometimes controversially), an exhibit suggests, with a jarring note of self-justification, that an American naval blockade against Japanese oil imports in 1941 triggered the Pacific war. Seventy years later a tsunami that swooshed in from the Pacific and knocked out the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station led to the closure of Japan's 54 nuclear reactors. Parts of the country, which is a greedy consumer of electricity, were left practically powerless. Huge tankers full of natural gas, heading for terminals dotted along Japan's Pacific coastline, eventually got the country up and running again. In 2012 Japan consumed 37% of the world's liquefied natural gas (LNG). The EconomistThe past few years have seen some upheavals in the balance of energy security around the Pacific. America, which used to be the world's largest net oil importer, ceded that spot to China in 2013 (see chart 4). Thanks to shale oil and gas, this year it is set to become the world's biggest producer of oil and liquid natural gas. It is already the number one producer of dry natural gas. That highlights the prospect of huge trans-Pacific complementarities. China is reducing the dominance of dirty coal in its energy mix, Japan and South Korea are denuclearising, and fast-developing countries like Indonesia are turning from LNG exporters to importers. Yet to date there is next to no trans-Pacific trade in oil, gas or coal in either direction; in 2011 the Singapore-based Pacific Economic Co-operation Council (PECC) said it added up to only 1.4% of global trade in those products. According to statistics from BP, a global energy firm, North America gets most of its crude-oil imports from Canada or via its east coast from Latin America, the Middle East and west Africa. Asia receives the vast majority from the Middle East via the South China Sea. The Pacific is a big blank. But that may be about to change, with potentially big implications for the economic interdependence and geopolitics of the Pacific region. Enefit The epicentre of the change is North America, whose huge gas discoveries are about to turn it into a global LNG power. In Canada Asian-owned companies plan to build the first export terminals on the coast of British Columbia in the next few years to ship LNG across the Pacific. In the United States the government has recently approved the construction of four terminals to liquefy gas and ship it west via the Panama Canal. One of those, Dominion Energy's Cove Point, near Washington, DC, built as an LNG import terminal in the 1970s, had been mothballed for much of the following three decades. Not long after it resumed receiving LNG imports in 2003, American natural-gas prices plummeted in response to the shale revolution, putting the terminal out of business again. So in 2011 Dominion switched to marketing Cove Point to foreign LNG customers as a potential export facility. On September 29th this year the Federal Regulatory Energy Commission finally approved construction of an export terminal. Those LNG exports will benefit from a $5.3 billion expansion of the Panama Canal. Due to be completed (after several delays) in 2016, this will make the canal big enough to accommodate nine-tenths of the world's LNG fleet, potentially cutting at least 11 days off shipping times between the Gulf of Mexico and East Asia. The implications of this new trade on both sides of the Pacific could be substantial. According to Jane Nakano, of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, as of last year Japan had contracted to buy about a fifth of its LNG imports from America once it gets the necessary permissions. Currently dry gas in America costs $4-5 per million British thermal units (MBTUs). Even allowing for another $6 or so to liquefy the gas and transport it to Asia (and far less from Canada's west coast), the price would still be a lot lower than the $15-18 per MBTU that LNG currently fetches in Japan. Cheaper energy would make Japan's economy more competitive, and America would see a much-needed improvement in its trade balance. For American exporters, that scenario involves risks. Australia, one of the world's two biggest LNG exporters, is ramping up its output over the next five years, much of it destined for Asia. China, another big potential buyer, appears to be avoiding American LNG. This year it signed a $400 billion deal with Russia to import natural gas from there for the next three decades. But the energy markets of China and North America are warily intertwining in other ways, mainly through Chinese investment in oil. North America has received a flood of investment from Chinese oil companies since the global financial crisis. In 2012 CNOOC, one of China's state-owned energy behemoths, bought Canada's Nexen for $15 billion, seven years after its bid for America's Unocal was scuppered by opposition in Washington. The welcome is not always open-armed. After the Canadian deal the prime minister, Stephen Harper, put a financial limit on further acquisitions: "Canadians have not spent years reducing the ownership of sectors of the economy by our own governments only to see them bought and controlled by foreign governments instead," he said. But Mexico, which in 2013 changed its constitution to allow foreign investment in its oil industry for the first time in 75 years, would welcome China with open arms if it wanted to invest in its energy sector, according to Ildefonso Guajardo, its economy minister. Tellingly, in the past two years Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has had four meetings with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping--the same number as with President Obama. The benefits of this new North American energy glut go far beyond the oil industry. For a start, it is making North American manufacturing more competitive. The combination of cheaper energy and rising Chinese wages could make Mexico a more attractive factory floor. But it is also sending two powerful geopolitical signals: one to America's close allies, such as Japan and South Korea, that the friendship can now also help underpin their energy security; the other, to the wider Asian region, that North America has bounced back from the global financial crisis. In time, such symbols of economic revival could resonate strongly on the other side of the Pacific. Eduardo Pedrosa, the Singapore-based secretary-general of PECC, calls it a tectonic shift in American competitiveness. "I don't think anyone over here realises how massive this shale revolution is for the US economy." Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - A trading link that will let Hong Kong and Shanghai investors buy and sell shares on each other's bourse debuted on Monday, in a major step towards opening China's tightly controlled capital markets. Shares in both Shanghai and Hong Kong opened around 1 percent higher but quickly erased their gains, with key mainland and Hong Kong indexes turning negative on suspected profit taking by traders who had positioned for the launch, analysts said. "The market had already responded to the stock link," Andy Wong, senior investment analyst at Harris Fraser (International) Ltd in Hong Kong said, referring to the Hong Kong market. "Short-term investors are taking profits from the market." Much of the cash flow from the so-called Stock Connect scheme is expected to be northbound initially, with foreign investors on the Hong Kong Exchange &lt;0388.HK&gt; snapping up mainland shares under a daily quota of 13 billion yuan($2.12 billion). The expected fund inflow had helped push the SSE180 Index &lt;.SSE180&gt; and the SSE380 Index &lt;.SSE380I&gt; - the two main Chinese destinations for foreign investment through the scheme - up more than 10 percent and 6.5 percent since late last month. As of 0145 GMT (8.45 p.m. EST Sunday), the CSI300 index &lt;.CSI300&gt; of top Chinese shares and Shanghai Composite Index &lt;.SSEC&gt; were down slightly after gaining more than 1 percent at open. Southbound investment, capped by a daily quota of 10.5 billion yuan, is likely to be less active, with few mainland investors yet to sign up to the scheme. The Hang Seng Index &lt;.HSI&gt; was down 0.2 percent. Over the longer term, however, it could boost the average daily value of stock trading in Hong Kong by about 38 percent by 2015, French bank BNP Paribas estimates, and may ultimately lead to the creation of the world's third largest stock exchange. China already operates several cross-border investment schemes but these are restricted to specific firms that must apply for a license to participate. The Stock Connect program was originally expected to launch on Oct. 27, but that unofficial deadline passed, leading to speculation that the program might be held up by technical or political hurdles. The differing tax rules applying in Hong Kong and the mainland were also a major stumbling block, but China's Finance Ministry said on Friday that it would temporarily exempt taxes on profits made from the Connect scheme. Hong Kong's leader CY Leung has hinted that the ongoing pro-democracy protests in the city had also played a role in the delay.     (Reporting by Kazunori Takada; Editing by Will Waterman and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economy unexpectedly shrank an annualized 1.6 percent in July-September after a severe contraction in the previous quarter, likely solidifying the view that premier Shinzo Abe will delay a second sales tax hike next year. COMMENTARY: YOSHIKI SHINKE, CHIEF ECONOMIST, DAI-ICHI LIFE RESEARCH INSTITUTE "I did not expect the growth figures to be this weak. "We had expected capital investment would underpin the economy but the weak capital spending in these GDP numbers raises worries about the economic outlook. And considering the huge fall that we saw in consumer spending in the second quarter, the extent of its rebound looks especially weak. "I think the Bank of Japan will have to cut its growth forecast for this fiscal year when it releases reviews of its economic and price forecasts next January. In addition to that, the pace of rise in consumer prices will slow given oil price falls while market speculation about further easing will probably increase." JUNKO NISHIOKA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, RBS SECURITIES JAPAN "Domestic demand was quite bad, with consumption and capital investment both much worse than expected. This environment makes it increasingly tough to call for an increase in the consumption tax, making it virtually certain that they'll put off the tax hike and hold a snap election." "The fact that domestic demand was so bad was unexpected ... It seems that the bad weather this summer may have played a role, but the overall trends are not that bad. "If you look at other fundamental indicators, they've shifted over to an increasing trend, so if this continues, even though this quarter was unfortunate, the next quarter should be better." STEFAN WORRALL, DIRECTOR OF EQUITY CASH SALES, CREDIT SUISSE "(The GDP figures) give almost 100 percent support to speculation that there's going to be an early election. If there was any remaining doubt among market particpants that there was a decision yet to be made, this result has killed those doubts. It's now a done deal. "The sales tax hike was never part of Abenomics, to turn deflation into inflation. It was actually a speed bump that risks preventing those other policies from achieving take-off velocity. Its removal gives a better chance for other aspects of Abenomics to succeed. "It's not risk of JGB default that is the biggest concern in Japan at the moment. It's the risk that inflation policies fail. (Fiscal reconstruction worries) are a second order problem. The most important policy for Japan's ability to come out of its slump would be to try and induce inflation expectations among the private sector." YUICHI KODAMA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, MEIJI YASUDA LIFE INSURANCE "The data shows domestic demand remained weak as damage from the April sales tax has gone on longer than previously expected. The negative contribution from private inventory was also another major factor in GDP contracting. "Looking at other economic data, the economy seems to have hit the bottom around summer to autumn and it will likely improve in the October-December period although the pace of recovery is expected to be slower than the projections by the government and the Bank of Japan. "I think the BOJ will wait and examine the effects from its latest monetary easing in late October for a while. But it will probably need to embark on new easing measures sometime next fiscal year as it will be hard to achieve its 2 percent inflation goal." KENICHIRO YOSHIDA, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MIZUHO RESEARCH INSTITUTE "The consensus was much higher. But the reading is -1.6 percent; it's much weaker than we expected. "Capital investment is very weak - it's very common in Europe and the United States. "The growth of consumption is very weak; that's one reason that the government may decide to delay the sales tax. "It will be difficult to reach the BOJ's inflation target this year." (Reporting by Thomas Wilson, Kaori Kaneko and Elaine Lies; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
South Korea is on track to spend more on vehicle imports from Europe this year than it earns from exports the other way, for the first time in 24 years, as German brands breach the once impregnable fortress of Hyundai Motor and its local rivals. The turnabout follows a 2011 free trade deal eliminating duties on vehicles from Europe, and as tastes change in a market once so patriotic that foreign cars were sometimes targeted by vandals. Imports made up 3 percent of cars sold in South Korea a decade ago and now account for a record 14 percent. German cars make up 71 percent of foreign cars sold in South Korea this year, led by luxury marques BMW and Daimler AG's Mercedes-Benz. "In the past, Korea lagged behind and had to catch up very fast, so we had to give benefits to domestic firms," said Park Hyun-suk, a businessman in his early 40s who lives in Seoul's affluent Gangnam district and drives a Mercedes-Benz E Class. "But they are not small companies anymore and we have no obligation to support them. We have to be set free now." The value of imports from Europe was up 60 percent to $4.6 billion in the first nine months of 2014, customs data showed, against exports of $4.4 billion. "The driving force of imported cars has been diesel engines, younger customers in their 30s and luxury brands," said Yoon Dae-sung, an official at the auto importers association, who expects further growth to be driven by mass-market, non-German cars.  A free trade deal agreed last week with China excluded cars, to the relief of local automakers, staving off a potential influx of China-made German-branded vehicles and helping to preserve South Korea's status as one of few markets where domestic automakers hold a dominant share - for now. In Gangnam, the epicenter of the foreign car boom, a Volkswagen store does not have enough vehicles to sell, said dealer Kim Young-chun. "We are not taking orders for the popular Tiguan white version anymore because we have already secured about 70 to 80 orders at our store alone," he said, referring to South Korea's top-selling import, a $35,000 SUV. As well as the support of patriotic consumers, Hyundai, its sister firm Kia Motors and others such as Ssangyong Motor Co Ltd were once protected by 50 percent import tariffs. In the early 1990s, when South Korea had a more protectionist industrial policy, some consumers shunned foreign cars for fear of being targeted for tax audits. Trade deals have helped South Korea emerge as a source of growth for global brands, which are expanding offerings from big vehicles to smaller ones, threatening to further erode the nearly 70 percent market share held by Hyundai and Kia. U.S. cars have not gained as much as from a similar trade pact with South Korea, the world's 11th largest car market. In August, BMW opened a $64 million driving center in Incheon, its first in Asia, allowing visitors to test-drive BMW and Mini cars on a 2.6-km (1.6-mile) track. Japan's Toyota Motor, which imports its Camry sedan to South Korea from the United States, last month opened a cafe and showplace in Seoul that displays but does not sell its Lexus cars - part of efforts to raise its brand image. In the first 10 months of 2014, foreign car sales in South Korea rose 33 percent; Hyundai sales rose 3 percent. Hyundai is fighting back. Last month it launched its Aslan premium sedan, a rare model targeted mainly to local buyers, and recently opened a flagship store in Gangnam. Hyundai and Kia are also expanding their diesel and hybrid offerings. (1 US dollar = 1,094.6500 Korean won)   (Additional reporting by Sohee Kim; Editing by Tony Munroe and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economy shrank an annualised 1.6 percent in July-September, confounding expectations for a modest rebound after a severe contraction in the previous quarter and solidifying the view premier Shinzo Abe will delay a second sales tax hike next year. Abe has said Monday's GDP data would be key to his decision on whether to proceed with the increase to 10 percent in October next year. That decision had been expected by year-end. The second straight quarter of contraction, which compared with a 2.1 percent increase forecast in a Reuters poll, added to signs the world's third-largest economy has been slow in healing from the blow to consumption from the first tax increase in April. The April tax hike to 8 percent from 5 percent led to a revised 7.3 percent economic contraction in the second quarter, which was the biggest decline since the global financial crisis. Given the prolonged pain from the April hike, an official close to the premier has told Reuters that Abe would postpone the second increase and call a general election in an effort to lock in his grip on power. Abe, who is returning on Monday from a week-long tour to attend a host of global meetings in Beijing to Australia, is set to make a decision this week, Japanese media have said. On a quarter-on-quarter basis, the economy fell 0.4 percent in the third quarter after a revised 1.9 percent decrease in April-June. Economists had expected growth of 0.5 percent. Private consumption, which accounts for about 60 percent of the economy, rose a less-than-expected 0.4 percent from the previous quarter, as the April tax increase and unusually cold summer weather hurt households' spending. Capital expenditure fell 0.2 percent, against a median market forecast of a 0.9 percent increase. The lack of a pick-up in exports and the prolonged drag from the April tax increase on consumption have dashed policymakers' hopes that the economy would rebound strongly in July-September and head for a moderate recovery. Sluggish economic growth and downward pressure on prices from recent global oil price declines prompted the Bank of Japan to expand its massive monetary stimulus last month. (Additional reporting by Kaori Kaneko; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs went to Texas last week and found one thing: resignation. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman equity chief David Kostin writes that the firm went to Texas this week to meet with portfolio managers, and those conversations "started and ended on the topic of oil." "Although still stunned by the ferocity of the selloff," Kostin writes, "everyone we met was resigned to the idea that crude prices would remain low for several years. Although we met many Longhorn alumni, we met no Energy bulls."  On Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude prices closed right around $76, while Brent crude prices were just above $79.  Kostin notes that Brent prices are down 33% since June, while WTI has declined 30% over that same period.  Last week, Business Insider's Tomas Hirst summarized the three major catalysts people are pointing to as the reasons for the tumble in oil prices: slowing global growth, increasing supply, fewer disruptions in global production.  But as Kostin writes in his report, "investors are still stunned" by the recent decline. And while the futures market was certainly expecting oil prices to decline through the end of the decade the recent plunge in oil has reshaped this curve and pushed expectations for prices over the next two to three years sharply lower.  Goldman Sachs As for how this will impact oil production, Kostin expects that $75-$80 a barrel for WTI crude is the point at which US shale producers will reduce activity, and that Saudi Arabia's breakeven oil price for a balanced budget is right around $75.  For 2015, Goldman expects Brent prices to be around $84 and WTI to be around $74, and so the firm thinks we will see a reduction in Saudi production and US shale growth.  A report by The Dallas Morning News last week said crude oil production in Texas has more than doubled since 2010.  And while Kostin writes that capex growth from oil companies, which has accounted for 1/3 of the S&amp;P 500's capex over the last five years, will likely be flat in 2015, overall capex should grow 6% in 2015.  Energy companies also account for about 10% of the S&amp;P 500's earnings and 9% of its market cap, Kostin writes. But as lower gas prices are passed through to consumers, and lower input costs benefit some companies, every $10 decline in the price of a barrel of oil should increase 2015 earnings for the S&amp;P 500 by $2.  Here's the chart of Goldman's crude outlook. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Earlier this week, Boston University student newspaper The Daily Free Press — known as the FreeP — was in serious trouble. Student editors announced that the newspaper, which is independent from the university, had to raise close to $70,000 by the end of the year in order to continue publishing a print version. The FreeP's leadership decided to turn to crowdsourced fundraising, launching a page on GoFundMe. As the page explained, even though the paper had seriously cut costs by switching from a daily publishing schedule to a weekly model, their publisher wanted to resolve a significant portion of their debt by the end of 2014. "As of November 1, 2014, The FreeP's total debt is $67,953.19 ... If we have not resolved a majority of this debt by December 31st, 2014, BU's only print newspaper will cease to exist," according to the FreeP's GoFundMe page. Two days after launching their GoFundMe campaign, the FreeP announced that they had already exceeded their goal, raising nearly $20,000 from small online donations and receiving two major donations that would save the paper — $50,000 from local car dealer Ernie Boch Jr. and $10,000 from Fox News host Bill O'Reilly. Business Insider spoke to O'Reilly — who spent three semesters as a FreeP columnist while in BU's journalism masters program — about his experiences at the student newspaper and why he decided to help save it. Aside from the hockey team, O'Reilly said, there's not much that unites BU's massive student body — there are more than 30,000 students currently on campus, including undergraduates and graduate students. During his time as a student in the 1970s, the FreeP provided a space for students to write letters and offer their opinions about issues on campus. "The paper was that [unifying force], because it was during the end of the Vietnam situation and there was a lot of stuff going on … It was the one vehicle that gathered students together," O'Reilly said. As a student columnist, the FreeP helped O'Reilly hone his voice as a writer, as he covered major issues such as Boston's school bus desegregation. O'Reilly said that his positive experiences at the paper motivated him to help keep it afloat. "We had a blast, it was just a great experience ... I wanted other students at the school to have the same experience I did," he said. Part of the benefit of being on the FreeP staff is the hands-on experience students get outside of the classroom. O'Reilly compared being a journalist to being a professional athlete. Because journalism is so competitive, he said, "You have to get experience, you have to train." Students also have the rare opportunity to work at an independent organization. The FreeP makes money through advertising, and takes no funding from BU. In fact, the paper actually pays the university to rent space on campus. "It's a very positive experience when you have a newspaper not run by teachers," O'Reilly said, in part because remaining independent allows the BU student journalists to critique the school. "When we were there, [the FreeP] was a pain in the butt" to the university's administration, O'Reilly said. The other major donor to the FreeP's fund is Ernie Boch Jr., a local car dealer. Boch is currently traveling, and was not available to speak with Business Insider, but his spokesperson Peggy Rose sent the following statement on his behalf: Newspapers at the local, regional, daily and, yes, collegiate level are all vital parts of our democracy. A vibrant newspaper ensures for a free exchange of ideas and Boston University's independent student-run newspaper, The Daily Free Press, should continue to have that opportunity for its readers. On behalf of Subaru of New England, I am donating $50,000.00 to the fundraising campaign that will ensure the print version of The Daily Free Press stays alive and viable. START THE PRESSES. Now that the FreeP is funded and will continue to print, the newspaper will hopefully remain a vehicle for student's voices on campus. According to O'Reilly, a strong student newspaper will provoke debate. "We were successful because we were feisty and aggressive and we stirred it up," O'Reilly said. "You have to stir it up, just like I do now on television." FREE AppDownload
William Thomas Cain/GettyNEW YORK (Reuters) - Ford Motor shares may be in for a rebound and could climb 30 percent in a year, said Barron's financial newspaper in its edition to be published Monday. The company is likely to benefit from the release of its new F-150 truck, which has already received high marks from industry experts, it said, noting the F-series trucks bring in the bulk of Ford's automotive profit. The stock has been marked down because the company's earnings are being hit by high warranty costs, poor results in Russia and South America and lost production during the F-150 transition, the report said. Ford's stock closed Friday at $15.14 and is down 1.9 percent for the year so far. Also, the paper said, though North American car and truck trade has bounced back to such high levels that investors have become worried, another downturn is unlikely.     (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch Editing by W Simon) FREE AppDownload
ReutersBottles showing the barrel aging process are seen at the Jack Daniel's distillery in Lynchburg, Tennessee May 10, 2011.Whiskey is not white, it is brown. That, to me, is part of its appeal. It is very clear that you are not drinking vodka when you drink whiskey, and vodka is for people who can't drink. At least, that's what I'm told. I've also recently been told that there's this thing called "white whiskey." It is whiskey, but it is not brown. I had to investigate. A quick search on the internet will tell you that liquor geeks are definitely talking about this stuff. It's being stocked at bars in Brooklyn and craft distillers are giving it a shot. Some of the big brands are stepping in too. Jim Beam has a Jacob's Ghost White Whiskey, and Pam Wiznitzer, a bartender at NYC's premier bar The Dead Rabbit, said that Makers Mark has a white whiskey, but it's not available in retail. So what the heck is white whiskey? To understand that, you've got to understand one simple thing about whiskey. It's aged in barrels. That's what gives it its color and flavor. White whiskey is not aged. "New Yorkers upstate were drinking things similar to white whiskey back in the mid 1800s," says Zach Tirone, General Manager of The LCL: Bar &amp; Kitchen in NYC. "This is what Coppersea Distillery tries to emulate with their Raw Rye Whiskey... Back in the 1800s you had a lot of farmers in upstate New York that might turn their unsold grain into raw whiskey but might not necessarily have the time, effort, or means to age it properly, so a raw white whiskey, usually with a rye base was known to be drank occasionally." There are two kinds of white whiskey. There's the completely unaged stuff, sometimes called "white dog" or (simply) moonshine. Then there's a group of more flavor driven whiskeys — that's where Jim Beam's Jacob's Ghost falls. They have a little something more added to them for taste. Tirone carries Death's Door White Whiskey and Tuttletown Hudson Corn Whiskey at LCL. They don't make a cocktail with it, customers just sip it neat.  Business Insider"The Gander downtown does a good drink with it but that's the last good one I've had in a while," said Tirone. The fact that good cocktails in this space are lacking isn't that surprising. Over the course of all this reporting Business Insider picked up a bottle of the Jim Beam Jacob's Ghost. That bottle is still pretty full. But one white whiskey, we thought, should not be allowed to represent all of them. So we headed to The Gander to try their cocktail, the Cold Toddy. It's made with Earl Grey, honey, lemon, Amaro Montenegro, dandelion &amp; BurdockBitters, and White Rye Whiskey. “I was pretty vehemently against the category," said The Gander's co-manager Jordan Lari. Then he found a product he liked — Coppersea's White Rye Whiskey. It took him about five minutes to design a cocktail with it. Coppersea was "specifically crafting a product that is good, that just happens to be white whiskey," said Lari. That's what got him on board. Because here's the deal — with craft distilleries being all the rage now, and cocktail culture on the upswing, every company that makes liquor is constantly coming up with new ways to get a bigger piece of the action. For one thing, that means big companies are marketing some of their brands as having a smaller, craft liquor vibe. It also means tapping into the biggest part of the liquor market — the vodka part. Clear liquors dominate sales, and in making a clear liquor, distillers think they can get Sorority girls who swear by vodka-sodas, moms who brunch and other clear liquor drinkers to try something new. "I was thinking maybe the Cosmo-drinking people would go for the white rye," said Lari. "The data seems to suggest that it’s happening." Full disclosure, his cocktail — the Cold Toddy — was solid. But it didn't give you that warm hug feeling whiskey gives you. That said, sometimes you don't need a hug. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience in New York, July 22, 2014.Allergan, the maker of Botox, is getting close to finalizing a deal to merge with an Irish pharmaceutical company, and their boards are meeting to approve a cash-stock transaction, The Wall Street Journal reports. The Botox maker has been in serious negotiations with Actavis after months of fighting a takeover bid by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and its hedge fund partner Pershing Square Capital Management, the Los Angeles Times reported this week. Activist investor Bill Ackman has a major stake in Allergan and has been pressuring the Botox maker to sell to Valeant and Pershing, which he founded. Valeant and Pershing's most recent bid for Allergan was $53 billion in cash, according to The Wall Street Journal. That proposed deal would have been controversial, in part, because Valeant has been accused of hurting the companies it takes over by slashing their research &amp; development budgets. Short-seller Jim Chanos has also accused Valeant of masking its lack of organic growth with its many acquisitions, as we previously reported.  A deal between Actavis and Allergan could be reached as early as Monday, The Wall Street Journal reported. The combined company would reportedly sell about $23 billion a year in brand-name and generic drugs. FREE AppDownload
By most measures, the U.S. economy is improving. Recent economic reports revealed two encouraging facts: The United States just experienced the best back-to-back quarters of growth since 2003 and fewer Americans are filing for unemployment benefits than at any time in the past 14 years. Unfortunately, most Americans don’t seem to put much faith in the numbers, or as Gustave Flaubert famously remarked, “There is no truth. There is only perception.” Today, the perception of most Americans is very different than the optimistic view reflected in government statistics. According to the results of the BlackRock Global Investor Pulse Survey, only about one in four Americans believe that the U.S. economy and job market are getting better. Worse still, a full 75% of Americans believe that it is hard to keep up with bills and save for retirement. So, how do you explain the disconnect between an economy that appears to be shaking off its lethargy and the perception that the United States never fully recovered from the financial crisis? On the surface, it is hard to reconcile strong numbers with consumer caution, particularly the despondency over jobs. While the economy is still a long way from the halcyon days of the late 1990s, over the past six months the United States has created an average of 245,000 net new jobs per month, the fastest pace since the spring of 2006. What is missing from the recovery? The simple answer is income growth. While the economy is growing faster and more jobs are being created, with the exception of a relatively small subset of highly skilled workers, wage growth is not accelerating in any meaningful way. Although overall compensation, including benefits, ticked up in the last two quarters, wage growth remains sluggish. Hourly wages have been stuck at around 2% year-over-year despite faster job growth. Looking at broader measures of income growth, disposable income is up around 4.4% from a year earlier. This is a welcome improvement from last year’s levels, but it is still about a third below the long-term average. The lack of real, or inflation adjusted, income growth explains why most Americans are not feeling better about the economy or their own prospects. Historically, income growth has been highly correlated with confidence. Higher levels of real income growth are associated with optimism, while stagnant income growth tends to be associated with lower levels of confidence (see below chart). BlackRockWhile the recession has been over for more than five years now and job creation is accelerating, many households are not feeling the benefits. They are struggling to maintain their living standard and at the same time still saving for retirement, a process further complicated by both longer lifespans and low interest rates. For those waiting for a more buoyant mood, watch the income numbers. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience in New York, July 22, 2014.Allergan, the maker of Botox, is getting close to finalizing a deal to merge with an Irish pharmaceutical company, and their boards are meeting to approve a cash-stock transaction, The Wall Street Journal reports. The Botox maker has been in serious negotiations with Actavis after months of fighting a takeover bid by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and its hedge fund partner Pershing Square Capital Management, the Los Angeles Times reported this week. Activist investor Bill Ackman has a major stake in Allergan and has been pressuring the Botox maker to sell to Valeant and Pershing, which he founded. Valeant and Pershing's most recent bid for Allergan was $53 billion in cash, according to The Wall Street Journal. That proposed deal would have been controversial, in part, because Valeant has been accused of hurting the companies it takes over by slashing their research &amp; development budgets. Short-seller Jim Chanos has also accused Valeant of masking its lack of organic growth with its many acquisitions, as we previously reported.  A deal between Actavis and Allergan could be reached as early as Monday, The Wall Street Journal reported. The combined company would reportedly sell about $23 billion a year in brand-name and generic drugs. FREE AppDownload
Finance is a strange industry. The way we think about fees, the way it's discussed in the media, how laypeople use it, and the way it's taught in school is like no other field.  Maybe the best way to get this across is to imagine -- hypothetically and absurdly -- if other industries got away with stuff Wall Street does. If we thought of school grades like we do corporate accounting: Robert gets an F on a test but says he actually got an A if you strip out one-time bad answers on a pro forma, pre-mistake basis. His teachers buy it.  If we held weathermen to the same standard as stock pundits: Peter, a local weatherman, has been predicting since the 1970s that a blizzard dumping up to two feet of snow will hit Miami imminently. It hasn't been below 50 degrees in Miami for decades, but Peter is inducted to the Meteorology Hall of Fame for his "spot-on, dead-accurate forecasts of the Miami climate."  If we were as impatient about gardening as we are investing: Sam plants some seeds in his backyard. He checks back four hours later. Nothing. He digs them up and replants them. Four hours. Still nothing. A week later he is dismayed that he has no oak trees in his backyard. He calls oak trees a scam. REUTERS/Brendan McDermidBuckshot the bull is corralled in front of the New York Stock Exchange as part of a promotion, January 8, 2009.If we thought of farming like we do global finance: Joe and Ronald each own a cow. Instead of milking the cows and selling dairy, they use each other's cow as collateral for a structured note sold to an Icelandic pension fund, use the funds to buy credit default swaps on their neighbor's farm, start a rumor that causes a run on its assets and sends the farm into bankruptcy, collect the payout, funnel the proceeds through a Luxembourg shell company, and sell hypothetical milk futures to a widow in Arizona. The cows just stand in a field and moo. Joe and Ronald make $34.9 million a year. If we checked our physical health as much as we check our portfolios: Ryan wakes up in the morning and checks his blood pressure. He checks it again before breakfast, during breakfast, after breakfast, and before leaving for work. When he gets to work he checks his cholesterol, again before lunch, and twice before bedtime. During one of the four times he weighs himself during the day the notices he lost a quarter of a pound. He calls his doctor to find out what the hell is going on. REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachTwo stock traders are dressed as doctors as they joke in front of the German share prize index DAX board at the German stock exchange in Frankfurt.If we credentialed doctors as easily as we do stock brokers: Jim recited the "hip bone's connected to the leg bone" song. That qualifies him to be a neurosurgeon and your life is now in his hands.  If we thought of wine like we do triple-A rated subprime mortgage bonds: Roger takes a Capri Sun, leaves it outside for a few hours and calls it Chateau Mouton Rothschild 1945. It takes a decade for wine experts to figure out what's going on. They're still arguing about notes and finish. If we thought of cell phone fees like we do mutual fund fees: Betty has a cell phone. She has no idea what it costs, since the fees are deducted automatically from her bank without her receiving a bill. She never even sees the money leave the bank – it's quietly siphoned off every quarter. She learns her cell phone costs 1% of her annual assets. Quick math shows she's paying $20,000 a year for a cell phone that only works some of the time. She had no idea, and the cell phone company prefers it that way. If we thought of private businesses like public businesses: Sally owns a bakery. One year she sells 1,052 muffins. The next year she sells 1,051 muffins. Carl Icahn stands in front of her store yelling profanities and calling her incompetent. If medical advice were given as universally and indiscriminately as financial advice: A doctor goes on TV talking about the benefits of a new cancer drug. He doesn't mention REUTERS/Alex GrimmA roulette table is pictured during a demonstration in front of the Frankfurt stock exchangethat unless you have cancer his advice is irrelevant to you. Unaware, half of viewers start using the new cancer drug despite not having cancer. If we thought of housing like we do stock market fluctuations: A Zillow.com programmer gets in a bad mood and adjusts the site's algorithm so every home in America looks 10% less valuable than it was the day before. He's fired, and a new programmer adjusts the algorithm again so homes go back to the old prices. The volatility sends America into a collective meltdown. The evening news brings on a series of experts who call owning a home a scam, a gamble, and a fraud. Ten percent of homeowners sell their homes the next day. "It doesn't matter if I loved my home, could afford my mortgage, and planned on living here for 20 years," one says, "this just seems too risky." He moves into a tent. If everyday people had got away with Wall Street crimes: Brad assaults a guy. The whole thing is caught on tape. There's no question about what he did. Anyone else would go to jail. But Brad is allowed to settle without admitting or denying wrongdoing. For a penalty, Brad's children are forced to pay a $25 billion fine. Brad gets a bonus.  If we explained random weather events like we do random economic fluctuations:  It's cold in Minneapolis. Damn [party you didn't vote for].  REUTERS/Bobby Yip Television journalists report inside a brokerage firm during morning trading in Hong Kong. FREE AppDownload
If you don't know your gels from your pomades, you're not alone.  The world of men's hair product is daunting, but don't be afraid. We've distilled it down to three basic categories that should suit any kind of hair. No matter what kind of hair you have, at least one of these products is bound to tame your mane and make it look great. www.fellowbarber.com and www.americancrew.com and blindbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.comFellow Barber Texture Paste ($22), American Crew Fiber ($14), Blind Barber 60 Proof Hair Wax ($18), and Uppercut Matt Clay ($22). Another benefit comes from the heaps of texture it adds to all types of hair. It's good for a "messy look" that actually doesn't look messy at all. Though it comes in many variations, most are made with different waxes like beeswax. They're also water soluble and will easily wash out of your hair.  American Crew Fiber is the tried-and-true hair wax favorite, but others like Uppercut's Matt Clay have been well reviewed. Other good choices include proprietary brands made by popular barber shop chains like Blind Barber and Fellow Barber. www.americancrew.com and blindbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.com and www.fellowbarber.comAmerican Crew Pomade ($13), Blind Barber 90 Proof Hair Pomade ($18), Uppercut Deluxe Pomade ($22), and Fellow Barber Strong Pomade ($22). The shiny finish and superior hold of pomades are what really separates them from hair waxes. Pomades are ideal for hair styles that don't need a lot of movement since they can sometimes feel waxy or greasy to the touch. All of our favorite hair wax brands also make very suitable pomades, including American Crew, Blind Barber, Uppercut, and Fellow Barber. Uppercut also makes an extra-strength pomade, called Monster Hold. www.amazon.com and www.moroccanoil.com and www.bumbleandbumble.com and www.fellowbarber.comMalin + Goetz Sage Styling Cream ($37), Moroccanoil Hydrating Styling Cream ($31), Bumble and Bumble Styling Creme ($26), and Fellow Barber Styling Cream ($22). In short, styling cream will leave your hair manageable without drying it out. For styling cream brands, you can't go wrong. Moroccanoil has gained a lot of popularity recently for taking good care of both men's and woman's hair, but men's-focused creams like the Fellow Barber's Styling Cream and Malin + Goetz's sage styling cream are also excellent choices. Finally, Bumble and Bumble makes another good unisex alternative. For most hair types, hair wax is your best bet to get your 'do to do what you want it to. The matte finish provides the perfect texture and weight without making your hair greasy or unpleasant to the touch. It's also easy to maintain throughout the day, with just a quick brush or swoop to fix it up, and washes out easily and cleanly. It's our pick for daily hair product. AP/Joel RyanDaniel Radcliffe doesn't look like he's wearing product in this picture, but we bet you he's wearing some form of hair wax. If you're looking for shine, however, the traditional pomade is your best bet. And if you just want to get your hair's frizz under control and make your hair more manageable (without any hold), styling cream is your stuff. As for hair products that were previously in vogue — like gel and mousse — don't bother. These products are best left remembered as fads in their respective heydays. A final word of warning: Watch out for the labels on hair products. Heavier pomades are starting to contain waxes such as beeswax when they traditionally didn't, and sometimes hair waxes are being labeled incorrectly as "pomades," a term that has become a synonym for "men's hair product."  When in doubt, just read the description and make sure the product delivers the high hold and low shine (matte finish) of a hair wax.    FREE AppDownload
Bill Nye, author of "Undeniable: Evolution and the Science of Creation", lays out a case for what we need to do about climate change.  Produced by Justin Gmoser and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Facebook    
If you know anything about Wall Street, you know that there are rules. Most of them are not written anywhere, you simply learn them through observation. Part of learning is observing how people follow those rules, and another part is laughing when people get punished for breaking them. There are rules for clothing, rules for eating, rules for everything — even drinking. "Guys get made fun of when they drink anything from a martini glass," said Dan Nathan, a veteran trader and editor of Risk Reversal.  That is, unless it's a martini. Dry. "[They get made fun of] when they drink anything with Campari in it," Nathan added. Unless of course it's a Negroni — but even that, says Nathan, feels contrived.  Wall Streeters are, historically, drinkers of brown liquor. Neat. But that is changing. Talk to bartenders around Manhattan and they'll tell you that some cocktails are beginning to creep into the mix. Yes, the global cocktail craze has reached Wall Street. Here's what happens when you get a bunch of bankers at the bar these days: "One of two out of the group of 15 are ordering cocktails," says John McCarthy, a mixologist at NYC bars Cedar Local in the Financial District and Bathtub Gin in Chelsea. "Whereas before no one would have a cocktail. It was Goose and soda, Macallan 12, and beer." Now this isn't to say that the old spirits are dying. You can still put a bottle Macallan on a string and watch as a bunch of bankers start to follow it up and down Midtown. But bartenders around Manhattan started to notice a subtle shift around 2011.  This shift, of course, had to be served up in a rocks glass however. Globally, the cocktail craze ushered another subtle change along with it — the rise of the craft distillery. On Wall Street that has translated into smaller brands of liquor gaining traction, like Tito's Vodka. "All the people 5 years ago that you couldn't get to drink Tito's are drinking it now," said McCarthy. Back then he was at a bar in the Lower East Side, and only real vodka-heads and cocktail snobs knew about the brand. But now instead of a 'Goose and soda', bankers are asking for a 'Tito's and soda.' Here's the thing about Wall Street — all you really need is for a few of the higher-ups to take to something, and you'll see others start to follow suit. "People are posers when it comes to drinking," Nathan told Business Insider. Posers? On Wall Street? Get out of here. FREE AppDownload
Last week, Australian Redditor JohnJerryson found out that his wife has been cheating on him for the last decade. The discovery sparked a lengthy post reflecting on his life in the sub-Reddit r/tifu ("Today I F---ed Up"), called "TIFU My whole life. My regrets as a 46-year-old, and advice to others at a crossroad." "I'm a 46 year old banker and I have been living my whole life the opposite of how I wanted," he writes. "All my dreams, my passion, gone. In a steady 9-7 job. 6 days a week. For 26 years. I repeatedly chose the safe path for everything, which eventually changed who I was." Instead of traveling the world and writing the novel he dreamed of in college, connecting with his son, or maintaining a relationship with his wife, John pursued security and wealth — and he regrets it. John's story serves as yet another reminder that money can't buy happiness, and it isn't everything. Rather than being proud of a responsible, dutiful life advancing in his career just like many of us aspire to do, he's sorry that he prioritized earning money over every thing else — even saying goodbye to his dying father. He remembers: I rationalized that financial security was the most important thing. I now know, that it definitely is not. I regret doing nothing with my energy, when I had it. My passions. My youth. I regret letting my job take over my life. I regret being an awful husband, a money-making machine. I regret not finishing my novel, not travelling the world. Not being emotionally there for my son. Being a damn emotionless wallet. John has some advice for the rest of us: If you're reading this, and you have a whole life ahead of you, please. Don't procrastinate. Don't leave your dreams for later. Relish in your energy, your passions. Don't stay on the internet with all your spare time (unless your passion needs it). Please, do something with your life while your young. DO NOT settle down at 20. DO NOT forget your friends, your family. Yourself. Do NOT waste your life. Your ambitions. Like I did mine. Do not be like me. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHere's some beef broth. Drink it up!There’s a new food trend out: it’s called “bone broth.”  Goop is into it. Quartz is into it. There’s an instagram hashtag. New York City has recently acquired a “take-out window for sippable broths.” A small coffee cup full of bone broth costs $4. Here’s the thing: all broth (save veggie broth) is made with bones. That’s how you make broth!  Broth is also called stock (that was trendy for a few years leading up to 2014). This concept is roughly 20,000 years old. Basically as soon as humans figured out a way to keep boiling water encased in something fire-resistant while cooking, someone also figured out how to put a leftover animal carcass in that boiling water. And there bone broth began. This is one of the best examples I’ve seen recently of The Quaint Economy. The Quaint Economy, as a refresher, is the idea that you can create value by creating a good story about a product. More specifically, it’s usually a story that involves cozy nostalgia for a simpler time. a time before perfect reproductions and cheap commodities. Often, a time before flushing toilets (though artisanal outhouses have not yet become a trend, thank god).   But back to the broth. Wise Choice Market, an online store, sells beef bone broth for $33.75 (you get 2 24 fl. oz. broth packets)*.  Wise Choice MarketDon't call it bone broth unless you also specify that you drink liquid beverages. Here’s the story on the website: “Following traditional methods, the beef bones are cooked gently for 48 hours with organic onions, garlic, and celtic sea salt in filtered water. Organic apple cider vinegar is added to pull the vitamins and minerals from the bones into the stock. Finally, organic parsley is added for the extra minerals to finish the just-like-homemade beef stock properly.” At Walmart, you can get 3.25 oz of beef boullion cubes (makes 25 cups of broth) for $2.  Perhaps a closer parallel is the Superior Touch Better Than Bouillon Organic Beef Base (8 oz, pack of 6) for $35 at Walmart. That’s the same number of ounces at roughly the same price as the bone broth. Except the Walmart product is concentrated, and actually makes 9.5 quarts of broth.  WalmartThis seems like a pretty good broth tbh.  It’s hard to tell here what exactly the value is in the “bone broth” rebranding. Obviously using expensive, organic ingredients is going to make the final product more expensive. But how much is the cost of production and how much is a premium charged to be part of a trend story? (h/t Ben Walsh) FREE AppDownload
WIkimedia CommonsS&amp;P 500 companies will pay out $1.1 trillion to investors in the form of stock buybacks and dividends in 2015. This is according to Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider. Buybacks will grow 18% next year after a 26% gain in 2014. S&amp;P 500 companies are also expected to increase dividend payouts at a 7% annualized rate through 2017. "Although we expect a gradual shift toward investing for growth via capital expenditures and M&amp;A as confidence in the US economy grows, the popularity of dividends and buybacks should continue, particularly given the risks posed by struggling economies in Europe and Asia," Sneider wrote. We drew on Goldman's "Total Cash Return to Shareholders" basket to highlight the stocks with the largest combined realized buyback and dividend yields. Total yield is calculated as the sum of gross buybacks and dividends as a share of market cap. These 15 stocks have a total yield greater than 14%. Note: they are not intended to serve as a well-diversified portfolio. FREE AppDownload
 It's really easy to make sure your haircut is perfect every time. All that's required is a little bit of forethought and a few key facts to remember to tell your barber.  Good barbers will sometimes ask these questions all on their own, but if not, take a proactive approach. After all, it's your hair. So the next time your barber asks, "what are we doing today?", this is exactly what you should say: Barbers know how long it takes for hair to grow, so if you tell them how long it has been since your hair was last cut, they can imagine what your hair looked like way back when. From there, you can either tell them you want it to look the same or describe how you want it to be different from last time. And don't worry — different people's hair doesn't really grow at different rates. That's a myth, Boston-based barber Van Capizzano at Ball and Buck told Business Insider. To give you a cut you'll love, your barber needs to know more about you, according to barber Kyle Holbrook of Fellow Barber in San Francisco. Tell your barber where you work, what you do for fun, where you go on the weekends, how you wear your hair, whether you put product in it every day, and anything else you think might be helpful. Essentially, you want your barber to give you a cut that will fit seamlessly into your lifestyle and reflect your personality, Holbrook told us. This may seem simple, but most guys aren't doing it right. Some aren't even doing it all. Barbers are experts in their craft, but they aren't mind readers. You can't just expect them to fill in the gaps. Don't just say "short on the sides, long on the top." That's not enough for them to go on. Here's some terminology to use to get the haircut you want: When specifying how long you want your hair to be, inches are the best figure (1 inch, 1 1/2 inches, etc.).  It can also be helpful to know the specific number of the clippers you want your barber to use. If you don't know what setting of clippers you prefer, ask your barber to start with a longer setting and progressively get shorter until you find a style you like. Men with longer hair especially need to be clear about how much hair they want cut off. Most will tell the barber just to keep the hair off their collar. This gives a neat, professional look. Men with longer hair might also ask for a layered cut, which gives more movement and dimension to longer hairstyles. If you don't want your sides to be all the same length, ask for a tapered cut, which means your hair gets gradually longer toward the top of your head. Make sure to specify how sharp you want your hair's transition from long to short to be. For no transition, ask for a shaved part (long on top, buzzed on the sides). For a more conservative style, ask for a natural or blended transition. For more manageable hair, ask the barber to add some texture to the top. Texturing will thin out the bulk of your hair and is great for anyone with thicker hair. You can either ask for a tapered (natural) neckline or a squared (block) neckline in the back. A tapered neckline will follow your natural hairline, while a block hairline cuts straight across. Most men opt for the tapered neckline, which usually looks more natural. Tell your barber how long you want your fringe (aka bangs) to be in the front, and if you sweep it to the side or style it in any way.  The goal is to be specific enough that your barber will know exactly what you're imagining. As Capizzano puts it, "barbers are visual people." Pictures really help barbers visualize what you're looking for in a haircut and serve as a great guide.  There's a catch though — the best photo you can bring in to show your barber is a picture of yourself after a haircut that you really liked. A picture of someone else's hair doesn't take into account your hair's individual traits, like thickness, texture, and hair line.  FREE AppDownload
It's natural to want to be liked. Now science has unlocked some answers for us on how to make it happen. Produced By Matt Johnston
(Reuters) - Just how much of Harold Hamm's fortune was amassed through his skill and hard work? That was a key question that Oklahoma divorce judge Howard Haralson had to weigh in his decision last week, when he ordered Hamm, the chief executive officer of Continental Resources - and Oklahoma's richest person - to hand over more than $1 billion in cash and assets to his ex-wife in one of the largest-ever U.S. divorce judgments. Haralson awarded Sun Ann Hamm just 6 percent of the $18 billion fortune her lawyers say the couple had amassed at the start of the divorce trial in August. Harold Hamm called the judgment "fair and equitable," but his ex-wife called it unfair and plans to appeal. Several divorce lawyers said they were surprised by how small the award was. “I would have expected that a larger percentage of the wealth be attributed to marital skill and labor,” said Carolyn Thompson, an Oklahoma family law expert. “Instead, the judge is ruling that the vast majority of the increase was attributable to market factors outside of Harold Hamm’s control." Under Oklahoma law, the growing value of assets - including premarital property - is typically split up if it resulted from the efforts or skills of either spouse during the marriage. The Hamm marriage lasted 26 years, and the couple had no prenuptial agreement. While Haralson ruled that much of Harold Hamm's fortune was gained through "passive" means, his 80-page ruling is a window into how, during the marriage, the CEO was often deeply involved in even the most picayune tasks of running his company. Hamm, who is also chairman of Continental's board, was considered a “micro-manager” by employees, it says. For years, he insisted on personally signing off on new oil wells, the purchase of land leases for drilling and all “petty cash” expenses of more than $500. Harold Hamm “has always been the majority shareholder of Continental, and as such has had the ultimate authority to make decisions for Continental,” one passage read. Through a series of shrewd land acquisitions and drilling campaigns approved by Harold Hamm, Continental’s value rose from less than $50 million when the couple wed to around $20 billion. Haralson's ruling allows the CEO to keep most of the 400-fold rise in his 68 percent Continental stake. That stake was worth around $18 billion when the trial began but has since dropped to around $13.3 billion, after Continental's share price fell. Only a small part of the growth, or $1.4 billion, “resulted from efforts, skills, or expended funds of either spouse” during the marriage, Haralson found. Under Oklahoma law, only that “active” growth in wealth is subject to division.             The $1 billion judgment “seems like a small amount,” said New York divorce lawyer Jacqueline Newman. “Mr. Hamm’s argument was one of passive appreciation, but maybe the court just looked at the magnitude of the assets and thought it just didn’t want to go beyond that award.” To limit his potential payout, Harold Hamm's lawyers argued that most of Continental’s growth was passive, or the result of factors beyond his control, such as rising oil prices. Continental shares have fallen recently along with world oil prices, but per barrel prices are still up sharply from when the Hamms wed. YouTubeJed ClampettSome who followed the case dubbed it the Jed Clampett defense, a reference to the father figure in the 1960s TV series "The Beverly Hillbillies" who became rich through dumb luck by striking oil while out hunting. Hamm founded Continental in 1967. The firm now holds a leading position in North Dakota's oil-rich Bakken Shale. The judge also adopted Harold Hamm’s revised version of Continental’s corporate time line. Reuters reported earlier that the company changed descriptions of its history on its website this year in ways that might have helped Hamm’s case. For years, Continental's website said its highly profitable move into the Rocky Mountain region came in 1993, five years after the Hamms wed. Recently it was changed to say the move happened in 1987, before the marriage. “Continental began its move to the Rocky Mountain region prior to the marriage. Continental began work on acquiring leases in the region in 1987,” Haralson found. The judge largely rejected the testimony of Sue Ann’s expert witnesses, who told the court that nearly all of Continental’s growth was the result of Hamm’s deft management. “It looks to me that Judge Haralson took a narrow view of the identifiable appreciation of the Continental shares due to Hamm’s efforts,” said Barbara Atwood, a professor emerita of family law at the University of Arizona. “And he didn’t seem to be impressed with many of Mrs. Hamm’s witnesses.” A rise in oil prices, and new technologies that helped propel profits, were beyond Harold Hamm's control. Haralson also wrote that “team work has been a common theme around Continental,” and found that Hamm had played “a more limited role” in operations since Continental’s 2007 initial public offering. The ruling also suggests that, at least during some periods, Continental’s board had a diminished role. It references company documents showing that eight people were named to the board in the late 1990s or early 2000s. Four of the former directors testified that they had no recollection of sitting on the board; two others couldn’t recall when they joined. ”I’m surprised by the low value of the award to Sue Ann,” said Ilan Hirschfeld, a marital dissolution expert in New Jersey. “The ruling says that Harold Hamm played the major decision-making role, a dominant role, and some within his company said it was too dominant."   (Editing by Jonathan Leff and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
Venezuelan investors are abandoning ship en masse after the government indicated that it would not take immediate measures to stop the country from sinking deeper into chaos. "I am scared as hell," one Latin American bond trader said. "Default [is] likely within 12 months; the oil price collapse [is] just adding to a completely dysfunctional political and financial situation." The signal to head for the exits was so subtle that you would have missed it if you were not paying close attention. This week the Venezuelan government reiterated that it would not devalue its currency, giving it more bolivars for every dollar. It does not want to do that because the country already has the highest inflation rate in the world, at 64%. The official exchange rate is 6.3 bolivars per dollar, but the black-market rate sits at 113.62 bolivars to the dollar. "We've told investors to count on Venezuela, to trust us," Finance Minister Rodolfo Marco Torres said in an interview this week. Investors did exactly the opposite. They are abandoning Venezuela at a stunning rate. The country's debt maturing in 2027 has fallen to a six-year low of 55.1 cents, according to Bloomberg, down 14% in a month. Pantheon Economics This is, in part, due to a global economic shift. Oil makes up 95% of Venezuela's exports, and the commodity has gotten absolutely crushed in the past month — down 28%. Some accuse Saudi Arabia of keeping the price low to compete with the world's burgeoning natural gas industry — an allegation the Kingdom and OPEC have categorically denied. In the meantime, Venezuela is already suffering from food shortages. A lot of that food — along with other household goods — is imported, and without the cash from oil, the government will not be able to subsidize those imports, according to a report by the research firm Stratfor. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, on Feb. 27. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade. "Default is the end game," the bond trader said. "Bonds trade down into the 20 cents on the dollar, then restructuring etc. but the default could cause political unrest." President Nicolas Maduro lacks the charisma of his predecessor, the late Hugo Chavez. His approval rating hovers around 30%, though the country remains more evenly divided about his socialist party.  What this economic strain could do is take us back to February, when hundreds of thousands marched through the streets of Caracas and other cities all over Venezuela, with the government engaging in a campaign isolating or imprisoning opposition leaders like Harvard-educated politician Leopoldo Lopez (who still sits in jail awaiting his day in court). Back then the lines to get into government supermarkets were long. They will only get longer. The people will get angrier. Maduro will run out of time. But that does not mean he will let go of power. At least, not without a fight. ReutersLeopoldo Lopez turns himself in to Venezuelan authorities in February 2014.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersArgentina's Economy Minister Axel Kicillof speaks to members of the media after the G20 summit in BrisbaneBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina, which defaulted on its debt again in July amidst a decade-long legal battle with a group of U.S. investment funds, welcomed on Sunday the inclusion of a clause in a G20 summit communique aimed at helping sovereign debt restructurings. The South American country argues that the process of restructuring its debt following its record 2002 default has been upended by a small number of junk debt experts it says are willing to cripple an economy in their pursuit of huge profits. It defaulted this year after a U.S. court ruled in favor of two U.S. hedge funds which bought Argentine debt on the cheap,  rejected the terms of bond swaps in 2005 and 2010 and then sued the government for full repayment. In making his original judgment, the judge, Thomas Griesa, cited the "pari passu" equal treatment clause for creditors. He barred Argentina from servicing debt owned by the 92.5 percent of investors who accepted losses until it settled with the U.S. firms. Argentina denigrates the funds as "vultures". In Brisbane, Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof welcomed the final G20 statement, which recognized the need to strengthen the "orderliness and predictability" of sovereign restructurings, and the challenges of litigation to the process. "We are extremely satisfied", Kicillof said in comments posted on the government's YouTube page. "Argentina denounced the actions of vulture funds and this is something that should be taken up by the leaders of countries because the truth is that limiting the reach of speculators ... must be a constant concern of the G20." In October, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) urged a rethink of how sovereign bonds should be structured to avoid future debt restructurings turning into a repeat of Argentina's disruptive court battle with a few disgruntled creditors. The IMF called for more robust so-called collective action clauses -- aimed at making restructuring agreements binding on all bondholders -- to remove the risk of some investors shunning debt workouts and taking legal action for years to squeeze cash from the debtor. The G20 called for the inclusion of strengthened pari passu and collective action clauses in international sovereign bonds.  (Reporting by Richard Lough; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
SACRAMENTO Calif. (Reuters) - One of California's largest newspapers has asked reporters and other employees to help deliver papers on Sundays, according to a memo obtained by Reuters, the latest sign of the toll that financial woes are taking on print journalism. The Santa Ana-based Orange County Register, which recently stopped contracting with rival Los Angeles Times for delivery services, is offering $150 gift cards to staff members if they deliver 500 to 600 papers, according to the memo sent on Thursday, which was confirmed by the paper's top editor. "The entire company -- all departments, including our newsroom -- has been asked to help during what has clearly been a difficult situation," editor Rob Curley said in an email to Reuters. "It's strictly voluntary." Employees have also been asked to help out in customer service, personally telephoning subscribers who had not been able to reach a live agent, according to the memo sent to the staff. "It's unusual, yes," Curley told Reuters. "It's frustrating that we're even in this position. But it's temporary. Bottom line: all of us want our loyal readers to get their papers first thing in the morning." The Register's parent company, Freedom Communications Inc, emerged from bankruptcy in 2010 and was purchased two years later by Aaron Kushner, a greeting-card entrepreneur who initially poured millions of dollars into the paper, doubling the size of its reporting staff and vowing to rejuvenate the sagging business of print journalism. But the company has struggled, and dozens of reporters and editors have been let go in recent months. A much-ballyhooed Los Angeles edition was shut abruptly in September. Earlier this month the Register reported that two investor groups had told a judge in Delaware that the company was insolvent and asked the court to appoint a receiver to oversee the company's finances. The newspaper reported that the request was denied, but it said the investors pointed to problems with the delivery contract with the Los Angeles Times as adding to its financial woes. The Times, which has itself been hard-hit by troubles in the newspaper business, has said Freedom owes it $2.5 million in fees for delivering the paper. Register publisher Rich Mirman on Friday said that most of the paper's delivery routes are now covered, but that a few are "affected by intermittent or late delivery." Newspapers have been struggling for years amid the rise of online communications.   (Reporting by Sharon Bernstein; Editing by Eric Beech) FREE AppDownload
ZURICH (Reuters) - The Swiss National Bank faces the biggest test of its cap on the franc in two years but may find it easier to defend now than when euro zone breakup fears were rampant and the strategy unproven. The franc rose to its strongest level since September 2012 on Friday, brushing up against the 1.20 euro limit the Swiss National Bank introduced in 2011 when the currency's strength was squeezing exporters and threatening deflation. Renewed weakness in the euro zone, and the European Central Bank's readiness to use radical measures to kick-start the economy, have fired up demand for the franc. A referendum this month on Swiss gold reserves is also playing a role. While approval seems unlikely, a Yes vote would force the SNB to buy gold alongside any currency interventions. Still, capital flows into Switzerland have declined sharply from the height of the euro crisis, as have fears that the interventions would spark inflation. More importantly, the SNB's success in defending the cap back in 2011 and 2012 means it may not have to intervene on the same scale to fend off any new market challenges. "The difference between now and 2011 is that the wider markets and most economists believe these interventions can break the neck of speculation," said Rudolf Strahm, an economist and former Swiss lawmaker. "Some market players tried once to attack the franc but all they got was a bloodied nose and lost vast sums of money. Since then no one has dared to try again." The franc was trading at 1.2015 per euro by 1200 GMT on Friday, close to the 1.2010 francs per euro level where economists say the SNB has intervened in the past. Thomson ReutersA Swiss National Bank logo is pictured on the SNB building in BernThe SNB shocked markets when it imposed the limit in September 2011 after the currency shot to record highs against the euro. The following year, as fears of a Greek exit from the euro zone grew, traders unsuccessfully challenged the cap. It has since become the backbone of SNB policy. The latest bout of franc strength is unlikely to prompt such intense purchases, economists say. The SNB poured billions of francs into the market until September 2012 to establish the limit, swelling its currency reserves, now around 460 billion Swiss francs ($475 billion) or about 70 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). The cap was breached only once in April 2012, adding credibility to the central bank's pledge to defend the policy with the utmost determination and purchase foreign currency in unlimited amounts to do so. "It is possible that the SNB intervenes in coming days or weeks, but we would not expect the same level of interventions as in 2012," said Maxime Botteron, a Credit Suisse economist. Back then, Swiss investors were repatriating foreign funds out of fear for the euro zone. Anxiety has since subsided. Stagnating prices and faltering economic growth in Switzerland have silenced critics who warned of inflationary risks from the interventions and has underscored the need for the cap to ward off deflation. REUTERS/Denis BalibouseSwiss National Bank SNB Chairman Thomas JordanThe policy has garnered support from exporters and tacit approval from other central banks. The risks from the vast purchases are limited because losses on forex reserves are pure accounting losses, economists say, though the bank will need to unwind the reserves at some point. "We really don't see any inflationary pressure yet, even for the next one or two years, so there is no real limit to balance sheet expansion," said Botteron. "From our point of view, the exchange rate floor brings more benefits than costs." This could change quickly if the nation votes on Nov. 30 to oblige the central bank to hold at least 20 percent of its reserves in gold, up from 7 percent currently. However, polls show limited support. SNB Chairman Thomas Jordan has gone out of his way to warn of the risks attached to the proposal. The alternative to interventions would be negative interest rates. But that could add fuel to Switzerland's real estate boom and prove expensive for its large financial sector.     (Editing by Noah Barkin/Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - As large parts of Europe's economy grind almost to a halt, attention will focus this week on the latest assessments of business confidence in the euro zone and Germany, which has just narrowly avoided a recession. While the United States economy has accelerated and China holds a slower but steady course, euro zone countries have remained sluggish, with overall growth in output slowing to a trickle. "The euro zone is the best part of 20 percent of the global economy," James Knightley, an economist with ING, said. "The longer the stagnation goes on the more Japan-like it becomes." The euro zone's problems have raised expectations that the European Central Bank is preparing to loosen its purse strings further to try to rekindle growth. Against this backdrop, Germany's Centre for European Economic Research's (ZEW) monthly barometer of sentiment, due on Nov 18, will provide more insight into business confidence levels. The Ukraine crisis is a major drag on business and investor sentiment, especially as there have been new reports of Russian troops pouring into eastern Ukraine. Russia has denied sending military forces to help separatist rebels in that region launch a new offensive in a conflict that has killed more than 4,000 people. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at the G20 leaders' summit on Saturday in Brisbane that the European Union was considering further financial sanctions against Russian individuals because of the crisis. Fallout from the Ukraine conflict is exacerbating the euro zone's problems, with European sanctions squeezing Russia's banks and companies and having knock-on effects particularly on Germany. A company purchasing managers' survey on Nov. 20 will offer a snapshot of whether companies are expanding in Germany, France and across the euro zone. That follows new monthly information on international trade, due out on Monday, which will show the extent of falls in exports to Russia. The bleak picture in Europe contrasts with brighter prospects for the United States, where an update on the how the country's manufacturers are faring is also out on Monday. REUTERS/Mike SegarA man wears U.S. dollar sign rings in a jewellery shop in Manhattan in New York City November 6, 2014.As the U.S. economy picks up, its central bank is moving closer to raising the cost of borrowing for the first time in more than eight years. Later in the week, economists will pore over the minutes of the Federal Reserve's latest policy meeting for any hints as to when Fed Chair Janet Yellen will begin reining in cheap money. The health of China's economy, a growth-driver for the United States and Europe, has also been a major concern given signs that growth is faltering. The communist country's economy now mirrors those of its rivals in the West and is having to confront many of the problems they have faced from rising wages and property bubbles to demands for stricter environmental standards. As global demand for its goods has slowed, its manufacturing costs are rising, prompting some companies to shift to cheaper neighbors such as Vietnam. The Chinese government has tried to head off a sharper slowdown in the economy, on track to grow at its slowest pace in 24 years, by easing some curbs on the property market. Such restrictions on second homes, for instance, had been introduced to dampen runaway property prices in cities such as Beijing, where the cost of a two-bedroom flat can reach $1 million. A further property price slowdown is likely to be confirmed when home price data is published early in the week. The downbeat picture in Europe and China's wobble have convinced some economists that the world will have to get used to more modest living standards. Even in countries where the recovery has been relatively robust, such as the United States or Britain, many people have barely noticed the difference between recovery and recession because their earnings have stayed low. "There is a growing divergence between highly-skilled well-paid jobs and low-skilled low-paid jobs," Matthew Whittaker, the chief economist at the Resolution Foundation think tank, said. "The UK recovery has been marked by pay going down." Price inflation in Britain, due out on Nov 18, is likely to stay around the 5-year low it hit in September. Some economists are now convinced that low or no inflation is the new normal. "If you look at Japan, the U.S. or China, there is no inflation to be had," Lena Komileva of consultancy G+ Economics said. "We have to readjust expectations to much lower growth."   (Additional reporting by Robin Emmott in Brussels, Kevin Yao in Beijing and William Schomberg in London; editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe dollar sign is seen alongside the signs for other currencies above a currency exchange shop in Mongkok shopping district in Hong KongLONDON (Reuters) - Working out of a shared office near London's Euston station, Michael Kent is part of a revolution that may be driven on by this year's row over alleged currency market manipulation by major banks. Kent's online business, Azimo, and more than 30 others in the United Kingdom are building on the success of firms like Western Union &lt;wu.n&gt; and MoneyGram International &lt;mgi.o&gt; in carving out a chunk of the market in international money transfers, travel money and card payments. Their pitch is simple: in the era of electronic money, the 4-12 percent fees banks charge consumers for any transaction involving foreign currency is ludicrously expensive. Today, to transfer 100 pounds to Germany, British high street bank Halifax would charge 9.5 pounds and use a rate 3.06 eurocents per pound worse than those the financial world's biggest players charge each other, totaling around 12 percent. Halifax points to the costs of running secure, wide-ranging operations and says the percentage falls for larger amounts. Currency market majors HSBC and Barclays charge less and costs on foreign currency transactions on credit cards often go below 5 percent, but the fee at Azimo is 1 pound, the spread less than 1 cent, and the overall cost less than 2 percent. "This is money that the banks do not need to charge people and we just set out to change that," says Kent. "We are in the middle of a worldwide downturn and these people are making supernormal profits. It is money people do not need to pay." Azimo's original raison d'etre was to reduce the cost for migrant workers of sending money home by streamlining the sort of service Western Union or Moneygram International were already providing at cheaper rates than western banks. Across London, in trendy e-business hub Shoreditch, market veterans Brian Jamieson and Daniel Butcher are seeking to take the game one stage further with another start-up, Centtrip. As financial markets went electronic in the 1990s, they were among entrepreneurs making the most of the large spreads banks charged companies for day-to-day currency purchases. Such firms helped drive corporate costs over interbank rates down from several cents to a few pips, or hundredths of a cent. Centtrip is now seeking to do the same for ordinary consumers. Customers sign up online, get sent a Mastercard and pay into it at a cost of 0.5 percent. They can then use the card for 14 currencies, with a spread of just 4 hundredths of a eurocent to interbank rates, compared to Halifax's 3 whole eurocents. Centtrip's initial target is business travelers, but Jamieson says it could take just five years for a mass audience of smart-phone users to clock on to the model. One key ingredient, he says, is convincing households their money is as safe with small web-based firms as with their bank. "After what happened in 2008, we've got to the point where we have lost trust and faith in the banks," he says. "That has opened up the door for people like us to disrupt the market." Since the global financial crisis laid bare excessive risk-taking at banks, their reputation has suffered further from allegations traders fleeced their biggest clients by manipulating foreign exchange rates, though there is no suggestion of any manipulation of retail rates. Banks do not break out their retail forex business in their results and there are no overall figures for the sector, but official data shows Britons spent $23.6 billion while on business and holiday trips abroad last year. Numbers from the Bank of International Settlements show global flows worth $78 billion a day through retail foreign exchange brokers, and $188 billion a day in flows from companies outside the financial sector, although much of that is from big multinationals going through their banks. REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonPainted monetary symbols are seen on a wall in Dublin city centre October 22, 2014."If travel money is billions then the market in these ordinary bank transfers will be at least 100 times that," says Ian Strafford-Taylor, chief executive of one of the earliest players in the consumer space, FairFX. FairFX is worth just under 40 million pounds according to its listing on London's AIM market, and made almost 3 million pounds on revenues of more than 300 million last year. The relative size of the newcomers shows there is some way to go. Eesha Mohindra, analyst at consumer finance website Moneysavingexpert.com, said more transparency was needed. "Without knowing it, most people waste big money when spending cash abroad by using the wrong card," she said. A handful of senior bank managers who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said the challenge to them in the retail segment was under serious consideration for the first time, but it was not yet considered big enough to force widespread change in a market seen as more lucrative even than the United States. "Clearly some of the banks still see this as a captive client base and it is coming closer to that point where these sort of nimble startups will force us to change," said the head of electronic trading with one large European bank. "Banks are already investing in some of these companies. Then when they see that they are really succeeding, they will buy some of them out."   (Editing by Philippa Fletcher) FREE AppDownload
NANDI HILLS Kenya (Reuters) - Emerald-colored tea bushes blanketing the rolling hills of Nandi County have long provided a livelihood for small-scale farmers, helping make Kenya one of the world's biggest tea exporters. But ideal weather and bigger harvests, instead of producing bumper earnings, have led to a glut of Kenya's specialty black tea. Samuel Busienei, a 72-year-old tea farmer, says he earns 40 percent less for each kilogram of tea sold than he did three years ago and is considering tearing up his crop. "It was a very good life," said Busienei, who first planted the crop in the 1980s. "But if the price doesn't change, we will have to remove the tea." The threat facing Busienei and other smallholders, who produce about two thirds of Kenya's tea output, could spell broader trouble for the east African nation's economy. Tea exports are now one of Kenya's biggest sources of foreign exchange, alongside flowers and other horticultural exports, and generated $1.3 billion in 2013 on record output of 432 million kg. In contrast, coffee exports earned just $214 million in 2012/13. As Kenya's economic growth has slowed to below 6 percent, from 7 percent in 2007, tea has become a main driver of growth, overtaking tourism which has been hit by attacks blamed on Somalia-based militants, including the 2013 attack on Nairobi's Westgate shopping mall. Tea revenues are also helping support the Kenyan shilling as it faces pressure from a dollar shortage. "Kenya is at the top of the scale in terms of quality," said Edward George, head of group research at Ecobank in London. "It should be looking to maintain its very powerful position as the key supplier of black tea to the global market." Tea prices have been under pressure globally as other countries have increased output and exports. Top grade Kenyan tea, which fetched a maximum price of $3.78-$4.38 per kg in 2012, was sold at auction in Mombasa last week for $2.10-$3.40. Kenya vies with China and Sri Lanka as the world's top tea exporter. But more small farmers in Kenya now produce tea, so even as export earnings rise the proceeds are spread more thinly. To ensure small farmers don't switch away from the cash crop or sell land for real estate, analysts say the government must introduce a more effective mechanism to cushion price swings and find new export markets.   For now, 70 percent of output goes to five countries with a taste for Kenya's black tea. One of them is Britain, the former colonial power which established tea planting in Kenya on a large scale in the 1940s but whose domestic consumption has reached a plateau. The others are Egypt, Sudan, Afghanistan and Pakistan, where political turmoil frequently hits purchases. Agriculture Minister Felix Koskei visited Nandi, about 300 km (190 miles) northwest of Nairobi, last month to urge farmers to keep growing and promised help. "The more we rely on these traditional markets, the more we lose," Koskei told Reuters from his office in Nairobi. Kenya was seeking to attract new buyers in eastern Europe and the Middle East, two big tea-drinking regions, he said. He said the government plans to set up a price stabilization fund, which would involve the state buying up some of Kenya's tea when prices are low and selling it onto the global market once prices stabilize, to cushion farmers against fluctuations. The government is in the process of hiring a consultant for the plan, Koskei said, adding it was too early to give details. REUTERS/Noor KhamisA woman picks tea leaves at a plantation in Nandi Hills, in Kenya's highlands region west of capital Nairobi, November 5, 2014.Most small-scale farmers are members of the Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA), a cooperative since the government sold it in 2000. Tea is also produced on big farms run by firms such as Williamson Tea Kenya and Unilever. KTDA, which represents 560,000 farmers, offers a guaranteed sum for each kg of tea on delivery at tea-collecting stations, plus a sum paid annually linked to global prices. Overall, farmers received 31.61 shillings (35 U.S. cents) per kg in the 2013/14 season, down from 50.01 shillings (55 U.S. cents) in 2011/12. The system is set up to ensure that growers get some income immediately on delivery, but they do not get the full amount until a sale is made on the global market.   There are other pressures. Tea pickers are demanding higher pay. Many now earn just 10 shillings per kg, working from daybreak to pluck new leaves from bushes that sweep across the main tea-producing areas, including Nandi, Kericho, Mount Kenya, Aberdares and Kisii, in the Kenyan highlands. "People really have been crying about the prices," said Leah Metto, 53, who grows tea on a three-acre plot in Nandi to supplement her teacher's income. Some farms have already shifted to grow vegetables and other crops, or turned to dairy cattle, Nandi's main source of income before the British took to tea planting. Once uprooted, returning to tea is a long process because a bush only fully matures after seven years. "We are telling our members to diversify," said Wilson Tuwei, chairman of Siret Tea Company, a cooperative. His members are investing in a six-storey office tower under construction in Nandi to generate rental income. KTDA's chairman, Peter Kanyago, has urged the government to simplify 24 different taxes that he said affected producers. The government needs tax revenues from the tea sector as it seeks funds for development projects and aims to narrow a budget deficit running above 7 percent of GDP, but Koskei said the government is studying KDTA's request.   (Editing by Edmund Blair and Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
