[UPDATE 1:08 a.m. ET: This post has been updated with election results.] Tuesday was Election Day in America. The historical stats show that stocks usually rally in the months following a midterm election. Now we know that the GOP has taken the Senate, while President Barack Obama is, of course, a Democrat. Would this make things particularly bad? Some would argue that gridlock can actually be bullish for the stock market. UBS' Julian Emanuel considers the recent history. "Gingrich and the 'Republican Revolution' steamroll Clinton &amp; Co. in 1994's midterms," Emanuel wrote on Monday, referring to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. "Markets pause, hesitate, then begin a bull run in 1995. "History doesn’t usually repeat, but it often rhymes." UBS FREE AppDownload
“The significant problems that we have created cannot be solved at the level of thinking we were at when we created them.” – Albert Einstein “Generals are notorious for their tendency to ‘fight the last war’ – by using the strategies and tactics of the past to achieve victory in the present. Indeed, we all do this to some extent. Life's lessons are hard won, and we like to apply them – even when they don't apply. Sadly enough, fighting the last war is often a losing proposition. Conditions change. Objectives change. Strategies change. And you must change. If you don't, you lose.” – Dr. G. Terry Madonna and Dr. Michael Young “Markets are perpetuating a serious error by acting on the belief that central bankers actually know what they are doing. They do not. Not because they are ill-intentioned but because they are human and subject to the limitations that apply to all human endeavors. If you want proof of their fallibility, simply look at their economic forecasts. Despite their efforts to do so, central banks can’t repeal the business cycle (though they can distort it). While the 2008 financial crisis should have taught them that lesson, it appears to have led them to precisely the opposite conclusion. “There are limits to knowledge in every field, including the hard sciences, and economics is not a hard science; it is a social science whose knowledge is imprecise, and practitioners’ ability to predict the future is extremely limited. Fed officials are attempting to guide an extremely complex economy with tools of questionable utility, and markets are ignoring their warnings that their ability to manage a positive outcome is highly uncertain. Markets are confusing what they want to happen with what is likely to happen, a common psychological phenomenon. Investors who prosper in the long run will be those who acknowledge the severe limits of economic knowledge and the compelling evidence that trillions of dollars of QE and years of zero interest rates may have saved the system from immediate collapse five years ago but failed to produce sustained economic growth or long-term price stability.” – Michael Lewitt, The Credit Strategist, Nov. 1, 2014 As I predicted months ago in this letter and last year in Code Red, the Japanese have launched another missile in their ongoing currency war, somewhat fittingly on Halloween. Rather than being spooked, the markets saw it as just another round of feel-good quantitative easing and climbed to all-time highs on the Dow and S&amp;P 500. The Nikkei soared even more (for good reason). As we will see later in this letter, this is not your father’s quantitative easing. The Japanese, for reasons of their own, will intervene not only in their own equity markets but in foreign equity markets as well, and do so in a size and manner that will be significant. This gambit is going to have ramifications far beyond merely weakening the yen. In this week’s letter we are going to take an in-depth look at what the Japanese have done. It is something of a cliché to quote Mark Twain’s “History doesn’t repeat itself, but it does rhyme.” But it is an appropriate way to kick things off, since we are going to look at the “ancient” history of Mark Twain’s era, and specifically the Panic of 1873. That October saw the beginning of 65 months of recession (certainly longer than our generation’s own Great Recession), which inflicted massive pain on the country. The initial cause was government monetary intervention, but the crisis was deepened by soaring debt and deflation. As we seek to understand what happened 141 years ago, we’ll revisit the phenomenon of October as a month of negative market surprises. It actually has its roots in the interplay between farming and banking. The Panic of 1873 Shortly after the Civil War, which saw the enactment of federal fiat money (the “greenback” of that era, issued to finance the war), there was a federal law passed that required rural and agricultural banks to keep 25% of their deposits with certain certified national banks, which were based mainly in New York. The national banks were required to pay interest on those deposits, so they had to put the money out for loans. But because those deposits were “callable” at any time, there was a limit to the types of loans they could do, as long-term loans mismatched assets and liabilities. The brokers of the New York Stock Exchange were considered an excellent target for such loans. They could use the proceeds of the loans as margin to buy stocks, either for their own trading or on behalf of their clients. As long as the stocks went up – or at the very least as long as the ultimate clients were liquid – there wasn’t a problem for the national banks. Money could be repatriated; or, if necessary, margins could be called in a day. But this was before the era of a central bank, so actual physical dollars (and other physical instruments) were involved as reserves, as was gold. Greenbacks could be used to buy gold, but at a rate that floated. The price of gold could fluctuate significantly from year to year, depending upon the availability of gold and the supply of greenbacks (and of course, market sentiment – which certainly rhymes with our own time). The driver for October volatility was an annual cycle, an ebb and flow of dollars to and from these rural banks. In the fall when the harvest was ready, the country banks would recall their margin loans in order to pay farmers or loan to merchants to buy crops from farmers and ship them via the railroads. Money would then become tight on Wall Street as the national banks called their loans back in. This cycle often caused extra volatility, depending on the shortness of loan capital. Margin rates could rise to as much as 1% per day! Of course, this would force speculators to sell their stocks or cover their shorts, but in general it could drive down prices and make margin calls more likely. This monetary tightening often sent stocks into a downward spiral – not unlike the downward pressure that present-day Fed tightening actions have exerted, but in a compressed period of time. If there was enough leverage in the system, a cascade could result, with stocks dropping 20% very quickly. Since much of Wall Street was involved in railroads, and railroads were nothing if not leveraged loans and capital, falling asset prices would reduce the ability of investors in railroads to find the necessary capital for expansion and maintenance of operations. This historical pattern no longer explains the present-day vulnerability of markets in October. Perhaps the phenomenon persists simply due to market lore and investor psychology. Like an amputee feeling a twinge in his lost limb, do we still sense the ghosts of crashes past? (And once more with Mark Twain: “October. This is one of the peculiarly dangerous months to speculate in stocks. The others are July, January, September, April, November, May, March, June, December, August, and February.”) It was in this fall environment that a young Jay Gould decided to manipulate the gold market in the autumn of 1873, creating a further squeeze on the dollar. Not only would he profit off a play in gold, but he thought the move would help him in his quest to take control of the Erie Railroad. Historian Charles R. Morris explains, in a fascinating book called The Tycoons: Gould’s mind ran in labyrinthine channels, and he turned to the gold markets as part of a strategy to improve Erie’s freights. Grain was America’s largest export in 1869. Merchants purchased grain from farmers on credit, shipped it overseas, and paid off the farmers when they received their remittances from abroad. Their debt to the farmers was in greenbacks, but their receipts from abroad came in gold, for the greenback was not legal tender overseas. It could take weeks, or even months, to complete a transaction, so the merchant was exposed to changes in the gold/greenback exchange rate during that time. If gold fell (or the greenback rose), the merchant’s gold proceeds might not cover his greenback debts. The New York Gold Exchange was created to help merchants protect against that risk. Using the Exchange, a merchant could borrow gold when he made his contract, convert it to greenbacks, and pay off his suppliers right away. Then he would pay off the gold loan when his gold payment came in some weeks later; since it was gold for gold, exchange rates didn’t matter. To protect against default, the Exchange required full cash collateral to borrow gold. But that was an opening for speculations by clever traders like Gould. If a trader bought gold and then immediately lent it, he could finance his purchase with the cash collateral and thereby acquire large positions while using very little of his own cash. [Note from JM: In the fall there was plenty of demand for gold and a shortage of greenbacks. It was the perfect time if you wanted to create a “corner” on gold.] Gould reasoned that if he could force up the price of gold, he might improve the Erie’s freight revenues. If gold bought more greenbacks, greenback-priced wheat would look cheaper to overseas buyers, so exports, and freights, would rise. And because of the fledgling status of the new Gold Exchange, gold prices looked eminently manipulable, since only about $20 million in gold was usually available in New York. [Some of his partners in the conspiracy were skeptical because…] The Grant administration, which had just taken office in March, was sitting on $100 million in gold reserves. If gold started suddenly rising, it would hurt merchant importers, who could be expected to clamor for government gold sales. So Gould went to President Grant’s brother-in-law, Abel Corbin, who liked to brag about his family influence. He set up a meeting with President Grant, at which Gould learned that Grant was cautious about any significant movements in either the gold or the greenback, noting the “fictitiousness about the prosperity of the country and that the bubble might be tapped in one way as well as another.” That was discouraging: popping a bubble meant tighter money and lower gold. But Gould plunged ahead with his gold buying, including rather sizable amounts for Corbin’s wife (Grant’s wife’s sister), such that each one-dollar rise in gold would generate $11,000 in profits. Corbin arranged further meetings with Grant and discouraged him from selling gold all throughout September. Gould and his partners initiated a “corner” in the gold market. This was actually legal at the time, and the NY gold market was relatively small compared to the amount of capital it was possible for a large, well-organized cabal to command. True corners were devastating to bears, as they generally borrowed shares or gold to sell short, betting on the fall in price. Just as today, if the price falls too much, then the short seller can buy the stock back and take his losses. But if there is no stock to buy back, if someone has cornered the market, then losses can be severe. Which of course is what today we call a short squeeze. The short position grew to some $200 million, most of it owed to Gould and his friends. But there was only $20 million worth of gold available to cover the short sales. That gold stock had been borrowed and borrowed and borrowed again. The price of gold rose as Gould’s cabal kept pressing their bet. But Grant got wind of the move. His wife wrote her sister, demanding to know if the rumor of their involvement was true. Corbin panicked and told Gould he wanted out, with his $100,000+ of profits, of course. Gould promised him his profits if he would just keep quiet. Then Gould began to unload all his gold positions, even as some of his partners kept right on buying. You have to keep up pretenses, of course. Gould was telling his partners to push the price up to 160, while he was selling through another set of partners. It is a small irony that Gould also had a contact in the government in Washington (a Mr. Butterfield) who assured him that there was no move to sell gold from DC, even as that contact was personally selling all his gold as fast as he could. Whatever bad you could say about Gould (and there were lots of bad things you could say), his trading instincts were good. He sensed his contact was lying and doubled down on getting out of the trade. In the end, Gould didn’t make any money to speak of and in fact damaged his intention of getting control of the Erie Railroad that fall. The attempted gold corner didn’t do much harm to the country in and of itself. But when President Grant decided to step in and sell gold, there was massive buying, which sucked a significant quantity of physical dollars out of the market and into the US Treasury at a time when dollars were short. This move was a clumsy precursor to the open-market operations of the Federal Reserve of today, except that those dollars were needed as margin collateral by brokerage companies. No less than 14 New York Stock Exchange brokerages went bankrupt within a few days, not including brokerages that dealt just in gold. All this happened in the fall, when there were fewer physical dollars to be had. The price of gold collapsed. Cornelius Vanderbilt, who was often at odds with Jay Gould, had to step into the market (literally – that is, physically, which was rare for him) in order to quell the panic and provide capital, a precursor to J.P. Morgan’s doing the same during the Panic of 1907. While many today believe the Fed should never have been created, we have not lived through those periods of panics and crashes. And while I think the Fed now acts in ways that are inappropriate (how can 12 FOMC board members purport to fine-tune an economic cycle, let alone solve employment problems?), the one true and proper role of the Fed is to provide liquidity in time of a crisis. “People Who Live Too Much on Credit” At the end of the day, it was too much debt that was the problem in 1873. Cornelius Vanderbilt was quoted in the epic book The First Tycoon as saying (emphasis mine): I’ll tell you what’s the matter – people undertake to do about four times as much business as they can legitimately undertake.… There are a great many worthless railroads started in this country without any means to carry them through. Respectable banking houses in New York, so called, make themselves agents for sale of the bonds of the railroads in question and give a kind of moral guarantee of their genuineness. The bonds soon reach Europe, and the markets of their commercial centres, from the character of the endorsers, are soon flooded with them.… When I have some money I buy railroad stock or something else, but I don’t buy on credit. I pay for what I get. People who live too much on credit generally get brought up with a round turn in the long run. The Wall Street averages ruin many a man there, and is like faro.” In the wake of Gould’s shenanigans, President Grant came to New York to assess the damage; and eventually his Secretary of the Treasury decided to buy $30 million of bonds in a less-clumsy precursor to Federal Reserve open-market operations, trying to inject some liquidity back into the markets. This was done largely as a consequence of a conversation with Vanderbilt, who offered to put up $10 million of his own, a vast sum at the time. But the damage was done. The problem of liquidity was created by too much debt, as Vanderbilt noted. That debt inflated assets, and when those assets fell in price, so did the net worth of the borrowers. Far too much debt had to be worked off, and the asset price crash precipitated a rather deep depression, leaving in its wake far greater devastation than the recent Great Recession did. It took many years for the deleveraging process to work out. Sound familiar? The Panic of 1873 started one of the longest depressions in American history – sixty-five straight months of economic contraction. In the next year, half of America’s iron mills would close; by 1876, more than half of the railroads would go bankrupt. Unemployment, hunger, and homelessness blighted the nation. “In the winter of 1873–74, cities from Boston to Chicago witnessed massive demonstrations demanding that authorities ease the economic crisis,” Eric Foner writes. The irony is that the fall was far more severe because of the rapid rise of the previous decade. The expanding, increasingly efficient railroad network had created a truly national market. The fates of farmers, workers, merchants, and industrialists across the landscape were tied together as never before. New York had cast its financial net across the country, which meant that credit flowed to remote regions far more easily than before – but also that financial panics affected the entire nation. As Vanderbilt pointed out, railroad overbuilding was an underlying economic problem, and it was exacerbated by Wall Street’s craze for railway securities. When the bubble burst, the consequences were felt across the country with devastating suddenness and severity.” (From The First Tycoon) Can you hear the rhyme? This almost eerily echoes our own time and the interconnectedness of international markets. The growth in global markets has been funded by debt, fueled by quantitative easing. Yet, for the moment, the markets believe that central banks can control any panic or crisis. Somehow this time is different. Our central bankers have come up with all sorts of new tools and techniques, so there is nothing but upside – rainbows and unicorns. I cannot recommend highly enough The First Tycoon, the book on Cornelius Vanderbilt by T. J. Stiles. It is incredibly well-written and researched and won a Pulitzer Prize as well as a National Book Award. My only real problem with the book is that there was so much fascinating detail and useful trivia that I could not skim through but had to slow down and absorb it all! While Vanderbilt is the central character, the book is far more than a biography. It is a compelling history of the rise of steam engines and railroads, and just as important, the beginning of the invention of the idea that a corporation is something separate from its shareholders. This was a truly radical concept and took decades to play out. Insider trading was legal and was done all the time. It was a true laissez-faire, buyer-beware market. Self-dealing, price collusion, and other corporate practices that we would consider repugnant today were standard fare. But you have to understand that there was no precedent for the circumstances of autumn, 1873. The country was embroiled in a great and contentious conversation over what money and banking and corporations and business should be, all of this happening as new technologies turned millennia-old social processes on their heads. Railroads would have been impossible without corporations, and railroads vastly emancipated and enriched the West (and the rest of the world, wherever they went). Even in an era of price collusion, railroads brought the cost of shipping products down dramatically. The McCormick reaper greatly enhanced the productivity of farms just as a market for their produce appeared by means of cheaper transportation to growing Eastern seaboard cities and Europe. Agriculture went from producing 53% of total national commodity output to less than 33% as manufacturing became dominant, spurring mass labor movement from the country to the cities with their factories. Meanwhile a new wave of immigrants poured into the US. The new technologies made everything less expensive and more abundant. Steam engines went from small and inefficient to massive and powerful, capable of driving huge ships and trains with less fuel cost. Transportation went from being a small part of the economy to being the very heart, employing hundreds of thousands. The period of time from 1870 to 1900 was one of general price deflation of almost everything. But in general, it was the good deflation that comes from increased productivity and lower prices – once the asset deflation of the Panic of 1873 was worked out. Businesses, professionals, government, and society in general were all having to learn new rules for everything, and then scrapping the new rules for even newer rules. There was no playbook, no organizing principle for building a new society. They had to create entirely new institutions from whole cloth. They were literally inventing modern society from the ground up – a task somewhat akin to building an airplane while it is trying to taxi down the runway. And that’s the point we need to fully understand. They were making it up as they went along. I should note that the crises of that era were not just financial. Government was constantly running behind the rather messy process of transformation, trying to contain the damage. Like generals fighting the last war, the bureaucrats were always trying to make sure the last crisis or bad policy would not be repeated. All sorts of new laws needed to be enacted in order to level the playing field for average citizens. Farmers felt put upon by the railroads and the vast wealth of the railroad magnates (even as freight prices generally fell). Price fixing among monopolistic cartels was the norm. Unions were brutally suppressed time and time again and in turn were often violent. Politicians were openly bought and sold. The journalists of those times had all the gentility of the current denizens of the internet, which is to say, generally none. Income inequality? When Vanderbilt died, he was worth an estimated $100 million  (multiple trillions of dollars in current buying power) and was the richest man up to that point.  He was just the first of a number of contemporaries who would go on to amass even greater fortunes. Wealth disparity from top to bottom was far worse than it is today, and the poverty at the bottom was devastating. There was no social safety net of any kind. And let’s not kid ourselves: much of the social and financial mess of the 19th century is still with us today. In fact, if you read deeply enough, you find that we have been trying to solve these large societal problems for hundreds of years. Somehow each generation thinks they have finally got it figured out.  Reading the commentary from the papers of that time, you are struck by the level of optimism that the leaders of society expressed – they certainly believed they had figured it all out. Nothing but upside. Until, of course, the next crisis ensued. We live in an era that does not repeat the latter part of the 19th century – things have changed – but there is a rhythm and a rhyme that seem hauntingly familiar. There is the enduring belief that this time is different. Each unfolding generation feels that it will solve the problems of the previous generations, even as each older generation in turn despairs of the wisdom and probity of its youth. We play Minsky’s old tune, “Stability Leads to Instability,” over and over again. You would think we could figure out how this song ends and come up with a different, less tumultuous tune. And our “generals” do indeed go on trying to fix the problems of the last war, missing the entirely new problems that are developing. Until a crisis steers our common vehicle into the ditch, we cling to the illusion of control. We look at the rampant corruption of the Gilded Age and believe we have made progress. And we have: we have progressed to new levels of problems, some of which are altogether unappreciated and certain to produce their own unexpected and unintended consequences and eventual crises. The Link Among All Crises But we have not dealt with the primary cause of nearly all financial crises throughout modern history and throughout the world: too much of the wrong kind of debt – debt which is nonproductive. Paul Krugman, the most visible spokesman for those who think it is old-fashioned and foolish to worry about the debt, recently wrote: On the Chicken Little aspect: It’s actually awesome, in a way, to realize how long cries of looming disaster have filled our airwaves and op-ed pages. For example, I just reread an op-ed article by Alan Greenspan in The Wall Street Journal, warning that our budget deficit will lead to soaring inflation and interest rates. What about the reality of low inflation and low rates? That, he declares in the article, is “regrettable, because it is fostering a sense of complacency.” It’s curious how readily people who normally revere the wisdom of markets declare the markets all wrong when they fail to panic the way they’re supposed to. But the really striking thing at this point is the date: Mr. Greenspan’s article was published in June 2010, almost three and a half years ago – and both inflation and interest rates remain low. And he is right, up to a point: too much debt is not a crisis today. Too much debt is never a crisis, right up until the moment it becomes a crisis. Too much debt was not widely recognized as an issue in the US in 2006 or in Europe in 2010, but then – boom! – it became an issue. And throughout the developed world and China, today’s levels of debt, an ever-increasing amount of which is unproductive, are staggeringly high. The currently fashionable way to deal with too much debt is to punish savers and enrich the already rich, prolonging a situation in which even more debt can be accumulated. Markets believe in the effectiveness of central bank actions precisely because they want to, not because there is any well-established basis for that belief. Yes, we have dealt with some of the problems that gave rise to the last crisis, but we have still not dealt with the underlying, fundamental problem of too much nonproductive debt. At some point, some nasty cousin of subprime debt will come along to prick our bubble. And because debt levels are now even higher than they were in 2007 and there is less scope for the Federal Reserve to intervene with interest rates, the next crisis will not be a repeat of the Great Recession but its own calamitous variant. Which will bring yet more monetary and fiscal intervention, which will produce its own unintended consequences. And speaking of unintended consequences, let us now turn to Japan.  Japan: The World’s Largest Hedge Fund In a (reputedly) passionately contested 5 to 4 vote, the board of governors of the Bank of Japan voted essentially to become the world’s largest hedge fund. Not only did they raise the level of quantitative easing by over 15%, to the equivalent of $720 billion a year, they are aggressively allocating and increasing portions of that money to Japanese equity markets and REITs. In a (supposedly) uncoordinated but almost simultaneous announcement, the $1 trillion+ government pension fund announced a move to sell Japanese bonds in size and increase their equity holdings in Japanese and foreign stocks by 20%, divided equally between Japanese and foreign markets. This is the equivalent of $200 billion being injected into global equity markets from one pension fund alone. We can expect that nearly every other Japanese pension fund will follow suit, meaning that potentially hundreds of billions of dollars will be thrust into global equity markets. Bank of Japan Governor Kuroda said that the move was necessary to achieve their inflation target of 2%. Core Japanese inflation fell to 1.2% last month (after adjusting for the sales tax increase) and has been falling for the last six months. He has a target of 5% nominal GDP growth, by which we assume he means 2% inflation and 3% real GDP growth. The fact that nominal growth has been almost literally zero for the last 20+ years doesn’t seem to impact his optimistic target. In his comments after the announcement, Kuroda-san said, “[However,] it is important for the BOJ to strongly commit to achieving its price target to get its price target firmly embedded in people's mindset.... [Thus] we have pledged to do whatever it takes to achieve our 2 percent inflation target at the earliest date possible.... It won't do much good in trying to shake off the public's deflation mindset if you just say inflation will reach 2 percent someday.” I guess using the phrase whatever it takes is working so well in Europe that Kuroda decided to try it out in Japan. At least the currency market believes him: the yen is getting thrashed as I write this. Local analysts give him almost no chance of approaching 2% inflation in the first part of next year. Household spending fell another 5.6% in September, and another round of consumption tax increases is due to kick in next year. The consumption tax was raised from 5% to 8% last April, which resulted in a 7% contraction of the economy in the second quarter. The tax will rise another 2% (to a total of 10%, or double the original amount) next October.  Seriously, if you are in the middle of a recession, the general prescription is to cut taxes, not double the national sales tax over a period of a year and a half. Taking away 5% of Japanese consumption is not going to be good for GDP or the inflation rate, especially when so much of your aging nation is living off fixed incomes that essentially pay them no interest. Real wages have been falling for well over a year and are now down 3% year-over-year. I’ve written extensively on the deflationary impact of Japanese demographics. All of this data, taken together, is not the stuff of which inflationary fears are made. And thus Kuroda’s ostensible reason for increasing the money supply: we need more inflation, and economic theory says quantitative easing is the way to get it. The argument from the Bank of Japan is that it is simply applying the same strategy that the United States, Great Britain, and Europe have used to such stunning effect. Except. Japanese debt-to-GDP is approaching 250%. This year the government deficit is 7.6% – or the US equivalent of a deficit of about $1.3 trillion. (The actual US deficit in 2014 was $463 billion.) And Japanese government budgetary requests amount to a spending increase of about 6% for 2015 … although Prime Minister Abe assures us that Japan will be close to a primary balance by 2020. Rots o’ ruck on that one, Abe.  Ten-year Japanese bonds are now yielding 0.45%, and five-year JGBs yield a minuscule 0.11%. The Bank of Japan has essentially become the Japanese bond market. The balance sheet of the Bank of Japan will rise about 1.4% of GDP each month for the foreseeable future. That is easily more than twice the amount of debt the government of Japan will issue. That means they will have to go into the market and buy already-issued bonds. Thus, the government pension fund announces that they will serendipitously sell their bonds (at a profit, of course) to the Bank of Japan and purchase equities. Such fortuitous timing for the Bank of Japan. Marcel Thieliant of Capital Economics notes that the BoJ already owns a quarter of all Japanese state bonds and a third of short-term notes (The Telegraph). The actual Japanese strategy, over time, is to move the bulk of government debt off the books of banks, insurance companies, and pension funds, so that when, in some distant future, the Bank of Japan allows interest rates to rise, it will not devastate the balance sheets of Japan’s most important institutions. Head ’Em Up and Move ’Em Out And this is where the move by the Japanese pension funds is so important. At the end of the day, the pension funds are moving out of JGBs and into equity and especially foreign equity precisely because they have lost faith in their ability to meet their obligations in an environment of continual and rising QE. The pension funds have forced the Bank of Japan to boost its QE support in order to absorb the amount of JGBs that will be put back on the market. This is precisely what I predicted in both Endgame and Code Red and in this letter over the past four years. Investors, and that includes pension funds and insurance companies, have no choice but to diversify outside of Japanese bonds. Not to do so would be a dereliction of duty, but their shift forces the BoJ to increase its quantitative easing perhaps faster than it would like to. This dynamic has the potential to spiral out of control. The more the yen falls, the more apparent it becomes that Japanese individuals and institutions are fleeing the Japanese bond market, and the greater will be the move to sell bonds. Unless the Bank of Japan can absorb all those bonds, interest rates will have nowhere to go but up, which would be devastating to the government of Japan. Will the current level of JGB absorption, which is about 4% of total government debt per year over and above newly issued debt, be enough one year or two years from now? If it isn’t, I fully expect another announcement increasing QE to an even more stratospheric level. Japan is still behaving in a gentlemanly fashion, to be sure. The pension funds will give the Bank of Japan a heads-up as to their plans, and it is likely there will be some give and take, but the direction is certain. This is not something that can happen overnight, as moving hundreds of billions of dollars into equity markets without radically roiling the markets is not possible. But this cattle drive is getting rolling – “head ’em up and move ’em out.” The debt-to-GDP ratio of Japan will rise another 25% in the next few years, but the amount of that debt on the balance sheet of the BoJ will increase by over 50% in just the next three years. By comparison, that would be the equivalent of the Federal Reserve’s purchasing $8 trillion worth of government bonds and equities. That amount of money beggars the imagination … but it will still leave the Japanese government owing just a shade under 200% of GDP. Since the government of Japan simply cannot survive in an environment of significantly rising interest rates without serious intervention by the Bank of Japan, QED, the BoJ is going to go on quantitatively easing well into the next decade. They will literally need to monetize 200% of GDP (or more!) while the government of Japan somehow manages to get into an actual surplus, so that the BoJ can withdraw from the markets and allow interest rates to rise to market levels. And if that debt-to-GDP ratio is pulled down to a more normal 40 to 50% (70%? – pick your favorite level for “reasonable”) and they have a balanced budget, then interest rates will actually remain reasonable from the perspective of the government. But if the Bank of Japan withdraws anytime soon from the bond market, there will be no Japanese bond market for the foreseeable future. Interest rates will rise with the same market force brought to bear by Jay Gould’s corner on the gold market. I know I’ve been beating this drum for a number of years, but you can see this coming. Japan’s past reckless spending leaves them with no other choice than to monetize their debt and destroy their currency. The Bank of Japan is now the Japanese bond market. There is no one else. Japanese pension funds and investors are fleeing the Japanese bond market and putting money into “hard” assets like the local stock market or real estate if they want to keep the money in Japan, or they are moving it into investments denominated in other currencies. The chart below shows the fall of the Japanese yen against the dollar in the last two years. Note that the dollar has risen some 40% against the yen. Since its recent high, the yen has dropped a similar amount against the euro and the Korean won. It is even 50% lower against the Chinese renminbi. That is a breathtaking move for a currency in so short a time.  The yen is now almost 114 to the dollar as I write early Monday morning, continuing its drop of last Friday. Expect to read about pushback from many countries over the next few weeks. They will become even more vocal when the yen crosses 120. And then 130 and at every point until the yen is at 200 to the dollar. The only question in my mind is, will the Bank of Japan monetize enough Japanese debt so that it can withdraw its quantitative easing before the yen reaches 200? I actually have real money in 10-year yen put options that says they can’t. But then again, that assumes that a response by the Federal Reserve for QE4 doesn’t develop. Please note that I’m not saying that the yen will go straight to 120, much less 200, from here. It will probably do so in an uneven and volatile manner similar to what we’ve seen in the past few years. But it is my belief that the overall direction is for an ever-depreciating currency. If the yen depreciates only 10% a year, that exerts an inflationary force of less than 0.5% a year. Given the market dynamics already at work in Japan and given the stated goal of 2% inflation, that is nowhere near enough. There will come a time in the not-too-distant future when inflation again starts to recede uncomfortably below 1%, and the only way Governor Kuroda will be able to maintain his credibility will be to double down on even more aggressive QE. Whatever it takes, indeed! These are not simple men at the helm of the BoJ. They fully will understand that they are eroding the value of their currency – and that, in fact, is part of their intention. In his comments after the meeting, Gov. Kuroda came right out and said, “Overall, a week yen is positive for Japan’s economy.” He hopes that by weakening it he will put some competitive zing back into Japan’s exporting industries. By targeting equities, Japanese leaders hope to alleviate much of the pain to investors and their pension funds by fomenting a rising market. And Japanese corporate profits are up significantly – far more than those of their European and US counterparts – over the last two years as the yen has fallen. I am sure the “unintended” consequences of Japanese actions are discussed at the monthly meeting of central bankers at the Bank of International Settlements in Basel. Perhaps they are even discussed aggressively. But at the end of the day, all Kuroda-san can do is shrug his shoulders and tell the other members he has no choice. And he doesn’t. If he does not continue in his present course, he will face a deflationary depression of the first-order, and that would have an even greater negative impact on the world than what he is attempting to do now. But it is remarkably naïve for the market to believe in the illusion that the central bankers of the world have it all under control, that they have this all thought out, that they have modeled it perfectly, and that these new Japanese actions are simply part of the plan. The Japanese are attempting to export the one Japanese product the world does not want: their deflation. It is not clear how the central banks of the world will react to the yen at 130, let alone 140 or 150. With proper fiscal, regulatory, and tax reform, the United States can cope with a rising dollar. I’ve been writing for a long time that the dollar is going to become stronger than any of us can possibly imagine. And not just against the yen. But monetary policy alone is not enough to deal with the challenges that a strong dollar presents. I am not sanguine about Europe, where QE is still streng verboten. Neither is it clear what the proper course for China should be. Allowing the renminbi to strengthen along with the dollar would create deflationary impulses in China and weaken their own export competitiveness. But to allow their currency to fall would threaten the dollar relationship of their internal debt financing. Properly understood, Chinese government debt may be approaching 200% of GDP (when total government obligations are taken into account). That is a staggering sum for an emerging, growing economy, even one with China’s dollar reserves. My guess is they’re going to need every penny of those reserves. The good news, I suppose, is that they have them. To think that the Japanese are not busy triggering a major currency war is to favor hope over political reality. It is true naïveté. Politicians are going to want to be seen doing something about currency fluctuations that hurt their local businesses. This will put pressure on their central banks and prompt urgent calls for protection. The bad news is that we’re sliding into this currency crisis at a time when debt is at nosebleed levels and still rising, when Europe seems ineluctably headed for another phase of its crisis (and another recession), and China is struggling to balance a most unbalanced economy. In the same way that we connected farmers and bankers in every corner of the United States back in the 1870s, we have now connected businesses at every level in every corner of the world. To think that we can somehow manage our Brave New World economy with any greater success than President Grant and his Treasury Secretary achieved is to rely on a huge dollop of hope, and hope is not an economic management strategy. How do we recognize where and when the serious problems will develop? We’ll close with a slightly edited version (from Endgame) of Michael Pettis’s timeless list of “five things that matter”: 1. Debt levels matter. The best way to measure them is as total debt to GDP or external debt to exports. As a general rule, the more debt you have, the more difficulty you are going to have servicing it. Coupons matter, too. Low rates are much more serviceable than high rates. 2. The structure of the balance sheet matters, and this may be much more important than the actual level of debt. Not all debt is equal. An investor has to distinguish between inverted debt and hedged debt. With inverted debt, the value of liabilities is positively correlated with the value of assets, so that the debt burden and servicing costs decline in good times and rise in bad times. With hedged debt, they are negatively correlated. Foreign currency and short-term borrowings are examples of inverted debt. This makes the good times better and the bad times worse. Long-term fixed-rate local-currency borrowing is an example of hedged debt. During an inflation or currency crisis, the cost of servicing the debt actually declines in real terms, providing the borrower with some automatic relief, and this relief increases the worse conditions become. Highly inverted debt structures are very dangerous because they reinforce negative shocks and can cause events to spiral out of control, but unfortunately they are very popular because in good times, when debt levels typically rise, they magnify positive shocks. 3. The economy’s underlying volatility matters. Less volatile economies are less subject to violent fluctuations, especially if the performance of the economy is correlated with financing ability. This is especially a problem for countries whose economies are highly dependent on commodities. Typically, commodity prices go down in bad times, making it that much harder to export profitably. 4. The structure of the investor base matters. Contagion is caused not so much by fear, as most people assume, but by large amounts of highly leveraged positions, which force investors into various forms of delta hedging, that is, buy when prices rise, and sell when they drop. 5. The composition of the investor base also matters. A sovereign default is always a political decision, and it is easier to default if the creditors have little domestic political power or influence. Unless foreign investors have old-fashioned gunboats or a monopoly of new financing, for example, it is generally safer to default on foreigners than on locals. It is also easier to default on households via financial repression than it is to default on wealthy and powerful locals. As you can see, the structure and ownership are almost more important than absolute debt levels themselves. This has very important implications, which we will go into as we go country by country around the world. The insight that it is better to borrow in local currency versus foreign currency is critical. The United States and the United Kingdom, for example, are able to borrow exclusively in their own currency. This acts as an important shock absorber in bad times. It also creates an incentive to use devaluation and inflation as a means of financial repression. Devaluation hurts foreign bondholders, and inflation eases payments in your own currency in the short run. Currency wars will create massive havoc in emerging markets with dollar-denominated debt. Think 1998 on steroids. Markets are creatures of emotion and leverage. If either one turns negative in a world where deflationary pressures are building, then the only inflation we have seen – asset price inflation – will be threatened. Even with Godzilla-sized Japanese QE. Stay tuned. New York and, well, New York I look at my calendar and marvel that I only have one scheduled trip, to New York November 12-14, for the rest of the year, though it seems likely that I may go back to New York in early December. I’m sure that my reduced travel schedule will change (it always does), but for now I’m looking forward to enjoying the coming holiday season at home. Even more so because this last road trip, while providing lots of fascinating conversation and new information, was exhausting. Normally jet lag is not that hard for me, but for some reason this trip just drained the batteries. I look forward to recharging them in the next few weeks. In the past week I had conversations with between 40 and 50 serious market participants: investors and numerous hedge fund managers (some quite large), household-name economists (at least in my household), political leaders, central bank types, and so on, from all over the world. I’m struck by the fact that there is no single takeaway – no theme or meme that seems to dominate the current conversation. Perhaps that’s due to the diverse nature of my conversational partners and differences in venues, but there seems to be more confusion and frustration than you would expect as the market goes on making new highs. During the week, in several venues (where, under Chatham House rules, I can discuss what was said but not the names of the participants), I was somewhat taken back by the level of confidence exhibited by the central bankers and major economists with regard to their ability to generate inflation when they so desire and to keep things on an even keel. They generally dismissed the notion that there has been inflation in asset prices, because that is something they desired; and as long as it is not general price-level inflation that is affected, they don’t worry. We all like it when our stocks and real estate go up. They almost seemed to assume that the recent asset price rises were the norm and that anything else would be an aberration. Has anyone noticed that margin debt in the US is at all-time high just as the markets hit an all-time high? Shades of 1873. The level of complacency was somewhat unnerving, given my level of general alarm and concern. The present situation strikes me as being eerily similar to 1999 and 2006. And when I point to the data, the markets seem to tell me that I am too much concerned about the wrong things and not focusing on all the good things that are happening. But that’s also what the market was telling me in 1999 and 2006. As I keep saying, the market is not as smart or prescient as it is given credit for. In fact, the market missed just about every recession up until it became clear that recession was inevitable. Still, the market has a better track record than Federal Reserve economists do! On a personal note, I really hate writing letters like this. I am actually an irrational optimist, at least in regards to the course of human affairs in technology and society. I am merely bearish on governments. I much prefer dwelling on the ethereal and fantastical visions of the future reality that we seem to be creating even faster than our human counterparts did in the 19th century. I think the potential for economic growth after we have hit the debt reset button is at least as great as we’ve seen in the past century. The trend toward “cheaper and more abundant” is a dominant force that we should all be cognizant of. Maybe after the next crisis we can decide to do something about debt and keep it from building up so that our children won’t have to deal with another debt supercycle crisis. I will be hosting a small gathering this coming Tuesday on election night. I don’t know that much will change after this election, but perhaps it will be a preview of changes to come. Have a great week. And if you’re in the US and haven’t already done so, go vote. Unless you’re in Chicago, where no voter identification or proof of residency is needed, and then you should vote twice. I’m told that is the ancient and usual custom. Your preparing for a sea change analyst, This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. prosecutors did not present enough hard evidence to link a former top UBS AG banker to subordinates' schemes to help wealthy Americans hide $20 billion in secret accounts from tax authorities, jurors from the trial told Reuters on Tuesday. A federal jury in South Florida on Monday took a little over one hour to acquit Raoul Weil, who headed the Swiss bank's global wealth management unit, of conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service. The verdict was a major setback for Washington's efforts to crack down on offshore tax evasion by Americans, and raised questions about how aggressively the government will pursue similar cases against senior executives. "There were no documents that tied that man to anything, that was our problem," said Tracey Demyer, a 43-year-old medical assistant and one of two jurors who spoke to Reuters. "Ninety percent of the crucial documents did not have that man's name on it." Prosecutors had obtained the cooperation of several of Weil's colleagues who testified at his trial in Fort Lauderdale, but defense lawyers extensively cross-examined them in an attempt to undermine their credibility. One banker, Hansruedi Schumacher, admitted under questioning from defense lawyer Matthew Menchel that Weil had nothing to do with a plan to distort legal advice against promoting certain offshore structures to American clients, according to a transcript of the trial. The testimony of another of Weil’s underlings, Martin Liechti, was pivotal and unconvincing, a second juror, Miami physician Juan Carlos Palacios, said. "The problem is that I believe Mr. Liechti, that he had discussions with Mr. Weil, but there was no evidence of that. That was the problem," Palacios said. Mark Daly, lead prosecutor on the case, declined comment. A Justice Department spokeswoman earlier said the decision would not impact the agency's efforts to hold offshore tax evaders and their enablers accountable. As a result of the verdict, future efforts by the U.S. government to bring tax fraud cases "will require more than just the word of former alleged co-conspirators," David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor now in private practice in Miami, said when the verdict was announced. "Corporate defendants will also be less likely to cooperate with the government and may instead choose to begin fighting the allegations made against their institutions," he added. "For a jury to acquit after only an hour means that there were some huge holes in the government’s case," David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor now in private practice in Miami, said when the verdict was announced. At least 25 people, including bankers, lawyers and asset managers, have been charged by U.S. authorities with assisting tax evasion via Swiss banks since 2008. Of that 25, six have pleaded guilty, but no trials for the other 19 are imminent as most of those charged are overseas. The Justice Department suffered a similar loss on Friday when a federal jury in Los Angeles acquitted Shokrollah Baravarian, a former senior vice president at the local branch of Israel’s Mizrahi Tefahot Bank, of conspiring to help U.S. clients defraud the IRS through the opening of secret foreign bank accounts. Weil, 54, was arrested in October 2013 while on vacation with his wife at an upscale hotel in Italy, and pleaded not guilty last year after being extradited to the United States. Prosecutors had obtained an indictment against Weil in 2008, at the start of a lengthy crackdown under which UBS in 2009 paid a $780 million fine. Its Swiss arch-rival Credit Suisse AG &lt;csgn.vx&gt; earlier this year paid more than $2.5 billion in penalties for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes. The Weil verdict comes as the Justice Department has been under pressure to charge senior bank executives for crimes at their institutions, and suggests the government may have a tough time tying high-level officials to misconduct by employees. "They said that he flew into Miami to meet clients with one of the other witnesses. Where are their hotel records? Where are their flight records?” juror Demyer said. "It just didn’t seem like they did enough digging." The jurors said they had discussed during deliberations the idea that Swiss banks were involved in helping Americans break the law, and that Weil, as a supervisor of the business, should have known what was going on, but that the jurors all came to an agreement that the government had not proved his involvement in the scheme. "I know this is a business. These are bankers...we're not stupid about this. Weil didn't know about this? Give me a break," said Palacios. "I looked (at) the evidence over and over and we couldn't get the connection," he said.   (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha and Kevin Drawbaugh in Washington, with additional reporting by Francisco Alvarado in Fort Lauderdale, Zachary Fagenson in Miami, and Nate Raymond and Noeleen Walder in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMartoma  exits the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, following sentencing for insider trading, in Lower ManhattanBy Nate Raymond NEW YORK (Reuters) - Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at billionaire Steven A. Cohen's SAC Capital Advisors LP hedge fund, won an order Tuesday to delay the date he would begin serving a nine-year prison term for insider trading. The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York agreed to delay Martoma's surrender date past Nov. 10 until after an appellate panel had considered his motion for bail pending appeal. The decision came after Martoma, 40, hired a prominent lawyer, Paul Clement, to urge the court to consider his bail request after U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in Manhattan rejected a similar motion last month. The 2nd Circuit scheduled arguments on Martoma's bail motion for Nov. 12, and directed prosecutors to respond to his request by this Friday. Richard Strassberg, another lawyer for Martoma, declined comment. A spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara also declined comment. A jury found Martoma guilty of three counts of conspiracy and securities fraud over a scheme that allowed SAC Capital to make profits and avoid losses of $275 million in trades in Elan Corp and Wyeth. Martoma, who worked in SAC's CR Intrinsic Investors division, was accused of seeking out confidential information from doctors involved in a clinical trial of an Alzheimer's drug being developed by Elan and Wyeth. Prosecutors said in July 2008, Martoma received a tip from a doctor about negative trial results for an Alzheimer's drug being developed by Elan and Wyeth. The tip prompted SAC Capital to begin selling its $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth before the data was made public later that month, prosecutors said. Elan was acquired last year by Perrigo Company Plc, while Wyeth is now owned by Pfizer Inc. The case followed a long-running insider trading investigation of SAC Capital. Eight employees have been convicted, and SAC last year agreed to pay $1.8 billion in criminal and civil settlements and plead guilty to fraud charges. SAC has since changed its name to Point72 Asset Management, and the Stamford, Connecticut-firm was transformed into a family office managing Cohen's fortune. The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 14-3599.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Sao Paulo (AFP) - Fashion stars Stella McCartney and Donatella Versace this week will launch collections with two department stores in Brazil -- a country with consumers hungry for top brands despite an economic downturn. The daughter of the Beatles legend is launching her second collection, this time just for Brazil, for international chain C&amp;A. Versace, meanwhile, has designed an exclusive collection for Brazilian store Riachuelo, which has more than 220 stores -- and more than 20 million clients. Brazilian supermodel Adriana Lima is fronting the ad campaign. The launches -- the latest in a series of similar high-low collaborations in the fashion world -- come during Sao Paulo Fashion Week, the largest such event in Latin America, which runs through Friday. "These collaborations with C&amp;A and Riachuelo show the maturity and the marketing power of Brazilian fashion -- its importance, scope and strength," Paulo Borges, the founder and artistic director of Sao Paulo Fashion Week, told AFP. "'Fast fashion' is a process which allows a greater number of consumers to satisfy their fashion desires," he said, referring to the trend to get designs quickly from catwalk to store shelves. "Brazil is 10 years behind in terms of consumption, as compared with international markets. It will continue to buy a lot more," Borges predicted. Over the past decade, Brazil has undergone a deep social transformation with welfare programs lifting some 40 million people out of extreme poverty and into the burgeoning consumer ranks. As a result, it has become an attractive destination for top international fashion and beauty brands. Shopping centers are springing up at a rapid rate. Luxury labels such as Chanel, Gucci, Dolce &amp; Gabbana, Prada, Tiffany and Valentino can all be found in this country of 202 million people -- in both big wealthier cities such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and in smaller cities in the northeast like Fortaleza and Recife. Spain's Zara, the reference in the fast-fashion world, has already set up shop in Brazil with great success.  Others, like Sweden's H&amp;M -- one of the pioneers of special collections with top-name designers -- are scheduled to make the move in 2015. "Brazil is a huge market, but one that is essentially geared towards the mass market. We are betting on the future by setting up here," a spokesman for one Italian luxury brand told AFP on condition of anonymity. London-based consultancy Euromonitor calculates that sales of clothing and shoes ballooned by 62 percent in Brazil between 2008 and 2013, and predicts a further rise of 20 percent for 2013-2018. "Even if the economy is stagnant, Brazil has economic pulling-power plus very favorable growth in the fashion business," Luciane Robic, an expert at the Brazilian Institute of Fashion, told AFP. Brazil is home to some 300,000 fashion businesses. But even if the market is booming, many are struggling. The reason for that is what is termed "the Brazil cost": high taxes and lots of red tape, along with expensive raw materials and labor, make local production costly. In addition, quality lags behind international standards, leaving Brazilian labels at a disadvantage compared with foreign luxury brands. "In Europe, a luxury brand is much more accessible than it is in Brazil," says Robic. Brazil also suffers from competition from large-scale producers in China, where associated costs are generally lower. "Without cutting costs, Brazilian production will not prove successful," warns Borges. The entire Versace for Riachuelo collection has been produced in Brazil, compared to only part of the McCartney line for C&amp;A. Both designers are in Sao Paulo for the launch events this week. The McCartney line includes suits in pastel shades with hints of navy blue, gold and black. The Versace for Riachuelo collection is the Brazilian store's first international fashion collaboration. It includes "animal print" designs in mauve, yellow, black and off-white. Prices range from $20 to $200. FREE AppDownload
FireEye disappointed investors when it announced earnings and guidance that fell short of expectations. The shares are down a whopping 23% in after-hour trading. FireEye was one of the most beloved stocks at the start of the year. In the months that followed the company's spectacular IPO last September, urged on by gung-ho Wall Street analysts, the stock soared to a high of over $97, compared to the $20 open price of its IPO. At that high point, the company sold another 5.6 million shares and raised another $300 million, the same amount as its IPO. Then the company started warning investors that it wouldn't pull in as much revenue this year as it previously forecast, sending it into a downward spiral. Google FinanceOn Tuesday, FireEye revealed its third quarter results. Sales grew to $114.2 million, up 168% over the year-ago quarter as it more than doubled its customer base to 2,761 customers. But that was on the low end of the guidance it gave of $114 to $117 million. Analysts were looking for $116.2 million. The company reported a net loss of 51 cents of share excluding special items (non-GAAP net loss was $73.9 million), which beat analysts expectations of 55 cents per share. But the bigger problem is the company downgraded its full-year outlook. It says it expects to finish the year at $418-430 million, compared with the prior guidance range of $423-430 million. Analysts were expecting $428.5 million. So that means, if it FireEye comes in on the low end, it would be another miss. FireEye expects loss per share of $2.05 to $2.15. Analysts are expecting $2.13. The reason it flew so high to begin with is that the company makes a computer security product that's able to stop targeted hack attacks that were previously almost impossible to stop. It's also been using the money it raised on acquisitions to branch out to other hot areas of computer security. Wells Fargo started tracking FireEye in early 2014, saying it was "a once-in-a-decade opportunity to invest in a truly disruptive technology." A few weeks later, after FireEye's stock had fallen 50% off its high, Barclays lowered its target to $40 but still called it "one of the most disruptive" technologies. Lately, analysts on average have been saying the stock was worth $40. It's trading below $27 after-hours, down from about $34 earlier today. FREE AppDownload
$27,500,000,000. That is how much money left PIMCO's Total Return Fund in October, bringing the fund's assets under management to $170.9 billion as of October 31,  roughly 14% decline from the start of the month. Total Return is still the largest actively managed bond fund in the world, PIMCO said in a statement. PIMCO said that nearly half of these outflows occurred in the first five trading days of the month. The outflows from the Total Return Fund followed the departure of PIMCO founder Bill Gross from the firm on September 26.  Gross was one of the managers of the Total Return Fund. "Flows from the Total Return Fund peaked on September 26th, and slowed sharply throughout October. October performance of +0.80% after fees was in line with the Total Return Fund’s peer group," said PIMCO spokesperson Daniel Tarman. Year-to-date, PIMCO's Income strategies have experience $13 billion of positive flows globally, the company said.  Here's a chart from PIMCO showing the outflows from Total Return during October. See if you can spot when Bill Gross left the firm.  PIMCO FREE AppDownload
Flickr FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  A Family Feud Is Ripping Apart A Financial Empire (Financial Planning) Schrosch's financial-advisory business, RCS Capital, abruptly ended a deal to buy Cole Capital from Realty Capital Properties, the flagship company of Schorsch's property and REIT business, reports Charles Paikert.  Schorsch has a controlling interest in both publically traded companies. "The unexpected move came just days after American Realty Capital replaced its chief financial and chief accounting officer following revelations that accounting errors totaling around $23 million at the company went intentionally uncorrected," according to Paikert. This unexpected decision suggests that there may be "serious rift" in Schorsch empire. Additionally, the "press release issued by American Realty Capital in response to the termination announcement reads like a mystery novel," writes Paikert. The Positive Effect Of Oil Price Drops Outweighs The Negatives (Charles Schwab) Many people are worrying that dropping oil prices are the result of slowing global demand, primarily in China and other Asian countries. However, Liz Ann Sonders argues that the drop is mostly a product of the increased supply and stronger US dollar. Additionally, she believes that the stronger US dollar has affected oil prices, because there has historically been a strong inverse correlation between the US dollar and oil prices. "If the drop in prices continues, drilling and extraction activity will weaken, which would hurt not only the energy industry and the states which dominate that industry; but the providers of equipment to it as well. But the positive impact on consumers and businesses outside of the energy sector (which is a larger portion of the US economy) will outweigh the negatives," writes Sonders. Blended Families Are More Likely To Live Paycheck To Paycheck (Financial Advisor Magazine) Blended families are significantly more likely to live paycheck to paycheck and have less in savings than traditional families, according to a study by Allianz. "Blended families are a heterosexual couple, either married or living together, with a stepchild or child from a previous relationship," writes Karen Demasters. "The defining characteristic of blended families is the financial baggage and commitments that they bring from their previous relationships. Blended families ... could be burdened by the past," says Katie Libbe, Allianz Life vice president. Real-Estate Investors Should Consider Moving To Actively Managed Assets (Investment News) While most people are worried about the end of quantitative easing, Jacob Frydman argues that the effects have yet to be felt by the overall economy. Because of the bond-buying program, the US will see a significant increase in the overall money supply. More money supply typically means more inflation, "and we have not yet begun to see the inflationary impact which I anticipate," says Frydman. "As a result, investors should be thinking about shifting their investments from non-rent increasing triple net leased assets to actively managed real estate assets with inflation protected leases where there is an opportunity to enhance value by repositioning, remarketing or developing those assets," writes Frydman. The Fired Star Texas Broker Finally Found A New Employer In Florida (The Wall Street Journal) James "Jeb" Bashaw finally found a new job at Florida-based broker-dealer International Assets Advisory LLC, reports Michael Wursthorn. Previously he was the head of LPL affiliate James E Bashaw &amp; Co., but he was terminated from that role by LPL Financial Holdings on Sept. 24 "for allegedly failing 'to follow firm policies and industry regulations' according to BrokerCheck."  He had plans to move to Memphis-based Wunderlich, but on Oct. 17 negotiations fell through. A spokeswoman for Wunderlich said "the firm and Mr. Bashaw have mutually decided not to pursue a relationship at this time." FREE AppDownload
Daniel GoodmanBusiness Insider is looking for a reporter to work on our growing Lists team. This reporter will spend his or her time researching and writing our big signature lists and features, like the Best Colleges, Best Employers, and the Best Suburbs In America. We’re looking for someone who is smart, organized, and a meticulous researcher. You should be comfortable conducting in-depth research on everything from the coolest small businesses in cities around the world to the most impressive students at top universities.  This person should be comfortable working on a variety of subjects and juggling multiple projects at a time. You'd get the opportunity to work with all our verticals, so we welcome candidates with diverse interests. The ideal candidate should have one to three years of experience in online journalism and research experience. Bonus if you have copy-editing skills, light HTML knowledge, and a familiarity with Photoshop. Social media knowledge is also useful. APPLY HERE with a resume and cover letter if interested, and specify why you're interested in working on Lists and Features. This job is full-time and based in our New York City headquarters. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits. FREE AppDownload
Teardown.com took apart Apple's iPad Air 2. Here's what they found inside. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Shares of Herbalife plummeted on Tuesday. Herbalife's stock fell 20.50%, or $11.46, to end the day at $44.44 per share. Shares of the nutrition company opened lower on Tuesday following disappointing third-quarter results reported on Monday after the closing bell. Earnings, revenue, and guidance all came in lower than Wall Street had expected.  Also, Herbalife on Friday agreed to pay $15 million to settle a class-action lawsuit filed by a former distributor who said the company was running a "pyramid scheme."  For nearly 23 months, hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, has been crusading against Herbalife on the same allegation.  In December 2012, Ackman gave a 342-slide presentation publicly declaring that he was short $1 billion worth of Herbalife shares. Ackman contends that the company operates as a pyramid scheme that targets poor people. His investment thesis is predicated on regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, shutting the company down. (The FTC opened an investigation into the company back in March.) He said he would short the company to zero. But after Ackman's initial presentation, numerous fund managers, most notably Ackman's longtime rival Carl Icahn, piled on by going long the stock.  Since then it's been a crazy ride up and down. Here's a five-day chart of the stock's performance:  Google Finance Here's how the stock has performed since Ackman made his short public:   Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott AudetteTuesday marked Election Day in the US.Stocks went nowhere on Tuesday as oil tumbled again, falling to a three-year low overnight, and a report from Reuters indicated that there is growing discontent within the European Central Bank regarding Mario Draghi's communication tactics. Tuesday also marked Election Day in the US. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. Crude oil fell again on Tuesday, settling near $77.20, its lowest level in three years as the bear market in oil continues. But Business Insider's Shane Ferro writes that falling oil is not going to kill the US economy. Or at least, not yet. But if crude gets closet to $70, then Wood Mackenzie estimates the US could start to see supply disruptions. In the meantime, US consumers can enjoy gas prices that are now at their lowest price since 2011.  2. In the US, we got economic data in the form of factory orders, which fell 0.6% month-on-month in September, a decline that was in-line with expectations. The latest report from the Census showed that new orders in September fell 1.1% and inventories rose 0.4%.  3. The US trade deficit for September came in at $43 billion, wider than the $40.2 billion that was expected by economist and wider than the $40 billion reported in August. "The collapse in crude oil prices means that the trade deficit will narrow again before the end of this year," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. "September was just a bit too early to pick up the change." 4. Alibaba reported its first earnings report since going public in September, reporting earnings per share that were in-line with expectations on revenue that topped estimates. Shares of the Chinese e-commerce giant rose another 4% on Tuesday, moving to a new all-time high of more than $106 following the report.  5. The European Commission released its growth forecasts for Europe, one of its bi-annual outlooks, and the Commission cut its overall growth outlook for the economic block to 1.1% from 1.7% earlier in the spring. Among other projections, the report see France growing just 0.3% this year while Italy is expected to fall into recession. 6. The decline in the European Commission's outlook for the Europe also came on the same day that a report from Reuters said that there is growing discontent inside of the European Central Bank, with a number of euro area bankers reportedly growing discontented with ECB president Mario Draghi's "secretive" management style and "erratic" communication.  7. Among the biggest stock losers on Tuesday was Herbalife, which lost more than 20% after last night reporting earnings that disappointed and giving a revenue growth outlook that came in well below expectations. The decline in Herbalife was part of an overall terrible day for activist hedge fund manager Carl Icahn, whose Icahn Enterprises reported a $355 million net loss in the quarter.  8. Stocks moved to near all-time highs late last week, and on Monday touched a new all-time intraday high, but according to Goldman Sachs's risk model, there is only an average possibility that stocks will have a "bust" over the next 5 to 9 quarter.  9. Tuesday is Election Day in the US, and as Business Insider's Brett Logiurato reports, experts are currently expecting Republicans to take the majority in the Senate and widen their advantage in the House of Representatives.  Don't Miss: Money Is Still Running From PIMCO's Total Return ETF » FREE AppDownload
CFA InstituteMohamed El-Erian Rarer still is to hear something new that not only informs, but also instantly changes how you see the world. At CFA Institute’s recent Fixed-Income Management Conference in Huntington Beach, California, a casual conversation between Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser to the management board of Allianz, and Marc P. Seidner, CFA, head of the fixed-income team at GMO, offered just such a rare perspective.  Here are highlights from their discussion: What Is Happening in Fixed-Income Markets? El-Erian believes the current attitudes of regulators and investors are an attempt to continue the financial market status quo of 2011–2013, which is currently much harder to do. Specifically, coming out of the crisis, it was clear to a lot of people that the economy would not bounce back as normal. Put another way, the pre–Great Recession growth model that the West fell in love with — where finance was seen as a source of growth, rather than servicing growth — would not function as it had before the crisis. This left two possibilities. Either the political system would rise to the challenge and come up with new growth policies, or governments would not be innovative and the world would end up in a “new normal” of disappointing growth. Given fiscal gridlock in both the United States and in the European Union, each year central banks had to compensate for the lack of comprehensive policies. In turn, this meant it was likely the economy would fall short of what was needed. Not only would growth disappoint, but also the benefits would be less than what was needed. And that is before the costs and risks of this outcome are considered. For example, one cost is the risk of greater financial instability down the road because the Fed does not have the right instruments to foster growth in the long run. And in 2014 the benefits of central bank choices are declining while the costs and risks are increasing. What Are the Big Problems Worth Working On? In answer to this question, El-Erian responded that most economists agree about the big problems facing the global economy: To this last point, El-Erian said: The good equilibrium is politicians responding . . . and if you do that, you unleash trillions of dollars that are sidelined today, that can be invested in productive activity, and in addition you get turbo-charged by some very meaningful innovation going on in technology and in energy. So, you tip from this low-growth equilibrium to an equilibrium that has high growth; has durable job creation — it’s much more inclusive in the way it grows — and then you start validating prices that have been artificially boosted by central bank action. El-Erian did not pull his punches, stating that the alternative is an ultimate fragmentation of the global system, even within individual economies. He believes that the tipping point into catastrophe or growth will happen within the next three years, and it will happen in Europe before it happens in the United States. The Importance of Scenario Planning Unlike many in finance, El-Erian steered clear of making specific forecasts, which are always off by degrees, and instead emphasized the importance of planning for both possible scenarios simultaneously. Specifically, he believes that current asset allocations do not reflect the possibility of a bimodal world. People commit behavioral biases — that is, they prefer one outcome over the other — without seeing their bias. This creates a blindness to the bimodal world. Some people in finance can see the bimodal world, but unfortunately they plan not for both scenarios, but for the middle. Thus, they convert the data to something they want to see: a weighted average probability. Still further, there is a third category who knows they have to do something, but do nothing or engage in active inertia. How Do You Survive the Bimodal World? In a bimodal world, you apply fewer dollars to higher risk markets. You also go to assets that are not crowded. You have a higher cash position than otherwise to build in resilience and agility. You use options a lot more, because covariance among different assets changes signs so quickly. In a bimodal world, correlations are entirely unstable. Last, you have to explain what is happening to your clients over and over again so they understand your strategy. How to Be Less Taken off Guard by What Is Happening? El-Erian finds it interesting that economists and financiers are routinely surprised by what occurs in the world, and he offered a belief as to why. To be a successful investment professional demands skills in four main circles: economics, geopolitics, policy, and markets. Most of us can do two of these skills well and make successful predictions from them. So long as problems do not arise requiring skills in all four major circles, we are fine. When all four areas have problems simultaneously, professionals are in trouble. To mitigate being taken off guard, therefore, become better at understanding your areas of weakness. What Grade Would You Give the Fed? El-Erian gives an A+ to the Federal Reserve in its response to the sudden stop of markets at the outset of the Great Recession. In his opinion, the Fed’s actions restored the financial payments system: If you talk to Fed Governors they felt a moral and personal responsibility to step in and they thought it would serve as an example to others to step in. I believe they are surprised that they are still here after four years. If they had let the world have a small heart attack in 2011, would that have gotten Washington, DC, to focus? The problem, of course, is that you cannot predict what happens. So I grade them as incomplete. It is not dependent on what they do, but instead on what Washington does. If you liked this post, don’t forget to subscribe to the Enterprising Investor. This article originally appeared at CFA Institute. Reproduced with permission from CFA Institute. Copyright 2014. Follow CFA Institute on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
If logic follows, people working in finance would earn more money from their investments than anyone else. After all, investing is their area of expertise. According to new data from investment app Openfolio, however, this doesn't seem to be the case. By analyzing about 700 portfolios of Openfolio users working in the tech industry, about 500 portfolios of users working in finance, and about 160 from users working in advertising and media, the company found that finance users aren't the most effective investors and, in fact, are outranked by both of the other cohorts in terms of their portfolios' performance over the last year. These findings aren't unprecedented. Openfolio points to a recent study of mutual fund managers' private portfolios published in the Journal Of Financial Intermediation, in which the authors write, "We find no evidence that financial experts make better investment decisions than peers; they do not outperform, do not diversify their risks better, and do not exhibit lower behavioral biases."  Of course, Openfolio's analysis is limited to its users and therefore doesn't address every investor who works in each of the industries addressed, but here is what Openfolio found, and a few possible explanations they suggest influence the results. On average, users working in tech earned a 12.7% return on their investments over the past year, compared to an average 11.1% return experienced by users working in advertising and media, and an average 8% return from the portfolios of those working in finance and banking. Openfolio First of all, Openfolio finds, the users included in the analysis who work in finance hold a markedly higher percentage of cash than the people working in tech or advertising and media. By holding cash, they're keeping that money out of the market and missing out on its gains. Openfolio They also have a larger percentage of their portfolio in bank stocks, presumably because they're given bonuses in the form of company stock that they can't sell. Plus, they may be more likely to buy bank stocks because that's what they're most familiar with, working in the industry. Openfolio And finally, people working in technology are much more heavily invested in tech stocks than anyone else, which means they've benefitted disproportionately from the performance of successful tech companies. Openfolio Openfolio, which allows users to share their investment returns, also lets users make similar analyses through its "explore" feature, which separates users into different cohorts for comparison. The images in this post have been updated to clarify that the final chart shows investments in technology stocks, not finance stocks. FREE AppDownload
The Governor of the Bank of Canada thinks the way to get the young and jobless back on track is for them to work for free.  In reference to slack in the Canadian labor market during a speech in Toronto yesterday, Stephen Poloz said that "We estimate that there are around 200,000 [un or underemployed youth in the country], and I bet almost everyone in this room knows at least one family with adult children living in the basement. I'm pretty sure these kids have not taken early retirement." When asked after the speech what kind of advice he had for out-of-work youth, he said they should get a job without expecting to get paid. "Having something unpaid on your CV is very worth it, because that’s the one thing you can do to counteract this scarring effect," Poloz told reporters, according to Bloomberg. Canada's youth unemployment rate is currently 13.5%, and at last reading was up 1.2% on an annual basis. FREE AppDownload
WJZEd Hale. But some of the projects Ed Hale worked on required more gusto. Hale, the former chairman and CEO of the First Mariner Bank, revealed that he led a double life as a CIA agent from 1991 to 2001 in an interview on WJZ, a CBS affiliate. “I was the perfect cover because I was all over the world with my vessels and trucking here in America, so I was the perfect person to take somebody and send them out to Afghanistan, Uzbekistan,” he told WJZ. He even "found himself in the early hunt" for Osama Bin Laden toward the end of his involvement with the CIA, according to WJZ. “Getting people into places where they could figure out the traces and the pathways of Osama Bin Laden back in the '90s,” Hale said. “I heard his name early on, Osama Bin Laden. I didn’t know who he was. It wasn’t the household name that it became.” However, Hale's undercover days are long past. He retired from CIA work over 13 years ago, shortly after 9/11. Aside from banking and CIA work, Hale "is credited with developing the Canton Waterfront" in downtown Baltimore. He owns the Baltimore Blast, a professional indoor soccer team. While this banker's double life may come as a shock to most people, there was one person who was completely unfazed. Hale told his mother about his role in the CIA five years after retiring. All she had to say was, "Can you pass the broccoli, please?" The CIA has not confirmed Hale's role because of privacy concerns.  Read the full interview at WJZ &gt;&gt;    FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Google ImagesU.S. economic growth has been subpar<U+2009>—<U+2009>right around 2%<U+2009>—<U+2009>during much of the ongoing economic expansion. Yet, the S&amp;P 500 has returned nearly 230% cumulatively since the bear market low on March 9, 2009. How did that happen and is it justified? Before trying to answer to those questions, it is worth pointing out that this situation is not all that unusual. In fact, since 1950, the S&amp;P 500 median return is 13% (average is 12%) when real gross domestic product (GDP) grows less than 3%, with the S&amp;P generating a positive return 68% of the time. However, a good portion of those returns come during recessions<U+2009>—<U+2009>historically, the best time to buy stocks is at recession troughs. But even if we take those periods in and around recessions out of the equation and look at annual returns when GDP growth is between 1–3%, the median (and average) S&amp;P 500 return is a respectable 7–8%. Stocks tend to like average (or slightly below average) growth, which is not strong enough to generate worrisome inflation. Now back to the question of what has driven this stock market to far outperform economic growth. Some might say quantitative easing (QE), which ended at the end of October 2014 in the United States (the Bank of Japan expanded its QE program last week on Halloween). While QE has benefitted U.S. stocks (how much is up for debate) by helping keep interest rates low and encouraging investors to buy riskier assets (see this week’s Weekly Economic Commentary for details), the bull market has been driven by much more than that. Increasing confidence in the economic recovery<U+2009>—<U+2009>albeit a slow one<U+2009>—<U+2009>and greater policy clarity in Washington      have also been factors. But we think the best answer is earnings. In fact, over the past four decades, earnings have provided solid support for equity   market gains [Figure 1].  LPL FinancialstocksBut this commentary is not a deep dive into earnings (that’s coming soon). Instead, this week we highlight the differences between the S&amp;P 500 and GDP, i.e., the U.S. economy, to shed some light on how corporate profits can grow so much faster than the economy, and bring stock prices right along with them. LPL Financial  How Is S&amp;P Different from GDP? S&amp;P 500 companies have different drivers for earnings than the components that drive GDP. There are several key factors that differentiate the economic data from the earning power of corporate America that we think are important for investors to keep in mind: Solid Business Spending with Slower GDP Growth Trajectory We believe the backdrop of solid business spending within a slower trajectory of overall GDP growth can be a favorable one for the stock market. The economic data, while good recently, do not accurately reflect the earning power of corporate America, which remains quite strong. The S&amp;P is not GDP<U+2009>—<U+2009>S&amp;P 500 companies have different drivers for earnings than the components that drive GDP growth. Stocks are fundamentally driven by earnings, which have supported the gains during the current bull market and left valuations still within a reasonable range. The earnings picture still looks quite good today, with the S&amp;P 500 on track for 9% year-over-year earnings growth in the third quarter, with about three quarters of the index constituents having reported. Although stocks are at the low end of our target 10–15% S&amp;P 500 return range for 2014, we see further gains between now and year end may be likely, with profit growth as a primary driver—with perhaps some help from  the calendar, as midterm elections have historically been positive for  stock returns. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The Michael Kors brand might be past its prime.  Shares are down as much as 8% today on concerns that the company's growth is slowing. Despite a same-store-sales increase of 16%, many analysts are worried that the business is unsustainable  The fashion label, which enjoyed a stunning rise in popularity in recent years, is facing new challenges. Forbes notes that Michael Kors is no longer a billionaire because shares have declined in recent months. Here are a few big problems with the brand.  Widespread popularity is the "kiss of death for trendy fashion brands, particularly those positioned in the up-market younger consumer sectors," industry expert Robin Lewis writes on his blog. Lewis compares Michael Kors to Tommy Hilfiger, which reached its peak in the late '90s.  Michael Kors is considered an aspirational brand, with consumers paying a premium for its label. Once everyone has the product, it is no longer considered cool.  Other brands who have experienced this phenomenon include Juicy Couture, Jordache, and Coach.  Baird Equity ResearchGoogle searches for the brand are declining in the US. Michael Kors is entering the current quarter with a 65% inventory increase, writes retail equity analyst Marie Driscoll.  While the company says that the excess inventory is because of the company taking the e-commerce business in-house, Driscoll is skeptical that it will sell.   "That’s a lot of inventory in an increasingly competitive category," she writes. "I'm worried." She also compares Michael Kors to the Tommy Hilfiger collapse more than a decade ago.  "While the brand continues to enjoy vibrant demand, these investors are on to greener pastures," she says. "It’s probably time to sell KORS shares!" Yahoo! FinanceShares are down 25% in six months. Michael Kors has also has several brands at different price points, a strategy that could easily backfire, Lewis says. Kors has a high-end department store brand, a middle-market brand, and discount outlet stores.  "Some would argue all of those segments will simply end up competing with each other, thus cannibalizing the top end of the spectrum," he writes.  In other words, consumers won't pay $300 for a department store Michael Kors bag when they can get one at the outlet mall for half-price.  FREE AppDownload
CNBC In case you missed "Options Action" on Friday afternoon, CNBC anchor Melissa Lee called out famed Herbalife bull Tim Ramey, questioning whether he's an objective research analyst because he accepts a pay check from Herbalife's largest individual shareholder. As you can imagine with such an accusation, things got pretty heated. Here's a transcript from the exchange: Melissa Lee: "And Tim, I've gotta ask you this as well because you used to work for D.A. Davidson and you were known for being one of the biggest Herbalife bulls on the Street. You've been on Wall Street for quite some time. Right now, you're working for Pivotal, but you're also getting a pay check essentially from one of Herbalife's biggest shareholders. Do you actually consider yourself to be an objective research analyst at this point? Or are you being paid for this rating?"  Tim Ramey: "Not at all." Lee: "Not at all? Even though you're taking a pay check from Post?" Ramey: "That's true. Post has nothing to do with Herbalife." At the time of that interview, Ramey had a price target of $110 per share for Herbalife's stock. He initiated that rating on Oct. 20. On Monday, he cut the target to $75 after Herbalife reported disappointing third quarter earnings results and lower-than-expected revenue guidance for 2015.  Ramey, who has formed a reputation for being incredibly bullish and vocal on Herbalife, recently returned to the sell-side as a food, beverage and nutrition analyst for Pivotal Research. Back in January, Ramey left his post as a D.A. Davidson analyst to team up with Post Holdings CEO Bill Stiritz to do "some consulting on strategy, M&amp;A, and corporate development for a significant company."  Stiritz, 78, is the largest individual shareholder of Herbalife, and he's gotten absolutely smoked on his investment so far.  This summer Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager who is famously shorting Herbalife to zero, said that Ramey had been fired from D.A. Davidson. Ackman later had to retract that comment. In his current role, Ramey still consults for Post Holdings.   Here's the CNBC clip: (Watch at 1:45)  FREE AppDownload
"We don't know. We can't see the future. The flow does what the flow does." — Rod Macland of Pahoa, HI to CNN reporters at KITV—TV As folks in Pahoa, Hawaii waited to see whether lava flowing from the eruption of the Kilauea Volcano would run right over their homes, one resident shared this gem of wisdom with CNN reporters. His words are just as applicable to stock market pyrotechnics as they are to the unpredictable whims of Mother Nature. We truly don't know what the markets will do, and we can't predict the future. What we do know is that there are two primary ways to lose money when faced with volatility: In other words, we buy something at or near the all-time high, and when it falls in value, we panic and sell it at fire sale prices. Or, we hold onto our cash with a death grip, since we're afraid that prices are either too high or heading much lower — even while everything around us goes up, up, up. The financial media sure isn't helping quell fears. Although the current economic recovery is in its sixth year, and markets have had a rally for the ages, those armchair quarterbacks insist that we need to get ready now, because the next correction is on the horizon. They may be right, but we should all heed the words of America's favorite investor, Peter Lynch, who said, "Far more money has been lost by investors preparing for corrections or trying to anticipate corrections than has been lost in corrections themselves." What money losing missteps is Mr. Lynch warning us to avoid? If you guessed the aforementioned panic and paralysis, you guessed right. Since accurately timing a market correction is just as impossible as determining which way the lava will run down the mountain, you can't rely on your primal instincts to protect you. You must take a deep breath, accept that market corrections and volatility are fundamental to the nature of the stock markets, and surrender to the flow. There will ALWAYS be a correction lurking just around the corner. REUTERS/U.S. Geological SurveyDoom is always impending — so don't worry too much about it.Take recent headlines. If you logged onto your computer lately, you know that Kilauea erupted and there are at least a half dozen global issues that spell impending market doom. We've had Ebola in West Africa, unrest in Russia, protests in China, ISIS threats, Federal Reserve uncertainty, and stock market valuation concerns. Next week we'll move on to a whole new set of real or perceived cataclysms. The crises may cycle too rapidly for us to feel the revolution, but there will always be something disastrous happening somewhere. If impending doom is a constant, then going to cash in anticipation of impending doom probably isn't going to work — at least not with anything resembling predictability. Markets (and volcanoes) can crater or blow up for any reason at any time, so the real risk isn't that markets might correct one day. They inevitably will. The real risk is that we aren't mentally or emotionally prepared when the inevitable correction strikes, so panic ensues. Fortunately, panic is a choice you can opt out of. There are many, many people who calmly saved and invested over any number of up and down years and found themselves ... wealthy. Market losses happened to them in the same way they happen to everyone else. The only difference is how they behaved during the dips and dives: They remained mindful of their long-term goals. They went with the flow. And they did not panic. Wikimedia/FabriciusYou can be prepared for a potential disaster.If you'd like to join the club of volatility—accepting, elite non—panickers, there are three specific action steps you can take before the next volcano erupts: Be mindful of the tradeoffs you have to make to ensure that you save enough for your long-term goals. As you plan, make conservative return assumptions and run a stress test analysis to see exactly how low your portfolio might go and still remain "on plan." Become a student of economic history. Study the unfolding and recovery of the many and various market calamities that have occurred over the last 200 years or so. Note that every single one of them was reported as "the end of the world" at the time it was happening. We humans have short memories, so we need to stretch our perspective far enough to see that we have all been through this before and will go through this again. Do something habitually that brings you to a place of calm reflection. Slow down the frames of your personal financial horror movie, so that you can see how panic takes hold of your psyche before you fall into that trap. In reality, none of us can control how fast the lava flows towards our home, and no one can predict or control markets. No one. Accepting and internalizing this fact is the key to avoiding needless panic. How can you prepare for the next — and every other — market correction? The bad (and good) news is that there is only one thing you can control that will definitively improve your financial outcomes: your behavior. The flow does what the flow does, but if you can plan, understand, and breathe your way through the next Bear market, rather than heading for the hills in a panic, you might find yourself actually thriving on the other side. Jonathan K. DeYoe, AIF and CPWA, is the founder and president of DeYoe Wealth Management in Berkeley, California, and blogs at the Happiness Dividend Blog. Financial planning and investment advisory services offered through DeYoe Wealth Management, Inc., a registered investment advisor. Securities offered through LPL Financial, member FINRA/SIPC. The opinions voiced in this material are for general information only and are not intended to provide specific advice or recommendations to any individual. For your individual planning and investing needs, please see your investment professional. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA visitor walking past cars is reflected on a Toyota car at the company's showroom in TokyoDETROIT (Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; said on Tuesday it is recalling about 5,850 cars, most of them in the United States, for possible loss of steering control. The Japanese automaker said it is recalling about 5,650 Camry, Camry Hybrid, Avalon and Avalon Hybrid cars from model year 2014 in the United States because the left front suspension lower arm could separate from a ball joint and cause the loss of steering control, which could increase the risk of an accident. The rest of the recalled cars were sold in Canada and the Middle East, a spokeswoman said. Toyota said it was not aware of any crashes, injuries or deaths related to the issue. The company said dealers will replace the suspension arm at no cost and notification of the recall will begin in early December.   (Reporting by Ben Klayman; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
stuartpilbrow / FlickrActuaries have the second most misunderstood job.With industry-shifting changes in technology in recent years, many parents have no idea what their adult kids actually do for a living. But they want to understand. That's a big reason why LinkedIn, the world's largest professional networking site, launched its annual "Bring In Your Parents Day" last year. This week, the company will again invite employees' parents to visit the office on Nov. 6 to attend presentations and tag along with their children to learn more about their work. In its 2013 global survey of 16,000 adults, LinkedIn found that one out of every three parents has a hard time understanding what their kids' jobs require. Two-thirds of parents want to learn more, and half think that they could better support their children if they did.  The survey identified the 10 jobs that are most misunderstood around the world. We've broken them out, along with an explanation for any struggling parents.  Max Nisen contributed to an earlier version of this article. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBen Bernanke and Janet YellenWhile QE proved very effective in reinforcing the Fed’s communication about short-term interest rates, there could be simpler ways to achieve the same outcome. The U.S. experience with QE suggests it would be effective in Europe. The Fed ended QE because it succeeded and that’s good news for investors. Last week the Federal Reserve announced the end of its bond-buying program, which has been running with only brief interruptions for the last six years. Besides its ultimate size and duration, the striking thing about the Fed’s experiment with quantitative easing (QE) is that there is still not a firm consensus on exactly how it worked. Academic economists will be busy with this question for years. But from a bond investor’s point of view, there’s enough evidence to make a few tentative conclusions. Early on the Fed’s message about unconventional monetary policy was straightforward. When short-term interest rates reach zero, a central bank can still affect the economy in two ways: (1) with forward guidance about the future path for short-term rates, and (2) with asset purchases or QE. Specifically, Fed officials argued that QE worked through a portfolio rebalancing channel, which is based on the idea that different assets are imperfect substitutes for each other. Here’s how then-Chairman Bernanke put it in his August 2012 Jackson Hole speech: “Imperfect substitutability of assets implies that changes in the supplies of various assets available to private investors may affect the prices and yields of those assets. Thus, Federal Reserve purchases of mortgage-backed securities (MBS), for example, should raise the prices and lower the yields of those securities; moreover, as investors rebalance their portfolios by replacing the MBS sold to the Federal Reserve with other assets, the prices of the assets they buy should rise and their yields decline as well.” Bernanke was not shy about saying that QE was an exercise in “learning by doing”, and the views of policymakers may have evolved over the last six years. I expect that they have, because the practical experience of QE differed from this basic story in important ways. First, portfolio rebalancing effects look small in hindsight. While we are sympathetic with this idea in theory, the assets the Fed purchased and the liabilities they issued to fund them—namely reserve deposits—were, in fact, close substitutes. As many others have pointed out, QE on government bonds can be thought of as changing the maturity structure of outstanding debt: the Fed buys bonds and “issues” short-term government liabilities in their place. Thus, at least in this one dimension, QE was economically equivalent to Treasury buybacks funded with bill issuance. History shows that these types of debt maturity changes tend to have small effects on bond yields—and in the U.S. they were in any case offset by the Treasury’s debt management practices. In addition, the large sell-off in the Treasury market last year cast doubt on the idea that portfolio rebalancing was QE’s primary transmission mechanism. As Chairman Bernanke pointed out at the time, Fed officials “were a little puzzled by that”, and the rise in rates was “was bigger than can be explained I think by changes in the ultimate stock of asset purchases within reasonable ranges”. In fact, the total stock of assets the Fed purchased turned out to be much larger than anticipated before the taper tantrum. At the very least, the 2013 experience shows there is more going on than portfolio rebalancing effects—and we would argue they are not the primary channel through which QE operates. Second, QE reinforced forward guidance. Although many observers have turned more skeptical about portfolio rebalancing effects, the recent behavior of bond yields suggests QE was a very effective complement to forward guidance. Fed officials can say that short-term interest rates will remain low for a long time, but market participants know that there is nothing committing them to stick to that promise—talk is cheap. Quantitative easing provides that commitment: bond investors know that while QE is ongoing the Fed will not raise the funds rate. And beyond that the program signals something about the central bank’s broader intentions. QE thus augments forward guidance and reduces uncertainty about short-term rates, which in turn lowers bond yields and stimulates the economy. Third, QE reduced perceived tail risks. The unsung aspect of QE was its role in reducing perceptions about tail risks for the economy. When short-term interest rates are at zero, negative economic news can have an outsized effect because it feeds a perception that the economy will get stuck in a low growth and/or deflationary equilibrium (i.e. “Japanify”). Quantitative easing reduced these concerns because it demonstrated policymakers had not run out of tools—there remained a willingness and ability to stimulate the economy and defend the inflation target. A central bank is the ultimate deep-pocketed investor, and QE is a way to show that off. These three lessons offer three implications for policymakers and investors: First, policymakers should consider other commitment devices. We think QE proved very effective in reinforcing the Fed’s communication about short-term interest rates, but there could be simpler ways to achieve the same outcome. For example, well-advertised rules tied to the unemployment rate or inflation, yield targets for 2- to 4-year government bonds, or fixed-rate lending facilities at scheduled points in the future could reinforce forward guidance in much the same way. Second, the U.S. experience with QE suggests it would be effective in Europe. While difficult to prove definitively, the U.S. experience suggests QE had a major impact in restoring market confidence and re-anchoring inflation expectations because it signaled to investors that the Fed still had policy options. Too many observers think the ECB is a weak institution with limited tools, and therefore that the Eurozone risks deflation. The ECB could take back the narrative with QE. While it’s true that high-quality bond yields in Europe are already low, that line of reasoning misses the point. The ECB would restore its credibility by refuting the idea that it is out of ammo—exactly the course the Bank of Japan has taken. Third, investors should be more confident in a sustained recovery. The Fed wrapped up QE last week not because it was ineffective or because it was too risky. The Fed ended QE because it succeeded. That’s good news for investors: the Fed showed monetary policy is not powerless even when short-term interest rates reach zero. If the economy stumbles again, QE or other tools could play a role in fostering recovery. This article originally appeared at Columbia Management Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. Follow Columbia Management Perspectives on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren Buffett, 2007Note from dshort: I've updated this commentary to include last week's release of the Advance Estimate for Q3 GDP. Market Cap to GDP is a long-term valuation indicator that has become popular in recent years, thanks to Warren Buffett. Back in 2001 he remarked in a Fortune Magazine interview that "it is probably the best single measure of where valuations stand at any given moment." The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgement of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data. The strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 39 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website. Here is a link to a FRED version of the chart. Incidentally, the numerator is the same series used for a simple calculation of the Q Ratio valuation indicator. I've updated the GDP denominator with the Q3 Advance Estimate. The numerator is from the Fed's Q2 Z.1 Financial Accounts released on September 18th with a linear extrapolation for a Q3 estimate.  Click for a larger image Here is a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe using the Wilshire 5000 Full Cap Price Index divided by GDP. I've used the FRED data for the stock index numerator (WILL5000PRFC).  Click for a larger image A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). How Well do the Two Views Match? The first of the two charts above appears to show a significantly greater overvaluation. Here are the two versions side-by-side. The one on the left shows the latest valuation over two standard deviations (SD) above the mean. The other one is noticeably lower. Why does one look so much more expensive than the other?     One uses Fed data back to the middle of the last century for the numerator, the other uses the Wilshire 5000, the data for which only goes back to 1971. The Wilshire is the more familiar numerator, but the Fed data gives us a longer timeframe. And those early decades, when the ratio was substantially lower, have definitely impacted the mean and SDs. To illustrate my point, here is an overlay of the two versions over the same timeframe. The one with the Fed numerator has a tad more upside volatility, but they're singing pretty much in harmony.  Click for a larger image Incidentally, the Fed's estimate for Nonfinancial Corporate Business; Corporate Equities; Liability is the broader of the two numerators. The Wilshire 5000 currently consists of fewer than 4000 companies. What Do These Charts Tell Us? In a CNBC interview earlier this spring CNBC interview (April 23rd), Warren Buffett expressed his view that stocks aren't "too frothy". However, both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is indeed at lofty valuations, now well above the housing-bubble peak in 2007. In fact, we can see in the first chart above only four quarters (during the dot.com bubble) with higher valuations. The latest estimate is about half-way between two and three standard deviations above the mean valuation. Wouldn't GNP Give a More Accurate Picture? Note from dshort: GNP estimates lag GDP by a month, so this section still reflects data through the second quarter. That is a question I've been asked multiple times. Here is the same calculation with Gross National Product as the denominator; the two versions differ very little from their Gross Domestic Product counterparts.     Here is an overlay of the two GNP versions -- again, very similar.  Click for a larger image Another question I've been repeatedly asked is why I don't include the "Buffett Indicator" in the overlay of the four valuation indicators I update monthly. I've not included it for various reasons: The timeframe is so much shorter, the overlapping timeframe tells the same story, and the four-version overlay is about as visually "busy" as I'm comfortable graphing. One final comment: While I see this indicator as a general gauge of market valuation, it it's not useful for short-term market timing, as this overlay with the S&amp;P 500 makes clear.  Click for a larger image This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
GoPro shares are going to $30.  According to a report released by short sellers Citron Research on Tuesday, shares of the wearable camera company will fall to $30 within 12 months. In afternoon trade on Tuesday, GoPro shares were unchanged near $84.50.  In its report, Citron wrote that currently, investors are not only looking at the company as a camera hardware company, but also a social media company.  Citron isn't convinced.  Taking GoPro as a hardware company, Citron compares the company to Beats, which was recently acquired by Apple at 2 times its annual revenue.  Assuming that GoPro can grow its revenue to about $2 billion annually by 2017, Citron calculates that the stock would be worth about $33.60. Last week, GoPro reported earnings that beat expectations, including quarterly revenue that came in at $280 million, or an annualized pace of about $1.1 billion.  In late September, Business Insider's Henry Blodget also looked at some of the assumptions built into GoPro's share price — which then was closer to $90 — and found that the company likely needs to grow revenue to at least $5 billion, but potentially up to $15 billion, to justify that current valuation. Said another way, GoPro needs to quintuple its revenue in ten years.  As Henry wrote: To justify today's stock price (which was about $87, today is closer to $85) on the basis of discounted cash flow, GoPro will have to generate $1 billion to $3 billion of profit in 10 years. How likely is that? Well, GoPro is currently generating about $1 billion of revenue on an annualized rate. GoPro is primarily a hardware company, and hardware companies generally have low profit margins. GoPro is trying to become a media company, and media companies can have higher profit margins. So a reasonable future profit margin assumption for a successful GoPro might be, say, 15%. To generate $1 billion to $3 billion of profit at a 15% profit margin, GoPro would need revenue of $5 billion to $15 billion. Citron is also skeptical of how Wall Street has begun covering GoPro, writing that the company has been taken from a consumer hardware to social media company by some analysts. "We have never seen analysts on consumer electronics gear company resort to social media 'eyeballs' metrics to justify valuations such as 'Facebook likes' and 'Instagram followers,' Citron wrote. "...[B]ut there is a first for everything, especially if you ignore history. In Wall Street's compulsion to fabricate a story where a story does not exist, you see its fingerprints on GoPro media" As always, it is important to keep in mind that Citron Research is often short (or long) shares of the company it publishes research on.  But shares of GoPro have more than tripled since the company priced its IPO at $24 a share, and it is certainly worth thinking about what happens next.  You can read Citron's full report here » FREE AppDownload
Since the beginning of the global financial crisis, social conditions have deteriorated in many European countries. The youth in particular have been affected by soaring unemployment rates that created an outcry for changes in labour market policies for the young in Europe. Following this development, the Council of Europe signed a resolution in 2012 acknowledging the importance of this issue and asking for implementation of youth friendly policies in the Member States. Yet, almost 5.6 million young people were unemployed in 2013 in the European Union (EU) - in nine EU countries the youth unemployment rate more than doubled since the beginning of the crisis.  In this post we draw your attention to two more indicators reflecting the social situation of the young generation: the percentage of children living in jobless households and the percentage of young people that are neither in employment nor education nor training. The indicator Children in jobless households measures the share of 0-17 year olds as a share of the total population in this age group, who are living in a household where no member is in employment, i.e. all members are either unemployed or inactive (Figure 1).  Figure 1: Children in jobless households   BruegelSuch approximation has only a marginal impact on the aggregate of the other EU15 countries, because children in jobless HH in Sweden represented only 3% of the country group in 2009. Countries in groupings are weighted by population. In the EU28 countries this share rose only slightly over the past years to 11.2%. It is striking, however, that the ratio of children living in households where no one works more than doubled in the euro-area programme countries (Greece, Ireland, Portugal) as well as in Italy and Spain to 13% and 12%, respectively. And even more shocking - while the share stabilized in the programme countries, in Italy and Spain it is still sharply increasing. In Ireland in 2013 more than one in every six children lived in a household where no one worked. This is indeed an alarming development. Only the Baltics, which experienced a very deep recession as one of the first countries hit by the crisis, are reporting a sizable turning point in the statistic in 2010 and the share is presently continuing to decline. The numbers are, however, still well above pre-crisis levels. A high share of children living in jobless household is not only problematic at the moment but can also have negative consequences for the young people’s future since it often means that a child may not only have a precarious income situation in a certain time period, but also that the household cannot make an adequate investment in quality education and training (see a paper on this issue written for the ECOFIN Council by Darvas and Wolff here). Therefore a child’s opportunities to participate in the labour market in the future are likely to be adversely affected. Moreover, as I discussed in a blog earlier this year, children under 18 years are more affected by absolute poverty than any other group in the EU and the generational divide is widening further. The financial situation of young people between 18 and 24 years old who finished their education is less dependent on their parents income because they are usually enter the labour market and generate their own income. Therefore we are going to have a closer look on their work situation, i.e. how many young people have difficulties participating in the labour market. Figure 2:  Not in Education, Employment or Training  BruegelThe NEET indicator measures the proportion of young people aged 18-24 years which are not in employment, education or training as a percentage of total population in the respective age group. We can see in Figure 2 that the situation among EU28 countries stabilized over the last four years. The good news is that for the first time since 2007 we see a decline in the rate in the euro-area programme countries in 2013. This decline is, however, mostly driven by Ireland with an unchanged situation in Greece and Portugal. Also, in the Baltics the ratio is on a downward trend. More worrying, however, is the situation in Italy and Spain. Among all EU28 countries, the young generation in Italy with 22.2% of all young people being without any employment, education or training, is disproportionately hit by the deterioration in the labour market. Every fifth young person between 18 and 24 is struggling to escape the exclusion trap. Europe and especially Italy is risking a lost generation more than ever.  Labour market policies for young people should therefore stand very high on the national agendas of Member States. The regulations introduced in summer 2013 into the Italian labour market reform which are setting economic incentives for employers to hire young people build an important step towards more labour market integration of the youth in Europe. Their effects are yet to be observed in the employment statistics in the coming years in Italy. More action on the national and European level is needed to improve the situation of the young. FREE AppDownload
We recently published a list of the Best Suburbs in America, factoring in public school ratings, housing affordability, proximity to nearest metropolitan area, and median household income, among other values. Turns out, some of these suburbanites make bank. For this list, we ranked the best suburbs in America by median household income, provided by the U.S. Census Bureau's 2008-2012 American Community Survey Estimates. We only considered suburbs within 40 kilometers (25 miles) of the nearest metropolitan area — which explains why some wealthy suburbs (such as the relatively isolated Greenwich, Connecticut, or Great Neck, New York) didn't make the cut. The top 25 suburbs span coast to coast, with Saint Louis and Dallas landing three of its suburbs on the list. The top-earning small town is Chevy Chase, Maryland, located a half hour outside Washington, D.C., where residents make a median household income of $250,000. Andy Kiersz compiled the data for this list. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
Quiznos' US business has been in a tailspin.  The sandwich chain has closed 3,000 restaurants in recent years and filed for bankruptcy protection.  Now the company is focusing on opening restaurants in Asia and the Middle East to drive profits, writes Venessa Wong at Bloomberg Businessweek.  The company hopes that growing overseas demand for US restaurants will help its business.  Wong notes that the company will have to contend with already-established competitors like Subway and KFC.  KFC now has more restaurants in China than in the US.  Serious flaws in Quiznos' business model led to the company's demise in America, The Wall Street Journal wrote last year.  The chain's franchise owners have long complained that Quiznos charges too much for ingredients, eating into profits. The company has also made key mistakes in its production process.   Last year, Quiznos started adding veggies after the toasting process, with the logic that veggies would taste better fresh. This confused long-time customers and hurt business, according to franchisees. Quiznos ended up going back to the original method.  To succeed abroad, Quiznos will have to fix these problems in its business and appeal to customers who want an American experience.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr James Bond famously ordered his Martini "shaken, not stirred." We're glad his specialty is secret service work. Fact is Martinis are supposed to be stirred — it's one of the cardinal rules of  cocktail-making. And if Bond didn't know that, then we're guessing you might not have known that either. So we're here to share a few cocktail-making tips. With the help of writer and cocktail expert Robert Haynes-Peterson, we've put together a list of 17 rules of cocktail-making to help you master the craft. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of RedbullMoney is still running from PIMCO's Total Return Fund. The Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund, an actively managed ETF designed to mimic the strategy of the flagship mutual fund, posted its second straight month of outflows in October. Outflows in October totaled $437 million, less than September's $631 million outflow, according to Morningstar data. The Pimco Total Return ETF saw nearly $550 million in outflows in the two days following news of the departure of longtime manager Bill Gross, which was announced on September 26.  The Total Return ETF was also at the center of a September 23 Wall Street Journal report that said the SEC was investigation whether the firm artificially boosted returns for the fund.  That report came just days before Gross left PIMCO for Janus Capital, where he now manages Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund. News of outflows from PIMCO's Total Return ETF follows the release of Gross' latest investment outlook, which, among other things, saw Gross write that he is a "philosophical nomad disguised in western clothing." (Reporting from Reuters by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader works on floor of New York Stock Exchange shortly after market's opening bell in New YorkBy Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK (Reuters) - Major U.S. stock exchanges have asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit accusing them of costing ordinary investors billions of dollars by rigging markets to benefit high-frequency traders. Exchanges including Nasdaq , Intercontinental Exchange Inc's  New York Stock Exchange, Bats Global Markets and CHX Holdings Inc's Chicago Stock Exchange said they deserve "absolute immunity" because they regulate themselves, and that only the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission could review the plaintiffs' claims. A co-defendant, Barclays Plc , said the plaintiffs failed to show it intended to fraudulently conceal the use by high-frequency traders of its Barclays LX platform, sometimes called a "dark pool," or that this use caused trading losses. Andrew Brown, a partner at Robbins Geller Rudman &amp; Dowd representing plaintiffs led by the city of Providence, Rhode Island and four pension funds, did not immediately respond on Tuesday to request for comment. The dismissal requests were filed late Monday in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan. They came amid increased scrutiny for high-frequency trading firms, which use computer algorithms to gain split-second trading advantages. On Oct. 16, the SEC brought its first market manipulation case against such a firm, fining New York-based Athena Capital Research $1 million for using the algorithm "Gravy" to send a blizzard of trades just before the market close. Athena did not admit wrongdoing. Michael Lewis, in his best-seller "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt" published in March, accused high-frequency trading firms of rigging markets. The firms account for more than half of U.S. stock market trades. In the Manhattan lawsuit, exchange operators and Barclays were accused of giving high-frequency traders special access to exchange floors and enhanced data feeds, and letting them install computer servers near the exchanges' own. The plaintiffs said this created an "uneven playing field" that has since April 2009 diverted billions of dollars a year from ordinary investors and led to "billions more" in kickbacks. They seek class-action status and unspecified damages. In urging dismissal of the case, the exchange operators said the SEC had "expressly authorized" their dealings with high-frequency trading firms, even if it meant faster trading speeds. They also called disseminating market data a "core regulatory function" of exchanges that could not be challenged in court. Barclays, meanwhile, said the plaintiffs based their claims on confidential marketing materials they never saw or relied on. The British bank also accused the plaintiffs of "parroting unproven assertions" made by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in June when he sued Barclays over its dark pool. Barclays has sought to dismiss that lawsuit. The pension fund plaintiffs are located in Alexandria, Virginia; Boston; the Virgin Islands and Stockholm. The case is City of Providence, Rhode Island et al v. BATS Global Markets Inc et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 14-02811.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
For years, I've read about a "secret menu" at McDonald's that offers up ridiculous items like the "Land, Sea, and Air Burger," which is a Big Mac stuffed with a chicken and fish patty. Only thing is – a McDonald's rep tells us "there is no secret menu at McDonald's." So, what happens when you order off the infamous secret menu? I found out.  Produced by Will Wei. Camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Noel ValeroJulia Ratcliffe is the top-ranked hammer thrower in the NCAA rankings.Founded in 1746, Princeton University remains a vibrant community of scholarship and learning. Students who attend this Ivy League school follow in the footsteps of Woodrow Wilson, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Eric Schmidt, Meg Whitman, Michelle Obama, Jeff Bezos, and other movers and shakers of industry. From creating companies to scaling summits, these 16 students are changing what it means to be impressive. FREE AppDownload
Stocks are sliding in morning trade on Tuesday as Americans take to the polls on Election Day. Near 11:15 a.m. ET, the Dow was down about 85 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 16 points, and the Nasdaq was down 31 points. On a percentage basis, the S&amp;P 500 was leading losses as the benchmark index approached the 2,000 level.  US stocks are taking their lead from stocks in Europe, which have seen losses accelerate after a report from Reuters outlined a growing discord within the European Central Bank, specifically over ECB president Mario Draghi's communication style.  Oil continues to get crushed, and it fell below $77 a barrel as the commodity continues its slide that began in late summer.  In the US, we got economic data in the form of the latest trade balance report and the September report on factory orders. In September, the trade deficit widened to $43 billion, more than the $40.2 billion that was expected by economists. Meanwhile factory orders declined for the second straight month, falling 0.6% in September.  In corporate earnings news, Alibaba reported its first quarterly results since going public in September, and it reported earnings per share that were in-line with expectations on revenue that topped estimates.  Herbalife shares are getting crushed, falling as much as 19% on Tuesday after the multilevel marketing firm on Monday night reported results that disappointed and gave revenue guidance for next year that was well below expectations.  Tuesday is also an ugly day for Herbalife's biggest shareholder, Carl Icahn, whose Icahn Enterprises posted a $355 million net loss in the third quarter. Business Insider's Linette Lopez has the full breakdown of Icahn's losses, which largely related to numerous companies that are in his portfolio but don't get as much coverage as high profile names like Herbalife, Apple, and eBay.  Tuesday is also Election Day in the US, and experts are predicting a Republican landslide that will most likely see the party take control of the Senate and widen its lead in the House, reports Business Insider's Brett Logiurato.  FREE AppDownload
Sir Martin Sorrell founded WPP in 1986 with a loan on his shares in the advertising agency he was with at the time, Saatchi &amp; Saatchi. He used that loan to buy a small company that makes baskets and shopping trolleys: Wire and Plastic Products. Almost 30 years on, WPP is the world's biggest global advertising network, last week reporting revenues £8.23 billion for the first nine months of the year (up 2.8% on 2013). Knighted in the Queen's 2000 New Years honours list, Sorrell is one of the most well-known, respected and richest people in the advertising industry. But his influence stretches far beyond advertising: WPP results often serve as a bellwether for the wider economy and Sorrell often uses his earnings calls to make predictions and macroeconomic analogies (which range from "grey swans", to "bath tub-shaped" recessions). We sat down with Sorrell ahead of his appearance at the Internet Advertising Bureau's annual Engage event in London to discuss the health of WPP, his thoughts on the current state of the economy, and the not-too-friendly relationship he has with his old rival, Publicis Groupe boss Maurice Levy. Business Insider: It seems WPP has been particularly acquisitive at the moment, having recently invested in companies like programmatic ad server AppNexus, research company Rentrack and Chinese ecommerce solutions firm Polestar, to name but a few... Sir Martin Sorrell: We have always been acquisitive. In the last three years we've come second to Google, Intel third, in terms of the number of acquisitions completed, according to a survey by Bloomberg. Of course what we've done is a large number of smaller deals. Markets tend not to like big deals. But we've found very good value and, most importantly, they've been aligned to our strategy of fast growth markets, digital, data and integration. This year we've said we'll spend more on acquisitions. We were at about£300 million to £400 million, and this year we'll spend around £400 million to £500 million. BI: Would you ever see WPP buying what is considered as a "traditional agency" ever again? MS: Those acquisitions are in line with our strategy, whether that's in line with traditional agencies ... well, hopefully not. Looking at [Business Insider's] Peter Thiel interview, one would like to think we're doing more "vertical" in his terms than "horizontal" acquisitions. Although there's probably a fair number of horizontals as well. BI: What percentage of your business is "traditional" now? Every agency says it's multi-faceted... MS: Yes, even one-man, one-woman startups say that. If you went back to a nice round number like the year 2000, the fast-growth markets (which we consider to be mainly Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central Eastern Europe) would have been about 12% of our business. Today they're over 30%. Digital would have been close to zero, but we were just getting into internet 1.0 and a lot of VC money at that time was going into public relations and marketing. So let's say about zero. Now it's 36%. Now you can't add the two together and say 66% of our business is fast-growth markets and digital. You'd have to knock out about an 8% overlap between the two. But what you can say is that well over half of our revenue didn't exist 14 years ago. That may be, in the digital world, a slow change. But for an old man like me at 69 years old, it's a significant change. And I would expect that change to keep on happening even more rapidly. Flickr/IAB UK Sorrell talking tech at IAB Engage in London, October 2014BI: Given the pace of change towards digital and ad tech, what kind of company would you advise a young person coming out of university interested in advertising to go into? An AppNexus or an Ogilvy? MS: If you went into Ogilvy — the same thing of J. Walter Thomson, Young &amp; Rubicam, or Grey — all of those traditional agencies have sought, quite rightly, to change their offer and adapt to a changing environment. Whether that be a geographically changing environment or a technologically changing environment. There are two very hot areas for us at the moment: 1) technology-driven applications. We don't originate in technology, we apply it, so businesses like Xaxis and AppNexus would be the ones that enable us to do what others call programmatic. 2) Content, whether that's represented by Fullscreen, Media Rights Capital, what we did with Indigenous Media, what we did with RatPac and Warner, and most prominently with Vice. If you joined Ogilvy you could get involved in all that through GroupM and Neo@Ogilvy because they have the strength there as well. BI: But isn't adtech where the future is? Where the money is? Where you get stock options? MS: No, I think that's a rather narrow view. The opportunities are in the applications of the technology. I think it's overplayed to say "go to adtech," whatever that means, because it means different things to different people. I think two of the most exciting areas we've explored over the last two or three years is what you'd describe as adtech, or what I'd describe as the application of technology, and content. BI: On the subject of the application of technology, then, and programmatic. A recent report from the World Federation of Advertisers suggested brands are moving their programmatic spend away from agencies as there's a level of distrust in the way agency trading desks arbitrage the inventory, buying it at a low price and then selling it to clients at a higher price. How do agencies counter this? MS: There will be clients as there have always been in traditional media buying that do their own planning and buying. Look at Anheuser Busch: that was a company that did its own planning and buying for many years but has just awarded its planning and buying account to MediaCom US for about $600 million. That goes against what you're indicating. I think in-house agencies, whether media or creative, have been possible and active for many years. The question is whether in-house agencies or specialists — which by definition deal with only one client — are the right way to go. The issue is whether an in-house agency, particularly in the technology area, can continue to advance their technology in an effective way and whether the people who work in an in-house agency will be sufficiently challenged over the long and medium-term to continue to work then. Our experience is that good people like to work in multi-variant agencies which have a multiplicity of challenges and are not just concentrated in just one area of the economy and that in-house agencies over the long-term can't keep up with the scale of change that's going on outside. BI: Markets often look to WPP results as a barometer of how the economy is doing. You often describe the economy quite figuratively. How would you describe the global economy currently? Business InsiderSorrell describes the economic recovery as an angled "square-root)MS: Looking at WPP, it's sort of like the square root sign. You saw the dip in 2009, the sharp recovery with the long end in 2010, 2011 a record, 2012 record results, 2013 record results and 2014 — if you ignore sterling and look at underlying results — that will be a record year as well. But that flat part of the square root sign is kind of on an upwards slope. I don't see any reason, in the short to medium-term, why that will change. In other words, it will continue to be a slog. Worldwide GDP growth is running at about 4 or 5% and that's likely to continue. It doesn't make life impossible, but it doesn't make it buoyant. Inevitably, finance and procurement is very focused on driving down cost and that makes life pretty uncomfortable for suppliers. BI: Is it right that people look to WPP as an economic bellwether? Isn't that more looking at what advertisers are doing now as opposed to their outlook for the future? MS: Well with the average life of a CEO at 5 years, a CMO at 18 months to 2 years and a CFO at 3 years, as I’m advised, I think it's natural for people to be focused on the short term. Financial institutions and investors also mainly have incentives built around quarterly performance and we do as well as we report quarterly. We are fortunate because we invest in human capital — WPP is a seething mass of humanity — and we can see that people are not slow burners like the oil industry or the energy industry. You make your investment in human capital and it pays off and you know pretty quickly if people are going to perform or not. We're lucky because we invest about $12 billion a year in people, out of $19 billion in revenue and those are not gestation periods like capital investment periods. And for that reason I think we're a reasonable bellwether of what's going on: people can see the growth. be it geographical or where the changes are technologically. BI: Talk to me about grey swans [Sorrell uses the analogy to describe world events that can affect markets and individual companies that are known about, as opposed to "black swan" fiscal events that are not]. MS: I'm not sure Scotland is off the agenda. I've found people quite depressed and concerned up there. At one level you have Scottish nationalists who are worried about people backsliding about promises that were made around the election. On the other hand, there are those that voted "no" who are concerned about what the future of Scotland is going to be, even in a devo-max situation. So while Scotland has less impact, it's not off the table and has implications for the Catalans and, indeed, other parts of the UK that have seen the debate about what role English MPs should play in determining legislation. The Eurozone is still an issue with quantitative easing. The US seems to be out of the doldrums and growing reasonably well; it seems to be going in the right direction. The UK is strong although there's some signs of flattening out. France is clearly still in difficult. Germany is stuttering a bit but still relatively strong. Spain is still showing some signs of recovery, but also showing unacceptable levels of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. Asia has slowed. There's a grey swan in Hong Kong. Brazil, with the election Russia and the Ukraine is a black swan. And I guess we have to wait and see what's happening there. I think the oil price is weighing heavily on the Russian economy. Then the Middle East, ISIS ... Ebola is certainly a swan that came out of left-field and also has implications. There are lots of things going on. Many people you hear say that they can't remember a time when there have been so many potential Sarajevos. I think the natural impact of that is that it makes people less sure of making decisions. It slows thing down. Wikimedia, CCBI: There is often a lot of mudslinging that goes on between you and Publicis Groupe CEO Maurice Levy. He recently recounted your first-ever meeting, when you were CFO of Saatchi. The pair of you were supposed to be discussing a joint takeover deal for two US agencies, and Levy spent the day with you in London reviewing the terms. "From that day I had a less than great relationship with Martin," Levy said. But you said (at a later, separate event, as reported by The Drum) this wasn't true and he was merely the tea boy. MS: Coffee! BI: Coffee! But is this apparent hatred that plays out in the press real? Or is it just pantomime between two old rivals? MS: I don't know if it's pantomime. I think Maurice is smarted from, and his concerns probably emanated from, the Cordiant transaction [WPP beat Publicis Groupe to acquiring the advertising agency in 2003]. I think he's probably deeply upset that in any contest in the public markets, we've always emerged successful. I think he's found that very difficult to accept. BI: You've said before you don't believe Levy will retire in 2017, as per his contract extension announced last month. Why is that? MS: Maurice and retiring is an oxymoron. BI: Would you ever let yourself retire before him? MS: (Laughs loudly) It's not in my hands. I can get fired instantly or decide to go, again, instantly, it's not under my control. I think he has a contract which he lengthens all the time. Or which other people lengthen, to be fair. BI: What do you feel you still need to achieve at WPP? MS: Going back to your Peter Thiel interview, it's about if you can make significant change. Or create a monopoly. Peter likes monopolies, not competition, and I have to say I agree with him. The opportunity is to differentiate. I woke up this morning and we had another major media win in Bayer and two other things had happened which aren't public yet. I think it's the first time I sort of feel that we're starting to get some significant differentiation in our offering and that's always the critics' challenge, because agencies tend to be regarded as all being the same. One of our major clients said to me 25 years ago: "I don't move my agency because the people move; I should stay where I am and get the agency right," a philosophy to which I agree. It's very much a kind of Procter &amp; Gamble philosophy. If the agency is wrong, fix the agency and get the right people. I think our focus is right at the moment: fast-growth markets, digital, data and integration. REUTERS/Charles PlatiauFrench economist Thomas Piketty posing with his book "Capital in the 21st Century."BI: Have you read Thomas Piketty's "Capital in the 21st Century?". Rightly or wrongly, your remuneration package is often criticized. Do you think Piketty's argument that a concentration of wealth leads to economic instability rings true? And therefore, should there be less of a gap between CEO pay and that of their employees? MS: That may or may not be true but there are other things that determine economic growth as well: innovation, entrepreneurship, technology, infrastructure, tax, immigration policy, and so on, I don't think you can isolate one variable. In terms of my own compensation, what people tend to forget is that about 85% to 90% of my compensation (Sorrell's total pay package rose 30% to £30m in 2013) is based on performance. For 28 years, all my net worth is in WPP, except for a very small piece, therefore the success or failure of WPP is tied very much with what I am paid. I've not sold stock, with the exception of when I had a divorce settlement, in that last 30 years. And, interestingly, I've paid tax on that stock and locked myself in. And if the share price falls below the price of stock vested, I get a double whammy: I pay tax on that rate and the value of what I can ultimately disclose. There's a very important distinction between people that have started a company from zero and stayed with it for 28 years and haven't flitted from flower to flower, and people who do. The risk I have taken is substantial and it goes against all conventional financial planning where they say to diversify your risk. But my dad always used to tell me to invest in the company you know best and that company is the company you work with. BI: You've made a lot of predictions in your career; whether they are about advertising trends, individual companies or macroeconomics. What's a prediction you're proud you got right, and one you've got really wrong? MS: I got it wrong in 1991/1992 when we over-leveraged post-Ogilvy and I forgot that a convertible preferred in a recession is debt rather than an equity. (In a recession, the value of shares decline and investors will ask for their cash back, meaning businesses have to find other ways to pay off the debt. WPP was forced into an expensive rescheduling of its debt and a debt-for-equity swap after acquiring the advertising agency Ogilvy in 1989.) BI: And right? MS: Well, maybe I was right about POG (Publicis and Omnicom's ill-fated merger proposal that collapsed earlier this year.) BI: Do you think the failed Publicis/Omnicom merger has put off other agency networks pulling off similar manoeuvres in the near-term? MS: I don't think so. See IPG/Dentsu and Havas/Vivendi (network consolidation Sorrell predicts will still take place, despite the failed Publicis/Omnicom deal.) FREE AppDownload
Herbalife (HLF) is down 14% this morning after the company issued their second consecutive earnings miss and guided down the current quarter eps and sales estimate (Per Bloomberg: Sees 4Q adj EPS $1.30-$1.40, est. $1.69; sees 4Q sales down 5%-8%, est. up 8%).  At the moment, the decline is slightly shy of  the options market’s 15% implied move, but inline with the average over the last 4 quarters.  However, it’s early, and this story feels like it is crashing under its own weight. To refresh, activist shareholder Bill Ackman contends that the the company is a pyramid scheme, and will be shut down by the Feds, and has put his money where his mouth is to the tune of more than $1 billion, possibly a large part of the stock’s 43% short interest.  On the other side of the trade is activist shareholder Carl Icahn, who is the single largest shareholder with 18.5% of the shares outstanding and controls 5 out of 13 board seats.  For a guy like Carl Icahn, who has had such great success sniffing out under-appreciated assets or poorly run companies of which value can be unlocked, this investment sticks out like a sore thumb where it appears value has been massively inflated and those running the company may be pulling a fast one. I have no dog in this hunt, but it seemed fairly obvious to be me that the company was losing its grip when in late April they suspended their dividend and decided to use that cash to buy back more shares.  This occurred just 2 months after the company issued a $1.15 billion convertible bond to fund an accelerated share buyback when the shares were significantly higher than current levels. It appears that the company has run out of levers to pull to squeeze shorts.  With increased regulator scrutiny, the company’s results have taken a turn for the worse.  There is likely a correlation there.  Herbalife has been forced to clean up its predatory marketing practices over the past 6 months (including practices like the century club that Ackman has detailed), which has likely hurt sales overall. It seems fairly apparent to this little ol’ trader that HLF at the very least is a ‘no-touch” and could trade lower than here even if the FTC does not shut down the company. The company levered up to buy back stock to fight Ackman, but in the process has hampered its cash flow flexibility going forward.  That comes at a time when the business itself might remain under pressure even on a settlement with the FTC, depending on how stringent the FTC’s terms are for “amending” Herbalife’s business, sales, and marketing. I would also add that for those who were looking for long exposure, the convert due 2019 which has traded as low as 74 cents on the dollar back in Sept (closing 89 yesterday) is likely a far better own than the stock given the fact that Ackman thinks the equity is a ZERO and the convert has a much higher recovery rate. For me this story likely comes down to a binary outcome.  Will the FTC shut them down as a pyramid? Or as has been rumored, will the company settle and introduce significant changes to their business model?  I certainly have no idea what will happen, but given the stock’s year to date performance, down more than 40%, it seems that both scenarios are bad. I would suggest that no matter the outcome there is another potential negative catalyst before anything is resolved – Carl Icahn selling his stake and leaving the board.  If this were to happen and his people were to decide that the company is not as cheap as originally thought, or that the business model is not as pristine as originally presented, it would be lights out for this stock.  Aside from the FTC giving the company a clean slate or shutting them down, in my mind this is the other sort of binary outcome for the stock which could happen on no news. Back on September 16th I wrote a post on Herbalife (Whale Hunting in HLF…Call Me Ishmael) which was a response to Ackman’s comment (directed at Icahn) at CNBC’s Delivering Alpha Conference in July: “It’s not about winning,” Ackman said on Herbalife. “I would love to find a way to get Carl out of this stock.” If I were Ackman, I would propose a transaction to Icahn. Buy all 17,000,000 million shares that Icahn owns, at a big discount to current levels, but above his average price, effectively covering a portion of his short and get Icahn’s representatives off of the board. ….. This sort of proposal creates an incremental buyer, something Icahn would sorely need of if he is to ever exit his position. A buyer which, at the moment, does not appear to exist. Icahn’s board representation should have him knowing a lot more than Ackman’s lobbyists as to the likelihood of a settlement with the FTC, as has been rumored.  So the question that I don’t have the answer to is this:  if talks with FTC take a turn away from settlement and if it appears that increased regulation would materially alter the company’s business prospects, would Icahn exit the long position, and can he in the open market given his board representation?  This is not a stock that looks at all attractive, even down 14% on the day nearing the 52 week lows.   FREE AppDownload
Jeff Bezos has made a name for himself by saying that margins aren't what matter. Instead, he's focused on generating the highest free cash flow per share possible. That approach rattles many traditional investors, who view earnings per share and growing margins as the end-all, be-all of investing. While his methods may not be immediately intuitive, it's been hard to argue with the results. Even with last week's fall, Amazon's stock has grown 140% over the past five years, outpacing the S&amp;P 500 by 60 percentage points. Amazon constantly tops lists for innovation, and the ceiling for sales growth seems infinitely high. On top of it all, the company has diversified its offerings without any drop in its core business. What's not to love? Amazon's free cash flow hasn't grown meaningfully over the past few years. In the 12 months up to July 2011, the company generated $4.03 in free cash flow per share. In the same period this year, Amazon's free cash flow per share has dropped to $2.25. In the intervening years, that number went down and up but has stayed below $3 for each period. If Bezos' belief is that it's "absolute dollar free cash flow per share that you want to maximize," as he said in 2013, then right now Amazon isn't making the best of it. The twist is that if you asked Bezos to explain what was going on, he would probably say that four years isn't the timeline for success he's working on. What many investors find comforting about Amazon's plans is that they are set up to unfold over a period much longer than four years. Again, Bezos has addressed the concerns that low prices and free shipping can cut into the bottom line: "[We] believe that by keeping our prices very, very low, we earn trust with customers over time, and that that actually does maximize free cash flow over the long term." The exact timeframe we're dealing with has never really been specified. Investors often talk about Amazon's future, where things are going so well that it can stop investing in new businesses and can push its margins back up. While Bezos has said that margins aren't the same as free cash flow, there is an undeniable connection. Ultimately, Amazon's success comes down to the vision of one man. If Bezos is right about the long term, then there's a point where Amazon starts generating much more for its investors. If it never turns the corner, and Bezos is wrong, then the whole thing is going to collapse. What that means is that an investment in Amazon is an investment in Bezos, more than anything else. Amazon's trailing twelve month earnings are negative, and the company could easily be considered overpriced. However, for the faithful, the potential for massive gains in the future justifies the cost. I've never been fully convinced of the Amazon magic, but I can't deny that it's paid dividends -- metaphorically speaking. Amazon's margin madness seems to just escape the pull of some horrible fate at each turn. I can't sleep knowing that my cash is doing the same. For braver investors, Amazon looks as strong as it always has, which is just to say that Bezos is still at the helm, navigating his way through the chaos. FREE AppDownload
Oil is the big story in the markets right now.  The price of crude has been falling since July, with a steep drop off in the last month, as a result of Saudi Arabia starting what’s essentially a game of chicken with US producers. In recent years, the US has become an increasingly influential player in global energy as elevated oil prices have paid for the expensive fracking of America's shale basins. The worry is that falling prices will cause the shale boom to hit a wall. Here’s an excerpt from Izabella Kaminska’s excellent Q&amp;A primer in the FT about what’s going on in the oil market: If the US is producing more, who is producing less? Well that’s the thing. Until now it wasn’t hard for the market to absorb all that extra oil because there were plenty of disruptions in places such as Libya and Iraq. The problem lies with changing expectations about tomorrow’s demand in a world suddenly awash with oil, but burning less. But if demand in the future falls, won’t someone eventually have to slow production? Absolutely. Otherwise a collapse in prices will put every producer off and risk leaving everyone without fuel. The problem is, whoever cuts first loses the revenue to someone else. It is a game of “chicken”. So we’ve finally reached a point of global surplus, after many years of supply trying to catch up to demand. This has fundamentally changed the geopolitical landscape when it comes to oil, according to a recent note from Goldman Sachs's Jeff Currie. The note brings forward Currie’s bearish outlook on oil prices through 2015, for three reasons: We have greater confidence in the scale and sustainability of US shale oil production. This implies that the global cost curve has shifted lower and that cost deflation is sustainable. We forecast that accelerating non-OPEC production growth outside North America will outpace demand growth, leaving the global oil market oversupplied. We believe that OPEC will no longer act as the first-mover swing producer and that US shale oil output will be called upon to fill this role. The question is, what does that mean for the American economy?  Another Goldman note looks at that. On the one hand, falling crude prices mean falling gas prices, which means a boost to consumer spending in other parts of the economy. On the other, shale production in the US will likely fall, reducing exports and reducing business spending in that area of the economy. Goldman thinks that the two are probably going to roughly cancel each other out, predicting that GDP will decline just 0.1% as a result of this turn of events. In 2013, capital investment by the oil and gas industry was $167 billion. That's 11% of business fixed investment and 1% of GDP, according to Goldman. The note says that at the height of shale investment, in 2010 and 2011, this sector added as much as 0.2% to annualized real GDP growth. But it has since "declined to an unremarkable pace." Even with falling prices, investment in the oil sector in the US isn’t necessarily going to fall off a cliff. From Goldman’s Alec Phillips: It is important to note that a good deal of capital investment in the energy sector is used to maintain rather than increase production, since the production from existing wells is constantly declining, so even if US production were expected to remain flat over the coming year--we still expect it to grow substantially--significant investment would still be necessary. This slowdown is also not expected to have a ton of impact on employment in the industry. In fact, since production is still expected to rise despite falling prices, "oil and gas-related employment looks likely to continue to grow." Notably, the Wood Mackenzie estimates that the price below which the US starts to see supply disruptions is around $70 per barrel for for WTI crude (and about $80 per barrel for Brent crude). Prices as of this morning are hovering near $79 and $85 per barrel, respectively. FREE AppDownload
Dartmouth College faculty members overwhelmingly voted to support a motion to end the Ivy League school's controversial fraternity and sorority system at a meeting Monday, student newspaper The Dartmouth reports. The faculty vote follows a front page editorial in The Dartmouth during the college's Homecoming Weekend last month that called for an end to Greek life on campus. The newspaper's staff wrote that "Greek life is not the root of all the College's problems or of broader societal ills ... as a system, it amplifies students' worst behavior." According to The Dartmouth, the faculty voted 116-13 to end the Greek system, with three abstentions. Additionally, The Dartmouth reports, "A letter calling for abolishing the Greek system that circulated among faculty members late last month attracted 232 signatures." However, the voting numbers may be misleading, as Dartmouth alumnus Joseph Asch notes at Dartblog — only faculty members who attend the meeting have the ability to vote. It's likely that the faculty that chooses to attend a meeting about the Greek system would have stronger feelings about the outcome. Dartmouth's Greek system received some negative attention earlier this year with the publication of former Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity member Andrew Lohse's book, "Confessions of an Ivy League Frat Boy." In his book, Lohse details his time in a Dartmouth fraternity, revealing hazing practices and other disturbing behavior. There is no immediate impact from the faculty vote, according to The Dartmouth. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsEuropean Central Bank Governor Mario Draghi. FRANKFURT/PARIS (Reuters) - National central bankers in the euro area plan to challenge European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi on Wednesday over what they see as his secretive management style and erratic communication and will urge him to act more collegially, ECB sources said. The bankers are particularly angered that Draghi effectively set a target for increasing the ECB's balance sheet immediately after the policy-making governing council explicitly agreed not to make any figure public, the sources said. "This created exactly the expectations we wanted to avoid," an ECB insider said. "Now everything we do is measured against the aim of increasing the balance sheet by a trillion (euros)... He created a rod for our own backs." Irritation among national governors who hold a majority on the 24-member council could limit Draghi's space for bolder policy action in the coming months as the bank faces crucial choices about whether to buy sovereign bonds to combat falling inflation and economic stagnation. Some members intend to raise their concerns with Draghi at the governors' traditional informal working dinner on Wednesday before their formal monthly rate-setting meeting on Thursday, the sources interviewed by Reuters said. Many people at the central bank, which manages a single currency for 18 European Union member states, welcomed Draghi's greater informality when he took over from Jean-Claude Trichet of France in 2011. His efforts to keep meetings short, delegate and brainstorm more, were received as a breath of fresh air. However, as decisions to loosen monetary policy and resort to further unconventional measures have become more contentious, insiders say the Italian ECB chief has acted increasingly on his own or with just a handful of trusted aides, sidelining even key heads of department. "Mario is more secretive... and less collegial. The national governors sometimes feel kept in the dark, out of the loop," said one veteran ECB insider. "Jean-Claude used to consult and communicate more," another ECB source said. "He worked a lot to build consensus." The ECB sources, like other central bankers interviewed for this report, declined to be identified because of the confidentiality of the bank's highly market-sensitive deliberations. Even members of the ECB's executive board - the six-member inner circle that runs the bank - were not informed in advance about two key recent policy announcements, two sources said. Those were a key passage inserted into Draghi's speech at the U.S. Federal Reserve's Jackson Hole conference in August, in which he highlighted falling euro zone inflation expectations and vowed to act to counter them, and his Sept. 4 comment during a question-and-answer session that the ECB aimed to expand its balance sheet "towards the dimensions it used to have at the beginning of 2012" at the peak of the euro zone crisis. That particularly rankled with council members since they had just agreed not to put any price tag on the "sizeable" plan decided that day to buy bundled loans known as asset-backed securities (ABS) and covered bonds, the sources said. "We specifically agreed at the meeting... not to put any numbers on the table," one central banker. "Draghi's reference to the balance sheet of 2012 irritated a lot of colleagues. So he has had to backtrack a bit ... to compensate." The ECB declined comment on the matter. Several ECB sources said Draghi had cut back on circulating policy papers in advance of council meetings, apparently out of concern that opponents, notably in the German Bundesbank, were leaking them to try to block or discredit decisions. Draghi's relationship with Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann hit a low point in October after the German publicly criticized ECB policy and each side briefed against each other at the annual IMF session in Washington. An ECB source said German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who met Draghi at an EU summit on Oct. 24, had privately urged both men to mend their relationship. Merkel went out of her way to praise Draghi publicly that day when asked about a Reuters report on the tensions between the ECB chief, Berlin and the Bundesbank. After her intervention, Draghi and Weidmann met last week to try to clear the air but they did not resolve all their policy differences, the source said. Merkel's office declined comment on her reported meeting with Draghi, and neither the ECB nor the Bundesbank would comment on whether Draghi and Weidmann met last week. "We now know that the further we go, it will be without Jens," said a central banker who has tried to build bridges between them. "He's clearly not going to change his position." One of the few national chiefs whom Draghi takes into his confidence is Bank of France governor Christian Noyer, an elder statesman who was on the Governing Council when the euro was launched in 1999, one ECB source said. That did not stop Noyer voting against Draghi's plan to buy asset-backed securities and covered bonds, which Noyer thought ill-prepared and technically flawed, another source said. At times, Draghi has appeared to pay little attention to national governors' comments in the monthly rate-setting meeting after chief economist Peter Praet and board member Benoit Coeure report on the economic situation and financial markets. "He sits there with these three mobile phones in front of him and sometimes he’s sending text messages or going out to make or take phone calls," one source usually in the room said. On at least one occasion, a national governor has skipped his turn to speak because Draghi was not present. "This has got a bit better. He’s paying a bit more attention now," the source said. The ECB's governing council is currently deeply divided over suggested policies to tackle too-low inflation - though it is difficult to say whether these differences have been a cause of Draghi's more tightly held leadership style or are exacerbated by it. At least seven and possibly as many as 10 of the 24 council members are against U.S.-style quantitative easing - creating money to buy euro zone government bonds - if inflation falls further below the ECB target of just below 2 percent, the sources said. Opponents include executive board members Yves Mersch and Sabine Lautenschlaeger as well as governors from Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Estonia, Latvia and possibly Slovakia, Slovenia and even Austria. While a unitary state like Japan can make a radical monetary policy change with a slim majority, the ECB sources said it would be politically explosive for Draghi to try to force QE through in the multinational euro zone by such a narrow margin. He would need to consult national governors more and work harder to build a broader consensus for QE to become feasible in the euro area, they said.  (Additional reporting by Paul Carrel, John O'Donnell and Reinhard Becker in Frankfurt and Andreas Rinke in Berlin; Writing by Paul Taylor; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiWant to work in UK finance? Not sure of how you should start going about it?  LinkedIn has used an interesting methodology for ranking universities by the sector their graduates work in. They looked at alumni working in finance, and ranked them in terms of how desirable the jobs they did were. The ranking thus reflects the universities that got the most graduates into the most desirable jobs.  Here are the top 10 British universities they identified for people who want a career in finance. There are also other categories, for people who want to work in media, accounting or marketing. FREE AppDownload
Stocks have surged to all-time highs. And this has plenty of people worried that a crash may be looming. Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius doesn't see a crash coming. Using a proprietary model that includes the historical price data from 20 advanced economies, Hatzius found that the likelihood of a crash is "average" only. "[O]ur broader view is that the risk of an asset market bust — especially of the recessionary variety — remains relatively low," Hatzius wrote. After adding in the data for the first half of 2014, Goldman analysts have noticed that the risk of a stock market crash is "back up to roughly average levels" because the further US equity price gains for 2014 have pushed the risk" higher. (That's what the red arrow is showing on the model.) However, average is not the danger-zone just yet. In order for their to be a high risk of a crash, according to Goldman Sachs' model, the curve would have to be high above the straight gray line — aka the zero standard deviation line. On top of that, the general consensus of Goldman research analysts is that the crash is still far off. "Although the current expansion has already lasted longer than the median expansion, we still seem to be quite far from the inflationary overheating or financial imbalance that historically precede most US recessions," the report states. According to Goldman analysts, the primary factors that determine equity busts are past asset price appreciation, past credit growth, and a rising investment/GDP ratio. "[T]he single most important predictor is past equity price appreciation," the report states. "Our interpretation is that many equity busts are simply the counterpart of prior periods of strong price appreciation, and in this context it is not surprising that big moves downward are more likely when volatility is high." However, when it comes to recessionary equity busts, Goldman looks at credit growth. In these cases, while this may seem counterintuitive, recessionary equity busts generally follow low equity volatility. Weird? Not really. "Our interpretation is that a recessionary equity bust is quite a different animal from a garden-variety bear market," Hatzius writes. "It is less likely to be the simple unwind of a prior big equity price increase and more likely to result from fundamental economic imbalances that involve big credit buildups, excessive investment, and periods of low volatility that fuel imprudent risk-taking." While credit has been expanding and investment spending has been picking up, it's difficult to argue either are at excessive levels. So while the risk is back to "roughly average" levels, there's still room for it to get scarier. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesFactory orders fell 0.6% in September, right in-line with expectations.  This marks the second month in a row that orders decline.  Expectations were for orders to fall 0.6% in September, better than the 10.1% decline seen in August though that decline was largely related to an unusually large order for airplanes and parts in July.  The latest report from the Census showed that new orders fell 1.1%, also declining for the second straight month.  Inventories rose 0.4% in September, and inventories have now risen 17 of the last 18 months.  This report comes after the trade deficit expanded to $43 billion in September, more than the $40.2 billion expected by economists and wider than the $40 billion deficit seen in August. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John KolesidisAnti-austerity protesters burn a European Union flag in Greece. By the time President Roosevelt gave his inaugural address in March 1933, America was already in its fifth year of the Great Depression. This national tragedy left more than one in five working age people unemployed. Industrial production in the US declined by almost half. And real GDP fell by almost a third. Contrast the US's experience between 1929 and 1940 to that of the Eurozone since the onset of the financial crisis and Europe looks good by comparison. Europe's real GDP declined only 5% peak-to-trough and unemployment peaked at 12%. Those figures, however, cover a multitude of sins. Greece has seen real GDP decline by 25% between the last quarter of 2007 and the last quarter of 2013, while youth unemployment in Italy and Portugal is still at shocking levels of 44% and 35% respectively. In both cases the crisis exacted a heavy toll on society with some of the poorest and most vulnerable the hardest hit. And in both opportunities to act decisively to address problems early were passed up and problems were allowed to fester.
Screenshot, Pulp FictionPulp Fiction.Last week Wall Street found that it had another cocaine-fueled scandal on its hands when an investment banker's ex-wife accused her husband of intense drug abuse. Less than a week later, a banker in Hong Kong was arrested as a suspect in the murder of two prostitutes. Police found a small amount of cocaine in his home.  This isn't necessarily everyday stuff, but it wasn't much of a shock, either. Cocaine has been an illicit way for bankers to keep up with clients, parties, and long hours for decades. That has its consequences, though. Cocaine can harm numerous parts of the human body, from your nasal passages to your sexual stamina. No small thing. FREE AppDownload
The holding company of billionaire investor Carl Icahn posted a $355 million loss on revenues of $4.4 billion in its third-quarter earnings report. Icahn Enterprises took in a net income of $472 million on revenue of $5.8 billion at the same time last year. Icahn said in the release that $270 million of those losses were on the investing side of his business. More specifically, Icahn got clobbered on some energy investments. Now you may be saying to yourself: Apple, eBay, Hertz, Herbalife — these well-known Icahn investments are certainly not energy companies.  That is because the unsexy segments of Icahn's portfolio are often overlooked. Let's go over them. Talisman Energy Icahn tweeted that he had a 6% stake, about 61 million shares of the $300 million company, over a year ago, on Oct. 7, 2013. In that time the stock has fallen by more than 50%. Yahoo Finance CVR Energy This Icahn subsidiary posted dismal third-quarter earnings due in part to a fire in one of its refineries. In the period from April 30 to Sept. 30, the stock whipsawed down 9%. Federal-Mogul Holdings This is not an energy company (auto supply), but Icahn owns 80% of it, and it posted a third-quarter loss of $18 million. Seventy Seven Energy Icahn reported a 10% stake in the Oklahoma-based oil field services company this summer. In its third-quarter earnings the company reported a $1.8 million loss. The stock also fell about 7% between the time Icahn acquired it and Sept. 30.  Chesapeake Energy Icahn is the largest shareholder in Chesapeake with 66.45 million shares, and the stock fell more than 15% in the third quarter. Transocean Limited According to recent filings, Transocean makes up 2.5% of the Icahn portfolio. In the third quarter the stock lost 25% of its value.  Yahoo Finance This, of course, is just one quarter, as Icahn points out in his note to investors. "As I've said in the past, while I am extremely proud of our long-term record, there have always been sporadic speed bumps along the road. However, I believe over the long term, our model continues to be one of the best in the world," he said. So that's that. FREE AppDownload
Lord Adair Turner, the chief financial regulator charged with herding Britain's shattered financial sector, sat down with Business Insider recently to give us his take on the state of the world economy. Yesterday, he told us why he believes the British economy is threatened by a chronic debt overhang that could push the country back into recession. The more debt a country has, the more it is exposed to changes in markets on which that debt is traded — with the nasty downside that an indebted nation can end up suddenly owing a lot more than it can possibly pay, he says. (Hello, Greece!) In that same conversation he offered us his pessimistic views on the state of the eurozone, too. Turner's warning of a secular stagnation for the UK is nothing compared to his grim diagnosis for Europe. The threats Turner identifies from extremely high household debt levels in the world's advanced economies are small beer in comparison to the dangers he thinks is facing Europe's currency union. And Germany is a huge part of the problem. Business Insider: Given your views on the state of the UK economy, what do you think about the other parts of the developed world? Adair Turner: I think for a set of reasons, the US might be about to achieve a self-sustained takeoff without progressing to more extreme policy measures. They’ve been helped for instance by more deleveraging by actually writing off debt. Of course, one of the ways you can come out of a debt overhang without fiscal stimulus or monetization (having a central bank pay off government debt directly) is if you can actually write off debt… The US also did have higher fiscal deficits that Europe, much higher. BI: And what about the Eurozone?  AT: I think the Eurozone without a different policy is condemned to another decade that looks like Japan in the 1990s, but it’s actually much more worrying.  I think Japan in 1990 was already one of the richest economies in the world, it is culturally and ethnically homogeneous with no immigration flows, no internal ethnic or religious divides. It has managed to continue to grow, albeit slowly, and it’s still a rich place. It has the beginnings of a population decline that means that growth has been combined with low unemployment. 360b / Shutterstock.comGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel. Lord Turner doesn't think much of Germany's views on the macroeconomics of the euro crisis.Now there are huge unanswered questions about what is going to happen to Japan's large debt pile, but the social and economic experience here has not stressed the Japanese political and social system. It think if you put the same pattern of 10 years of slow growth and deflation and lack of escape from debt overhang into a Europe, which is divided by countries which can then play elements of nationalism against one another, with large immigrant communities of different ethnic and religious mix which then creates the possibility of tensions which are bound to get worse if the economic circumstances are bad. With very significant and I think uncontrollable immigration flows across the Mediterranean, from parts of the world which are in chaos, I’m really worried that this is a formula for real social stress, high unemployment, populist political responses which then generate a radicalization of the minorities of which they are a response. I think we’re playing with fire. In that environment, by closing the door on even funded fiscal policy, let alone the monetization that I’m talking about, I think we could do terrible things to the future of Europe. BI: One of the big economic news stories recently has been that the German economy is slowing. What do you think about their place in Europe?  AT: Although I have huge respect for what Germany is as an economic success, a very strong political system…. And I entirely understand their fears of high inflation, etc., I think the predominant German attitude to macroeconomics is simply wrong. There’s a failure to deal with the fallacies of aggregation that are at the core of macroeconomics. It is not possible for the whole world to succeed in the same way that Germany succeeds. We cannot all be export led economies. We can’t all run surpluses unless we find another planet. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Rolls-Royce aircraft engine of a British Airways Boeing 747 passenger aircraft is seen at Heathrow Airport in west LondonLONDON (Reuters) - British engineer Rolls-Royce  said it would cut 2,600 jobs over the next 18 months, slashing costs just three weeks after a major profit warning. The group also appointed David Smith as its chief financial officer, replacing Mark Morris who has decided to leave the company after 27 years. The job cuts will cost an extra 120 million pounds ($192 million) over the next two years, before reducing spend by around 80 million pounds once the changes have been fully implemented. "We are taking determined management action and accelerating our progress on cost," said Chief Executive John Rishton. "The measures announced today will not be the last, however they will contribute toward Rolls-Royce becoming a stronger and more profitable company."  (Reporting by Kate Holton; editing by Paul Sandle) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe combination of the recent weakness of forward earnings with the record-breaking performance of stocks has boosted forward P/Es significantly since mid-October. Here are the year’s peaks, mid-October lows, and Friday’s readings of the forward P/Es for the S&amp;P 500 (15.7, 14.4, 15.7), S&amp;P 400 (17.7, 15.3, 16.9), and S&amp;P 600 (19.3, 15.8, 17.6). The S&amp;P 500 seems especially expensive relative to forward revenues. The same can be said for Q3’s ratio of the market capitalization of the S&amp;P 500 to its aggregate’s revenues. The ratio rose to 1.66, the highest since Q1-2002. I suppose valuation multiples can continue to go higher now that we have the Kuroda Put. The major central banks and government pension funds are not value-oriented investors. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Kuroda’s Put. (1) Main drivers of the bull market. (2) Worries have evaporated. (3) BOJ upping the ante. (4) QQE-1 was scheduled to terminate by end of FY2014. (5) QQE-2 is more open-ended at least through end of FY2015. (6) Contrary indicator alert: Japanese pension fund raising global equity allocation from 24% to 50%. (7) What if monetary policy can’t cure what’s wrong, but central bankers don’t get it? (8) How do you say “melt-up” in Japanese? (9) Forward earnings weighed down by falling oil prices. (10) Valuation metrics getting pricey again. (11) Central bankers and government pension funds aren’t value buyers. (More for subscribers.)   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe US had an international trade deficit of $43.0 billion in September. Exports totaled $195.6 billion, while imports totaled $238.6 billion. This was wider than the $40.0 billion reported in August, and it was much wider than the $40.2 billion expected by economists. The magnitude of the increase was surprising given falling oil prices. "The collapse in crude oil prices means that the trade deficit will narrow again before the end of this year," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. "September was just a bit too early to pick up the change. Moreover, as we suggested in our US Weekly, the quantity of crude oil imported rebounded in September, offsetting the modest decline in the price per barrel. Nevertheless, by the end of the year, the lower cost of imported oil should push the trade deficit well below $40.0bn per month again." FREE AppDownload
Fabrizio Bensch/ReutersGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel gives her speech at the annual meeting of the Confederation of German Employers' Association (BDA) in Berlin, November 4, 2014. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Tuesday the euro zone was extremely fragile and made clear Europe's biggest economy would not borrow more to invest, resisting pressure from some of its partners to do more to boost growth. Much economic progress had been made in the euro zone since the height of the bloc's debt crisis, Merkel said, noting;Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Greece had completed or were close to exiting their bailout programs. "But still the situation in the euro zone remains extremely fragile," Merkel told the BDA employers association, adding structural reforms needed to be implemented in some countries. The European Commission said earlier the euro zone would need another year to reach even a modest level of economic growth, revising down its forecasts and predicting more low inflation and high unemployment. Export-oriented Germany has slashed its growth forecast for this year and next to 1.2 percent and 1.3 percent respectively, blaming modest global growth and international crises. Its previous forecasts were 2 percent and 1.8 percent. It has also been hit by weakness in some of its European partners, especially France and Italy. Merkel said the domestic economy was stable but international hotspots, such as the Ukraine crisis which has brought sanctions against Russia that have hurt some German firms, had caused an uncertain business climate. "The economic risks may have risen for the German economy because of the geopolitical situation but at the same time we can say we still have a stable situation," she said. Merkel said it was important to maintain credibility in Europe's deficit rules, or the Stability and Growth pact. "We want to stick to the Stability and Growth Pact. This is also about growth and that is why we must reject a debate about austerity against growth. This is mistaken and takes us no further," she said, arguing both were needed. Germany is bent on achieving a balanced budget next year and while Merkel and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble have said they will increase investment in Germany, it will not be at the expense of that goal. "Investment is needed but not with new borrowing," Merkel said. "(The aim of a balanced budget in 2015) is seen as excessive saving. But in light of the demographic challenges in Germany, it's ... simply sensible behavior." She said in addition to state spending, the government was looking at how to attract greater private investment and that pension contributions would be reduced. Merkel also said European Central Bank President Mario Draghi was right to say monetary policy cannot make up for political failings. Last month Draghi said governments must play a role in boosting the faltering euro zone economy, leading to reports that ties between Draghi and Germany had become strained.   (Reporting by Madeline Chambers and Erik Kirschbaum; Editing by Janet Lawrence)       FREE AppDownload
The price of light sweet crude oil has been has been crashing from its $100+ per barrel levels this past summer. Analysts have attributed this to slowing demand due to the decelerating global economy and higher supply in large part due to the US shale energy boom. However, the US shale basins are relatively expensive to tap. And when the price of oil falls below a certain breakeven level, fracking for oil in these unconventional plays becomes uneconomical. "[O]n a reserve weighted basis, the average breakeven for unconventional plays in the US is $76- 77/bbl, at an asset level," Morgan Stanley's Martijn Rats, Haythem Rashed and Sasikanth Chilukuru write. "At the corporate level, this breakeven is likely to be higher. This too suggests that if oil prices persist at current levels, this would likely lead to a slow down in spending. " The analysts characterized the downside scenario of persistently low oil prices as the "capex cliff," a scenario in which energy companies cut back sharply on spending. And that in turn could ripple through the economy. Their report included this chart of the breakeven oil prices for the various US shale basins. Morgan Stanley
UBS forecasts that the US economic recovery will continue until at least 2016. "With the Fed's QE program terminating in the current Q4(14), the economy finally will be 'on its own,'" UBS' Maury Harris said. "Continuation of the momentum initiated by expansive stabilization policies will entail various legacy effects of earlier growth." The firm projects that real GDP growth will be at 2.8% in 2016. It forecasts 2.9% for 2015, revised downward from 3.2% because of the potential impacts of a stronger dollar and lower foreign growth. The firmer dollar could draw capital into the US, although a sliding trade balance could remove half a percentage point from Q4 growth in 2015 and 2016, they wrote.  UBS expects wage and price inflation to modestly increase, with core PCE inflation — the Fed's preferred measure — expected at 2.1% in 2015 and 2.2% in 2016.  The firm maintains its projection for the Fed's first rate hikes in mid-2015, and it sees the federal funds rate at 2.875% at the end of 2016. The fed has held this rate near zero since the 2008 recession. "Moderately accelerating wage and price inflation" will be important for rising interest rates, it wrote. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note will be in the range of 3% to 4%, it forecast. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraProtective suits are left to dry after an Ebola training session held by Spain's Red Cross in Madrid.Good morning! Here are the major stories from around the world. Oil Is Crashing. The price of WTI crude plunged 3.7% to as low as $75.84 per barrel earlier Tuesday. This comes amid growing supply, falling demand, and actions by Saudi Arabia to suppress prices. Alibaba Beats And Rallies. The $250 billion e-commerce behemoth earned $0.46 per share in Q3 on $2.75 billion in revenue. This was a bit stronger than what analysts had forecast. Shares are up 3% in premarket trading. The European Commission Cuts Growth Estimates. The EC expects the European Union's GDP to grow by 0.8% this year and 1.1% in 2015, down from previous estimates of 1.2% and 1.7% respectively. "Inflation is set to be 0.5% this year, and 0.8% next year," BI's Mike Bird noted. "Even in 2016, it'll only rise to 1.5%, still far from the ECB's 2% target." The Nikkei Rallied. Japan's main index of stocks closed up 2.73% following Friday's announcement of a boost to the quantitative easing stimulus program. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng fell 0.3%. Markets are mixed in Europe, as Britain's FTSE is flat, France's CAC 40 is flat, Germany's DAX is up 0.3%, and Spain's IBEX is down 0.3%.  The US Department Of Justice Is Investigating JPMorgan. It's the latest in a long line of banks to be stung by probes over forex trading. JPMorgan Chase is estimating legal costs could run as high as $5.9 billion.  Blackstone Is Nearing An $8 Billion Deal To Sell Its Real Estate Arm. According to Bloomberg, Blackstone is closing in on the sale of IndCor Properties. Sprint Shares Tanked After Disappointing Earnings. The US telecommunications firm reported a loss of $192 million and said it would lay off 2,000 people.  Herbalife Is Crashing. Herbalife reported weak Q3 financial results and cut its financial outlook. Shares are down by 14% in premarket trading. Hyundai And Kia Will Be Paying The US Government $100 Million. The carmakers got slapped with the bill for selling cars with a worse fuel economy than the companies advertised. US Voters Will Be Heading To The Polls. Many organizations are forecasting a 70% chance that the Republican Party will retake the Senate. Business Insider's Brett Logiurato breaks down what that means. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesIt is Election Day in America.Good morning and happy Election Day! From Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Good Morning! US futures are retreating slightly, led by a 25bp drop in Russell names as the Yield Curve flattens, potentially a headwind for those Regional Fins, which are a large % of the IWM. The markets are being rather resilient near peaks, as the Oil complex got taken apart overnight – WTI and Brent are both off over 2.5% - Headlines Iran Nuke talks near a breakthrough, coupled with Saudi campaigning in Venezuela and Mexico for lower prices to slow Shale production are today’s “reasons”.  EU Markets are acting well, with the DAX up 30bp, but volumes remain quite light on the continent into the ECB meeting – DAX trading 25% light to averages.  Over in Asia, Nikkei popped nearly 3% in 2x volume as they re-open from yesterday’s holiday – China was flat, Aussie was slightly higher, while India was closed. The standout loser was Korea, as the KOSPI was hit as peeps worried plunging yen will hurt exports. The US 10YY is under pressure, down 4bp as Germans flush toward Bunds as the ECB slashes growth forecasts – Bund Yields are near 2week lows, driving US 10YY toward 2.3% again. The $ is under pressure, losing ground as the Yen rebounds – and EUR regains 1.25 against the $ as €5.3bln in options expire at that strike today. Despite the commodity tailwinds, we find most everything in the red as the damage in the Crude Complex probably sparking margin liquidation in other commodities.  Silver and Copper are off 90bp (Slow EU growth) – Corn, Soy and Wheat all off 1% (Higher Crop Yields). While both Brent and WTI are sharply lower, there remains a small bid in Natty Gas as shorts continue to cover there. While today is about the Micro, with a slew of earnings releases scheduled – Other Scheduled Catalysts today include US Trade Balance at 8:30, ISM New York at 9:45, and Factory Orders at 10. After the close we get API data for the Crude Complex, as well as results flowing in from 2014 Mid-Term elections. Some moves from earnings - BABA up 4%, - while HLF is off 15%, S 10% and PCLN 5% FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba CEO Jack Ma.Alibaba just reported its first quarterly earnings since going public, and shares of the company are rallying to new highs. The $250 billion Chinese e-commerce giant reported earnings per share of $0.45 on revenue of $2.74 billion.  Expectations were for the company to report earnings per share of $0.45 on revenue of $2.61 billion, according to data from Yahoo Finance. In premarket trade Tuesday following the results, Alibaba shares were up as much as 4% to a new high of more than $106 per share.  On a year-over-year basis, Alibaba reported non-GAAP net income that rose 15.5% to $1.11 billion.  Alibaba said the gross merchandise value transacted on its China retail marketplaces in the quarter was $90.5 billion, up about 49% from the previous year. This was composed of $61.9 billion on its Taobao marketplace, up 38% from last year, and $28.6 billion on Tmall, a nearly 78% increase. The company said this growth was primarily driven by an increase in number of active buyers. Alibaba is set to host a conference call to discuss its results at 7:30 a.m. ET.  In a release Jonathan Lu, chief executive officer of Alibaba Group, said: "Our business continues to perform well, and our results reflect both the strength of our ecosystem and the strong foundation we have for sustainable growth. On our China retail marketplaces, gross merchandise volume for the quarter increased 49% and annual active buyers increased 52% year on year. We extended our unrivaled leadership in mobile with 217 million monthly active users on our mobile commerce apps in September and US$95 billion in mobile GMV for the twelve months ended September 2014. We are also encouraged by continued improvement of mobile monetization which demonstrates the strong commercial intent of our users." You can read the full release from Alibaba here.  FREE AppDownload
The European Commission just released its forecasts for growth in Europe, one of its bi-annual outlooks. We knew it wasn't going to be pretty. Here's how bad it's gotten:  Here's the full table of forecasts: European Commission Twitter's Econhedge notes that these are less rosy than the European Central Bank forecasts: the Commission has eurozone growth 0.5 percentage points lower in 2015, and inflation 0.3 percentage points lower.  More on this as it comes out. FREE AppDownload
HONG KONG (Reuters) - A British banker charged with killing two women in Hong Kong had his securities licenses sponsored by Bank of America Corp canceled around the time the first victim was killed, records with the city's regulators show. A charge sheet read out when Rurik Jutting appeared in court on Monday said one woman was killed on Oct. 27 and the second on Nov. 1. The killings did not come to public light until Nov. 1 when police found the bodies in Jutting's apartment. The first victim had been put in a suitcase on his balcony. Bank of America declined to comment on the licenses. The bank has previously said Jutting, 29, was an employee until recently but it has not said why he left or given any timeframe. Jutting held licenses sponsored by the U.S. bank from Oct. 7, 2013, through Oct. 28, 2014, according to the website of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (SFC). His licenses with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority began on Nov. 7, 2013 and ended on Oct. 27, 2014, its website showed. Such licenses are mandatory for any financial professional to operate in Hong Kong. A LinkedIn account under Jutting's name said he had worked in structured equity finance and trading at Bank of America in Hong Kong since July 2013. Before that, he had worked in the same department but in London. Over the weekend, the SFC website had shown that Jutting still had active securities licenses. Sharon Lau, an official at the regulator, said changes can take some days to be reflected. The SFC did not respond to a request for details on when it received the application to cancel Jutting's licenses. A spokesperson for the monetary authority, Hong Kong's defacto central bank, said it did not comment on individual cases. Jutting has been charged with two counts of murder. He did not enter a plea on Monday and did not seek bail. The next hearing is on Monday, Nov. 10. The woman in the suitcase was identified as Sumarti Ningsih, according to the charge sheet. The second woman has not been identified. The court was not told how they were killed. Local media described the two victims as prostitutes and said both had neck injuries, adding one was nearly decapitated. One of the women was Indonesian, the South China Morning Post newspaper has reported. Jutting could face life in jail if convicted. Such murders are rare in the city of seven million, which had just 14 homicides between January and June, down from 56 in the same period last year, according to government crime statistics. (Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of former UBS banker Raoul Weil, who is out on bail, arriving at federal court in Fort Lauderdale, FloridaFORT LAUDERDALE Fla. (Reuters) - A former top banker who headed global wealth management at UBS AGwas found not guilty on Monday on U.S. charges of conspiring with wealthy Americans to hide $20 billion in secret offshore accounts. Raoul Weil, the highest-ranking Swiss banker to stand trial in the United States, was accused in South Florida federal court of conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service. The verdict was a major setback to the U.S. Justice Department which spent six years seeking to prosecute Weil, including extraditing him from Italy last year. The jury took only 75 minutes to reach its verdict after a three-week trial that ended abruptly on Monday when Weil's defense team decided not to call any witnesses, saying the government had failed to make its case. The defense team jumped up in joy as the verdict was read. Weil, 54, held his sobbing wife in a lengthy embrace. "The jury sent a strong message to the government. This case should never have been brought," said Weil's lawyer, Matthew Menchel. Weil declined to comment upon leaving the courthouse. Legal experts said that while the government presented plenty of evidence that bankers at UBS defrauded the IRS, including some who testified at the trial, it failed to show that Weil was intimately involved in those schemes. "For a jury to acquit after only an hour means that there were some huge holes in the government’s case," said David Weinstein, a former federal prosecutor now in private practice in Miami. In a defense motion for acquittal filed last week, the defense argued that the government offered no evidence "to show that Mr. Weil ever knowingly agreed with any U.S. client to defraud IRS." Instead, the defense said the while government presented evidence of wrongdoing by UBS bankers, it focused most of its case "on witnesses who offered testimony of misconduct that was never connected to Mr. Weil." As a result of the verdict, future efforts by the U.S. government to bring tax fraud cases "will require more than just the word of former alleged co-conspirators," said Weinstein. "Corporate defendants will also be less likely to cooperate with the government and may instead choose to begin fighting the allegations made against their institutions," he added. Weil was arrested in October 2013 while on vacation with his wife at an upscale hotel in the northern Italian city of Bologna. He pleaded not guilty last year after being extradited to the United States. The trial pitted Weil against several former UBS colleagues who chose to cooperate with U.S. authorities in exchange for favorable sentencing. They testified about using numerous James Bond-like tactics to avoid detection while in the United States, and to help U.S. clients keep their accounts hidden from tax authorities. During his closing argument, Menchel said the prosecution's case rested on the testimony of ex-employees of UBS who were more guilty of crimes than Weil. "Who are the real criminals here?" Menchel said. "Who should be getting punished instead of getting sweetheart deals?" Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Poole told the jury that Weil knew what he was doing was wrong and orchestrated efforts by UBS to circumvent U.S. tax law. "Mr. Weil was aware and participated in helping UBS U.S. clients cheat on their taxes," Poole said. "That was the business model." The Weil verdict was the second trial loss for the Justice Department in an offshore tax case in a matter of days. On Friday, a federal jury in Los Angeles acquitted Shokrollah Baravarian, a former senior vice president at the local branch of Israel’s Mizrahi Tefahot Bank, of conspiring to help U.S. clients defraud the IRS through the opening of secret foreign bank accounts. Weil's attorneys blame rogue bankers under him for the illegal activity and said offshore private banking was only a tiny fraction of his job. If convicted, Weil faced up to five years in prison for conspiracy to commit tax fraud. The United States in recent years pursued Swiss banks for their role in aiding tax evasion and has increasingly pressured individual bankers. In 2009 UBS admitted to helping U.S. taxpayers hide money and paid a $780 million fine. Credit Suisse pleaded guilty in May to a U.S. criminal charge and will pay more than $2.5 billion in penalties. UBS is also under investigation in France and Germany over whether it helped wealthy individuals there dodge taxes.   (Reporting by Francisco Alvarado; Additional reporting by David Adams and Nate Raymond; Writing by David Adams; Editing by Matthew Lewis, Dan Grebler and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGerman Chancellor Merkel gives her speech at the annual meeting of the Confederation of German Employers' Association (BDA) in BerlinBERLIN (Reuters) - German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Tuesday the situation in the euro zone was still extremely fragile but reiterated that Europe's biggest economy would not borrow more to boost investment. "The economy in the euro zone has not developed as we would have wished. This is partly down to internal factors but .. there are also some geopolitical reasons," she said in a speech to Germany's employers association. "Investment is needed but not with new borrowing," she said.   (Reporting by Madeline Chambers and Erik Kirschbaum) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCoeure, executive board member of the ECB, speaks during an interview with Reuters in FrankfurtNICOSIA (Reuters) - The euro zone risks a loss of economic momentum and a delayed recovery unless governments match the European Central Bank's monetary stimulus with fiscal and structural policies to support growth, ECB policymaker Benoit Coeure said on Tuesday. Coeure, a member of the ECB's six-member Executive Board that forms the core of the policymaking Governing Council, urged governments to press ahead quickly with the reforms to shape up their economies. "Unless an adequate mix of monetary, fiscal and structural policies is in place to create confidence and sustain private consumption and investment, we once again run the risk of a self-fulfilling loss of momentum and a delayed recovery," he said. "From our side, we are fully committed to play our part in this policy mix, which is to fulfill our mandate and bring inflation back toward 2 percent." The experience of the euro zone crisis and adjustments made in Baltic states had shown that "on the whole, front-loaded reforms yield better results than a more gradual approach," Coeure added in a speech in Nicosia. Turning to Cyprus, he said there was an urgent need for implementing legislation that speeds up private sector debt restructuring.  (Writing by Paul Carrel; Editing by Andrew Heavens) FREE AppDownload
China Photos/Getty ImagesCorn farming in China.BEIJING (Reuters) - China's crackdown on agricultural smuggling has uncovered 487 cases with a tax evasion value of 7.1 billion yuan ($1.16 billion), a rise of 71 percent in the past year, said the central government in a report on its website (www.gov.cn). The crackdown on smuggling of cheaper farm produce started in March and comes after Beijing raised domestic agricultural prices to protect its rural population. Beijing's grain purchases and corn stockpile scheme, under which it buys from farmers at inflated prices, can be as much as 40 percent higher than global prices, and has resulted in a rise in the smuggling of grains, meat and cotton. In the first nine months of the year, authorities seized 2.93 million tonnes of smuggled corn and rice, 112,000 tonnes of frozen meat and 106,000 tonnes of cotton in ports such as Nanning and Kunming which border Vietnam, said the report. "We will continue to strengthen the crackdown on smuggling of rice and other farm products, particularly at some key border areas and markets...," customs spokesman Zhang Guangzhi was cited as saying in the report. Last month, China's Vice Premier Wang Yang said Beijing would strengthen controls over grains imports and crackdown on smuggling in a bid to cut oversupply, with record stockpiles creating storage problems for the new harvest. China's stockpiling policy, with its inflated domestic prices, has made cheaper overseas supplies more attractive for end-users like feed mills, forcing the government to take action to try to curb surging imports. China does not reveal details of its total grain stockpiles, but analysts estimate the country was sitting on close to 100 million tonnes of corn stocks - equivalent to about half annual domestic consumption - before the current harvest began. (Reporting by Niu Shuping and Fayen Wong; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
