Jenni Konrad/FlickrRight now the government uses Times New Roman or Century Gothic for the font in all of its documentation. But a 14-year-old student in Pittsburgh, Suvir Mirchandani, discovered that if the feds switch to Garamond — which uses thinner strokes for its letters and means less ink used per letter — they could save $136 million per year. It spends $467 million on printed materials. And if local and state governments switch fonts, too, an additional $97 million could be saved. ScreenshotMirchandani began his research because he was inundated with printed handouts when he began middle school, he told CNN. He started out smaller, conducting a test to see how much money could be saved at the school district level. He found that his district could save $21,000 if it switched to Garamond. A teacher encouraged him to publish his findings, which he did in the Journal Of Emerging Investigators. The results of the study have made their way to the U.S. Government Printing Office, but there's no word yet on whether they'll make the switch, according to CNN: Gary Somerset, media and public relations manager at the Government Printing Office, describes Suvir's work as "remarkable." But he was noncommittal on whether the GPO would introduce changes to typeface, saying the GPO's efforts to become more environmentally sustainable were focused on shifting content to the Web. (Via the LA Times) FREE AppDownload
Just a quick note, private U.S. employment is currently 129 thousand below the pre-recession peak. With the release of the March employment report next Friday, private employment will probably be at an all time high. However total employment is still 666 thousand below the pre-recession peak due to all the government layoffs. Total employment will probably be at a new high sometime this summer. I guess I'm going to have to retire the following graph soon ... (once call the "THE SCARIEST JOBS CHART EVER"). Calculated Risk This graph shows the percentage of payroll jobs lost during post WWII recessions through February. This is total non-farm payrolls, so I'll be posting this for a few more months. Of course this doesn't include growth of the labor force ... FREE AppDownload
Photo/Anupam NathFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Chasing After High-Net-Worth Clients Isn't Always The Best Idea (Reuters)  High-net-worth clients — those with $30 million or more — need services that are different from less affluent clients, writes Ed McCarthy at Reuters. This is because these clients require services like "income- and estate-tax strategies that are more complex than the adviser can deliver." This can end up hurting smaller practices not equipped to deal with such services. Chasing after big clients also leaves practices vulnerable and can "disrupt cash flow" in the event that they decide to jump ship. The Top 5 Female RIAs (WealthManagement.com) Megan Loeonhardt at WealthManagement.com has put together a list of the top-10 woman-registered independent advisors (RIAs) for 2014. These women also own at least 25% of some of the biggest RIAs. We highlighted the top five on the list. 1. M. Julie McKinley, president and CEO of Fiduciary Counselling Inc. with $4.96 billion in AUM.2. Anne B. Shumadine, founder and chairman of Signature Financial Management with $3.13 billion in AUM. 3. Katherine B. Lintz, founder and CEO of Matter Family Office with $2.45 billion in AUM.4. Jeanie Wyatt, CEO and CIO of South Texas Money Management with $2.17 billion in AUM.5. Jana Shoulders, co-founder and CEO of Adams Hall Wealth Advisors with $1.99 billion in AUM. What People Becoming Financial Planners In Middle Age Need To Consider (The Wall Street Journal) Joe Birkofer of Legacy Asset Management also teaches as part of Rice University's Certified Financial Planning program. In his class he frequently comes across people who have decided on a career change in middle age. "The conflict comes when these new planners can't get a salaried planning position, because there aren't enough of these jobs to go around," he writes in a new WSJ column. "I encourage career changers to use their prior career as an area of focus and build a niche practice around it. I've had students who were NASA engineers cater to the aerospace industry once they've become a CFP. Clients like to work with advisers with whom they have something in common. That's basic human nature. "It can also be ethnic based. I know a former student who started a robust practice serving Houston's growing Indian and south Asian communities. He speaks a cultural language that I don't."  Why You Should Delay Benefits In One Slide (JP Morgan Asset Management)  It is often recommended that people wait before taking Social Security benefits. JPMorgan Asset Management's 2014 "Guide to Retirement shows that the longer you wait, the more money they will have to spend later. JP Morgan Asset Management If You're Bullish About Stocks, You Should Ponder This Quote From One Of The Smartest Investors Ever (Business Insider) In a recent letter to clients, Baupost Group's Seth Klarman writes that what's happening in the stock market now is in large part because of the Fed's easy-money policy. He suggests caution on the part of investors that are bullish on stocks.  "Six years ago, many investors were way out over their skis. Giant financial institutions were brought to their knees ... The survivors pledged to themselves that they would forever be more careful, less greedy, less short-term oriented. "But here we are again, mired in a euphoric environment in which some securities have risen in price beyond all reason, where leverage is returning to rainy markets and asset classes, and where caution seems radical and risk-taking the prudent course. Not surprisingly, lessons learned in 2008 were only learned temporarily. These are the inevitable cycles of greed and fear, of peaks and troughs. "Can we say when it will end? No. Can we say that it will end? Yes. And when it ends and the trend reverses, here is what we can say for sure. Few will be ready. Few will be prepared." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe sign marking the MF Global Holdings Ltd. offices at 52nd Street in midtown Manhattan is seen in New York(Reuters) - The administrator of MF Global Holdings Ltd's bankruptcy plan on Friday sued PricewaterhouseCoopers for at least $1 billion, accusing the auditor of professional malpractice in connection with the brokerage's investment in European sovereign debt. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, PwC provided "flatly erroneous accounting advice" to MF Global and its then-chief executive Jon Corrine by recommending the use of off-balance sheet structures for the brokerage's $6.3 billion bet on the debt. Market worries about that exposure was among the factors that led to MF Global's quick collapse and October 31, 2011, bankruptcy. The lawsuit said it is the first case seeking to hold PwC liable for malpractice over its advice concerning, and approval of, the accounting treatment for the debt. Creditors would share in any recoveries if the lawsuit were to be successful. A PwC spokeswoman declined to comment. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel and Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Ulmart, Russia's answer to Amazon, is close to appointing advisers for an IPO in London next year, as sales surge past $1bn (£602m). Russia's biggest e-commerce company is close to appointing advisers for a London IPO next year, after passing $1bn (£602m) in sales. Ulmart, an Amazon-style marketplace that started life selling computers, but has branched out into children’s toys and furniture, is Russia’s largest internet business, after overtaking the Russian search engine Yandex. Discussions are underway about hiring two banks to advise on the flotation of the company, which is currently valued at between $2.5bn and $3bn. Ulmart’s projected revenue for 2014 is $1.6bn, up 60pc from $1bn in 2013. Dmitry Kostygin, the majority owner and chairman of Ulmart, met Goldman Sachs in London today, following a recent meeting with the bank’s Moscow arm. Mr Kostygin, who last year increased his stake in Ulmart to 60pc, is also talking to banks and investment funds across London, Russia, Switzerland, the US and Asia about raising $300m to $400m of growth funding. If the financing talks prove successful, Ulmart will postpone its London listing for around three years while it continues to focus on expanding the business. Ulmart currently sells around 80,000 products, but plans to expand to 150,000 by the end of the year. The company also plans to quadruple the capacity of its distribution centres over the next 18 months, while tripling sales. Two new fulfilment centres are under construction in Moscow and St Petersburg. Mr Kostygin chose to list the company on the London Stock Exchange after its recent surge of public offerings, such as AO World, Merlin Entertainments and Poundland. But he remains positive about doing business in Russia, despite the political unrest in Ukraine. “I see that there is enough capital in Russia,” he said. “It will remain the fifth largest economy in the world for at least the next decade.” However, Mr Kostygin warned that a decision by the US and the EU to impose sanctions on Russia in response to President Putin’s actions in Crimea would be a “huge mistake”. “It is primitive to seize or freeze assets, or to say businesses have to leave Russia,” he said. “If they [the West] are really that stupid, I think Russia benefits. Russians are already more cautious about using Western suppliers, such as Facebook and Visa, and they are looking for their local or Asian substitutes.” Mr Kostygin, who spent five years in Zurich earlier in his career, favours the Swiss model of “the sovereignty of the small communities”. Under Switzerland’s federal government, each of the country’s 26 cantons is responsible for setting its own tax rates and regulation, enabling home-grown enterprises to thrive.  FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan / Getty(Reuters) - General Motors Co is adding 971,000 cars to its ignition switch recall, which began in February with 1.6 million vehicles and has been linked to a dozen deaths. GM said the recall is being expanded to include versions of the Chevrolet Cobalt, Chevrolet HHR, Pontiac G5, Pontiac Solstice and Pontiac Sky made during model years 2008-2011. Older versions of those cars, dating back to 2003, were recalled in February, along with the Saturn Ion. (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit, editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
The blood-letting in the biotech sector continued today. The iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) fell 2.8%. It's now down a whopping 16% since its Feb. 25 high. Here's how some of the individual names did today: These five stocks were among the ten worst performers in the S&amp;P 500 today. And yet, the S&amp;P 500 closed up for the day, which tells us something. According to Howard Silverblatt of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, the market cap of the S&amp;P 500 Biotechnology industry was $404,312,608,997.80 at Thursday's market close. That may seem like a lot. But it's only 2.4% of the $16,494,076,158,127.40 market cap of the S&amp;P 500. In other words, you could wipe out the entire biotech sector and — all things being equal — you'd only lose 2.4% of the S&amp;P 500. Even at the height of 1999/2000 biotech bubble, the S&amp;P 500 Biotechs accounted for just 0.4% of the S&amp;P 500. "Bubbles pervade society," said Rich Bernstein to Business Insider in February. "They are bigger than the financial markets.  I don't think the biotech speculation is that broad, so no bubble in my opinion." We can debate about whether or not biotech stocks are in a bubble. But at the end of the day, those stocks only really concern biotech investors and prospective biotech investors. FREE AppDownload
Tesla Motors According to The Wall Street Journal, Tesla Motors made a deal Friday that will allow the company to continue selling cars directly to customers at its five stores in New York state. A pair of bills proposed by lawmakers would have banned direct auto sales and required manufacturers to use franchise auto dealers. This would have shuttered Tesla's New York stores because the company uses a direct-sales model. The agreement — which the Journal said was reached by New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, Tesla, auto dealers, and "legislative leaders" — will require any new stores in the state be opened up under a "strengthened dealer franchise law." But Tesla's existing stores would be grandfathered in and allowed to continue to operate. As a result of the deal, the Journal said legislators agreed to remove language from the bill that would have closed Tesla's stores.  Cuomo told the Journal the deal was a "win-win for consumers, for the franchised auto dealers, and manufacturers who play such a vital role in New York's economy, and for cutting-edge companies like Tesla." Diarmuid O'Connell, Tesla's vice president of business development, called it a "constructive solution." Tesla has fought battles over its direct-sales model in several states including New Jersey, where the state's Motor Vehicle Commission approved a measure that would ban direct auto sales there earlier this month. The chairman of the New York state Automobile Dealers Association, Lou Roberti, told the Journal the deal made in New York could "serve as a model for other states as they consider how to accommodate Tesla and a distribution system that has served the public well."  FREE AppDownload
Americans are an extremely mobile people and move from one part of the country to another often. Since the Census released its most recent estimates of population change in the U.S., we've looked at international migration and the balance of births and deaths. The other big piece of the population-change puzzle is net domestic migration — the number of people who moved to each county from another county, minus the number of people who left the county for another. This map shows the net domestic migration for each county in the U.S. for the year between July 1, 2012, and July 1, 2013, adjusted by the original 2012 population. Counties with positive net domestic migration (more people moving in than moving out) are in blue and counties with negative net migration are in red: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census The most startling aspect is the mass of dark blue in western North Dakota and eastern Montana. It coincides with the Bakken Formation, ground zero of the recent shale oil boom. The map also shows the trend of people leaving areas in the Northeast and Midwest — and of people moving to the Southeast. An important caveat here is that this map just shows aggregates — it does not give an indication of where people are coming from in the counties with positive net migration, or of where people are going to in the counties with negative net migration.  Patterns of domestic migration vary highly from place to place and among different demographic groups in ways much more complicated than can be seen by just looking at aggregate net migration. For example, New York County — that is, Manhattan — had a net domestic outflow of about 16,000 people, from a starting population of about 1.6 million. This is all we know from this data set; this map tells us nothing about where those people went. They may have moved to Brooklyn or to Chicago or to Florida. That said, net domestic migration is still one of the major components of how populations change over time, and so is worth considering. FREE AppDownload
Citi Research, FactsetNote: Data reflect non-financial corporate universe. The two charts above — according to Robert Buckland, head of global equity strategy at Citi — illustrate the difference between a market that "has reinvented itself as a giant capital recycling machine" (the U.S.) and one that "remains a giant capital destruction machine" (Japan). Much has been made of slow growth in business investment in the U.S. in the wake of the Great Recession of 2007-2009. However, while U.S. corporations have spent a lot of cash on share buybacks and dividend payouts since then, they have spent about as much on capex — perhaps suggesting one has not necessarily come at the expense of the other. In Japan, on the other hand, spending on business investment has outpaced buybacks and dividends by multiples for years, yet corporate profitability has stagnated. "Why has the U.S. stock market been transformed into a capital recycler while Japanese companies have remained capital destroyers?" asks Buckland. In a note to clients, Buckland attempts to answer the question: As the market sees a company’s profitability fall, so the shares derate. This increases the opportunity cost of capex versus share buybacks. It also attracts the attention of more dividend- and less growth-oriented income investors. But even though these shareholders increasingly want to recycle capital out of the company, the CEO may not listen. This is where activism comes in. If a U.S. CEO does not listen then shareholders can replace him/her with one who does. Shareholder activism is a key part of the process through which U.S. companies are shifted towards being capital recyclers. This is how capitalism is supposed to work. A lack of shareholder activism may explain why Japan’s listed companies haven’t made this shift. Despite low profitability, they still spend way more on capex than they recycle back to shareholders. U.S. investors would not tolerate this behavior. Unsurprisingly, deflation has taken hold. This is not how capitalism is supposed to work. Buckland points to a clear correlation between buybacks/dividends and valuations. The correlation between capex and valuation is much smaller. "Companies have to invest to generate future returns," he says. "But if they collectively over-invest, then future industry profitability is likely to suffer. Lower capex would also have serious implications for economic growth and employment. However, the evidence suggests that equity investors have become increasingly, and justifiably, wary of capex." The bottom line: U.S. companies' decisions to increase buybacks and dividends in recent years has gotten a bad rap. "Activists are being accused of short-termism and favouring dividends and buybacks over job-creating capex," says Buckland. "Some of these criticisms are fair, but if shareholder involvement helps to prevent companies from falling into a Japan-style cycle of capital destruction then it should be encouraged not discouraged." FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA dealer at the Paris Bourse gestures during nervous stock exchange trading, July 30, 1993.Stocks made a modest move higher to round out the week. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
APMexico's Treasury Secretary Luis Videgaray CasoTAKE the lift down from Luis Videgaray’s office in the National Palace and you enter a portrait gallery of past finance ministers stretching back to the 19th century. Mr Videgaray runs through the latest ones, pointing out, with a hint of rivalry, where they got their economics doctorates. Two of the most influential of the past 15 years went to the University of Chicago (one, Agustín Carstens, is now central-bank governor). They turned Mexico’s economy into a paragon of low inflation and stability--albeit one that has often struggled to grow fast (see chart). Mr Videgaray is a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) man. "I didn’t apply to Chicago," he says. He went to MIT, he points out, because he does not believe markets are perfect. "Mexico is a market economy, but we should have better markets. The government needs to work to improve how markets perform." That belief is at the root of the series of economic reforms he orchestrated last year. It also informs his plans to rev up Mexico’s sluggish economy this year. Although he became finance minister in December 2012, Mr Videgaray has only now started to divulge his economic philosophy. For much of last year, he hunkered down in an office close to President Enrique Peña Nieto, drawing up reforms in energy, education, telecommunications, banking and public finance. The two men have been almost inseparable since Mr Peña became a state governor in 2005 and made Mr Videgaray his finance chief. Admirers say the president’s political nous is complemented by his minister’s brain. The EconomistMr Videgaray’s reclusiveness had costs. Although he gave time to congressmen whose support he needed to enact reforms, businessmen became frustrated trying to talk to him. It took 14 months as finance minister before he paid a visit to Wall Street. With his eye off the economic ball, growth slowed to a miserly 1.1% in 2013, a four-year low. Some wondered whether Mexico’s moment had already been and gone. Spirits lifted in December when Congress boldly voted to end a 75-year-old state oil monopoly; Moody’s, a ratings agency, awarded Mexico an "A" grade last month. But everyone is still waiting impatiently for clearer signs of an economic rebound. Mr Videgaray explains how his MIT-honed belief in the imperfection of markets, especially in Mexico, helped shape the reforms. Thanks to the entry into force of the North American Free-Trade Agreement 20 years ago, the export sector has been knocked into shape by international competition. But the rest of the economy, sheltered from those same forces, has remained stagnant and unproductive. The reforms "start with the conviction that these markets will not open up by themselves," he says. His aim is not just to bust open monopolies and oligopolies and develop stronger energy, telecoms and banking industries. In an unusual focus on the millions of small firms that provide 75% of jobs in Mexico, he says he also wants to lower prices and raise the quality of inputs like gas and electricity, broadband and credit, which would make growth more sustainable. Bottlenecks that limit cheap imports from the United States mean that Mexican firms often pay several times more for natural gas than their American counterparts do, for example. Mr Videgaray calls this "the democratisation of productivity." The reforms also aim to put a much bigger onus on autonomous regulators, which he hopes will do a better job of trustbusting than politicians have. Mr Videgaray says one of the highlights of Mr Peña’s administration was when the president in February turned to the Supreme Court to stop a local judge blocking a decision made by the new telecoms regulator. "That sent a very strong signal of what this administration is about," he says. The reforms may take years to kick in fully. In the meantime, Mr Videgaray’s most pressing task is pepping up the economy. Although Mexico should benefit from recovery in the United States, Mr Videgaray thinks it needs a big dose of deficit spending to hit the government’s 3.9% growth target this year (many private forecasts are closer to 3%). Government spending grew by 20% year on year in January. He says this was necessary to boost demand, especially since the central bank’s room to cut rates is constrained by the prospect of tighter monetary policy north of the border. In the process, the budget deficit is projected to rise to 1.5% of GDP this year and total public borrowing (which includes things like investment in Pemex, the state oil firm) could hit 4.1%, which is high for a non-crisis year. In a country with a chequered debt history, higher borrowing worries some: Héctor Aguilar Camín, a commentator, likens it to an alcoholic having his first drink after many years on the wagon. Mr Videgaray shrugs that off. He expects the energy reform eventually to lead to higher oil production, which would boost tax revenues. In the meantime, he says government income from Pemex is safeguarded--a factor that contributed to the Moody’s upgrade. Although businesses are desperate for more growth, this projected splurge has raised hackles. Many industrialists feel it is being paid for largely through a tax reform that fell heavily on them last year. There is also a growing concern that Mr Videgaray’s obsession with driving down prices may go too far--through price regulation or other measures that would end up discouraging investment. He rejects the tax gripes ("taxes are never popular") and says an antitrust bill in Congress aims to restrict the government’s power to control prices. "It’s very important that the government is close to the business community and that we understand their concerns," he says. "But at some point the government needs to be a government." Mr Videgaray may be more visible now, but he still keeps his distance. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Koji Sasahara/APA woman walks past an electronic stock indicator in Tokyo. Karen Kawabata represents the best of Japan’s intellectual capital. She has just graduated from the University of Tokyo, the most prestigious in the country.  Wry and poised, with an American mother and Japanese father, she has the languages and cosmopolitan attitude that Japanese companies particularly value nowadays.  In April she will join McKinsey, a consultancy that should give her immediate membership of a globe-trotting elite. Yet Ms Kawabata sees obstacles in her path. She is acutely aware of the difficulties she would face at traditional Japanese companies, should she find herself joining one. Ferociously long working hours, often stretching past midnight, are followed by sessions of "nominication", a play on the Japanese word for drinking, nomu, and the English word "communication"; these are where young hopefuls forge connections and build reputations. Nowadays women trying to impress the boss are allowed to drink plum wine mixed with plenty of soda instead of beer, says Ms Kawabata. But that is hardly a great improvement. Above all, she worries that having a family will be nigh on impossible to combine with a demanding career. When she met her boyfriend’s father for the first time this year, she reassured him about her intentions at McKinsey. "I told him that I would rethink my career in a few years’ time," she says. That one of the brightest of Japan’s graduates needs to say such things should worry Shinzo Abe, the prime minister. Japan educates its women to a higher level than nearly anywhere else in the world: its girls come near the top in education league-tables compiled by the OECD. But when they leave university their potential is often squandered, as far as the economy is concerned. Female participation in the labour force is 63%, far lower than in other rich countries. When women have their first child, 70% of them stop working for a decade or more, compared with just 30% in America. Quite a lot of those 70% are gone for good. Mr Abe says he wants to change that. In April 2013 he announced that allowing women to "shine" in the economy was the most important part of his "Abenomics" growth strategy. Raising female labour participation to the level of men’s could add 8m people to Japan’s shrinking workforce, potentially increasing GDP by as much as 15%, according to Goldman Sachs, an investment bank. More women working for more pay would also increase demand. Hence speeches from Mr Abe attaching new-found importance to matters such as the opening hours of kindergartens and the challenges of breast-feeding outside the home. For the prime minister, who belongs to the conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), this is quite a turnaround. In 2005, when a previous government was taking steps towards greater equality, Mr Abe and his fellow conservatives warned of the damage to family values and to Japanese culture that could result if men and women were treated equally. They worried that rituals such as the hina matsuri, or Festival of Dolls, an annual celebration of young girls and the state of matrimony, could be endangered. Their concern was not just based on tradition; keeping women out of the workforce, conservatives thought, made economic sense too. If the country’s "baby-making machines", as a former LDP health minister put it, stayed at home then they would produce more babies, and thus more workers. This insight proved to be flawed. As the LDP encouraged women to stay at home, the fertility rate, already low, plunged further, bottoming out at 1.26 children per woman in 2005 before edging up to 1.41 in 2012. The consequent dearth of young people means that Japan’s working-age population is expected to fall by 40% by 2050, exerting a powerful drag on the economy. As a solution to this, the direct measure of getting more women out into the workforce would have great advantages over the indirect tactic of encouraging them to stay at home in the unfounded hope that they will breed instead. Indeed, it may even turn out that working and having children go hand in hand. In other rich countries, higher birth rates nearly always accompany higher female employment, and in Japan itself the birth rate is higher in the countryside, where more women work, than in the big cities, where fewer do. The changes that might encourage more urban women into work--such as better child-care provision, and a less demanding corporate culture, which would mean shorter working hours for men and women alike--might encourage them and their husbands to have more children, too. Mr Abe’s interest in all this is new; the problem is not. Yoko Kamikawa, an LDP politician, recently served on the party’s new committee seeking to improve the lot of women. In the 2000s, during Mr Abe’s first term as prime minister, she was his minister of gender equality. She is startled, she says, by the lack of progress since then. In most countries women’s participation in the labour force dips around the years when they marry and bear children; after that it recovers. But this M-shaped curve is much more pronounced in Japan than in most other rich countries (see chart 1). Japan’s curve has levelled out somewhat in recent years: in 2004 the rate of full- and part-time employment for 30- to 34-year-old women was 61%, a figure which by 2012 had risen to 69%. Yet young, married mothers are still largely absent from the workforce, and many women returning to work go into part-time or temporary jobs with low pay and little security. The EconomistThose who stay in work often do so in jobs that waste their abilities. Few women hold professional, technical or managerial roles. In 2012 they made up 77% of Japan’s part-time and temporary workforce. Many of these workers are well-off married women seeking a little extra income. But others are poor and marginalised. The precarious existence of such workers was described in "Out", a bestselling 1997 crime novel by Natsuo Kirino which had a resonance, and earned acclaim, beyond the borders of the genre. The heroine, who spends her nights toiling in a soulless packed-lunch factory, helps conceal the murder of a colleague’s no-good husband. Ms Kirino’s subsequent bestsellers have also focused on the division of gender roles, describing men slaving away in the corporate world, disconnected from women in the home. At the very top of corporate Japan, the "bamboo ceiling"--so-called by women for being thick, hard and not even transparent--is starting to let in some chinks of light, but they are few and far between. In 2011, 4.5% of company division heads were female, up from 1.2% in 1989. But relative to other countries the numbers are still dismal. Of the most senior, executive-committee-level managers in Japan, 1% were women in 2011, according to a regional study by McKinsey. The equivalent figure for China was 9%, for Singapore 15%. Corporate culture is by far the biggest obstacle for Japanese women. The practice of hiring graduates fresh out of university and employing them for their entire working lives makes it difficult for employees to take career breaks and seek new positions elsewhere afterwards. Promotion tends to be based on tenure and overtime, rather than on productivity and performance. And straightforward discrimination remains rampant. In a study that compared the reasons why Japanese and American college graduates leave their jobs, American women cited child care and looking after elderly relations as the main factors. Japanese women blamed dissatisfaction with their jobs and a feeling of being put into "dead-end" roles. The fact that their husbands, who spend more time at work than their counterparts in other developed countries, spend less time on child care or household chores, adds to the perceived need to stay at home (see chart 2). The EconomistWhen Japanese firms take their pick of university graduates they choose men and women, but they still prefer men for management, sticking most of the women on the "clerical" track. Foreign companies have been able to take advantage of this prejudice by hiring and promoting able female graduates, says Georges Desvaux, the head of McKinsey’s Tokyo office, who also leads the firm’s global research on the role of women in companies. Overseas executives inside large Japanese companies tell tales of über-secretaries with the talent to run the whole business. Keidanren, Japan’s most powerful business lobby, has been markedly uninterested in doing much about this. Though government pressure recently got the lobby to start internal discussions on promoting women, corporate leaders regard Mr Abe’s new enthusiasm for improving the lot of women in the same way as they look on reforms to corporate governance: as costly distractions from the task of lifting Japan Inc’s profits. Keidanren refuses to ask its members even to state the number of women on their boards, in fear of being asked to increase it, or having quotas imposed. Bureaucrats seeking to find the number scan documents for the suffix "ko", usually found on female names. Male dominance extends beyond the corporate world: in politics, too, women are grossly under-represented. In the lower house of the Diet, women hold only 8% of seats, with 19% in the upper house. In a global survey of women in parliaments, Japan ranked 123rd out of 189 countries. The older generation of men is particularly traditionalist, and still wields the most clout. Yet women are not simply being held back by the patriarchy. When the choice is between leisurely dependency in the home--known as sanshoku hirune tsuki ("three meals and a nap")--and the sorry life of a salaryman there is something to be said for putting your feet up. In wealthy places like Tokyo many women simply do not wish to work, says Takeshi Niinami, chief executive of Lawson, a chain of convenience stores. Mariko Bando, author of "The Dignity of a Woman", a bestselling guide for women on how to succeed in the workplace, points out that many Japanese women do not feel they need a high-status job to enjoy high status. A well-educated woman working part-time in a supermarket will not see that job as defining her identity if she is the wife of, say, a high-ranking Mitsubishi Corporation executive. Remarkably, women seem to have become more conservative about work in the past few years. In 1979, 70% of women agreed with the statement that "The husband should be the breadwinner and the wife should take care of the home". By 2004 that had fallen to 41%. But in 2012, perhaps because of the recession in 2007-09, just over half said they preferred to stay at home. A survey last year showed that a third of very young women want to become full-time housewives. Potential husbands, meanwhile, were less traditionalist: only one in five young men said he wanted his future wife to stay in the home. Feminism has remained a timid force in Japan. The long economic boom that began in the 1950s was a national priority which left little room for questioning traditional roles in the home or workplace, says Chizuko Ueno, Japan’s best-known feminist. And women are not without power behind the scenes. Housewives control the family finances, and in the workplace so-called "office ladies" wield a lot of influence over the lives of salarymen, quietly hindering the careers of those they dislike. There are, however, some indications that the role of women could change. For one thing, the boom that overrode all other interests is long gone. Stagnating wages mean the three-meals-and-a-nap way of life is less widely available, with households increasingly in need of two incomes. And the divorce rate is rising. More Japanese women are opting out of marriages to overworked and largely absent salarymen, and so thus increasingly need to fend for themselves. Although a portion of young women want old-fashioned gender roles, the rest, including the "parasite singles" who prefer living with their parents to marriage, want change. Some of the most motivated graduates nowadays are female, and a growing number of companies are waking up to the possibility of putting them to better use than in the past. According to Sakie Fukushima, a director of another business lobby, Keizai Doyukai, human-resources executives say in private that they would hire young women ahead of men most of the time. Yet they are afraid that they will lose them when they have children. Japan’s female 20-somethings now tend to be far more internationally minded than their male equivalents, says Lawson’s Mr Niinami. They outperform soshoku danshi, or "herbivore" men, so-called for taking low-responsibility jobs and preferring shopping to sex. These same young men have little desire to follow the breadwinner/housewife model adopted by their parents. Indeed, Japanese media have recently, with some surprise, begun to note a trend towards young fathers taking on more child care. In some corners of corporate Japan, firms are changing the old working practices. At DeNA, an internet-services company, employees have noticed that their colleagues in California never stay late at the office, instead continuing their work at home. They are now starting to follow the American example, says the company’s founder, Tomoko Namba. A few firms are trying to increase productivity while shortening hours. Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, a leading blue-chip, is discouraging workers from staying in the office after seven o’clock. By 2020 Mr Abe wants women to occupy 30% of all "leadership" positions--which would include members of parliament, heads of local government and corporate executives. His most practical step has been to try to shorten waiting lists for child care by allowing more private companies into a previously state-dominated sector. Here he has seized upon the work of Fumiko Hayashi, the mayor of Yokohama, who after being elected in 2009 managed to reduce the city’s child-care waiting list, then the longest in the country, to zero in just over three years. A former senior saleswoman at Honda, BMW and Nissan, she brought private firms into the sector. Mr Abe wants to expand her "Yokohama method" across the country. Yet many Japanese women, who are particularly protective of their children, distrust day care (one reason women in the countryside have more children is that they are more likely to have parents nearby to lend a hand). What is required, more people now argue, is an army of foreign nannies. In January, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Mr Abe suggested Japan’s immigration rules could be eased so that foreign workers could help care for children and elderly relatives, another duty that falls most heavily on women. There have been unconfirmed media reports that the government is considering allowing in as many as 200,000 foreigners a year to work in areas such as construction, child care and nursing. As with much of the country’s ambitious programme of structural reform, however, such a loosening will face high political hurdles. Immigration is unpopular with the Japanese public; insiders note that Mr Abe may say such things in Switzerland, but has not given public voice to them in Japan. Until overseas talk is followed by domestic action, many will think Mr Abe lacks the will to push for changes that would greatly improve the life of working women. His actions so far have not impressed. A request that firms allow mothers to take three years of maternity leave--compared with the 18 months they can take now--met with derision from all sides. Companies said it would cripple them; feminist critics said that it was part of the old agenda to keep women in the home. The target of 30% women in leadership roles by 2020 was first proposed in 2003 by then-prime minister Junichiro Koizumi. "The target is an old one, and it was not implemented," says Yuriko Koike, head of public relations for the LDP and a former defence minister. The deadline arrives in only six years; there is little chance it will be met. The idea of reducing waiting lists for child care, too, dates back to Mr Koizumi’s time in office. Some of Mr Abe’s allies frequently remind voters of the prime minister’s former traditional views on the family. In January Michiko Hasegawa, whom Mr Abe had approved as a board member at NHK, Japan’s national broadcaster, published a column saying that women’s most important task was to bring up their children, and that this should take priority over working outside the home. "The message on women is somewhat mixed," concludes Ms Koike. If the government really wants to increase female employment, argues Kathy Matsui of Goldman Sachs, it could do so by axing tax rules that keep women’s earnings low. The "head of household", normally a man, is allowed to claim a tax deduction of ¥380,000 ($3,700) as long as his spouse’s income does not exceed ¥1.03m. The pension system, too, encourages limited earnings. As long as a wife’s annual wages remain under ¥1.3m she can claim the national pension without paying any premiums. Tackling such privileges, however, could cost the LDP the votes of millions of housewives and their husbands. At a private dinner in Davos Mr Abe listened to a small group of senior women, including a former head of state, discuss what Japan should do differently. An awkward moment came when one of the guests, Miki Tsusaka, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group, told him she had dreaded returning to Japan after a successful career spent mostly in New York. Yet increasingly, behind their soft tones and feminine demeanour, many Japanese women are getting ready to break out of their dolls’ house. If the country’s policymakers can find the right ways to help them, those women could boost the economy and reform corporate culture. Both they and their sararimen stand greatly to benefit. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Koji Sasahara/APA woman walks past an electronic stock indicator in Tokyo. Karen Kawabata represents the best of Japan’s intellectual capital. She has just graduated from the University of Tokyo, the most prestigious in the country.  Wry and poised, with an American mother and Japanese father, she has the languages and cosmopolitan attitude that Japanese companies particularly value nowadays.  In April she will join McKinsey, a consultancy that should give her immediate membership of a globe-trotting elite. Yet Ms Kawabata sees obstacles in her path. She is acutely aware of the difficulties she would face at traditional Japanese companies, should she find herself joining one. Ferociously long working hours, often stretching past midnight, are followed by sessions of "nominication", a play on the Japanese word for drinking, nomu, and the English word "communication"; these are where young hopefuls forge connections and build reputations. Nowadays women trying to impress the boss are allowed to drink plum wine mixed with plenty of soda instead of beer, says Ms Kawabata. But that is hardly a great improvement. Above all, she worries that having a family will be nigh on impossible to combine with a demanding career. When she met her boyfriend’s father for the first time this year, she reassured him about her intentions at McKinsey. "I told him that I would rethink my career in a few years’ time," she says. That one of the brightest of Japan’s graduates needs to say such things should worry Shinzo Abe, the prime minister. Japan educates its women to a higher level than nearly anywhere else in the world: its girls come near the top in education league-tables compiled by the OECD. But when they leave university their potential is often squandered, as far as the economy is concerned. Female participation in the labour force is 63%, far lower than in other rich countries. When women have their first child, 70% of them stop working for a decade or more, compared with just 30% in America. Quite a lot of those 70% are gone for good. Mr Abe says he wants to change that. In April 2013 he announced that allowing women to "shine" in the economy was the most important part of his "Abenomics" growth strategy. Raising female labour participation to the level of men’s could add 8m people to Japan’s shrinking workforce, potentially increasing GDP by as much as 15%, according to Goldman Sachs, an investment bank. More women working for more pay would also increase demand. Hence speeches from Mr Abe attaching new-found importance to matters such as the opening hours of kindergartens and the challenges of breast-feeding outside the home. For the prime minister, who belongs to the conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), this is quite a turnaround. In 2005, when a previous government was taking steps towards greater equality, Mr Abe and his fellow conservatives warned of the damage to family values and to Japanese culture that could result if men and women were treated equally. They worried that rituals such as the hina matsuri, or Festival of Dolls, an annual celebration of young girls and the state of matrimony, could be endangered. Their concern was not just based on tradition; keeping women out of the workforce, conservatives thought, made economic sense too. If the country’s "baby-making machines", as a former LDP health minister put it, stayed at home then they would produce more babies, and thus more workers. This insight proved to be flawed. As the LDP encouraged women to stay at home, the fertility rate, already low, plunged further, bottoming out at 1.26 children per woman in 2005 before edging up to 1.41 in 2012. The consequent dearth of young people means that Japan’s working-age population is expected to fall by 40% by 2050, exerting a powerful drag on the economy. As a solution to this, the direct measure of getting more women out into the workforce would have great advantages over the indirect tactic of encouraging them to stay at home in the unfounded hope that they will breed instead. Indeed, it may even turn out that working and having children go hand in hand. In other rich countries, higher birth rates nearly always accompany higher female employment, and in Japan itself the birth rate is higher in the countryside, where more women work, than in the big cities, where fewer do. The changes that might encourage more urban women into work--such as better child-care provision, and a less demanding corporate culture, which would mean shorter working hours for men and women alike--might encourage them and their husbands to have more children, too. Mr Abe’s interest in all this is new; the problem is not. Yoko Kamikawa, an LDP politician, recently served on the party’s new committee seeking to improve the lot of women. In the 2000s, during Mr Abe’s first term as prime minister, she was his minister of gender equality. She is startled, she says, by the lack of progress since then. In most countries women’s participation in the labour force dips around the years when they marry and bear children; after that it recovers. But this M-shaped curve is much more pronounced in Japan than in most other rich countries (see chart 1). Japan’s curve has levelled out somewhat in recent years: in 2004 the rate of full- and part-time employment for 30- to 34-year-old women was 61%, a figure which by 2012 had risen to 69%. Yet young, married mothers are still largely absent from the workforce, and many women returning to work go into part-time or temporary jobs with low pay and little security. The EconomistThose who stay in work often do so in jobs that waste their abilities. Few women hold professional, technical or managerial roles. In 2012 they made up 77% of Japan’s part-time and temporary workforce. Many of these workers are well-off married women seeking a little extra income. But others are poor and marginalised. The precarious existence of such workers was described in "Out", a bestselling 1997 crime novel by Natsuo Kirino which had a resonance, and earned acclaim, beyond the borders of the genre. The heroine, who spends her nights toiling in a soulless packed-lunch factory, helps conceal the murder of a colleague’s no-good husband. Ms Kirino’s subsequent bestsellers have also focused on the division of gender roles, describing men slaving away in the corporate world, disconnected from women in the home. At the very top of corporate Japan, the "bamboo ceiling"--so-called by women for being thick, hard and not even transparent--is starting to let in some chinks of light, but they are few and far between. In 2011, 4.5% of company division heads were female, up from 1.2% in 1989. But relative to other countries the numbers are still dismal. Of the most senior, executive-committee-level managers in Japan, 1% were women in 2011, according to a regional study by McKinsey. The equivalent figure for China was 9%, for Singapore 15%. Corporate culture is by far the biggest obstacle for Japanese women. The practice of hiring graduates fresh out of university and employing them for their entire working lives makes it difficult for employees to take career breaks and seek new positions elsewhere afterwards. Promotion tends to be based on tenure and overtime, rather than on productivity and performance. And straightforward discrimination remains rampant. In a study that compared the reasons why Japanese and American college graduates leave their jobs, American women cited child care and looking after elderly relations as the main factors. Japanese women blamed dissatisfaction with their jobs and a feeling of being put into "dead-end" roles. The fact that their husbands, who spend more time at work than their counterparts in other developed countries, spend less time on child care or household chores, adds to the perceived need to stay at home (see chart 2). The EconomistWhen Japanese firms take their pick of university graduates they choose men and women, but they still prefer men for management, sticking most of the women on the "clerical" track. Foreign companies have been able to take advantage of this prejudice by hiring and promoting able female graduates, says Georges Desvaux, the head of McKinsey’s Tokyo office, who also leads the firm’s global research on the role of women in companies. Overseas executives inside large Japanese companies tell tales of über-secretaries with the talent to run the whole business. Keidanren, Japan’s most powerful business lobby, has been markedly uninterested in doing much about this. Though government pressure recently got the lobby to start internal discussions on promoting women, corporate leaders regard Mr Abe’s new enthusiasm for improving the lot of women in the same way as they look on reforms to corporate governance: as costly distractions from the task of lifting Japan Inc’s profits. Keidanren refuses to ask its members even to state the number of women on their boards, in fear of being asked to increase it, or having quotas imposed. Bureaucrats seeking to find the number scan documents for the suffix "ko", usually found on female names. Male dominance extends beyond the corporate world: in politics, too, women are grossly under-represented. In the lower house of the Diet, women hold only 8% of seats, with 19% in the upper house. In a global survey of women in parliaments, Japan ranked 123rd out of 189 countries. The older generation of men is particularly traditionalist, and still wields the most clout. Yet women are not simply being held back by the patriarchy. When the choice is between leisurely dependency in the home--known as sanshoku hirune tsuki ("three meals and a nap")--and the sorry life of a salaryman there is something to be said for putting your feet up. In wealthy places like Tokyo many women simply do not wish to work, says Takeshi Niinami, chief executive of Lawson, a chain of convenience stores. Mariko Bando, author of "The Dignity of a Woman", a bestselling guide for women on how to succeed in the workplace, points out that many Japanese women do not feel they need a high-status job to enjoy high status. A well-educated woman working part-time in a supermarket will not see that job as defining her identity if she is the wife of, say, a high-ranking Mitsubishi Corporation executive. Remarkably, women seem to have become more conservative about work in the past few years. In 1979, 70% of women agreed with the statement that "The husband should be the breadwinner and the wife should take care of the home". By 2004 that had fallen to 41%. But in 2012, perhaps because of the recession in 2007-09, just over half said they preferred to stay at home. A survey last year showed that a third of very young women want to become full-time housewives. Potential husbands, meanwhile, were less traditionalist: only one in five young men said he wanted his future wife to stay in the home. Feminism has remained a timid force in Japan. The long economic boom that began in the 1950s was a national priority which left little room for questioning traditional roles in the home or workplace, says Chizuko Ueno, Japan’s best-known feminist. And women are not without power behind the scenes. Housewives control the family finances, and in the workplace so-called "office ladies" wield a lot of influence over the lives of salarymen, quietly hindering the careers of those they dislike. There are, however, some indications that the role of women could change. For one thing, the boom that overrode all other interests is long gone. Stagnating wages mean the three-meals-and-a-nap way of life is less widely available, with households increasingly in need of two incomes. And the divorce rate is rising. More Japanese women are opting out of marriages to overworked and largely absent salarymen, and so thus increasingly need to fend for themselves. Although a portion of young women want old-fashioned gender roles, the rest, including the "parasite singles" who prefer living with their parents to marriage, want change. Some of the most motivated graduates nowadays are female, and a growing number of companies are waking up to the possibility of putting them to better use than in the past. According to Sakie Fukushima, a director of another business lobby, Keizai Doyukai, human-resources executives say in private that they would hire young women ahead of men most of the time. Yet they are afraid that they will lose them when they have children. Japan’s female 20-somethings now tend to be far more internationally minded than their male equivalents, says Lawson’s Mr Niinami. They outperform soshoku danshi, or "herbivore" men, so-called for taking low-responsibility jobs and preferring shopping to sex. These same young men have little desire to follow the breadwinner/housewife model adopted by their parents. Indeed, Japanese media have recently, with some surprise, begun to note a trend towards young fathers taking on more child care. In some corners of corporate Japan, firms are changing the old working practices. At DeNA, an internet-services company, employees have noticed that their colleagues in California never stay late at the office, instead continuing their work at home. They are now starting to follow the American example, says the company’s founder, Tomoko Namba. A few firms are trying to increase productivity while shortening hours. Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, a leading blue-chip, is discouraging workers from staying in the office after seven o’clock. By 2020 Mr Abe wants women to occupy 30% of all "leadership" positions--which would include members of parliament, heads of local government and corporate executives. His most practical step has been to try to shorten waiting lists for child care by allowing more private companies into a previously state-dominated sector. Here he has seized upon the work of Fumiko Hayashi, the mayor of Yokohama, who after being elected in 2009 managed to reduce the city’s child-care waiting list, then the longest in the country, to zero in just over three years. A former senior saleswoman at Honda, BMW and Nissan, she brought private firms into the sector. Mr Abe wants to expand her "Yokohama method" across the country. Yet many Japanese women, who are particularly protective of their children, distrust day care (one reason women in the countryside have more children is that they are more likely to have parents nearby to lend a hand). What is required, more people now argue, is an army of foreign nannies. In January, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Mr Abe suggested Japan’s immigration rules could be eased so that foreign workers could help care for children and elderly relatives, another duty that falls most heavily on women. There have been unconfirmed media reports that the government is considering allowing in as many as 200,000 foreigners a year to work in areas such as construction, child care and nursing. As with much of the country’s ambitious programme of structural reform, however, such a loosening will face high political hurdles. Immigration is unpopular with the Japanese public; insiders note that Mr Abe may say such things in Switzerland, but has not given public voice to them in Japan. Until overseas talk is followed by domestic action, many will think Mr Abe lacks the will to push for changes that would greatly improve the life of working women. His actions so far have not impressed. A request that firms allow mothers to take three years of maternity leave--compared with the 18 months they can take now--met with derision from all sides. Companies said it would cripple them; feminist critics said that it was part of the old agenda to keep women in the home. The target of 30% women in leadership roles by 2020 was first proposed in 2003 by then-prime minister Junichiro Koizumi. "The target is an old one, and it was not implemented," says Yuriko Koike, head of public relations for the LDP and a former defence minister. The deadline arrives in only six years; there is little chance it will be met. The idea of reducing waiting lists for child care, too, dates back to Mr Koizumi’s time in office. Some of Mr Abe’s allies frequently remind voters of the prime minister’s former traditional views on the family. In January Michiko Hasegawa, whom Mr Abe had approved as a board member at NHK, Japan’s national broadcaster, published a column saying that women’s most important task was to bring up their children, and that this should take priority over working outside the home. "The message on women is somewhat mixed," concludes Ms Koike. If the government really wants to increase female employment, argues Kathy Matsui of Goldman Sachs, it could do so by axing tax rules that keep women’s earnings low. The "head of household", normally a man, is allowed to claim a tax deduction of ¥380,000 ($3,700) as long as his spouse’s income does not exceed ¥1.03m. The pension system, too, encourages limited earnings. As long as a wife’s annual wages remain under ¥1.3m she can claim the national pension without paying any premiums. Tackling such privileges, however, could cost the LDP the votes of millions of housewives and their husbands. At a private dinner in Davos Mr Abe listened to a small group of senior women, including a former head of state, discuss what Japan should do differently. An awkward moment came when one of the guests, Miki Tsusaka, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group, told him she had dreaded returning to Japan after a successful career spent mostly in New York. Yet increasingly, behind their soft tones and feminine demeanour, many Japanese women are getting ready to break out of their dolls’ house. If the country’s policymakers can find the right ways to help them, those women could boost the economy and reform corporate culture. Both they and their sararimen stand greatly to benefit. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEditor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Jeff Johnson, chief science officer at Schneider Electric and Bryce Anderson, senior ag meteorologist at DTN/The Progressive Farmer, a company of Schneider Electric. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Friday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: How will this spring's  weather  compare with last year's? JEFF JOHNSON: Spring of 2013 was colder than normal east of the Rockies, while western areas were mild. That trend is playing out again so far, with the cool pattern likely continuing through April and possibly May. South central and southeast parts of the U.S. have a better chance of trending closer to, or slightly above, normal for the latter part of spring. The milder pattern for the western U.S. should remain intact again this spring. Last year it was quite dry in the West, but recent trends suggest more precipitation will occur in northern California through the northwest U.S. this spring. Unfortunately not enough to end the drought, but beneficial rains will occur. It was quite wet in the Midwest and Great Lakes area in 2013. This spring also looks wet for this region as well as the Northeast.  BI: How do the extreme patterns we've seen in the past couple of years compare with historical trends? JJ: Many of the more recent volatile weather patterns and events have happened before. Over the last century, there have been periods when more extreme weather occurred with greater frequency. Some of the recent events were more common in the 1950s through 1970s while the intensity of others, including flooding and extreme cold periods, might date back over a century. An ironic twist to the volatility also includes a lack of extreme weather in some cases. The last major hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland was in 2005, making this the longest stretch in history between landfalling Category 3 storms.   BI: What should farmers be paying attention to? BRYCE ANDERSON: Farmers and ranchers across the U.S. will have several macro-scale weather trends to manage through during this 2014 season. The lingering effect of a very cold winter, along with continued occurrences of rain and some snow, are hindering the warming of soils for spring field work in the Midwest. Planting of row crops -- corn and soybeans -- is likely to have a late start this season as a result.  This late start does not appear to be as extreme as what we saw in 2013, but this will certainly not be an early-planting season; thus, midsummer temperatures will be eyed closely for their impact on conditions for corn pollination. In the southern Plains, drought conditions are in effect for the fourth consecutive year. Wheat and pastures are in critical need of precipitation, but the likelihood of a complete turnaround to a beneficial rainfall trend is very low through this spring into early summer. Wheat markets have built in a “risk premium” as a result. The lack of rain is hindering the re-stocking of cow herds in the region after ranchers were forced to sell some of their herds during the worst of the drought in 2011 due to a lack of feed. Similar conditions are in effect across the southwestern U.S. and Far West where considerations are being given to switching crop plans and emphasizing crops that use less water.  BI: What will the lasting damage to California be from this drought? What crops will have been most impacted?  BA: The drought in California is causing much consternation on the part of agriculture to successfully deal with such an extensive loss of water resources. As we have seen in the southern Plains, cattle herds are being culled due to reduced feed supplies and the extremely high prices of feed that is available. The re-building of these herds could take the rest of this decade to accomplish. Another effect the entire U.S. economy may already feel is in the form of highly expensive produce due to reduced production in California. Growers are deciding whether to irrigate trees versus field crops. In many cases, growers will choose to keep tree crops watered due to the extensive amount of time they take to replenish. However, that strategy will take water away from melons and vegetables. If next winter offers as little precipitation in the Far West as it did this year, this situation may last more than one season. BI: What can be done to prepare for the extreme weather you're forecasting? JJ: Much like last year, snow threats will linger into spring across the northern U.S. While these spring snows tend to melt off quickly, they may still require snow removal and delay produce travel. Chilly weather will be slow to depart the north central and northeast areas of the U.S. This will extend the heating season, adding to the cost. The area at greatest risk of seeing periods of extreme heat later in the spring extends from the Southwest into Texas. Similar to last year, a near to slightly above active severe weather season will likely evolve. Cool temperatures in the northern areas will delay the northward progression of severe weather, but the Central and Southern Plains into the Mid-Mississippi Valley will be active. Significant storm outbreaks will be possible in this region – widespread severe storms and tornadoes with a few of the stronger events. Much like last year, 2014 has started out slow in terms of severe weather due to the cool pattern. Vigilance needs to be maintained as severe weather can develop quickly this time of the year. Flooding will be an elevated threat in the Upper Midwest, Great Lakes region and northern New England into mid-spring. Delayed snow melt combined with above normal spring rainfall will also increase the risk of river flooding for those areas.     FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Fred Prouser Fox Business Network anchor Maria Bartiromo insulted all of her former co-workers by saying they didn't work as hard as she did when it came to booking on-air guests. Basically, Bartiromo said she was the only one picking up the phone and getting guests on the air.  From The Daily Beast's Lloyd Grove: “It wasn’t just the intense competition, it was a competition with my own company at CNBC,” said Bartiromo, who is marking five weeks of anchoring her two-hour stock market program on FBN, Opening Bell with Maria Bartiromo, and on Sunday debuts her live hour-long interview show on Fox News, Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo.  (In other words, her famous name and face are all over both cable outlets.) “Six or seven years ago, my boss came and said, ‘Maria, you’re the only one who’s working, the only one who’s picking up the phone and getting big hitters on the air, and I need to make other people do that.’” A CNBC insider told us that her comments "baffling" and "insulting." They're also not true.   "It's insulting Maria would say that none of her colleagues worked hard. CNBC is filled with producers, reporters and anchors who've busted their butts just like her for a long time and still do trying to get exclusives and cultivate sources," the source said, citing CNBC anchors/reporters like Jim Cramer, David Faber, Becky Quick, Scott Wapner, Kate Kelly and others as examples of folks who work really hard to book guests and break news.  The insider also noted that it makes no sense for her to keep "dropping these bombs."  Bartiromo, who's known as the "Money Honey," has a reputation as a powerhouse when it comes to booking big-name guests. However, she was also very territorial when it came to her go-to guests appearing on other CNBC shows.  That's why a bunch of folks felt relieved when she left for Fox Business after two decades at CNBC.  FREE AppDownload
For Porter House New York chef and managing partner Michael Lomonaco, preparing steak is a blend of art and science.  State-of-the-art cooking facilities at the restaurant's prime Manhattan location in the Time Warner Center include a broiler that can reach 1,800º F and a high-quality dry-aging locker for the meat. Watch Chef Lomonaco explain the properties of different cuts of meat and how to choose them, the best way to get your meat ready, and some tips on how to grill them to perfection. Originally produced in January 2013 by Daniel Goodman. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
This video is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.   The traditional ways of saving for retirement just aren't measuring up anymore. As people live longer, markets continue to underperform, and Social Security becomes uncertain — experts say it will become insolvent by 2035 — investors will have to be even more proactive if they want to secure their financial futures. OppenheimerFunds has created a video (that's also an infographic!) explaining why investors and advisers need to start a new conversation about growth, income, and protection against certain risks. Watch it (above) to find out more. Learn more at GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing.  © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
Darley Shen/ReutersROBOTS came into the world as a literary device whereby the writers and film-makers of the early 20th century could explore their hopes and fears about technology, as the era of the automobile, telephone and aeroplane picked up its reckless jazz-age speed. From Fritz Lang's "Metropolis" and Isaac Asimov's "I, Robot" to "WALL-E" and the "Terminator" films, and in countless iterations in between, they have succeeded admirably in their task. Since moving from the page and screen to real life, robots have been a mild disappointment. They do some things that humans cannot do themselves, like exploring Mars, and a host of things people do not much want to do, like dealing with unexploded bombs or vacuuming floors (there are around 10m robot vacuum cleaners wandering the carpets of the world). And they are very useful in bits of manufacturing. But reliable robots--especially ones required to work beyond the safety cages of a factory floor--have proved hard to make, and robots are still pretty stupid. So although they fascinate people, they have not yet made much of a mark on the world. That seems about to change. The exponential growth in the power of silicon chips, digital sensors and high-bandwidth communications improves robots just as it improves all sorts of other products. And, as our special report this week explains, three other factors are at play. One is that robotics R&amp;D is getting easier. New shared standards make good ideas easily portable from one robot platform to another. And accumulated know-how means that building such platforms is getting a lot cheaper. A robot like Rethink Robotics's Baxter, with two arms and a remarkably easy, intuitive programming interface, would have been barely conceivable ten years ago. Now you can buy one for $25,000. A second factor is investment. The biggest robot news of 2013 was that Google bought eight promising robot startups. Rich and well led (by Andy Rubin, who masterminded the Android operating system) and with access to world-beating expertise in cloud computing and artificial intelligence, both highly relevant, Google's robot programme promises the possibility of something spectacular--though no one outside the company knows what that might be. Amazon, too, is betting on robots, both to automate its warehouses and, more speculatively, to make deliveries by drone. In South Korea and elsewhere companies are moving robot technology to new areas of manufacturing, and eyeing services. Venture capitalists see a much better chance of a profitable exit from a robotics startup than they used to. The third factor is imagination. In the past few years, clever companies have seen ways to make robots work as grips and gaffers on film sets ("Gravity" could not have been shot without robots moving the cameras and lights) and panel installers at solar-power plants. More people will grasp how a robotic attribute such as high precision or fast reactions or independent locomotion can be integrated into a profitable business; eventually some of them will build mass markets. Aerial robots--drones--may be in the vanguard here. They will let farmers tend their crops in new ways, give citizens, journalists and broadcasters new perspectives on events big and small (see page 68), monitor traffic and fires, look for infrastructure in need of repair and much more besides. As consumers and citizens, people will benefit greatly from the rise of the robots. Whether they will as workers is less clear, for the robots' growing competence may make some human labour redundant. Aetheon's Tugs, for instance, which take hospital trolleys where they are needed, are ready to take over much of the work that porters do today. Kiva's warehouse robots make it possible for Amazon to send out more parcels with fewer workers. Driverless cars could displace the millions of people employed behind the wheel today. Just as employment in agriculture, which used to provide almost all the jobs in the pre-modern era, now accounts for only 2% of rich-world employment so jobs in today's manufacturing and services industries may be forced to retreat before the march of the robots. Whether humanity will find new ways of using its labour, or the future will be given over to forced leisure, is a matter of much worried debate among economists. Either way, robots will probably get the credit or blame. Robotic prowess will to some extent be taken for granted. It will be in the nature of cars to drive themselves, of floors to be clean and of supplies to move around hospitals and offices; the robotic underpinning of such things will be invisible. But robots will not just animate the inanimate environment. They will inhabit it alongside their masters, fulfilling all sorts of needs. Some, like Baxter, will help make and move things, some will provide care, some just comfort or companionship. A Japanese robot resembling a baby seal, which responds amiably to stroking and can distinguish voices, seems to help elderly patients with dementia. The more visible robots are, the better they can help humanity discuss questions like those first posed in fiction. Is it necessary that wars always be fought by people who can feel pity and offer clemency, and yet who can also be cruel beyond all tactical requirements? (Already America is arguing about whether drone pilots deserve medals--see page 56.) Does it matter if the last kindnesses a person feels are from a machine? What dignifies human endeavour if the labour of most, or all, humans becomes surplus to requirements? People, companies and governments find it hard to discuss the ultimate goals of technological change in the abstract. The great insight of Asimov et al was that it is easier to ask such questions when the technology is personified: when you can look it in the face. Like spacefarers gazing back at the home planet, robots can serve not just as workers and partners, but as purveyors of new perspectives--not least when the people looking at them see the robots looking back, as they one day will, with something approaching understanding. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA rescue robot works on destroyed houses after last Saturday's earthquake in Lushan county, Ya'an, Sichuan province April 25, 2013.With over $500 billion of debt from overleveraged Chinese local governments and companies coming due to lenders outside the formal banking sector later this year, China is bracing for a wave of credit defaults. It is coming at a bad time for the world’s second-largest economy, which is also experiencing a marked slowdown in economic growth. Retail sales, fixed-asset investment, and industrial production all came in far below consensus forecasts for the first two months of this year, and Credit Suisse analysts have lowered their first-quarter GDP growth estimate to 6 percent, which would be the lowest quarterly growth in five years. The key questions: Will Chinese policymakers rescue troubled borrowers? And will they intervene to stimulate growth if what seems like a slowly unfolding debt crisis threatens the overall economic outlook? China’s credit problem is rooted in its very rapid growth over the last six years in the shadow-banking sector, shorthand for a mélange of lightly regulated special-purpose financing vehicles, wealth management products and trusts. These products have given local governments and small companies that lack access to institutional credit a way to borrow substantial sums of money. And they have done so: Credit Suisse’s Head of Non Japan Asia Research Dong Tao noted in a report this month entitled “Embracing Higher Risks” that “shadow banking counts for more than 40 percent of total lending and is the key credit channel for marginal lending.” Last year, Tao estimated the size of non-bank debt financing in China to be 22.8 trillion yuan ($3.7 trillion) – equivalent to 44 percent of China’s GDP. The Financialist After years of pretty much zero defaults, problems are emerging. A 3 billion yuan ($480 million) loan originated by the China Credit Trust Co. for a coal mining company narrowly escaped default in January when an unknown third party took over the debt. Investors recouped their principal, but had to forfeit the final interest payment. In late February, Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science &amp; Technology Co. became the first Chinese company to default on corporate bonds onshore. And they are unlikely be the last: Credit Suisse’s Tao told investors on a conference call earlier this month that markets could be seeing a dozen defaults a week come summer. Credit Suisse does not believe these anticipated failures pose a systemic threat to either the Chinese or global financial systems. But the bank’s fixed-income strategists cautioned in a note this month called “To Blink Or Not To Blink” that liquidity could decline significantly if private investors begin to shun the wealth management products that provide the lion’s share of funding for the corporate bonds and trusts that accounted for 21 percent of new credit issued in 2013. And that, in turn, would pose a significant threat to economic growth. As with many things China-related, it is not exactly clear what the country’s leaders intend to do about the debt problem, if anything. The People’s Bank of China clearly wants the economy to deleverage, Tao says, having twice issued repurchase agreements this year to drain liquidity from financial markets. The Chinese authorities have also been trying to shift the economy from near-total dependence on exporting goods and building infrastructure – a model that requires gobs of credit – to a heavier reliance on domestic demand. Officials set on deleveraging are not likely to be particularly keen to step in if local governments that used shadow banking products to raise money for infrastructure projects—many of which were not economically viable in the first place—are unable to pay their bills. Local government debt now stands at 10.9 trillion yuan ($1.76 trillion), 3.5 trillion yuan ($560 billion) of which is maturing in the second half of 2014. Credit Suisse’s Tao sees higher-than-usual risks in a particular 2.3 trillion yuan ($370 billion) batch of trusts created in 2012 that is maturing in the second half, and he noted on the investor call that “the prevailing sentiment in the central government is that local governments need to be taught a lesson.” Eliminating moral hazard in China’s debt markets would be one of the surest signs yet that the country truly intends to modernize its capital markets, but letting trusts and other shadow banking vehicles flounder en masse could have serious consequences. China’s high savings rates and limited investment options have fueled demand for shadow banking products among millions of individual investors looking for higher interest rates than the paltry deposit rates offered by traditional banks. But here is the problem: those short-term investment vehicles have been funding long-term infrastructure projects. The maturity mismatch does not pose a problem as long as the debt can be rolled over, but it can quickly turn ugly if short-term financing markets run dry. A handful of defaults is no big deal, but a rash of them might just spook investors enough to threaten the integrity of the system, at which point the central government would likely be forced to intervene, Credit Suisse analysts say. If local governments are suddenly unable to roll over their debts, Credit Suisse says Chinese officials could create a series of ‘bad banks’ to deal with the non-performing loans. Such bailouts would not teach the hardest lessons about excessive borrowing, but they might prevent a panic. While it is still unclear how the government intends to handle the likely impending problems in its credit markets, at least some fresh government spending is on the way—something Tsinghua University’s Professor David Daokui Li referred to at Credit Suisse’s 17th annual Asian Investment Conference in Hong Kong this week. The National Development and Reform Committee recently approved five railroad construction projects, something Credit Suisse called a “minor stimulus.” Tao said in a short note last week that he expects more stimulus measures, including some clean energy projects and measures to address China’s air, soil and water pollution. But such small fiscal boosts will probably merely stabilize the economy. “This administration has a higher threshold for stimulus, and is more cautious about local government debt than the previous one,” Tao wrote in the note. “That means the fiscal stimulus is likely to be measured and selective.” China’s leaders face a tricky few months as they attempt to balance the country’s unhealthy reliance on debt with moderating economic activity. Borrowers, for their part, are hoping they are not the first to be ‘taught a lesson.’ And the rest of the world? According to Credit Suisse, the seeming turbulent times ahead for China and its borrowers should not threaten the global economy in a meaningful way. The country still is not nearly as important to the world’s total final demand as either Europe or the U.S., both of which are expected to grow steadily this year against a backdrop of 3.8 percent worldwide GDP growth. In the end, any debt crisis in China seems likely to stay within its borders. Of course, likelihood is not a certainty—and that is something many Chinese lenders appear about to find out for the very first time. FREE AppDownload
Paulo Whitaker/ReutersA series of questionable business dealings by Petróleo Brasileiro (Petrobras, the state-controlled oil company) has been affecting the standing of the president, Dilma Rousseff. Before taking office as president in 2011, when she was the chairperson of Petrobras, she appears to have signed off on one deal in 2006 that backfired badly, and this has called into question her managerial skills. The opposition is seeking to capitalize on Ms Rousseff's difficulties as campaigning for the October presidential election begins to heat up. Often held up by the ruling leftist Partido dos Trabalhadores (PT) as an icon of resource nationalism following the discovery of huge, "pre-salt" oil reserves in ultra deep waters in 2006-07, Petrobras recently has suffered a series of setbacks. Its finances have been weakened due to excessive state interventionism, its revenues have been curbed by the government's price-fixing policy and its debt indicators have deteriorated. It was no surprise when the company's debt rating was downgraded by Standard &amp; Poor's by one notch to BBB- (the lowest rung on the investment-grade ladder) in the wake of the agency's similar decision on the sovereign rating on March 24th. In addition, a series of revelations reflecting badly on the past management of the company has raised the political temperature. Ms Rousseff has so far attempted to distance herself from any wrongdoing, and her political allies are acting to preserve her image as a good manager. But the opposition and some independent congressmen have attacked the successive PT governments' stewardship of Petrobras. One deal being scrutinized is Petrobras's purchase (at a cost that eventually amounted to US$1.2bn in total) of a refinery in Pasadena (US) in 2012. Petrobras was obliged by a US court order in 2008 to make the purchase, owing to contractual obligations entered into when the Brazilian company in 2006 purchased a 50% share of the refinery from Astra Oil, a Belgian company that had acquired the refinery in 2005 for only US$42.5m. The 2006 contract with Astra Oil was approved while Ms Rousseff chaired the Petrobras's board, but she has stated that the report that was submitted to her was faulty and that the clauses in question were not included in the executive summary she received at the time. The report was submitted by a former director of international affairs of Petrobras, Nestor Ceveró, who was later appointed CFO of Petrobras Distribuidora, a subsidiary of the oil giant. The second case does not involve Ms Rousseff directly, but rather involves the damage to Petrobras's business operations caused by the cozy diplomatic relationship between the former presidents of Brazil and Venezuela, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva (Ms Rousseff's mentor) and Hugo Chávez. The two leaders agreed that a refinery in the north-east of Brazil (near Venezuela) would be built to refine Venezuela's heavy crude. The refinery was supposed to be co-financed by both countries (Brazil 60%, Venezuela 40%), but it never received any contributions from the Andean country. Venezuela was not penalized because it had never presented any guarantee nor did it sign a formal agreement with Petrobras (a draft was only considered a provisional arrangement, but was never implemented). The cost of the Abreu e Lima refinery shot up from an estimated US$2.5bn to some US$18bn--an investment that has been entirely assumed by Petrobras. Adding to the fall-out from these cases are suspicions of corruption by Petrobras staff following allegations that Dutch oil-platform construction company, SBM Offshore, was involved in kickbacks. A special commission of legislators will start investigating the allegations by traveling to The Netherlands during the week of March 31st, while the opposition is pushing for a Comissão Parlamentar de Inquérito (CPI, parliamentary investigation committee ) to be set up. The president of Petrobras, Maria das Graças Foster, along with the minister of mines and energy, Edison Lobão, the finance minister, Guido Mantega (who is currently the president of board at Petrobras), and Mr Cerveró have all been summoned to appear before Congress during the week of March 31st for hearings on the recent difficulties engulfing Petrobras. This succession of disclosures has prompted opposition leaders to denounce malpractice involving Petrobras and its political masters in government. It seems unlikely that the opposition will manage to set up a formal CPI, which could damage the standing of Ms Rousseff further, at this stage. Indeed, her government has been putting intense pressure on its own allies, some of whom have been in rebellious mood of late, not to join opposition forces in calling for a CPI. Still, the latest developments will provide ammunition for the opposition to use against the government during the electoral campaign. Nonetheless, The Economist Intelligence Unit expects Ms Rousseff to prevail and win a second four-year term in October. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
APMexico's Treasury Secretary Luis Videgaray CasoTAKE the lift down from Luis Videgaray’s office in the National Palace and you enter a portrait gallery of past finance ministers stretching back to the 19th century. Mr Videgaray runs through the latest ones, pointing out, with a hint of rivalry, where they got their economics doctorates. Two of the most influential of the past 15 years went to the University of Chicago (one, Agustín Carstens, is now central-bank governor). They turned Mexico’s economy into a paragon of low inflation and stability--albeit one that has often struggled to grow fast (see chart). Mr Videgaray is a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) man. "I didn’t apply to Chicago," he says. He went to MIT, he points out, because he does not believe markets are perfect. "Mexico is a market economy, but we should have better markets. The government needs to work to improve how markets perform." That belief is at the root of the series of economic reforms he orchestrated last year. It also informs his plans to rev up Mexico’s sluggish economy this year. Although he became finance minister in December 2012, Mr Videgaray has only now started to divulge his economic philosophy. For much of last year, he hunkered down in an office close to President Enrique Peña Nieto, drawing up reforms in energy, education, telecommunications, banking and public finance. The two men have been almost inseparable since Mr Peña became a state governor in 2005 and made Mr Videgaray his finance chief. Admirers say the president’s political nous is complemented by his minister’s brain. The EconomistMr Videgaray’s reclusiveness had costs. Although he gave time to congressmen whose support he needed to enact reforms, businessmen became frustrated trying to talk to him. It took 14 months as finance minister before he paid a visit to Wall Street. With his eye off the economic ball, growth slowed to a miserly 1.1% in 2013, a four-year low. Some wondered whether Mexico’s moment had already been and gone. Spirits lifted in December when Congress boldly voted to end a 75-year-old state oil monopoly; Moody’s, a ratings agency, awarded Mexico an "A" grade last month. But everyone is still waiting impatiently for clearer signs of an economic rebound. Mr Videgaray explains how his MIT-honed belief in the imperfection of markets, especially in Mexico, helped shape the reforms. Thanks to the entry into force of the North American Free-Trade Agreement 20 years ago, the export sector has been knocked into shape by international competition. But the rest of the economy, sheltered from those same forces, has remained stagnant and unproductive. The reforms "start with the conviction that these markets will not open up by themselves," he says. His aim is not just to bust open monopolies and oligopolies and develop stronger energy, telecoms and banking industries. In an unusual focus on the millions of small firms that provide 75% of jobs in Mexico, he says he also wants to lower prices and raise the quality of inputs like gas and electricity, broadband and credit, which would make growth more sustainable. Bottlenecks that limit cheap imports from the United States mean that Mexican firms often pay several times more for natural gas than their American counterparts do, for example. Mr Videgaray calls this "the democratisation of productivity." The reforms also aim to put a much bigger onus on autonomous regulators, which he hopes will do a better job of trustbusting than politicians have. Mr Videgaray says one of the highlights of Mr Peña’s administration was when the president in February turned to the Supreme Court to stop a local judge blocking a decision made by the new telecoms regulator. "That sent a very strong signal of what this administration is about," he says. The reforms may take years to kick in fully. In the meantime, Mr Videgaray’s most pressing task is pepping up the economy. Although Mexico should benefit from recovery in the United States, Mr Videgaray thinks it needs a big dose of deficit spending to hit the government’s 3.9% growth target this year (many private forecasts are closer to 3%). Government spending grew by 20% year on year in January. He says this was necessary to boost demand, especially since the central bank’s room to cut rates is constrained by the prospect of tighter monetary policy north of the border. In the process, the budget deficit is projected to rise to 1.5% of GDP this year and total public borrowing (which includes things like investment in Pemex, the state oil firm) could hit 4.1%, which is high for a non-crisis year. In a country with a chequered debt history, higher borrowing worries some: Héctor Aguilar Camín, a commentator, likens it to an alcoholic having his first drink after many years on the wagon. Mr Videgaray shrugs that off. He expects the energy reform eventually to lead to higher oil production, which would boost tax revenues. In the meantime, he says government income from Pemex is safeguarded--a factor that contributed to the Moody’s upgrade. Although businesses are desperate for more growth, this projected splurge has raised hackles. Many industrialists feel it is being paid for largely through a tax reform that fell heavily on them last year. There is also a growing concern that Mr Videgaray’s obsession with driving down prices may go too far--through price regulation or other measures that would end up discouraging investment. He rejects the tax gripes ("taxes are never popular") and says an antitrust bill in Congress aims to restrict the government’s power to control prices. "It’s very important that the government is close to the business community and that we understand their concerns," he says. "But at some point the government needs to be a government." Mr Videgaray may be more visible now, but he still keeps his distance. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
We've been looking at what cities immigrants are flocking to. But international migration is just one part of the story of population change. Another part is natural increase — how many births there are, offset by how many deaths there are. This map, using data from the U.S. Census, shows the number of births minus number of deaths per 1,000 people in each county in the U.S. that happened in the year between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2013. Counties in red had more deaths than births, and counties in blue had more births than deaths: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census A wide swath of Appalachia, stretching from Western Pennsylvania through Virginia and West Virginia and into Tennessee stands out as a large area where deaths outnumbered births. Similarly, Northern Michigan and Wisconsin suffered a similar fate. Meanwhile, Alaska and most of the West saw plenty more births than deaths. Since we're looking at natural change — the difference between births and deaths — here are maps showing those two components on their own. Here's births per 1,000 people: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census   And here's deaths per 1,000 people: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census  FREE AppDownload
FREDThis post first ran on March 25, see below for updates. Stop the presses.  The St. Louis Fed Reserve just put out a release saying on April 25, all series from "S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC will be removed from FRED, ALFRED, and GeoFRED." Here's what we'll be missing out on. "These series will also no longer be available through the Excel Add-in, mobile apps, and API or any other FRED services we provide. Links to these series or graphs that contain these series may be broken or return unexpected results," according to the press release. "For some time now the St. Louis Fed has been publishing historical data without license from us," Dave Guarino, head of communications at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices told Business Insider. So what went wrong? Guarino said they had "negotiated back and forth for some time" with the St. Louis Fed, and that S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices considers the data to be their intellectual property right which was being published without their permission. Guarino says they last reached out to the St. Louis Fed sometime at the end of February and asked them to finalize the agreement in 60 days. Update 1: A spokesperson at the St. Louid Fed told us in an emailed statement that "The St. Louis Fed does have licenses and permissions with S&amp;P to post its data currently available on FRED." Update 2: We followed up with Dave Guarino at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices. He told us the St. Louis Fed only has a license since 2003 to publish a weekly performance chart on the S&amp;P 500. He said FRED continues to publish and make available for export data on historical S&amp;P 500 index values going back to the 1950s, and data on the Case-Shiller indices. He said the two parties are still negotiating the use of the data. We at Business Insider, and other bloggers who rely on FRED for their charts are bummed about it. FRED is arguably the best economics website largely because it pulls in over a 140,000 data series and then lets you chart them as you like. Update 3: As of April 25, 2014 the St. Louis Fed and S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices have reached a new agreement. "FRED and its associated services will include 10 years of daily history for Standard &amp; Poors and Dow Jones Averages series. The S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indices are unchanged," according to the press release.  FREE AppDownload
Rio Tinto Imagine this horror: your child has just reached dating age, and their first crush is on the son or daughter of someone you went out with in your youth, a relationship that ended disastrously. It was once a common story in Perth, Western Australia, but less so now as the state continues to grow faster than any other in Australia, in both population and its economy. That comfortable big-country-town feeling is fading, as fast as the red dust of the North West is being shifted to get at the valuable minerals beneath it. The mining boom of the last decade has done many things for the state and for Australia, most notably being the economic factor that stopped Australia dipping into negative economic growth during the Global Financial Crisis. China is the biggest recipient of Australia’s exports. About half those exports are iron ore from Western Australia. Ten years ago, it was only 16%. Back in the 1970s, about 1 million tonnes of iron ore was being shoveled from the ground each week. Now it’s about 1.5 million tonnes a day. Visitors from the east say the same things. “Great place, beautiful beaches, bloody expensive. You won’t believe what I paid for bacon and eggs. And the coffee at $5 is rubbish.” The state is the place to be. It has the jobs and the opportunity. One in three people living in Western Australia was born overseas, the highest proportion of any area in Australia. And if you take into account those moving to WA from other parts of Australia, it’s more like every second person was born somewhere else. In some lifts taking mining executives to their offices in the new corporate concrete and steel palaces on Perth’s main street, St Georges Terrace, local accents are hard to find. At the last census in 2011, WA had 2.2 million people. Since then about 1,500 new people have been arriving each week, making WA the fastest growing state. A year ago it reached 2.5 million. The Committee of Perth, a local business think tank, believes the population could hit nearly 4 million by 2050. Much has been written about CUBS (Cashed Up Bogans) of Western Australia, awash with cash from mining jobs, buying jet skis and other boy’s toys. However, buying boats, four-wheel drives and jet skis isn’t new to Western Australia. They’ve always done that and it’s linked with the desire to make best use of the natural resources: the bush and the beach, the outdoors, the fishing, swimming, diving, surfing. What Perth is seeing is a gentle shake up of who’s grabbing the money, who’s getting wealthy. The latest research shows humble tradies (the electricians and welders and builders), those who haven’t inherited wealth, benefiting. They’re growing their wealth fast. And, of course, those who had wealth, are doing as well as they usually do. Some on more fixed incomes aren’t doing that well because, as wages have risen, prices have gone up. Perth is now officially the most expensive state capital to rent a house. These stories show how the mining boom has changed the state and its people. Marlon Johns came to the search late. It was hot, past lunchtime and the afternoon was ticking by. The woman had been missing since the early hours of the morning. Most of the bush had already been gone over and a helicopter hadn’t found anything. Police had asked the Main Roads Department crew Marlon was working with to put out plastic witches’ hats to slow traffic, and warn motorists that people may be on and off the road as they worked the search area. Marlon had put up his hand, asked his boss for permission to join the search, and the police were happy to have him. He weighed up the situation. Only a few more hours of day left. It would be near impossible in the dark and water was the problem. It always was. Without it, the woman was in real trouble. He thought his best bet was to run a zigzag course along the perimeter of the search area, hoping to cut across the path of the woman, pick up signs where she may have disturbed the natural setting. A broken piece of twig, a rock moved exposing fresh dirt, a footprint in the sand. This tactic assumed the area already searched had been covered thoroughly but he had to trust the job had been done right. He didn’t have the time to cover the same ground. On top of that the family of the missing woman had already been over the area, churning up ground in quad bikes, before the official search had started. Marlon walked quickly, concentrating, looking for signs, seeing none and moving on. Most people see what’s in front of them but the image, the scene, the picture, is edited by the brain. What becomes common is registered as more of the same, and skipped over, discarded. Few see like Marlon. He takes in everything. He sees the tiny and the large, takes in the smell and taste. Each bit is a component in a story of place, of the landscape. He finds it hard to explain. He describes it as a feeling, a common sense way of looking at the world. Others don’t have that sense. “They don’t think like I would,” he says. His dad and pop, his grandfather, took him hunting as a boy. They showed him how to look for signs on the ground, the grass and branches, as they hunted for kangaroos. “If we’d shoot a kangaroo we’d track it down,” Marlon says. “It would be bleeding and we don’t waste food. There’d be footprints and little bit of blood every now and then. You can mostly tell which one’s wounded and that sort of stuff. It’s not easy. I make it look easy, but.” He used these skills as he worked the bush looking for the woman. The first sign he found was almost two hours later. It was a box of tablets, medicine, and Marlon could tell it hadn’t been there that long. Marlon picked it up and read the woman’s name. They were close. Marlon called out to the policeman to get assistance: the woman was close and they might need some help. Marlon could tell from her partial footprints that she wasn’t in good shape. She was unsteady on her feet. He found her a few minutes later. Too late, Marlon thought, certain she was dead. “But she was still alive,” Marlon recalls. “I actually thought she was dead because she wasn’t moving.” “She’d crawled between two logs. I don’t think anyone would have seen her. She was pretty well hidden.” The local police said the woman was found in an area not normally visited by people and that she had so successfully hidden herself it was highly unlikely she would not have been found if Marlon hadn’t been there. Senior Constable Fritz Gaugg says the woman had been missing since the early hours of the morning and she’d been gone quite some time before Marlon offered up his services. “Off he went,” Fritz said. “Within two hours of him coming on board, he’d located her and she was taken to hospital. It was brilliant. He did a fantastic job for us and saved a lot of resources.” “He didn’t have a lot to work with,” Fritz said. “Once he found that slightest trace he tracked her along. “I’ve never had a tracker. I’ve heard of them, guys around Kalgoorlie, but I’ve never seen one in action until Marlon came along.” Marlon has eight children, four boys and four girls. He grew up in Katanning in the Great Southern of Western Australia. He left school at 14 to go roustabouting, the term for a dogsbody for a shearing team. Then he became a shearer. As a boy, he represented Australia in Darts. He won the national championship when he was 14 and went to London to represent Australia when he was 16. Marlon went back to work with the Main Roads but what he really wanted was a job in the mining industry, a Fly-In-Fly-Out (FIFO) gig. That’s where the big money is, in the red dirt of the north. He could easily double his pay. He’d worked in the North West before but a motorbike accident had left him unfit to work for too long. Since then he’d been calling the mining companies, getting on waiting lists, generally hassling them as much as he could without turning them off him. ************** This mining boom has built quickly over the last ten years and the benefits have spread, creating jobs and wealth. Many have done well. Others not so. The state’s Gross Domestic Product growth at almost 5% a year, two-thirds higher than the national rate. The confidence level fell for a while when the investment phase of the boom finished. But the state has hit the third stage of the boom where increasing mountains of ore, and cash, are coming from established mines with increased capacity. Looking at the state as a whole, its households are among the wealthiest in the country. Perth ranks third across the nation for mean household net worth, averaging more than $800,000 per household, according to the the Bankwest Curtin Economics Centre. Household net wealth has increased by more than 70% in real terms since 2003, adding at least $268 billion to the State’s total wealth stock. This chart tells the story of WA compared to the rest of Australia: Per capita gross state income for WA is currently averaging $98,000, about 50% more than it was ten years ago. The average gross household income for WA families is $2,117 a week. Compare this to South Australia which has $530 less in average household income each week. Almost one in five (18%) of high income households in WA are headed by those in trade jobs, compared with only one in ten (9%) in the rest of Australia. But the poor are still poor. The richest 10% have about 4.5 times the income of the poorest 10%. You can never quite get rid of the red dirt. Clean the car inside and out after a trip north. Vacuum, wash and buff. But always, such as when you open the petrol cap, the red dirt remains. Again, dust and wash the children’s toys and the same thing. A dollop of red dust will drop to the floor. Deanne Hislop lived at Karratha in the North West for three and a half years. When husband Paul’s contract was up, they decided to move to Perth where Deanne grew up. That’s when they kept finding the red dust. “It does stain and it gets into absolutely everything,” Deanne says. They had the choice between moving to Queensland or living in Perth with Paul working FIFO, 15 days on in Karratha, six off, as a commercial manager. With school coming for their oldest, they chose Perth where Deanne’s parents live. Deanne grew up in Wanaroo, which in the 1980s was pretty much the northern edge of Perth. After school she tried university for a while, then headed to Melbourne and on to London in her early 20s where she ran organic food stores. “My sister, when I was leaving for London, was buying her first house,” she says. “I can still remember the adverts for first home buyers which were saying if you earned $500 a week you could own your own house. In London, everything was expensive. “The whole time I was living in London I would think it would be nice to go home to be able to afford things, to be able to live, have a better quality of life.” But when she got back, six years ago aged 28 with a child on the way, everything had changed. It was a shock. “The cost of housing and the cost of food had gone up hugely,” she says. “The prices in Perth were twice as high without the quality.” She remembers staying with her parents when she came back. She grabbed $10 and went out to grab some bacon and a block of cheese. She didn’t have enough money. Paul, her husband, and a Londoner, was gobsmacked. Since they’ve become a FIFO family, they’ve bought a two hectare block on the very outer edge of Perth. It has three horses and is five minutes to the beach. Deanne started a website, My FIFO Family, which grew from helping her son who was having trouble understanding that his Dad had to leave for work. This led to the development of a calendar with stickers which children can use to work out when Dad is going away and when he will be back and what they can do. Then there’s the book,Boomerang Dad. Deanne sells them to companies which tend to add their logo and order in the thousands. “Children, once they find out what’s going on, do very well,” she says. “They adapt. A lot of it is trying to find your personal balance for yourself. “If you’re the person who wants to work, you’ve got to be working for yourself or part-time. If you’re happy being a stay at home mum, that’s fantastic.” Deanne wants to work, which is why she runs My FIFO Family, and she also wants to stay at home to look after the kids. She laughs. “So I want it all.” Deanne and Paul think they are incredibly lucky. “The mining boom has allowed a huge amount of opportunity for people. The difference between us having a life in London and us having a life here: the commute in London would be huge, the pay here is four times higher which gives me the freedom to live further out and choose whether I want to work or not.” She also doesn’t have to live with her children in a busy city. If you want your kids to grow up in a rural area you’re not going to find the same work that pays the same. “We wouldn’t have been able to have the same lifestyle anywhere else,” she says. “We absolutely love where we live and we’re pretty much living the dream. “My husband loves his work. I love what I do. I love the freedom and the fact that I’m giving back to the community. “Hubbie comes home and he builds fences, plays horses and takes the kids to school. It’s pretty good.” She believes that if you have a good relationship, FIFO is going to work. “I am very big on building resilience in children and I think FIFO is a fantastic way. My husband and I have a strong ethic that if you want to see your children succeed then they have to see you doing it.” ************ One indicator on how deeply wealth has penetrated into society is the state of the first home buyer market, where affordability and confidence are critical elements. The first home buyer has been absent in the eastern states for some time but in WA there’s something of a boom. And this has happened despite a three-fold increase in the cost of the average first home over 14 years. In 2000, there were 1,430 first home buyer grant applications across the state for the month of July. That was when the entry for the median purchase price for established homes was $122,000. Over the last year, monthly first home owners grant applications have been between 1,600 and 1,700. The Office of State Revenue reports the median purchase price for first home buyers is $438,000. The Real Estate Institute of WA says: “Of course the median is only the middle price which means that half of all first home buyers are purchasing under $438,000 and there is plenty of stock under $400,000, including house and land packages.” The percentage of first home buyers as a proportion of the overall housing market has been above average for some time and last year was at times almost 30 per cent of the whole market. Peter Dyball, originally from the western suburbs of Sydney, believes Perth is a place where it’s OK to “have a crack”. Peter, the founder of the The Pit Crew, a small consultancy which services the mining and oil and gas sectors, says there’s a lot of entrepreneurship in WA. “Some of this may be a product of the remoteness, but also with the level of ‘just get on with it’ attitude that seems to be more prevalent here. And even if things don’t work out so great the first time, it’s OK to have a crack again.” He came to WA in 1996 working at Argyle Diamonds for the company which had the maintenance contract. He was commuting from Albury in NSW and around 1998 he was asked to move here permanently. He’d already met the woman who was later to become his wife, so that suited him well. “I think the first thing I did when I came to Perth was to buy a motor bike,” he says. “The roads around Perth were just fabulous so I went out and bought a nice big bike.” Now he has a scooter, a little Vespa, to run around on. “That expansion of the city is locked in by the hills so the expansion is north-south and I think the next thing that Perth folks will have to get to grips with is increasing density, more urban, high-density living. CBD type living. It’s starting to happen but there’s a lot resistance to overcome.” Peter lives at the beachside suburb of Swanbourne and his office is at West Leederville. “I can go to tennis and the beach on my way home. On a bad day it takes me 11 minutes and on a good day 7.” He’s lucky in where he lives and works. Overall, he believes Perth still is a great place to live, a great lifestyle. “Having a job here helps. I was without a job once for six months many years ago. My wife married an unemployed bum. Six weeks before we got married I was made redundant.” “I was doing a construction and project management until about 2000. I was thinking of changing and got made redundant anyway. “I decided to get into business development, contacting companies about tenders coming up, doing company presentations, preparing for negotiations.” While he was doing that he was doing an MBA and Curtin University. The good thing about that was he could use his assignments for work. “If there’s something at work which is appropriate you can turn it into a major assignment. So you try to convince the group at university that they should do the assignment about your work. So the companies I worked for got some very good and cheap analysis, data and consulting.” He did a lot of analysis of the iron ore sector, the oil and gas business, and the general economy, where it was heading. That’s when he started Pit Crew. The market was primed for it. If you were going to do something on your own, 2004 was the time to be getting started. “When I kicked off pit crew, I was more focused on the business development side of things, marketing strategy and bid strategy, tender management and company business development systems and processes (which sometimes can be a bit loose),” he said. “But not long into that I was also doing some analysis and facilitation work for Rio and BHP. It became pretty obvious that there were a lot of questions about the skills and the potential shortage of skills that was peering over the horizon at us. “Back then it was boiler makers and electricians and we were being told they were hard to get. The expectation then is that rates will go up which would mean changes in budget. And they were asking: what’s going on, is that really happening? “I did a bit of research and looked at the available data and it was pretty inadequate, very general and some of it a bit dated. “I used my project management background to develop a system that looked at all the projects and more or less added up the demand for all the different skills that they would need. And I turned that into a business for the next nine years. “I’ve developed and evolved the modeling and the forecasting. As well as looking at demand we look at availability. We started in WA and we now look at all the states.” He’s now in Canada to launch the business there. “My modelling and what we do is perfectly transferable,” he says. “Canada is very similar to Australia. So we charging over there to see if we can make a difference.” When he first came to WA working for a small company building power stations he was disarmed by how tight the network was. “I’d be trying to get something done and one of the directors would say: ‘Hang on, I’ll make a quick phone call’ and then he’d say ‘yes, you can meet him tomorrow’ I’d been trying to meet with that guy for three weeks.” In mining, oil, and gas, people know everybody. One of the big events of the year is the Chamber of Commerce and Industry construction dinner. “I think I’ve been to the last ten and it’s like a roll call. There’s 1,000 people at the dinner and you will probably know 500 to 600 of them. And if you don’t know them personally you will know of them. “ A lot of his business is based on relationships and that’s one of the things which appeals to Peter. It’s not who you know but being able to connect to the right people through introduction and relationships. Reputation is everything. “They talk about that relationship in Perth but one of the things I’m concerned about is, that is becoming Australia. People are so mobile. We do a lot of work in Queensland now. So the roll call can now be Australia wide and not just Perth. “That whole everybody knows everybody thing, the pond is getting bigger. We all know we’ve got to exist in that pond.” And he sees a lot of young men grabbing the opportunity to make good money. And that brings the clichéd bogan rating. Earning the big money, they buy the big toys: jet skis, boats, four wheel drive vehicles. Perth has always been one of those places for people who have some extra cash. It has the space, the bush and the ocean. Why not have toys? The thing is, the boom has created a lot more people with that extra income. “You get a bit older and you have different toys,” he says. “I have a race car. That’s my toy. If I didn’t have that I’d have a boat or a sporty car. “But it’s interesting to see blokes who don’t have discipline. The mistake that some make is thinking that this is going to go on forever. “At the moment we’re seeing an easing off on the project side of things. And while we’re seeing growth in the operations side, it’s going to take a while to even out. “I’ve seen reports of a young guy on astronomical money for basically an unskilled job who just had the time of his life for four or five years. “But then things have eased off, he’s got all these commitments and he couldn’t service his debts. It’s a shame, because it could have been an opportunity to set himself up for life, and have a little bit of fun in between.” ********** One measure of a success of a society is how it looks after its less fortunate. Overall, Western Australians have been giving more to charities than they ever have. But it’s the same people giving more. There hasn’t been, when looking at Australian Tax Office numbers of those claiming a deduction for donations, a rise in the number of people who give. An analysis by JB Were’s Philanthropic Services shows WA has gone from a 7.8% to 8.5% share of Australia’s total tax deductible donation. This strong relative and absolute gain in dollars donated was mainly because of the rise in average dollars donated, from $142 to $415 per donor. Compared to the rest of Australia, Western Australians haven’t been rushing to give to charity. While the national average participation rate moved from 32.5% to 37.9%, WA’s only moved from 29.5% to 33.1%. This improvement was the second lowest of the states and territories (SA only gained 4%) and below the national average gain of 17%. However, another measure of giving is the annual Telethon, a marathon television event highly popular in Western Australia. People are more likely to make a deduction and forget or not bother with claiming a tax deduction for a charity donation. Telethon has seen a staggering increase in money raised. So while WA doesn’t stack up well against other states on a tax deductible donations, the money raised by Telethon indicates there’s a broad section of the community which gives generously. ********** Another import from Sydney is Marion Fulker. She came to Western Australia in 1986 on a transfer with a multinational information technology company. One of the great attractions of Perth then was that housing was more affordable. Marion wouldn’t have been able to buy in Sydney or taking time off to have children. “In Sydney I had no choice but to work.” And in Perth she’s forged a successful career as well as a home and family. She’s the CEO of the Committee For Perth. “We’re just starting to get big city problems,” she says. Perth was a reasonably egalitarian city, where many could afford a reasonable standard of living, but less so now. The Committee for Perth has commissioned numerous research papers and reports, seeking to define the city and discover paths to the future. “As no-one else is writing the story of Perth we thought we would write it ourselves.” While Perth property isn’t as affordable as it was then, the average price is around $535,000, there still is that dream, or culture, of building your own home on a virgin block of land. The old house and land package. Marion says Perth is still a very family-friendly city and it’s great if you like an outdoor lifestyle. However, some are doing it tougher than others. As mentioned, these are typically those on more fixed incomes: professionals, teachers, public servants, police officers, nurses. The cheapest land and housing is on the fringe of the city, which now stretches 160 linear kilometres, an astonishing sprawl for a city of less than 2 million people. While the house and land packages, put together by one of the most efficient land and home building industries in the world, are reasonable priced the commute to the city is a drag. “The factor of the cost of transport is a fairly new one for Perth. It used to be 20 minutes to anywhere but not now. There are 110,000 people trying to get into work in the city each morning.” On the city fringe, there are 2.5 cars per household. Close in it’s more like 1.5. The main inflow of people to Perth has been from Britain and this has traditionally been an influence on its culture. “I am married to a Pom and he came here because he thought the quality of life would be better,” she says. “I reckon I’ve got the best job and, because I’m not from here, I can be a critical friend. “How does Perth grow up to be like Perth? We don’t want to be just another big city. Perth has a natural beauty, a quaintness, a real friendliness about it. “It’s so far to Perth. We hear that a lot. We know that. Technology helps, such as Skype, but some things have to be done face-to-face. “My own family on the East Coast doesn’t understand.” On the East Coast, the news about Perth and the riches being dug from the ground, the money flowing, sits uneasily. They smile and convince themselves it will be another boom which will turn into bust. Then the East Coast will be back on top again, where the action really is, and Perth will be back in its place. Marion shakes her head: “We don’t think so.” People started losing jobs about 12 months ago as the construction phase of the mining boom came to a close. But there’s now increasing work in the energy sector which will continue for many years, Marion says. “We’ve been through a very economically fortuitous time in Western Australia. What we have in terms of natural resources will be there for a long time.” ****** There is no doubt that WA, and Perth in particular, is wealthy. The mining boom has created jobs which sloshes cash around the local economy and creates more jobs. But not all have benefited. Those with relatively fixed incomes, such as public servants, teachers, police officers and nurses, have mostly seen increasing food prices and big jumps in the cost of rent. The cost of living in Perth has been running ahead of the rest of Australia. For example, Perth is officially a more expensive place to rent a house than Sydney: The cost of living overall is running ahead of the rest of Australia. Perth is no longer a place to live cheaply compared to the bigger cities such as Sydney or Melbourne. For those born there Perth was a place to return to after spending a few years interstate of overseas, adventuring and gaining professional experience. And coming home was a time think about a family. David Whish-Wilson came back from Japan about 20 years ago. He bought an old shack. “No-one wanted it because it was asbestos. Then you could still rent an old banger of a house somewhere reasonably close to the beach or the river and the roads were reasonably empty and you could get around okay,” he says. “Now the water cooler conversations of the last couple of years is not about real estate it’s about traffic; the problems you associate with any rapidly growing city, clogged roads and oversubscribed public transport, all the usual growing pains you associate with a big city.” He teaches creative writing at Curtin University, writes crime novels and recently a nonfiction title, Perth, one of a series by New South Publishing on Australian cities. “Our mortgage is low and we already struggle,” David says. “My wife works as a high school teacher but we still live pay packet to pay packet. If we had a big mortgage on top of that we would be seriously struggling.” They have three children ranging from 5 to 14 years. “The rental market is very tight but it’s no different in Sydney. Life is reasonably tough for those who aren’t on the mining dollar or who don’t have a solid job. The prices of things here are quite a bit more than they are in Melbourne, just for basic foodstuffs.” When David grew up in Perth, a lot of people left, as he did for about ten years. But he also knows many who never came back. “They’d come back and think: there’s nothing for me here. Of lot of people in the early twenties are going away to get experience but they’re coming back as well. “You can’t have a vibrant city if many of your curious-minded young people are leaving and never coming back. “The fact that they are coming back is a really good sign. And a lot of that would be tied up with the mining boom, the job opportunities.” David says there’s a lot to come back to. The natural environment is still in good nick, although there’s a lot of devastation in the banksia woodlands in the Perth Hills. “Most people travel down to the river and the beach,” he says. “It’s still that type of city where you can have your cake and eat it too. A pretty good natural environment for those of us who enjoy going out on the river or body surfing or fishing or whatever. “The usual conversation about Perth is that it’s a beautiful place but pretty dull. What most people hope is that the later is slowly starting to change without affecting too much of the former.” It has changed in obvious ways. The population has increased and 70% of the growth is in the suburbs, on the edges of the city rather than suburban infill or high rise. Perth is already one of the most sprawled cities on the planet. It’s the same size geographically as Los Angeles and Tokyo and four times to size of greater London but with a fraction of the population. In not too long Perth is going to be a 170 kilometres long city on its north to south axis. David calls it a super-sprawled city. There’s a kind of paradox in Perth. David: “While you have low unemployment, you have the highest rates of homelessness which is incredible. And one of the highest prison populations. There is definitely disadvantage among the affluence. But it’s always been that kind of city of course.” And it’s a young city. “Perth has the highest proportion of 25 to 29 year olds of any city in Australia by a factor of about 200 per cent and most of those were choosing to live in the inner city. Which is really good I think because it’s going to revitalise the inner city.” In a way the current boom is a replay of past booms or, as some say, it’s been a long boom with a few dips along the way. “Perth’s history is tied intimately to the various mining booms,” David says. “It was a small town of 48,000 in 1892 when they first started out in Kalgoorlie and Coolgardie when 750,000 people suddenly passed through it and the population grew 700 per cent in the next 15 years.” Perth went from a small town to a small city. There was a shake-up in ownership, the establishment. Those on top were challenged. And it’s happening again. In a way it’s been happening since the 1960s when WA got the federal government to remove the embargo on iron ore exports to Japan. Then came the nickel boom. But the last decade has been bigger than anything before. *********** The first impression many people get of any city is its airport. Passenger numbers in and out of Perth’s have grown more than two-fold in the last decade. For a while, check-in and security queues were daunting. Signs of the boom are everywhere; high visibility jackets of mining workers mingle with the t-shirts of tourists and the business shirts of executives. The gateway to Perth always had its own style, more t-shirt and shorts than the smart casual of Sydney or the city cool of Melbourne. The construction worker gear adds a boom town dimension to the sloppily dressed airport. It says: We’re too busy making money to worry about what we’re wearing. In the Qantas Club police in pairs do a walk through. It’s tempting to overdo the free bar when you’ve just come off a couple of weeks working in a dry mine. Getting a taxi to the city can be a challenge, and expensive, but the car hire companies appear to have stocked up with vehicles. It used to be that over summer, if you didn’t book months before, you had no chance of hiring a car. However, it’s late at night, after the last flight from the eastern states has landed, that Perth airport really gets strange. The economics of FIFO kick in when traveling longer distances. If you add up the travelling time of, for example, someone living in Melbourne but working in a Pilbara mine site the return per hour starts falling dramatically. And paying for a night in a hotel in Perth would reduce earnings by several hundreds dollars when adding up hotel, taxi and breakfast charges. It’s easier and more cost-effective to bed down on the airport floor, wake up in time for the early flight north, than to find a hotel room. Unlike many of her generation, Perth’s Lord Mayor Lisa Scaffidi, now aged 53, saw no need to go interstate. She was having too much fun in Perth. She left MLC, an all-girls private school in the affluent Perth Western suburbs, went to two universities but didn’t finish either. “I was having too much fun working in the Merlin Hotel, the precursor to what is now the Hyatt. That was during the Americas Cup yacht race, an exciting time.” She started in guest relations then corporate sales, convention and group management, and finished as director of sales. “That’s where I created a lot of my contacts and network today,” she says. “Many of them are CEOs and the like. It was a really good time working in the early 1980s in that industry.” Today she heads an eight square kilometre block of the central city including the CBD where the mining executives run and plan their next projects. She’s popular, into her second term which she probably won when she was asked the question: if you had a million dollars to spend for Perth what would you do? She said: Free WiFi. “And it just took off,” she say. “The opponent at the time said more public toilets in Forrest Place which was delivered anyway. “The WiFi thing was grabbed and so embraced by the public that we delivered it. It does make visitors linger longer. But as someone who travels … I think it’s a must provide for businesses to encourage people to hang around. “You just pick it up on your phone. That means you’re not using your roaming charges as a traveler. It’s a big saving.” The City of Perth has a 12 person communication team. Social media is a priority. The Perth CBD of two decades ago was lifeless. Today Lisa lives in East Perth which has been successfully redeveloped as an inner city suburb. Lisa can look out of her window at night and see people out and visiting restaurants. She says: “People are working long hours and they want to have little restaurants that they can dine in because they’re not going to be cooking every night of the week. I’ve been a strong champion of small bars of which we’ve seen a lot open in the last couple of years and now we have more supermarkets. More vitality in a city that starting to get a big critical mass which gives the viability to businesses.” She listens to the accusations of those who think Perth has become expensive. And she agrees with them. “I have to say to you that I think it is true,” she says. “The cost of eating out, food and beverage, in Perth is expensive. And I can only put it down to the high cost of labour. It worries me and that’s why I talk about service establishments making sure that people get value for money. We used to say how expensive London was and how expensive Tokyo was, well now it’s how expensive Australia is. Now London seems kind of OK. That might change in another decade or so as things often do.” She has advice for people: “If the coffee’s not good at $4.50 a cup well tell the Barista and don’t accept it.” Perth has much in new and sophisticated venues, the fantastic climate, and infrastructure. However, Lisa points to what she calls the “soft infrastructure” – the city’s people. She says: “Good service and friendliness will be the difference between making our city a good city and a great city.” ********* Sue Pember knows exactly who the new arrivals are in Perth. She gets to meet a lot of them. Four years ago she started Aussie Orientation Services, to help staff from international and interstate companies settle in Perth. The accent she’s hearing at the moment is a Texan drawl. “Things have definitely changed in this town in the last five or six years. One of the biggest clients we’re looking after is Bechtel as well as other oil and gas companies. We have a huge influx of people coming in from Houston, Texas.” A year ago, most of her work was coming from companies contracting for the big iron players such as BHP and Rio Tinto. But with the peak reached in construction of bigger mines and bigger facilities the nature of people arriving in Perth has changed. Currently there are Japanese and French along with the Texans. They’re there for the oil and gas, the building of projects such as Wheatstone for Chevron. “The calibre of the people we are bringing in is very different,” Sue Pember says. “We used to bring in big teams of people such as mechanical fitters and boiler makers. But now we have engineering managers, the more senior managers.” The end of the construction phase of the boom has seen a lot of people lose their jobs over the last six months but Sue Pember says many have been rehired elsewhere. “Anyone who has an open position will employ local first because otherwise it’s so expensive to bring in overseas labour,” she says. “I also think there’s been a shift in income and the streets aren’t as paved as much in gold as they were.” Sue Pember grew up in Perth and never felt the need to leave. Starting her own business was the best thing she’s done. The business has grown to 25 staff around Australia in four years. She’s also got two-year-old boy and six-year-old girl. “It’s been a big four years,” she says. Business was very quiet when the election was called in January 2013 but a lot more people know about us now because the recognition came in. She trained in stage management used to work at ABC television until she was made redundant when they were getting rid of the floor managers. She spent three years in real estate then a corporate job as business development manager at the chamber of commerce and industry. “Floor managing is such good training for babysitting people,” she says. “Everything I’ve done is really about customer service and looking after people. “We look after everyone from a chemical fitter to the new CEO for an oil and gas company. “If it’s a group of Filipinos who want to save money we put them into a house near the airport for $300 a week as they work on shifts. They are making the most of their money. We’ll take them to good second hand goods stores to buy most of their furniture. So they’re donating to charity while not spending as much. We’ll fit out their houses and do it as economically as possible for them. “Then we’ll have a senior manager come in with a $2,500 per week budget plus schooling allowances.”These she encourages to look at an alternative to renting a high level executive place in a very upmarket area such as in Perth’s western suburbs. “We’ll try to minimise their costs as much as we can,” she says. “Perth and Australia in general has a high cost of living. “Instead of paying school fees right away, we’ll look at areas that have really, really good local schools. “It all depends. Every client is different.” Sue will find a four bedroom, two bathroom house in a suburb such as Willeton or Shelley or Rossmoyne where the schools are excellent and with 1970s-80s Ramsey Street-style houses which have been renovated and with a pool in the backyard. To buy, if the expatriates wanted to settle in Perth later, these houses cost between $550,000 and $750,000 and they’re close to public transport so they can get in and out of the city easily.Whereas, if they rent in an expensive area they would never be able to afford to buy later. “The entry price to buy something in those suburbs is $1 million,” she says. “That’s setting people up into a life that’s not affordable. I try to find them reality, something they can achieve.” It’s easy to end up paying $1,500 a week rent and spending $30,000 a year in private school fees per child. “And then you go out and buy a brand new car, you’re not going to get much change out of $400,000 a year,” Sue says. “And then when they’re deciding to stay or not, they’re not going to say: ‘Let’s downgrade our lifestyle’. That’s losing face. They pack up and go back home.” It’s not just about getting a rental property in the right area and getting the kids into school. Relocating is so much more than that. It’s the secrets, where to shop, what to do, where to get a really good cup of coffee, where not to get ripped off. “I had a client from Italy who was so excited when I took them to Fremantle and they were able to find the cheese they love,” she says. “And there are cheaper places to buy food from such as farmers markets. This is local knowledge you’re not going to find on the internet. It’s like having a friend on the ground from the start. “A lot of people get ripped off, have a bad experience and pack up and go home. If you walk into a car yard and say you need to buy a car, they’ll know you’re desperate.” Sue runs up to six events a month, including book clubs, coffee catch ups, ladies lunches and seminars in preparing kids for new schools. She’s always being asked. “Do you know a good restaurant?” ********* Perth is the most isolated coastal capital city in the world. This was always said with some pride, the distance a badge of honour. This was more an exercise in contrasting to the eastern states, where the big bucks, the big jobs, the big businesses, used to reside. However, the new thinking is that Perth, when you take good look at the map, has a more central position in the scheme of things. Rather than thinking about a five-hour flight to east coast of Australia, Perth is just a few hours in the air to Asia. It’s quicker to get to Singapore, and even faster to Jakarta, than it is to fly to Sydney. Tim Shanahan, the director of the Energy and Minerals Institute at the University of Western Australia, is a major beneficiary of the mining boom. Six years ago, his job didn’t exist. His institute now receives millions of dollars from mining companies to further its work. That is to further the intellectual capital of the state rather than focus entirely on the big infrastructure projects. “There has been a very significant realisation that Perth shares the same time zone as 60 per cent of the world’s population,” Shanahan says. “Two hours to the east and two hours to the west of the city. All of the things that we produce get mostly sold into North East Asia. Look at Perth’s previous view of itself that we were the most isolated capital city in the world. Now if you look at it in a north-south framework we are actually at the centre of where the world’s emerging economies are. That’s a very significant position for Australia and Perth.” Over the last few years the University of WA has moved into the top 100 universities in the world on the academic rankings. Shanahan argues that this is in itself a major investment. Having a world class university is part of what makes Perth attractive. “When you’re looking for investment in our state, our city, that is going to be globally material,” he says. He also points to the philanthropy in Western Australia including the big ones reported in detail in the media such as the $65 million from mining magnate Andrew Twiggy Forrest and his wife Nicola. The new $50 million Forrest Foundation will fund scholarships and postdoctoral fellowships across all five WA universities. Another $15 million will build Forrest Hall, a creative living space for rising research stars at UWA. “65 million dollars is an absolute game changer,” says Shanahan. “We’ve had significant investments from the mining and energy companies; funding professorial research projects, endowing research chairs, pumping more money into scholarships, more money the built environment of the university. This is all reflective on the comparative advantage Perth and WA has in the area of energy and minerals. Those will be lasting investments by those companies because they are now essentially moving into their operational phase, particularly iron ore.” And a lot of people want to be part of the current boom and the future of mining. The number of students enrolling for engineering has doubled. “The companies have invested in the university to ensure those students have the benefit of a world class faculty and that the courses we are teaching are aligned to business needs,” he says. “That’s probably gone under the radar a bit. Governments have supported that, companies have supported that and the university has supported that. You need to have all three players in alignment. Even operating in a very buoyant market, there are still very significant challenges to get everyone lined up.” Just before Christmas 2013 the institute announced a $17 million investment by BHP into the university. BHP had previously put money into the business school and now it is putting money into the engineering faculty. Shell has invested in a chair in offshore engineering. The world’s largest floating structure is being built in Korea and will come online in the next few years. This is investment in capability. The focus is automation, robots and the interaction of humans to these systems. And WA will be the global leader in production in remote and hostile environments. Education is Australia’s fourth largest export. The Colorado School of Mines, in an area where there’s a not a lot of mining going on, has a world reputation as a centre for research and education. Shanahan says: “The challenge for the university is to maintain the momentum. This is a global competition, it’s not a cross town rivalry. These are globally significant issues the university is working on. The companies are essentially investors who can choose to invest anywhere in the world.” The next project is a world rock art complex. “With the assistance of industry we’ve been able to attract and recruit some world class expertise in this area,” he says. “Clearly there’s a social benefit as well as a community benefit.” He says nothing has stopped with the winding down of the construction phase of the mining boom. Mountains of ore are being shipped and the mines still need to be staffed. And on the construction side, LNG projects are being built and iron ore still has Gina Rinehart’s Roy Hill mine being created. “All this new capacity starts to age from the day it’s installed and you need to be thinking about the life cycle of those assets, smart maintenance and the management of those assets,” Shanahan says. “And gas is getting deeper offshore and then you have all the issues with onshore shale gas. “They will make their mines more efficient. Over history the cost of production of minerals has come down. Miners and energy companies have become absolutely focused on the cost of production and competing on a global market. Most of the gains have been achieved through technological breakthroughs and the application of capabilities that universities and researchers have provided.” ********* The state government coffers do well from mining. One in five dollars spent by the Western Australian government comes from the minerals industry. And most of that $5.8 billion annual royalty revenue comes from iron ore. That revenue is so sensitive to the price of iron ore that every time it moves up or down by $1 that means the state has gained or lost $45 million. Then there’s the exchange rate. A high Australian dollar against the US dollar brings back fewer local dollars, a falling dollar more. At the moment a trending lower dollar is working in the state’s favour but the falling iron price, driven by China, isn’t. And there’s another catch. Each time the states adds another $100 million in minerals royalties, it loses $90 million in federal GST revenue. For a $100 million increase in iron ore royalty revenue (due to increased value of production), all else being equal, Western Australia will lose an estimated $90 million of GST grants in net present value terms (the loss will occur in later years due to the time lags in the Grants Commission process). ********* Since Colin Barnett was a student at the University of Western Australia in the late 1960s and early ‘70s, the production of iron ore has increased ten-fold. The numbers are massive. From around 1 million tonnes a week too about 1.5 million tonnes a day now. At that time Perth was a smaller and sleepier town. Fewer people, fewer cars. A simpler life. However, change was also rapid then when the post-war reconstruction of Japan brought on iron ore and natural gas development in the remote Pilbara region and the effect on the Perth Central CBD in the 1960s was extraordinary. Barnett says: “This is the time we now look back on and lament the loss of a lot of old heritage buildings in the centre of the city, but at the time, there was a great energy and excitement and that marked quite a turning point in the history of the city and really marks the beginning of modern Perth.” He remembers the country town feel of Perth, something comforting. He believes, however, that Perth has managed to retain a lot of that laid-back, relaxed friendly and welcoming atmosphere. “I think if there has been a loss of any of that, it is more than compensated for with a bit more variety in terms of the cultural influences and events in Perth.” Barnett, now Premier of Western Australia, acknowledges the strains the city is under as it grows again under another boom. “The fact is that Perth is evolving into a big city and some of the problems – of congestion, for example – are almost inevitable,” he told Business Insider Australia. “There is no doubt that the growing population – and it is growing to the tune of around 1,500 people a week – is putting more pressure on the transport system. The State Government has placed a great deal of emphasis on improving the capacity of Perth’s roads with several projects around the metropolitan area. We have continued to invest in the public transport network as well and will soon build a new railway line to the airport and into Perth’s Eastern suburbs.” The population increase has also put pressure on other infrastructure such as schools and hospitals. In health, WA has a $7 billion building program. Other big projects include Perth City Link to sink the railway line in the centre of the city, the Elizabeth Quay project to re-open the city to the river and the Stadium, a world-class event venue. “I know that some people, particularly some of the baby boomers and some older people – people like me, if you like – and especially some of those in the more established, older suburbs of Perth – have questioned why we would spend money on projects like this, which change some aspects of the city. “But these projects are not designed for people like me who have enjoyed Perth as it has always been, these are projects for the future, for young people and people new to Perth who demand a better range of entertainment options, and who want to see some of WA’s good fortune invested to create a more vibrant city.” The history of WA is based on migration. Since the gold rush of the 1890s, which in many ways was the making of WA, the Western Australian identity has been formed with many influences. Post WWII WA took in many European migrants who had a big influence on the community, the 1970s saw a big influx of people from Asia. Barnett: “These days we have people from all over the world here and for the most part I think they all very readily accept that they are now West Australian and do not seem to have had too many problems, no matter where they might have been born, embracing the WA way of life. I think we are all pretty good at making each other feel welcome here too. To some extent here we are all united by a common purpose and I really don’t think there is an issue with establishing a West Australian identity. Maybe it’s something to do with the landscape or the weather that subdues everyone eventually.” Many people have not felt the benefits as much as others. “We have a wide range of assistance programs in place to help disadvantaged people, carers and seniors with many household expenses. We have also invested more than $600 million in the not-for-profit sector to provide services to many of the most disadvantaged in our community, such as people with disabilities. At the end of the day we recognise that they provide the services better than government ever could.” All benefit, Barnett says, from the enormous investment into infrastructure projects such as world-class hospitals, schools, roads and other services provide stimulation to the local economy. “We have the best unemployment rate of any state in Australia. Western Australia also has the highest paid nurses, police officers and teachers in the country.” The changing working environment in WA means many people have much more flexible working arrangements and many work fly in fly out these days. “I know that that can be a challenge, but I also know that many families are happy to have the time to spend together enjoying what Perth – and WA – has to offer when they are not at work.” He says there’s no doubt that as Perth grows to accommodate more people, there will have to be a move towards greater housing density and in many cases smaller homes. “But that is fine, not everyone wants or needs – or can afford – a big house on a big block and it is important that there is a big range of housing options for say, older people, young couples or singles. As long as there are a range of housing options available, I think you will find, with changing lifestyles, there will be a gradual move away from bigger houses and bigger yards to smaller houses, perhaps closer to the inner city. “In spite of all its changes, Perth is still a city that is relatively easy to get around and with a climate and a physical location that offers a lifestyle that is the envy of people around the world.” ********* Marlon Johns, the tracker, leaves his house in Bunbury, south of Perth, just after 5 am. At 9.30 am he’s 1,500 kms north of Perth at Rio Tinto’s Brockman 2 mine in the Pilbara between Dampier and Parabadoo. There are two flights each week direct from Bussleton, a country town, to the mine site. Marlon does the day shift driving a Haulpak, an enormous truck, feeding a crusher with ore. “We go straight through to site. They have their own little airstrip. I get off the plane, get dressed and go straight to work. We get on site around 9.30 and start work at ten. It takes an hour and a half on the plane. I do two weeks on, one week off. I leave home Tuesday and come back two weeks later.” While he was working for the Main Road Department, Marlon was applying for FIFO jobs with mining companies. It’s not easy to get one. “You need qualifications. You need a license (for a truck) and you have to have some sort of experience.” Flying straight through to the mine site is a bonus. When Marlon was working FIFO previously, before he broke his leg and had to step down, he had to first drive to Perth from Bunbury, park the car and then fly out. “Life’s good, you know,” says Marlon. “There are hardly any bills in the house and we can afford things we never used to be able to.” His children now have iPads. “I’ve got an ‘86 caprice, six litre, got a motorbike, got the house, caravan, four-wheel drive,” he says. “Every man has got to have his toys.” And when he’s away, he doesn’t have to pay anything. “You have everything up there; all the food, clothing, boots. All you have to do is go up there and do your job.” It’s a production site but not really in full swing yet. They have autonomous trucks running, skimming off the topsoil to reveal the ore underneath. Then Marlon and his fellow drivers come in to get the good stuff to feed to the ore crusher. “They are very easy to dive, actually easier than a car but bigger. And we have lots of women on site driving.” And the job can be dangerous. “You have to stay focused all the time. It only takes a split second and someone’s dead. It would just feel like a speed hump going over a car in one of those big dump trucks.” Marlon stays fit. He sometimes does quick exercises on the deck of the Haulpak to unravel the kinks. At the end of the shift, he hits the gym before he has dinner. “I’m getting $120,000 a year,” he says. “I’m a greenie (new worker) but I’ve already had experience driving the trucks. I took a week to train up. Another guy took four to five weeks. Some guys are on $150,000 to $160,000 a year, maybe more.” Marlon doesn’t find it easy working away. He would rather be at home with the family, eating dinner together. But the mine works suits him for now. Eventually Marlon would like to work for himself. “I just want to pay the house of and then come home. And set up a little business, a kangaroo hunting business, so I can be home every night. “I can feed the Aboriginal community and maybe some of the white people as well. “It’s cheap and there’s not much fat in the Kangaroo meat, it’s pretty lean. I’d like to do it all myself, get the kangaroos and cut them up. I used to work at the Katanning abattoirs.” “My favourite food is kangaroo.” Just a stew, like a little casserole, served with damper bread. What he likes about life best is getting home and being with the family. And fishing, golf, hunting. “My wife (Jayne) makes a mean marron curry,” he says “We go diving for them in the creeks and rivers. We use snares and stuff as well.” Since he tracked the missing woman, Marlon’s phone number sits with the local police who call when he’s needed. “There was an old guy who went missing,” Marlon says. “They found his pushbike in Bunbury. They called me up and I went down and I found in him in three minutes and they’d been at it all day in the rain.” How does he do that? “It’s just a feeling, common sense. He was riding his pushbike and then he locked it up against the fence. He didn’t have a flat tyre or anything so he didn’t walk off. And sure enough I found him in a couple of minutes. And they were looking in the wrong direction. They just don’t have sense. They don’t think like I would.” Marlon has passed on this knowledge to his sons, and now one of his daughters. “She comes with me hunting,” he says. “I didn’t used to take the girls but she comes with me now and she’s sort of good at it. We’re after kangaroos and rabbits. We missed out on a big pig yesterday. They’re a bit too quick.” The writer is on Twitter: @TheLastWhale This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
    Esther Perel, a couples therapist and the international best selling author of "Mating in Captivity," reveals her provocative perspective on the subject of infidelity. Aiming to spark a new conversation about this taboo topic, Perel reverses the lens by proposing that affairs are not a symptom of a problem in one's relationship, but are instead an expression of a deeper longing to experience something different. FREE AppDownload
Fox Business, screenshotFox Business Network anchor Maria Bartiromo blasted her former colleagues at CNBC, saying they weren't working as hard as she did when it came to booking guests.  The Daily Beast's Lloyd Grove reports (emphasis ours): “It wasn’t just the intense competition, it was a competition with my own company at CNBC,” said Bartiromo, who is marking five weeks of anchoring her two-hour stock market program on FBN, Opening Bell with Maria Bartiromo, and on Sunday debuts her live hour-long interview show on Fox News, Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo.  (In other words, her famous name and face are all over both cable outlets.) “Six or seven years ago, my boss came and said, ‘Maria, you’re the only one who’s working, the only one who’s picking up the phone and getting big hitters on the air, and I need to make other people do that.’” Elsewhere in the story she complains about other shows trying to book her guests, rather than getting their own — intra-CNBC poaching, basically. In a sense, Bartiromo's perspective is not that different from what was expressed by some insiders at CNBC who projected a sense of relief that she had left because of constant head-butts over booking guests, Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal reported earlier. Read The Daily Beast's full Bartiromo report here »   FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesHow many suits are in your closet? Are they the right ones? Whether you need to wear a suit every day to work or just need something in your closet for special occasions, the task of buying suits can seem daunting. However, it doesn't need to be. Buying suits can be easy and even fun without breaking the bank. If anyone in the world wants you buying a closet full of suits, it's Kyle Vucko, co-founder and CEO of Indochino, a company making some of the best inexpensive made-to-measure suits around. Still, he says that the first consideration in how many suits you need is what you do for a living. "Everyone needs at least one suit," he says. "You can even get by at a job where you have to wear suits every day on three." Samantha Shih, founder and CEO of 9Tailors thinks that three is the magic number for all men. "You need a grey suit, a black suit and a navy suit," she says. Another question guys building their suit wardrobe up often wonder about is where to wear what they have. Shih explained that black suits are very formal, while navy is more professional. Medium grays are good for just about any occasion. Vucko recommends that you go with the navy suit first, or maybe a charcoal. After that, you should get a light grey or a sharkskin blue. Solids come first, then pinstripe, then checks. Why? "If you're not wearing suits every day, it's important to keep them more neutral," says Shih. The reason being that you're more likely to wear the same suit on multiple occasions. "If you're buying suits to wear to special occasions, people are going to notice that you've recycled your suit if it's a more memorable pattern," says Shih. Indeed, Vucko recommends that you avoid even pinstripes until you buy your fifth or sixth suit. "I'm a big proponent of purpose," says Shih. "Ask yourself, 'What's the purpose of what I'm wearing?'" After that, the main consideration is fit. "Definitely try things on," she says. And while not everyone can afford even the most inexpensive made-to-measure suits (which generally come in at around $600 to $800), basically anyone can afford to buy something off the rack and get it tailored. "Zara is a great place for guys who want a mid-range suit," says Shih, who also likes what J. Crew has on offer for off-the-rack men's suits. Tailoring will come in at under $100, making even an off-the-rack suit noticeably less expensive than something bespoke. Vucko is a huge fan of the crisp white shirt. However, he acknowledges that for the man on a budget, they come with problems. "White shirts can be tough to clean," he says. "They fade and lose their luster." On the other hand, pastel shirts are less versatile, but hold up better in the long run. "Ginghams are a great way to go, because you can dress them up and dress them down," he says. Another advantage? They can be worn with either suits or jeans, depending on your preference. Another thing Vucko loves? Using a tie or pocket square to color pop an otherwise unmemorable suit. "I'd say that I strongly encourage men to wear a pocket square," he says. "It's an easy and inexpensive way to add fun to an outfit." What's more, Vucko thinks that they might even be better in outfits with no tie. "It's one of those places like socks where you have almost total free reign," he says. The ultimate accessory, however, is the shoe and this is an area where the otherwise easy going Vucko has some decidedly strong opinions. "It's really easy to say 'I'll just get an $80 pair of shoes,' but I see them as an investment. Spend the money." On what? For Vucko, it's an emphatic "brown." "I think the name of the color that I swear by is called 'tobacco,'" he says. "Unless you're wearing a tux or going to a funeral, you can even wear them with black suits." FREE AppDownload
Michael Lewis and his publisher have done an excellent job keeping the details of his new book, 'Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt', completely under wraps, but some details are leaking out. The book is about high frequency trading, and a firm called IEX that has created a separate exchange where everyone — fast or super fast — is safe to trade. This is a controversial topic on Wall Street as the question of whether or not HFT firms hurt the market or not is still in the air to some. Those that say it does blame HFT for 2010's terrifying Flash Crash and other stock exchange stumbles. Critics say that firms that trade at high speeds can harm other actors in the market, and even cheat them out profitable trades. The SEC, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, and even Goldman Sachs, agree with that.Here's what Goldman told the WSJ about IEX: “We view IEX’s core mission as simplifying an overly complex market structure trough a transparent rule set, minimal number of order types, and most significantly, a speed buffer that intentionally slows down trading in their market, relative to other venues,” Goldman said in its memo, adding that the firm has “consistently been the most active broker in IEX.” Simplifying such a complicated topic like HFT like requires a careful treatment Lewis has demonstrated throughout his career, and then some. In 'Flash Boys', Lewis tells his readers right off the bat the stock exchanges they picture in their heads — the people yelling, the ticker tape — is dead. "The U.S. stock market now trades inside black boxes, in heavily guarded in New Jersey and Chicago," he writes in the prologue. "What goes on inside those black boxes is hard to say." In an excerpt seen by Business Insider, Lewis describes the world that IEX is trying to correct. It's a world built by brilliant Russian programmers "oblivious" of the harm they're doing to regular stock holders — who see their code creations as pieces of themselves. He specifically recounts the story of Sergey Aleynikov, a Goldman Sachs programmer accused of stealing the companies secrets. Lewis wrote about Aleynikov in Vanity Fair, but in the book weaves his story into the context of the creation of IEX. IEX was born at the Royal Bank of Canada in large part thanks to Brad Katsuyama, the man who ran the bank's U.S. trading desk. Katsuyama has been outspoken about the problems with HFT before, and it was he who lead the defection from the firm. The goal, Lewis writes, was to "restore fairness in the U.S. stock market." Katsuyama had watched his clients get nickeled and dimed while trading for them. “I started to realize that, day in and day out, I was getting screwed,” Katsuyama told the New York Times last year. With this book, it's likely that Katsuyama will get to dole out some payback. He'll start with a spot on 60 MINUTES, Sunday, March 30 (7:00-8:00 PM, ET/PT) on CBS. FREE AppDownload
Baseball has been revolutionized by Moneyball insights about the importance of on-base percentage and other advanced statistical measures in evaluating players. Basketball isn't there yet. Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban says the complex team dynamics of basketball make it much more complicated, as he explains to Professor Kirk Goldsberry at Grantland: “It’s not like Moneyball in baseball, where analytics are a good way to determine who to sign or who not to sign, unless where they were is analogous to where you’re trying to bring them. [A basketball player] might have X number of win shares on a team that likes to push the ball, and a team that slows it down is a different beast. A guy might be a great rebounder if a team keeps him close to the basket, but if we show on pick-and-rolls or play zone, those numbers are going to be very different,” Cuban says. Statistics do matter in basketball, including the advanced metrics teams hope to get with expensive new camera systems, but they aren't that effective yet. Case in point is Monta Ellis, the guard who signed with the Mavericks last summer. Ellis used to be notorious among stat geeks for taking lots of bad shots, but since coming to Dallas he has been reborn as a powerful and surprisingly effective offensive force. About the haters, Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle tells Goldsberry: "Those guys are idiots." FREE AppDownload
America's 65-and-older population is growing rapidly thanks to the aging Baby Boom generation. This means more and more people are dropping out of the labor force and spending less and less money. "The retirement wave is just starting," notes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. "This is the primary reason for the secular decline in the participation rate. Indeed, from 2010 to 2013, more than 60% of labor force dropouts were retirees — more than double the share for the prior three years." Graphically, the trend is breathtaking. "This is not a chart of a dot-com stock circa 1999," said Rosenberg. "This is the annual increase in the number of Americans turning 65 — the number is going to be at least 1.5 million per year for at least the next fifteen years. We are seeing record high numbers of people falling into the 65 and over age bracket, resulting in a significant shift in U.S. demographics and thus the labor market." Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
valuebin.files.wordpress.comSeth KlarmanSeth Klarman, one of the most successful investors in history, recently returned $4 billion of capital to his clients. He also reportedly has 40% of his portfolio in cash. Why? Because Klarman can't find anything he is comfortable investing this money in. Klarman recently sent a letter to his clients explaining his view of the world. This view can be described as "confident that these good times will come to an end." Klarman doesn't say stocks are "a bubble." He doesn't say prices are "ridiculous." He doesn't say the things that some of the louder doom-and-gloomers are howling about the coming devastation.  But he certainly thinks that what's happening now is, in large part, the result of unsustainable easy-money policies from the Fed, and that it is too good to last. One of the most important things you can do as an investor is to try to seek out smart arguments that lay out the opposite side of the views that you hold. In other words, if you're bullish, you should seek out smart bears, and vice versa. So every investor who is bullish on stocks should read Seth Klarman's recent letter. And if you just don't have time to do that — if you're so sure that stocks are just going to keep going up and that anyone who voices caution is a moron — then at least read Klarman's conclusion below. And don't just read it. Actually think about it. Someday, financial markets will again decline. Someday, rising stock and bond markets will no longer be government policy – maybe not today or tomorrow, but someday. Someday, QE will end and money won’t be free. Someday, corporate failure will be permitted. Someday, the economy will turn down again, and someday, somewhere, somehow, investors will lose money and once again come to favor capital preservation over speculation. Someday, interest rates will be higher, bond prices lower, and the prospective return from owning fixed-income instruments will again be roughly commensurate with the risk. Someday, professional investors will come to work and fear will have come to the markets and that fear will spread like wildfire. The news flow will be bad, and the markets will be tumbling. ... Six years ago, many investors were way out over their skis. Giant financial institutions were brought to their knees... The survivors pledged to themselves that they would forever be more careful, less greedy, less short-term oriented. But here we are again, mired in a euphoric environment in which some securities have risen in price beyond all reason, where leverage is returning to rainy markets and asset classes, and where caution seems radical and risk-taking the prudent course. Not surprisingly, lessons learned in 2008 were only learned temporarily. These are the inevitable cycles of greed and fear, of peaks and troughs. Can we say when it will end? No. Can we say that it will end? Yes. And when it ends and the trend reverses, here is what we can say for sure. Few will be ready. Few will be prepared. In that last paragraph, Klarman reveals the full extent of his wisdom: He admits that he doesn't know when the current euphoria will end.  In an environment when market pundits are supposed to have a black-and-white, minute-to-minute view of what the market will do next, this admission is startling. And it's also true. No one knows that the market will do next. Some people, though — Jeremy Grantham, Seth Klarman, John Hussman, Robert Shiller, and many others — are looking at the current level of stock prices and comparing them to average prices over the past 150 years. And, based on these prices (and other factors, like the Fed), they are concluding that stocks have a lot of downside risk. So much so that, Klarman at least, is forgoing fees to avoid getting clobbered by this risk. Klarman, et al, may be wrong. We may still be in the early stages of an amazing new bull market. Stocks may climb this little "wall of worry" and march much, much higher from here. They may never return to historical averages again. But if you are confident that that's what stocks will do, at least do yourself the favor of thinking carefully about why you believe that—that you're not just optimistic because the last 5 years have been so good and that you have a strong fundamental thesis to support your views. And be comfortable with the 40%-50% downside that you might experience if you are wrong. Because hope is not a strategy. And no one benefits from ignoring smart folks on the other side of the trade. You can read a long excerpt from Seth Klarman's letter a Zero Hedge here &gt; SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Keep Going Up If The Economy Keeps Growing Should Brush Up On History FREE AppDownload
With The Wolf of Wall Street topping $375 million worldwide, TV is looking to buy in. On March 13, Showtime greenlighted the hedge-fund collusion drama Billions, fromThe New York Times' DealBook editor Andrew Ross Sorkin, and broadcast sibling CBS is prepping an untitled thriller from executive producer John Cusack and Justified's Taylor Elmore starring Boardwalk Empire's Charlie Cox as an Iraq vet-turned-hedge-fund trader. PHOTOS: Faces of Pilot Season 2014 Meanwhile, Fox Television Studios is shopping an adaptation of Kevin Roose's nonfiction best-seller Young Money as a potential drama series, with Burn Notice's Alfredo Barriosattached to write. Also in the works: Sony Pictures Television is adapting The Buy Side, based on the best-selling autobiogrpahical book by ex-Galleon Group trader Turney Duff with Sheldon Turner,Michael Dinner and Michael De Luca attached. Not to be outdone, the actual Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort (played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film), is teaming with Electus to shop a reality show featuring himself helping others who have hit rock bottom and are seeking redemption.  "We've long believed that the world of Wall Street is fertile ground for a drama," says Sorkin, who with Billions co-creators Brian Koppelman and David Levien (Runner Runner, Runaway Jury) has been developing ideas in the Wall Street space for five years. "It is filled with colorful, complex characters and deep moral questions about the power of money, greed and corruption."  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThere are some pretty obvious ways to get in trouble on Wall Street: screw up a huge project, upset an important client, stop showing up to work, losing a ton of money, etc. These are standard. But there are other ways we've heard of — really weird ways — that have gotten Wall Streeters in serious trouble, or worse, fired. These stories involve everything from mooning the boss to getting mad at a co-worker for passing gas.  So yeah, they could happen to anyone ... right? FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
We recently posted a map of the most popular destination cities for immigrants in America.  Unsurprisingly, the top twenty cities for net immigration had a pretty big overlap with the twenty largest cities in the U.S. — it is not too crazy that a huge number of immigrants move to New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Houston, given that those cities already have a huge number of people. To get a better feel for cities where there might be a disproportionate number of immigrants, relative to size, we made the following map, based on the Census' recently released population change estimates, of net international migrants between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2013, adjusted for the original July 1, 2012 population: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census This shows something of a different picture. The biggest cities are underrepresented here, and there are a number of interesting patterns in the smaller towns that show up on this map. Here are the twenty cities with the most net immigrants, per 10,000 people in the 2012 baseline: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census These cities appear to fall into a couple groups. To look more closely at this, here's a map with just the top twenty cities: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Three of the cities, in red, are located near military bases. It's not totally clear what effect this might have on international migration, but it is something these cities have in common. Five of the cities, in light blue, are large cities that also appear on the top twenty cities with the most total net international migration. Even adjusting for population, these are popular destinations for immigrants. Trenton and Bridgeport, in dark blue, are both in the Greater New York combined metropolitan area, and so their location may be a factor in their high levels of international migration. Six cities, in green, are home to large research universities, and may be attracting a disproportionate number of international students and faculty. The rest of the cities, in yellow, do not fall into these other groups. Dumas, TX is a small agricultural town with a large Hispanic population, so it may be attracting migrant workers. Honolulu's unique location halfway between North America and Asia makes it a natural location for high immigration. Of course, these categories are rough and approximate. It is also possible, especially for the smaller cities with nearby military bases and the cities outside the four main categories, that there are just some local idiosyncrasies that lead to high levels of net international migration. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/najeebkhan2009(Reuters) - As increasing numbers of technology companies defer initial public offerings, one influential Wall Street investor has stepped up to the plate in Silicon Valley. Tiger Global Management, part private equity manager and part hedge fund manager, has emerged as among the most prominent of a growing club of Wall Street financiers now eyeing technology start-ups. They include hedge funds such as Coatue Management and Valiant Capital Management; private equity groups such as Rizvi Traverse Management and TPG; and mutual fund giants BlackRock, Fidelity and T. Rowe Price. Their traditional focus on larger companies in late stages of financing has partially given way to a search for young companies that have proven their chops and attracted investments from leading venture firms, but have not yet held richly priced initial public offerings. Despite strong public markets that have brought outsized valuations for recent IPOs such as message service Twitter, and security company FireEye, many companies are delaying going public and seeking private funding instead. And the bankrolling these days is coming as much from hedge funds and other Wall Street asset managers as from Silicon Valley money. Tiger Global, a so-called "Tiger Cub" because of its ties to investor Julian Robertson and his once-high flying hedge fund Tiger Management, has quietly taken one of the largest positions of the newcomers, technology investors say. "They're filling an important need in the ecostystem to provide capital for companies that are not going public right now," said Peter Levine, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, a venture-capital firm that co-invests with Tiger. Nontraditional late-stage investors, including Altimeter Capital, Coatue Management, Fidelity Investments, Maverick Capital, T. Rowe Price, Tiger Global, and Valiant Capital, invested $2.5 billion in 39 deals last year, up 26 percent from 2012, according to consultants CB Insights. ROBERTSON PROTEGE Founded in 2000 with $25 million by Chase Coleman, a protégé of Robertson's, Tiger has earned the respect of Silicon Valley denizens, in part through its highly profitable investment in Facebook. At the time of that company's 2012 IPO, Tiger Global owned some 54 million shares. The firm made about $1 billion on its Facebook stock, according to a person familiar with the matter. While the firm has long been active in venture-backed companies, particularly internationally, it has recently stepped up the pace in Silicon Valley. It started investing in U.S. venture-backed companies in 2008, soon funding big names such as Facebook, data-analysis company Palantir, professional network LinkedIn and gaming company Zynga Tiger Global's Silicon Valley deals tend to come from its venture-growth funds, which have total capital commitments of $7 billion, or about half the group's total. It is targeting an April 1 close and commitments of $1-$1.5 billion for the latest fund in the group, which is in line with the size of the previous fund, according to documents provided to Reuters. Tiger also manages technology-focused hedge funds and long-only funds, meaning the funds don't place short bets. That public-equity business also has about $7 billion in committed capital. People familiar with the matter say that Lee Fixel, who co-runs Tiger's venture-growth business with Scott Shleifer, has been particularly active in the firm's venture-backed deals. Fixel sits on the board of Dave Goldberg's online survey business SurveyMonkey, which Tiger first backed early last year in a $444 million equity investment that valued the company at $1.35 billion. Just this year, Tiger has led investments in data business Actifio; ticketing service Eventbrite; and business-lender OnDeck, as well as participating in an investment in credit marketplace Credit Karma. Last year, it led investments in eyeglasses company Warby Parker; jobs site Glassdoor; online real-estate company Redfin; neighborhood social-network Nextdoor; blogging tool WordPress's parent, Automattic; and an earlier investment in Eventbrite. Coleman, 38, plays an active role on the growth-equity side of Tiger's business but like Fixel prefers to stay under the radar, a fund investor with Tiger told Reuters. He joined Robertson's Tiger Management after graduating from Williams College. MODEL'S MORPHING Traditionally, startups accept venture funding for the first few years of their lives, then sell to a bigger company or seek a listing on the stock exchange. If they need later-stage funding, they turn to a growth-equity firm rooted in venture capital, such as Institutional Venture Partners, Meritech, or Technology Crossover Ventures. Now, those firms sometimes find themselves going up against the newer entrants, in particular Tiger, as they seek to provide new funding rounds for start-up companies. Tiger's betting spree comes at a time when many public-market investors believe much of a company's traditional "pop," or stock-price appreciation in the days and months after its IPO is less pronounced than in past years. That's because greater valuations are reached on private markets than in the past. At least 30 privately-owned U.S. venture-backed companies hold valuations of $1 billion or more, according to valuations data tracked by Reuters. Several are Tiger-backed plays, such as SurveyMonkey, Evernote, Actifio and payments-company Square, whose investors also include Rizvi Traverse. Others are backed by different non-traditional venture investors, such as cloud-storage company Dropbox, whose investors include BlackRock and T. Rowe Price. If firms like Tiger waited until the companies went public to invest, they would be losing out on a large portion of the gains, entrepreneurs say. And there's benefit to the young firms, too. Actifio chief executive Ash Ashutosh expects Tiger can draw on its experience with other growth companies to help steer his company successfully through an IPO, when that day comes. "He's a technologist, he was an analyst, he understands tech very well," Ashutosh said about Coleman. "He's a very passionate person who invests in companies he truly loves." Veteran investors recall a similar time in the late 1990s when investments usually reserved for venture-capital firms attracted heavy interest from other investors. For example, Fidelity said in early 2000 it had invested $300 million over five years in emerging companies in software, networking and telecommunications. Ironically, Julian Robertson shuttered his Tiger Management funds in March 2000, partly because they were underperforming after investing in "old-economy" stocks rather than Internet highflyers. Just as he was closing, the Internet bubble's collapse was beginning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanEarlier this month, Goldman analysts took aim at most of the main arguments for why Bitcoin would succeed.  This morning, it's UBS' turn. In a new note, a team led by analyst Derek De Vries douses Bitcoin's potential. "Bitcoin faces economic, technical and regulatory challenges as a true currency," UBS says. "Bitcoin's speculation-driven volatility prevents it from being a stable store of value or unit of account, and its semi-fixed supply exacerbates volatility and deflationary pressure. As a means of exchange, it already consumes vast computing resources for relatively few transactions and faces scaling difficulties. Bitcoin also exists in something of a regulatory vacuum, or in some jurisdictions it is restricted or outright banned (e.g. in China, Russia) – which can be damaging to trust and sentiment." While statements from the financial world have have ranged from restrained optimism to the strongly negative, even the most tepidly bullish have concerns. "No major bank is backing Bitcoin," they write.  When asked about major Russian search engine Yandex's attempt to develop an e-commerce payment system, [Russia-based OAO Sberbank CEO German] Gref said that 'these experiments must end in one or two crashes.' Thus, while Bitcoin supporters have found an ally in Sberbank, the bank's support only appears to go as far as trying to prevent Russian governmental interference, and not actual involvement in Bitcoin operations. Like Goldman, they are more upbeat about the concept — but add that a third party could separate Bitcoin from its own underlying technology. "A bitcoin-like system could provide enhanced security and lower costs, by giving users direct control of their funds and the 'private key' which is used to ensure security through encryption. In principle, this kind of payment system could be developed and put into use by a third party – even a (possibly online-only) challenger bank that could appropriately handle deposits – which could potentially be a threat to existing banks." Oh and they include this chart: UBS Bitcoin prices dipped below $500 this morning, nearly four months to the day after they hit $1,000.  Check out the full UBS report here » FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The final results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 80.0 from February's 81.6 reading, marking the lowest level since November. Economists expected the index to fall to 80.5. Preliminary survey results published by the university two weeks ago suggested the index would fall to 79.9. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 95.7 from February's 95.4 reading, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 70.0 from 72.7. Inflation expectations one year ahead and five years ahead were unchanged at 3.2% and 2.9%, respectively. "37% of respondents reported that their financial situation was better compared with a year ago, which was the same percentage that reported it was worse; still, more than twice as many consumers (33%) expected an improving financial situation in the coming year than expected a worse one (16%)," says Cooper Howes, an economist at Barclays. "Only 15% of respondents expected unemployment to decline in the coming year, the softest reading since 2011; that said, the unemployment rate has fallen 3.3 percentage points since its peak even though no more than 30% of consumers have expected declines at any point during that time." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTourists visit the Panathenean stadium, the stadium which hosted the first modern Olympics in 1896, in Athens.By George Georgiopoulos ATHENS (Reuters) - On a cold day in January, car dealer Dimitris Antonopoulos handed over the keys of a brand new, white Jaguar worth 122,000 euros ($167,600), the first one sold in Greece in more than a year amid signs that a brutal recession might be easing. Businesses say they have started to see a few, still tender green shoots rising out of the economy's ruins - raising hopes that Greece's freefall has finally hit bottom, though few are willing to bet on a full recovery. A raft of positive economic data in recent weeks has lent credence to Prime Minister Antonis Samaras's declaration that Greece has turned a corner, and evidence on the ground suggests Europe's most troubled economy might be enjoying more than a statistical bounce. As Athens gears up to host an informal meeting of EU finance ministers next week, the mood in Antonopoulos's Tzortzis SA Jaguar-Land Rover showroom is brightening. "It has been psychologically tough, going to work to face a sales drought. The phones started ringing again, but it's too early to say we have turned the corner," Antonopoulos said. "Much will depend on whether growth returns. Our clients are mostly business people and they are still quite reserved." Elsewhere in Athens, cranes are busy building a new opera house and national library centre near the capital's coast, a regeneration project funded by the foundation of late shipping tycoon Stavros Niarchos and designed by Italian architect Renzo Piano. Some stalled motorway projects have resumed, helped by the unblocking of EU funds. Drilling machines are also working on a new subway line that will link the city's centre with the main port Piraeus. On the corporate front, the country's biggest cement maker Titan &lt;TTNr.AT&gt;, last month said resuming such state-funded projects would boost demand for cement in Greece this year for the first time since 2006. OTE &lt;OTEr.AT&gt;, Greece's biggest phone company, saw sales rise for the first time in five years in the fourth quarter of 2013. Hellenic Petroleum &lt;HEPr.AT&gt; said domestic fuel demand rose in the same period for the first time in 18 quarters. "JURY STILL OUT" The government, which predicts that the 182 billion euro economy will finally grow - albeit a mild 0.6 percent - this year, has already spoken of a "Greek success story" and is mulling a return to the bond markets in the coming weeks. Economists remain cautious, given the fragility of the ruling coalition backing Greece's EU/IMF bailout and a jobless rate stuck near 28 percent. "The jury is still out on whether Greece will see a meaningful pick up in exports and households remain pessimistic about their personal finances, meaning little prospect of a big spending rise," said Ben May at Capital Economics. Back in Greece's car showrooms, sales began a five-year slide in 2008 but turned positive in September last year, albeit from depressed levels. Antonopoulos's January transaction - the first Greek sale of a Jaguar in more than a year according to registration data collected by statistics service ELSTAT - can only have helped. February was the sixth month in a row of rising sales, thanks in part to higher demand for used cars and corporate sales as rental firms expand fleets on strong tourism bookings. New and used cars registrations remain a fraction of their pre-crisis levels. There were 78,630 of them last year compared to 347,354 in 2008 when the recession started, as cuts and taxes to shore up public finances squeezed household budgets. But the premium car segment - which tends to be the first to signal an oncoming slump and the first to show signs of recovery - has given some grounds for muted optimism after six years of a brutal recession that shrank overall output by a quarter. Some of the higher-end lines from premium brands like BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt; and Mercedes &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt; showed higher numbers this year, even though figures remain volatile and a far cry from pre-crisis levels. Only eight luxury Porsche &lt;PSHG_p.DE&gt; cars were sold in Greece last year, down from 457 in 2008. Where things are booming is the used car segment - in years past, one new car was sold for every two used ones but the crisis has turned the ratio to about one-to-eight. "Greeks are opting for cheaper solutions. There is more activity in used cars," said Stelios Syristatidis, sales manager at Karenta, a VW-Audi dealer. For now, it is all enough to hearten potential customers like plumber Costas Vihos. "I have been spending money to keep my 13-year old clunker running but it's time to part. I'm in the market for a new car with a bit of financing," he said as he checked out new models at a VW showroom. "How much worse can things get?" ($1 = 0.7278 euros) (Editing by Deepa Babington and Andrew Heavens) FREE AppDownload
CNBCMike MayoSince Citi failed its Federal Reserve mandated Doomsday stress test this week, no one person on Wall Street has been more vocal about getting answers than CLSA analyst Mike Mayo. Mayo has a history of butting heads with Citi's top brass. In 2010 he even suggested that the bank was cooking its books. Since former CEO Vikram Pandit exited the firm and Michael Corbat was ushered in, however, Mayo has raised his expectations for the bank's long term success. This failure with the Fed has made him less optimistic. "I'm adamant that Citi cannot afford to have business as usual," he told Business Insider. "Investors will be more furious if Citi treats the value of the stress test as simply a delay in the strategy that they had already planned." According to a piece in today's Wall Street Journal, Citigroup was warned. In multiple meetings, the Fed had tried to articulate Citi's shortcoming in terms of managing risk, despite the fact that in a simulated economy downturn, the bank's capital fell to 6.5% of assets, higher than the 5% Fed mandated minimum. This isn't to say that Mayo thinks Citi is mincemeat. He still sees long term value in the firm, but his multi-year price target has been lowered from $66 per share last fall, to $58. In short, it's going to take Citi a little longer to get on track than he thought before. But he's going some ideas as to how the bank can right the ship. You could call them demands, even. There are ten: Armed with these ideas, expect Mayo to make a lot of noise at Citi's annual shareholder meeting in St. Louis on April 22. He's bought his plane ticket, booked his hotel room, and even looked whether or not the Mets are playing the Cardinals while that week — but the teams are actually playing in Queens, at Citi Field. Go figure. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jae C. HongEditor's note: Below is an interview with David Kotok, founder and CIO of Cumberland Advisors. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Wednesday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: Assuming things die down in Ukraine, what macro events is Cumberland watching closely? David Kotok: There are plenty of geopolitical hotspots. Not just Ukraine. Nigeria and the ongoing Islamic militant killing of Christians in the half the country threatens the other half and the oil producing section.   Middle East and Persian Gulf we know. Venezuela is known.  There is not lack of trouble spots.       BI: What is Cumberland's view of the state of labor markets and inflation?    DK: Labor market recovering slowly in US and that is likely to gradually improve but will take a long time to restore to normal, whatever normal means. There are about 20 million American households with under employment or unemployment characteristics and they suffer from lower labor income. This is not an easy issue to fix. It needs a lot of time. BI: Do investors have much to worry about out of China?    DK: Yes. China slowing is a big issue and China credit system and the taking of credit losses is a new experience in this realm.  On the other hand a pickup in India growth rate can offset a slowing of china growth rate.   Mixed picture.   BI: What is the most underreported macro story around?    DK: Productivity gains from the acceleration of the rollout of the tech sector do not get enough attention. They continue unabated and are or may be accelerating. That means inflation is kept low from productivity gains and from low pressure coming from labor. That also means the case for low interest rates for a longer time than markets expect is intact. Every one fears higher rates. We may get some rise in rates but we may not get the spiking of rates that folks fear. Meanwhile the federal deficit is shrinking and that will continue for several more years. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn American tourist stands under a bridge as he looks at the construction site of the new European Central Bank (ECB) headquarters in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The pace at which euro zone banks are repaying their crisis loans to the European Central Bank has slowed significantly as extra cash in the system reaches critically low levels. Banks will return 1.558 billion euros ($2.14 billion) to the ECB on April 2, a lot less than this week's repayments of 18.909 billion euros and also far below the 9 billion forecast in a Reuters poll. Over the past three weeks, banks repaid in total around 40 billion euros, driven in part by the expiry of some of the sovereign bonds that they had bought with the cheap money. Lenders have also been shaping up their balance sheets for the review the ECB is making of their assets before it takes over banking supervision. This meant that excess liquidity - the amount of money banks have beyond what they need for their day-to-day operations - fell to 104 billion euros on Friday, the lowest since late 2011. It peaked in early 2012 at around 800 billion euros. Overnight bank-to-bank borrowing costs are expected to move up once excess liquidity drops below a certain level, seen between 80 billion and 100 billion euros. "It becomes a situation now, where the level of excess liquidity will have an effect on EONIA and this is a reason for banks to repay less," said a money market trader who asked not to be named. The main gauge of overnight money market costs, EONIA stood at 0.171 percent on Wednesday compared with 0.169 percent earlier this week. "We expect EONIA to rise to around 0.20 percent next week," the trader said. This development makes it more expensive for banks to get overnight funding and more attractive for them to hold on to the cheap long-term ECB loans. The ECB lent banks more than one trillion euros in three-year loans during the euro zone's debt crisis, in December 2011 and February 2012, to help lenders ride out funding constraints. Since January of last year, banks have repaid more than half of those loans. On Friday, the ECB said three banks would repay 175.2 million euros from the first LTRO on April 2, and five banks would pay back 1.383 billion from the second LTRO. (Reporting by Frankfurt newsroom; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman  You might be surprised to see me launch this column by defending a conservative like Gov. Chris Christie, but when it comes to his administration’s beef with Tesla Motors, I think he might be getting a bad rap. There’s no question Tesla is innovative. Their luxury electric cars and the hardware they sell to other companies are changing the way we drive, but they don’t want to stop there. Tesla also wants to revamp the way cars are sold in this country by selling directly to consumers rather than through dealers. This has led to battles in several states where existing regulations require giving franchise dealerships a piece of the action.  New Jersey is the most recent front in the Tesla tussle. Even though there’s not much chance of me swapping out my '05 Ford Escape hybrid for one of the company’s Model X cars anytime soon, I’ve been watching the fight closely. Tesla blamed the ban on direct sales that was passed in Jersey this month on a “backroom” deal between Christie’s administration and the auto lobby. Coverage of this fight in the tech press seems to have toed the Tesla line that these regulations are a roadblock to innovation designed to protect entrenched interests and reward the car dealers’ lobby for the cash they’ve thrown around over the years. I think that’s missing the point and I’ve been surprised that anyone is all that shocked by the opposition Tesla’s seen to their plans. Now let me stipulate to the fact that, during my time in Congress, like many other politicians, I received donations from car dealers. I should also note you could fill a book with what I don't know about New Jersey and I certainly don't know who promised what to whom in this case. Of course, I’ve also got plenty of problems with Christie and his policies. Still, I think the simplistic shouts of "let the market decide!" that we’re hearing from Tesla and their supporters minimizes the legitimacy of the regulations that have been passed over the years.   Why would you want to have laws that require a car be purchased through a local dealer? Perhaps to protect a purchaser's rights to easily enforce the warranty. To ensure the state's ability to enforce the reams of unique state legal requirements that govern automobile sales, service and even disposal maybe. Or, it might just be a run-of-the-mill instinct for local rather than federal regulations to govern what, for many Americans, is the biggest purchase of their lives. You may not agree with these conclusions, but these are longstanding laws and there was a robust back-and-forth about them well before Tesla drove onto the scene. Another issue with Tesla’s push to establish direct sales is that there isn't an element of the current structure that regulators and lawmakers didn't contemplate when these restrictions were implemented. Some innovators have a legitimate beef that the laws governing their industries are outdated, for example, the broadband companies stuck with a legal regime written way before the internet was born. Tesla’s situation is different. Tesla's CEO Elon Musk may argue that his product is so revolutionary it warrants special treatment, but it's still just a car. There’s nothing new about this debate. You can't swing a dead cat in Washington or any of the 50 state capitals without hitting a lobbyist pitching the idea some regulation is overreaching, unnecessary, or stifling of competition. With Silicon Valley’s libertarian streak, tech companies have been especially likely to butt heads with existing rules.  Along with Tesla, companies like Uber and Airbnb, are trying to do more than upset the established entities in their markets. They’re all building businesses on an even tougher bet — that they can get rule-makers and legislators to throw out the laws that those same people wrote. In this respect, the Tesla fight is noteworthy only in that it's a cool car.  Reasonable people may think regulations that get in the way of tech companies are all just bad laws. In Tesla’s case, some might consider bans on direct auto sales to be part of a protectionist regime set up by a powerful lobby — neighborhood car dealers — and unchallenged by a lazy industry that didn't want to antagonize its sales force. Still, dismissing all existing regulations out of hand without recognizing them as the product of reasoning and careful consideration isn’t the answer. Tesla and these other tech disruptors might want to put more of their energy into finding ways to fit their innovations into existing regulations. In situations where that’s not possible, why don’t these founders and tech executives focus on getting wider public support or convincing lawmakers their causes are just? Instead, they seem to show up expecting the world to be wowed by their shiny new companies and losing it when people don’t get out of the way. Gnashing of teeth via press release doesn't make the case where it counts. If you want to be in the business of selling great cars, there may be more productive ways to spend your time than bitching about the laws that the majority have passed and reaffirmed from the time of the Model T. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) February U.S. personal income and spending data are out. Personal income rose 0.3% in February, matching January's pace of growth and the consensus forecast of market economists. Spending was also up 0.3%, in line with the consensus forecast. January spending growth was revised to 0.2% from 0.4%. The savings rate rose to 4.3% in February from 4.2% in January. The price index of core personal consumption expenditures — the Federal Reserve's favorite measure of inflation — rose 0.1% in February, matching January's rise and the consensus forecast. The year-over-year change in core PCE (i.e., the annual inflation rate) was unchanged from January at 1.1%. Core PCE is the inflation measure the Fed cites in its communications. The central bank targets a 2% rate, well above current levels. "Overall, the underlying tone of this report was encouraging," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "Outside of the downward revision to January's estimate on spending, which would suggest a slower contribution to GDP from consumption than previously thought, the modest pick-up in spending suggests that the our underlying constructive view on the economic outlook is beginning to take shape. We continue to expect GDP growth in the upper end of the 1.5% to 2.0% range, though the risk may have shifted slightly to the downside. Nevertheless, we continue to expect growth momentum to pick-up meaningfully in the coming months, and the encouraging tone in this report certainty points in that direction. For the Fed, the subdued tone in inflation is likely to keep concerns about the lingering inflationary thrust going, and if this persists it is likely to keep any consideration of near-term rate hikes at bay." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Elon Musk is posting on Medium. And his first article is about the new titanium underbody shield and aluminum deflector plates to protect the carriages of the Model S from damages that could have led to the fires that occurred in two cars last year. "We felt it was important to bring this risk down to virtually zero to give Model S owners complete peace of mind," Musk writes. "Starting with vehicle bodies manufactured as of March 6, all cars have been outfitted with a triple underbody shield.  "Tesla service will also retrofit the shields, free of charge, to existing cars upon request or as part of a normally scheduled service," he says. There are the GIFs. Here's a Model S running over a three-ball tow hitch ...  A concrete block ...  And an alternator.  Tesla is up 0.55% this morning.   FREE AppDownload
    Google Calendar is emerging as the best option for individuals and businesses alike to stay on track. And there are a ton of neat tricks buried inside to make things even easier to navigate. Here are five of them to get you on your way to being a power user. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogOn Wednesday, I noted that the recent decline in the so-called “momentum” stocks--particularly in the S&amp;P 500 Biotechnology, Internet Retailing, and Internet Software &amp; Services industries--has raised fears that this might signal a market top. I noted that the S&amp;P 500 remains near record territory despite the weakness in these stocks and that investors may simply be rotating into stocks with lower valuation multiples. I noted that Financials seem to be benefiting from this internal correction. Wednesday afternoon, we learned that the Fed rejected the capital plans of five large banks and approved 25 as part of its annual stress tests. Companies must pass the test to receive approval to pay more dividends and to buy back shares. The results set the stage for several banks to do just that after years of restraint following the financial crisis. The S&amp;P 500 Bank Composite Index is up 6.9% ytd, and should continue moving higher. Also benefitting from the correction in the momentum stocks are the mature tech stocks that had been the high-flyers during the tech boom of the 1990s. The S&amp;P 500 Systems Software stock price index (CA MSFT ORCL RHT SYMC) is up 3.6% ytd to a new bull market high and only 21.5% below its March 23, 2000 all-time high. Back then, the forward P/E of this industry was 49.4. Now it is 13.4. Back then, industry analysts predicted long-term annual earnings growth of over 25%. Now they are projecting 9%. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Perspectives on Europe. (1) Europhiles in Boston. (2) Is “Stay Home” too consensus? (3) ECB ready to do more of whatever it takes. (4) Bundesbank’s hawk cooing like a dove. (5) Eurozone’s forward revenues and earnings still falling. (6) From momentum stocks to mature ones. (7) Fed lets more banks pay more dividends. (8) Investors rotating into Systems Software and Semiconductors. (9) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Financials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe WojazerA giant poster depicting Chinese President Xi Jinping is seen next to the Eiffel tower during a protest by activists from Reporters Without Borders (RSF) in Paris March 27, 2014. The Chinese President is on a three-day visit to France. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Wal-Mart suing Visa. The retail giant is accusing the credit-card behemoth of violating antitrust statutes by setting uncompetitive swipe fees. Wal-Mart is seeking $5 billion in claims. Visa shares were down 1% this pre-market. Hilsenrath. WSJ's Jon Hilsenrath says the Fed has begun pondering what a rate increase would look like when the time comes to raise them. "When the Fed first raises the rate, it will have several choices," he writes. "It could first firm the rate at the upper end of that range, 0.25%, and proceed later to lifting it higher. Alternatively, it could go straight to a higher level of 0.5%. Or it could lift the fed funds rate from a range of zero to 0.25% to a range of 0.25% to 0.5%."  Amazon denies TV report. Amazon is denying a report from Greg Bensinger at The Wall Street Journal reports that it is planning to release a free video-streaming service. In an email to Variety, Amazon spokesperson Sally Fouts said, “We’re often experimenting with new things, but we have no plans to offer a free streaming-media service." Spanish deflation and the Euro. Spain has officially entered deflationary territory as consumer prices contracted 0.2% YOY in March. As a result, the Euro is getting crushed on expectations the ECB will move aggressively to counteract the development.   Record UK trade deficit. The UK's current account deficit now totals $71 billion, or 5.4% of GDP, said to be a record. "However, relatively little of this is due to deteriorating net trade," the FT says. "Most of the decline stems from falling income from UK assets overseas, compared with income from foreign-owned assets in the UK." Services and consumer spending are continuing to drive the UK economic recovery. Services activity kicked up 3.2% YOY. Markets. Stocks were mostly higher across the world, led by Hong Kong's Hang Seng and Germany's Deutsche Boerse, both at 1%. U.S. futures are higher. Gold is up slightly. Lumber contracts were up 3%. Blackberry earnings. Blackberry turned a Q4 adjusted loss of $0.08, beating expectations for a loss of $0.57. Revenues of $976 million just missed expectations. Shares were up 4% pre-market.   Personal income. At 8:30 a.m. we get personal income and outlays for February. Income and spending are both expected to have increased 0.3%. Core PCE is expected to be up 0.1%.   Consumer confidence. The University of Michigan will release its consumer confidence survey for March just before 10 a.m.. Consensus is for an increase of 0.6 to 80.5. FT: Banks hit back at Fed stress tests. Wall Street is complaining that the process lacks transparency. “It’s not a game,” said one executive at a bank which passed the test. “If they want to strengthen the system they should say beforehand where they don’t agree with the way you measure or forecast.” And an official at Citi, whose capital plan the Fed flunked, said “every year the Fed has to pick on someone and this year it was us – it seems because of our global complexity”. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Rumors of a crackdown in China (and everywhere else) continue to depress Bitcoin. Bitcoinwisdom FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pierre Marsaut A woman poses for a picture with the figures of Soviet soldiers at the base of the Soviet Army monument, parts of which have been painted in the colours of the Ukranian flag by an unknown person, in Sofia February 23, 2014.KIEV (Reuters) - Smarting from Ukraine's U-turn towards Europe, Russia is likely to employ every weapon in its economic arsenal to ensure its neighbor's road to financial recovery is as painful as possible, even when paved with billions of dollars in Western aid. Russia has "the right to use selective protective measures against Ukraine if it creates a free trade zone with a third government, or for example with the European Union," a Russian economy ministry spokesman said in response to a question from Reuters, citing the terms of a 2011 agreement. He gave no details of what the measures might entail. After months of anti-government protests and the overthrow of a government blighted by corruption and economic mismanagement, Ukraine is on the brink of bankruptcy, running wide external deficits and a current account shortfall of over 9 percent of gross domestic product. On Thursday, the International Monetary Fund threw a financial lifeline, agreeing to stump up $14-18 billion as part of a two-year bailout package in exchange for tough economic reforms. The deal, combined with Kiev's signing of a cooperation pact linked to closer trade ties with the European Union, represents a serious blow to Russian President Vladimir Putin's dream of Ukraine joining a Eurasian Union of former Soviet states. Moscow will not make it easy and Ukraine is already feeling some consequences from its break with Russia. Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said on Wednesday the price the country would pay for Russian gas, which accounts for over half of Ukrainian gas imports, would soar by almost 80 percent from April 1 as the seizure of Crimea had rendered a cheaper gas deal obsolete. Russia's Gazprom has suggested a new conflict over gas payments and supplies - like disputes in 2006 and 2009 that halted supplies to Ukraine and onward to Europe - could break out, though it added it had no interest in a resumption of such disputes. "The better off Ukraine is under the new government, the more likely it will integrate into the West," said Nicu Popescu, senior analyst at the EU Institute for Security Studies (EUISS). "So disrupting the Ukrainian transition in political and economic terms is probably Russia's primary foreign policy goal in the foreseeable future." Putin's annexation of Crimea, which Kiev and the West say is illegitimate, is likely to push Ukraine's gross domestic product (GDP) down by 5 percent in 2014, according to Simon Mandel, Vice President for Emerging Europe at New York-based brokerage Auerbach Grayson. While the tens of thousands of Russian troops thought to be massed on the border show no immediate sign of entering other parts of Ukraine, Russia has already flexed its trade muscles to upset the Western-backed Ukrainian recovery plan. Last year Putin showed he was prepared to wield restrictions or bans on Ukrainian exports as punishment for attempts by the country of 46 million to move out of Moscow's orbit. With exports to Russia accounting for nearly a quarter of Ukrainian external trade and contributing around 8 percent of GDP, further moves could significantly inhibit the country's bid for economic renaissance. It would take a lot of "blood and sweat" for many Ukrainian companies to withstand any Russian trade ban, Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Andras Simor told Reuters. "They will need to be flexible if circumstances create a need for adjustment," he said. "We will be there to try and help them as much as possible." Cementing Kiev's historic shift away from Russia, a bilateral free-trade agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is due to come into force later this year, and Russian trade officials have expressed concerns over closer Ukrainian association with the European bloc. Russia's milk union has asked for a ban on Ukrainian dairy products, and while no bans are in the works, imports from Ukraine are being monitored closely, according to the assistant to the head of Russia's veterinary oversight agency Rosselkhoznadzor. "There are no plans to impose restrictions on trade, but we must be prepared for the fact that we will impose restrictions if ... Ukraine is not able to fulfil its obligations due to the political situation in the country," Rosselkhoznadzor's Alex Alexeenko told Reuters. Dairy products account for only a fraction of Ukraine's sales to Russia, but all Ukrainian exporters will be anxiously eyeing Russia's trade stance, particularly industrial producers in the east. Russia accounts for 13 percent of Ukraine's iron and steel exports, and the political crisis has already hit shipments from Ukrainian steelmakers this year. Sales of rebar - a steel bar or mesh of steel wires used in reinforced concrete - to the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), a bloc of former Soviet states, fell 70 percent to 45,000 tonnes in January compared with the average monthly export figure in the first half of 2013. Russian steelmakers have aggressively lobbied their government to implement measures to defend domestic producers from Ukrainian imports. A spokesman for Ukraine's largest steelmaker, Metinvest, which controls about half of the country's steel industry, said expanding its sales markets was a priority. However, the steel industry has been battling low prices and weaker demand for the past three years, complicating potential diversification efforts. "Tough competition on the international steel market makes the chance of (steelmakers) expanding their export market presence very low," Eavex Capital metals analyst Ivan Dzvinka said in Kiev. The free-trade agreement (FTA) between Ukraine and the European Union, due to be signed after a presidential election on May 25, is unlikely to help many of Ukraine's industrial producers whose output is focused on the Russian market. Manufacturers of train carts and turbo engines, which together account for 2.5 percent of Ukraine's total exports, will be hit particularly hard. "Re-orienting these industries to Europe would be nearly impossible without very heavy investment, which means production and exports could be lost in the short term," Nomura analysts said in a note. However, what Ukraine stands to gain from the EU trade agreement could become apparent in the longer term as it aims to help the country create new businesses and modern industries and become a destination for European manufacture. "The point of the FTA is not to make it possible for Ukraine to export Soviet-era tractors to Europe. That's not going to happen. But it could eventually lead to Ukraine becoming a producer of Peugeots, Volkswagens, fridges or Nokia telephones," the EUISS's Popescu said. With most of the country's heavy industry located in eastern Ukraine, recently the focus of violent pro-Russian rallies, any trade restrictions could also have political implications. "Social tensions could rise if businesses are forced to cut output, leaving people without salaries," said Lydia Shynkaruk of Kiev's Institute of Economic Forecasting. At the Red October factory in the eastern city of Kharkiv, marketing manager Dmitry Laptev said the facility, which sells 70 percent of the brick factory machinery it produces to Russia, was yet to experience any trouble with exports. "The only issue would be if they completely shut the border to all Ukrainian products, then that would hit us, of course. It would hit everyone," he said, standing among rusting machinery overshadowed by a Soviet mural with the slogan 'My factory is my honor'. (Additional reporting by Natalia Zinets in Kiev and; Andrey Kuzmin in Moscow, Editing by Timothy Heritage, Will Waterman, Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashForeign currency traders work inside a trading firm behind the signs of various world currencies, in Mumbai May 24, 2012.The euro is diving today after Spanish PMI showed a turn toward deflation, prompting hopes that the ECB might engage in more aggressive easing next week. To those betting against the euro, SocGen's Kit Juckes offers a note of worry: I would love to believe, a) that the ECB is close to further easing and b) that this will weaken the euro significantly. But while my heart screams 'yes' my head shakes and whispers 'no'. On QE, I think the trigger is deflation not lower inflation, and I worry the current bout of ECB chatter is just that. But let's say for the sake of argument they act, I will be wary of a repeat of the response we got from LTRO. That is to say, it takes rates down, and boosts appetite for European equities and bonds, especially peripherals and corporates. But here are the two problems with that: firstly, LTRO saw the euro fall on the announcement and then rally sharply as risk aversion faded and peripheral bonds rallied. QE may do the same. And secondly, QE can boost bonds but yields are low and spreads are tight. Help equities but they are already doing OK, and get rates down but if US QE didn't get 2yr dollar swaps below 35bp, would the ECB achieve more? Fed QE has already boosted asset prices and anchored rates globally. The ECB action would help but the returns are diminishing. So Mr Draghi, please go for QE, please change market psychology, but I am more likely to buy Btans vs 5yr Notes, or equities, or bank credit, than go nuts about a weaker euro if it happens. EUR/USD bears need to see US 2yr rates going upwards to really get any joy. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCharles Evans, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Twist and Shout: The Limits of U.S. Monetary Policy" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, CaliforniaHONG KONG (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve will need to keep rates at rock bottom until late 2015, a top Fed official said on Friday. Raising rates earlier, whether to head off the risk of financial instability or unacceptably high inflation, could dangerously depress already low inflation and derail a recovery that is finally gaining steam, Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans said in remarks prepared for delivery in Hong Kong. "I currently expect that low inflation and still-high unemployment will mean that the short-term policy rate will remain near zero well into 2015," Evans said. "(B)y the time the policy rate increases, it will have been near zero for about seven years." The Fed has kept rates near zero since December 2008 and bought trillions of dollars of long-term securities to push down unemployment, which rose as high as 10 percent in the aftermath of the recession. Now that the jobless rate has fallen to 6.7 percent, the Fed has begun dialing down its massive bond-buying program. Last week, policymakers said they would trim their monthly purchases to $55 billion from $65 billion, and reiterated plans that put them on track to wind down the program before the end of the year. But the Fed has also said it will keep rates low for a "considerable time" after it ends the bond-buying, because despite the improvement, too many Americans who want to work remain out of a job. Last week, Fed Chair Janet Yellen roiled financial markets by saying that after the Fed wraps up its bond-buying, likely by this fall, rate rises could come around six months later. Evans on Friday made it clear he expects the Fed to need to keep rates low for much longer than that. The U.S. economy grew at a 2.6 percent pace in the fourth quarter, and despite a severe winter that slowed growth in early 2014, most economists and Fed officials expect the momentum to pick up in coming months. But despite the improvement - in no small part due to help from Fed policies, Evans noted - inflation by the Fed's preferred gauge is just 1.1 percent, well below the central bank's 2-percent target. Evans said there are no signs inflation is set to rise, as many had warned would happen if the Fed continues to pin rates at zero. "If the Fed embarked prematurely on more restrictive monetary policy conditions, these adverse actions would work to reduce inflation to further unacceptably low levels," he said. Nor should the Fed use a rate increase to combat the potential for "financial exuberance," Evans said. Several Fed policymakers, notably the influential Fed Governor Jeremy Stein, have argued recently that monetary policy should be less accommodative when risks to financial stability are on the rise. "I am not saying that financial stability concerns are not relevant for the economy or that policymakers should not take decisive action against developments that threaten financial stability," Evans said. "Rather, I am saying that the macroprudential tools available to policymakers are better-suited safeguards to addressing financial risks directly." (Writing by Ann Saphir; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Later on today we get two important pieces of economic data. From Calculated Risk: At 8:30 AM ET, Personal Income and Outlays for February. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in personal income, and for a 0.3% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%. At 9:55 AM, Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for March). The consensus is for a reading of 80.5, up from the preliminary reading of 79.9, but down from the February reading of 81.6.  Neither of these are that huge, but both are important pieces of the puzzle. Next week, of course, is Jobs Week, so the data calendar will be stacked.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Vermin IncGood morning!  It's a fairly quiet morning and markets are rising. The big event was the deflationary CPI number out of Spain, which is causing the euro to tank on a heightened chance that the ECB will engage in some kind of additional easing next week. Other than that, not much. German stocks are up 0.6%. The U.K. is up 0.4%. And U.S. futures are modestly green. Once again, the most interesting thing today will probably be to watch the U.S. momentum stocks — the tech and biotech darlings which have been getting clobbered as of late. Also today in the U.S. we get personal income and spending data, as well as the latest read of consumer sentiment from the University of Michigan. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors in some of the past year's hottest U.S. stocks have been given a savage lesson in the risks of so-called "momentum trading". A group of 24 such companies compiled by Credit Suisse has lost $63 billion in market value, or almost 19 percent, so far in March. One of them, streaming video service Netflix &lt;NFLX.O&gt;, has declined on 15 of the last 17 trading days, while another, online travel service Priceline &lt;PCLN.O&gt;, is on pace to for its worst month in nearly two years, while Twitter &lt;TWTR.N&gt; sank below its November first-day closing price for the first time. The sell off may well have further to go, investors warn. For one thing, the initial public offering market looks vulnerable after King Digital Entertainment &lt;KING.N&gt;, maker of the popular Candy Crush online game, cratered on its debut, losing 15 percent in its first day of trade on Wednesday, and another 2.7 percent on Thursday. If such raisings get pulled or pared back it will likely hurt the banks' underwriting fees. But while it all stands as a warning to those who joined crowded trades in richly priced stocks, it is good news for short sellers who are prepared to bet against what they see as over-valued stocks, and for investors who spend their time searching for unrecognized gems trading at bargain-basement levels. It also indicates that the investing world may be returning to more normal rules, that includes sharper assessments of the risk in different sectors, now that the Federal Reserve's bond-buying stimulus program is being reduced and there is less "easy money" sloshing around. "The weakness in momentum stocks does have an implication for the broader market," said Joshua Brown, vice president of investments at Fusion Analytics in New York. "The best way to gauge general risk appetite is to look at momentum sectors." NEAR RECORD LEVELS Investors and strategists stress that the pain in the momentum area is mostly isolated to that world. The wider stock market isn't in the crosshairs - and some sectors are benefiting as money is switched. "It would normally be concerning to see this," said Frank Gretz, market analyst at brokerage Wellington Shields &amp; Co in New York. "Instead, other companies are stepping up and new leaders are emerging. Enough is holding together that I haven't given up on the bull market even with the leadership coming down." The S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; is within a few percent of record levels and inflows into equity funds remain positive. Investors have moved into utilities, financials and telecom stocks. In Credit Suisse's analysis of the 24 stocks, all but 1 of the companies derive at least 55 percent of their present value from their future growth prospects. Essentially, they're big bets on the future, typical of biotech and IT names. Some of the stocks have unenviable characteristics. Servicenow &lt;NOW.N&gt; and Incyte &lt;INCY.O&gt; are characterized as "worst in class" by Credit Suisse's proprietary analytical models - which means they're considered low quality names with weak price momentum and pricey in value. Others, like Pandora Media &lt;P.N&gt;, are considered "momentum traps," that are expensive and lower-quality, but have strong momentum. But it's far from certain that such names have a lot further to fall. The bull market has been resilient, and that has helped stocks like electric car maker Tesla Motors &lt;TSLA.O&gt; weather bouts of weakness as it did in the fall of 2013, when its shares lost 40 percent before streaking again to new highs. John Hempton, chief investment officer of Bronte Capital, a small hedge fund based in Sydney, Australia - who is also a prominent short seller - said he was loath to say that momentum had "cracked." "If you go back to dot-com, there were five times it cracked before it really cracked, and if you shorted each of those cracks, you got yourself carried out," he said of the Internet stocks boom in the late 1990s and the bust beginning in 2000. He did say, however, that he has been shorting a number of biotechnology names. Other investors, too, have been reducing their presence in the sector as reflected by a nearly 14 percent slide in the Nasdaq Biotech index &lt;.NBI&gt; since late February. "We owned biotechs for the last year and had a wonderful ride. We sold them because valuations got stretched," said David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. He isn't ready to get back in yet. "Let's induce some fear. Let's correct some prices. Let people start to question what to do. Then there's a re-entry time," he said. WORRIES ABOUT NEWBIES In the IPO market, investors have been fed a steady diet of new public offerings from companies yet to turn a profit. More than 50 IPOs have priced in 2014, and two-thirds of those are unprofitable, according to Renaissance Capital, an IPO investment advisor. King Digital is actually profitable but suffers from concerns that Candy Crush may be a fad. "Candy Crush is a reminder that the market sometimes gets frothy and that this is not free money," said Sam Kendall, global head of equity capital markets at UBS. Hempton said he was less concerned about the technology names coming to market than the biotech shares. "Everything that I have seen is at least plausible that it could earn money. People are still funding projects that are real bets," he said. "In biotech at the moment, people are funding projects because they can sell them to the stock market." THE LONG VIEW Activity from short-sellers indicate that many do not believe the correction in momentum names has fully shaken out the group's excess. The 24 stocks identified by Credit Suisse have seen a slight increase in short bets in the last week, according to Markit. This group, on average, shows 18.8 percent of the shares available for borrowing being used for shorting, up 0.6 percentage points in the last week. However, some of the names have seen shorts shaken out by periods in which they rallied. In the early part of 2013, more than 24 percent of Tesla shares were being shorted. That's been halved as the stock has rocketed higher, boosting its forward price-to-earnings ratio to 113. By most measures, shares are overvalued. But a full-scale retreat does not seem to be in the cards at this point. Scott Wallace, chief investment officer at Chicago-based hedge fund Shorepath Capital, has boosted his position in Facebook &lt;FB.O&gt; and is looking at biotechs more closely. "It's periods like these when you should start to think about great long term franchises and start to add to them," he said. "I had zero exposure to biotech going into this, and now I'm doing my homework on a few of them." (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica and David Gaffen; Additional reporting by Nicola Leske, David Randall and Tim McLaughlin; Editing by Dan Burns, Martin; Howell) FREE AppDownload
Good morning! The euro just tanked. Here's a chart, via FinViz: FinViz The culprit: Spanish Consumer Prices just fell 0.2% year over year. DEFLATION. That's raising the prospect of some kind of new, aggressive ECB action next week, QE possibly.  Of course, ECB deflation fears have been around for a while. And people have been saying forever that the ECB needed to do something more than they have already. And yet nothing's been done.  But maybe this time.   FREE AppDownload
You can't expect negotiations with French to be like negotations with Americans, and the same holds true for cultures around the world. British linguist Richard D. Lewis charted communication patterns as well as leadership styles and cultural identities in his book, "When Cultures Collide," now in a 2005 third edition. His organization offers classes in cross-cultural communication for big clients ranging from Unilever to BMW. In support of cultural studies, he writes: "By focusing on the cultural roots of national behavior, both in society and business, we can foresee and calculate with a surprising degree of accuracy how others will react to our plans for them, and we can make certain assumptions as to how they will approach us. A working knowledge of the basic traits of other cultures (as well as our own) will minimize unpleasant surprises (culture shock), give us insights in advance, and enable us to interact successfully with nationalities with whom we previously had difficulty." Although cultural generalizations can be overly reductive, Lewis, who speaks ten languages, insists it can be done fairly, writing: "Determining national characteristics is treading a minefield of inaccurate assessment and surprising exception. There is, however, such a thing as a national norm." When meeting with French, be prepared for a vigorous logical debate. When meeting with Americans, expect them to lay all their cards on the table, get upset when there's a disagreement, and resolve as fast as possible with one or both sides making concessions. We'll go over the rest in brief after a selection of communication charts taken with permission from "When Cultures Collide." Below, conversational range is shown with increasing width, obstacles are marked in gray, and cultural traits are noted as well.  crossculture.com As you may surmise, "When Cultures Collide" spends relatively little time on today's emerging markets, which is unfortunate but not surprising since it was originally published in 1996. The book does offer some commentary on Africa, South America, and other places not mentioned here, however, as well as much further commentary on these 25 countries — and we advise anyone interested in international communication to check it out. Let's go over the other diagrams in brief,  paraphrasing and quoting from Lewis: Canadians, compared to Americans, tend to be more low-key and inclined to seek harmony, though they are similarly direct. English tend to avoid confrontation in an understated, mannered, and humorous style that can be powerful or inefficient. Germans rely on logic but "tend to amass more evidence and labor their points more than either the British or the French." Spanish and Italians "regard their languages as instruments of eloquence and they will go up and down the scale at will, pulling out every stop if need be to achieve greater expressiveness." The Nordic countries often have entrenched opinions that they have formulated "in the long dark nights," though they are reasonable conversationalists. Swedes often have the most wide-ranging discussions, Finns tend to value concision, and most Norwegians fall somewhere in between. Swiss tend to be straightforward and unaggressive negotiators, who obtain concessions by expressing confidence in the quality and value of their goods and services. Hungarians value eloquence over logic and are unafraid to talk over each other. Bulgarians may take a circuitous approach to negotiations before seeking a mutually beneficial resolution, which will often be screwed up by bureaucracy. Poles often have a communication style that is "enigmatic, ranging from a matter-of-fact pragmatic style to a wordy, sentimental, romantic approach to any given subject." The Dutch are focused on facts and figures but "are also great talkers and rarely make final decisions without a long 'Dutch' debate, sometimes approaching the danger zone of overanalysis." Chinese tend to be more direct than the Japanese and some other East Asians; however, meetings are principally for information gathering, with the real decisions made elsewhere. Hong Kongers negotiate much more briskly to achieve quick results. Indian English "excels in ambiguity, and such things as truth and appearances are often subject to negotiation." Australians tend to have a loose and frank conversational style. Singaporeans generally take time to build a relationship, after which they can be shrewd negotiators. Koreans tend to be energetic conversationalists who seek to close deals quickly, occasionally stretching the truth. Indonesians tend to be very deferential conversationalists, sometimes to the point of ambiguity. Israelis tend to proceed logically on most issues but emotionally on some. And that's how one respected, well-traveled, and highly multilingual linguist sees the world.
