REUTERS/Toru HanaiAsian markets are down on Thursday. Japanese stocks are falling after the Nikkei ended up 1.9% on Wednesday. Chinese inflation cooled, with consumer prices up 2.5% on the year.  Meanwhile, the Bank of Korea maintained its benchmark interest rate at 2.5%. Here's a quick look at the markets: U.S. stocks fell and bonds got slammed after the Federal Reserve published minutes of its December meeting, which showed that most members backed the move to reduce its asset purchase program. All eyes are now on Friday's jobs report. FREE AppDownload
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.5% year-over-year in December. This was less than expectations for a 2.7% rise, and down from 3% the previous month. Food prices tend to pick up toward the end of the year and therefore, CPI is expected to moderate only a bit, despite the high base effect, UBS' Harrison Hu said in a note published before the data was released. "A decline in CPI to below 3.0% would be good news to market, which is concerned about monetary tightening by the PBoC," Bank of America's Ting Lu said. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.4% on the year in December. This missed estimates for a 1.3% fall, and compared with a 1.4% fall the previous month. Here's a look at the trajectory of consumer and producer prices: Bank of America FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Hong-JiGovernor of the Bank of Korea Kim Choong-soo arrives at the bank in Seoul August 8, 2013. The Bank of Korea left its policy interest rate untouched on Thursday for a third straight month, widely perceived as ending an easing cycle that began a year ago, and has seen South Korea's economy turn to recovery.A spate of central banks are meeting this week to kick off 2014 and set monetary policy going forward. Thursday morning, the European Central Bank will end its meeting, and analysts expect the bank to hold the rate at 0.25%. England Korea will also meet. Societe Generale has a complete preview of the week. From their note: England In this first MPC meeting of 2014, the Committee will take stock of the radically improved state of the economy over the past year. Just over a year ago, in the November 2012 Inflation Report, the MPC predicted 2013 growth of 1.2% but then downgraded that to 0.9% in February 2013 but since then its 2013 forecast has been steadily increased to 1.6%. However, far more dramatic has been the increase in the 2014 forecast from 2.0% to 3.4% from November 2012 to November 2013. This states most eloquently just how much more optimistic the MPC has become about the outlook. But should that raise concerns about inflation pressures? Not in general - at the same time, the inflation performance has improved. The rate of inflation has fallen 2.1% yoy. This takes some of the pressure off the MPC to tighten policy.  European Central Bank After much talk of the ECB’s remaining options, expectations have settled down following the December meeting. Unless we see outright deflation risks, we expect no major changes in standard policy measures in the short term. Instead, the focus is likely to be on liquidity supporting measures, with focus turning increasingly to the Comprehensive Assessment (CA). While significant gains are possible from breaking financial fragmentation, we are concerned with the latest proposals for the Resolution Mechanism, in particular the lack of capital backstops which ultimately may compromise the credibility of the CA. The risk of fragmentation continuing after 2014 thus remains high. The January Governing Council meeting is likely to take stock of these challenges, while keeping policy rates unchanged. Korea All the market participants, including ourselves, don’t expect any changes to the BoK’s policy rates or its current neutral policy stance at the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting on 9 January. The BoK reiterated its recent view on the Korean economy in the official 2014 Monetary Policy Directions released on 26 December 2013. It expects a sustained recovery in both exports and domestic demand, and anticipates a rise in inflation due to the narrowing deflationary output gap and the end of temporary impacts from welfare programmes. FREE AppDownload
Over the past few days I've been getting emails, instant messages, and texts from Wall Streeters mocking the Forbes 30 Under 3o in finance list. The messages look something like this (some of these have been edited for clarity): For the record, yes Kevin Kaiser is the kid who got railed by Kinder Morgan's CEO for one of his reports, and yes, a lot of people gave him (negative) attention for it. And yes — he's on the Forbes list. Here's the deal — Success is generally applauded on The Street. If you're good, people talk about it. You're a big swinging ... (you know the deal) at a respectable (not boiler room white collar criminal) firm with a respectable amount of assets under management. But there is a deep-seated belief that even if you're writing papers with Larry Summers, even if you know every aspect of a deal in and out and are the one who figures out if it's worth doing, you're not contributing as much as the guy who just made a huge score trading, or did the final handshake on a huge deal. Right or wrong, this feeling is in there, and every now and then it just comes out — BAM! On Wall Street, you're supposed to eat what you kill. What you kill should be big game. If you don't kill anything, you shouldn't eat. And the bottom line is, traditionally, a kid in the "back office" hasn't killed anything. They may be really important to how the bank runs, but they don't run money. They also haven't suffered the rigors that front-office workers have to suffer to earn their prestigious positions, from their sleepless days as interns, to their grueling first years as an analyst. Additionally, on Wall Street you're supposed to do deals with real money, and as yet Bitcoin isn't real money — it's an experiment, and returns aren't supposed to be experimental, they're supposed to be tangible. Maybe Bitcoin's day is coming, but it isn't here yet. Now, all that said: It's not like Forbes didn't have respectable judges on the case. There was Anthony Scaramucci, Founder of fund of funds SkyBridge Capital; venture capitalist Jim Breyer, a Partner at Accel Partners; and Adam Zoia, the CEO of executive search firm Glocap. There were definitely some heavy hitters on the list too — like Neil Mehta, a D.E. Shaw alum and founder of Greenoaks Capital; and Sam Barnett, a 24-year-old with a $115 million investment firm. And we can't forget Leigh Drogen, whose buy-side research aggregation firm Estimize contributes to Business Insider (have to point that out). So we find it hard to say the list was a complete failure. Point is, Wall Street can be a very hierarchical place where everyone knows their place, that's true. It's a place where guys at small firms and posers are called "pikers," and the back office is farther away from the front office mentally than it is physically. There are tribes — the traders, the hedge fund guys, the analysts, and so forth. But if you're good it isn't that hard to measure — in dollars — how good, and that's "the code." Or maybe you're all just hating. So shoot me comments, or suggestions of who you think should actually be on the list to llopez@businessinsider.com — because someone's got to be worthy. And don't shoot the messenger, OK ... you guys are the ones telling me this stuff. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via BloombergFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Gary Shilling Reveals His Top Trades For 2014 (A. Gary Shilling Insight)  Global deleveraging continues to be a major force shaping the 2014 investment outlook, according to Gary Shilling. This implies, "Continuing slow U.S. economic growth at about 2% annually; further reduction in the Fed's security purchases; slow inflation worldwide with deflation a strong possibility; uncertainty over gridlock in Washington including troubled Obamacare; rising protectionism; further regulation of financial institutions here and abroad; and slow growth in developing economies that depend on exports to developed lands that will also continue to grow slowly at best." For now Shilling is "taking a defensive position in our themes that utilize equities." Here are 10 things he thinks are attractive: 1. Treasury Bonds 2. Selected income-producing securities 3. Small luxuries 3. Consumer staples and foods 5. The dollar against the yen, Canadian and Australian dollars 6. Japanese stocks 7. Selected healthcare providers and medical office buildings 8. Low price-to-earnings stocks 9. Productivity enhancers 10. North American energy producers ex-renewables. Meanwhile he thinks certain commodities and developing country's stocks and bonds are unattractive. Three Takeaways From 2013 ETF Fund Flows (Morningstar)  Exchange traded funds (ETFs) witnessed $188.4 billion in inflows last year. Michael Rawson at Morningstar writes that there are three things we can learn from these flows. 1. ETF investors and mutual fund investors are different. "ETF investors sold roughly $6.6 billion out of funds in the diversified emerging-markets category while mutual fund investors bought $39.0 billion." ETFs were largely held by institutional investors while mutual funds are largely owned by individual investors. 2. "ETFs hold up remarkably well in the face of massive redemptions." 3. Bonds tend to be "relatively illiquid," so bond investors turn to bond ETFs for liquidity. High Net Worth Investors' Have Differing Needs As They Get Wealthier (ThinkAdvisor)  A new report by Cerulli identifies 771,120 high-net-worth-households with $5 million - $20 million in investible assets. And 62,410 ultrahigh-net-worth households with over $20 million in investible assets. The report found that both groups used a range of personalized services but ultrahigh net worth investors are "progressively pursuing the high-touch and extremely private nature of multifamily offices and private trust companies," according to Michael Fischer at ThinkAdvisor. While single family offices were usually for those with $100 million net worth or more. Registered investment advisors (RIAs), multifamily offices, and bank trust companies have been gaining favor. A Deconstruction Of Global Stock Market Returns In 2013 (Morgan Stanley)  A look at global stock market returns in 2013 shows that U.S. stock market returns were largely driven by multiple expansion, though this wasn't necessarily the case elsewhere. Morgan Stanley The World Will Go Through 5 Big Transitions This Year (Morgan Stanley) Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels thinks the global economy will face five "tricky transitions" in 2014. 1. The Fed under Janet Yellen will have to manage tapering and "create credible forward guidance on interest rates to avoid a replay of the unpleasant experience last summer." 2. This will be a "crunch year" for Japan as the planned corporate tax cuts are unlikely to offset the drag from consumption tax increases, and there could be additional easing measures. 3. Europe will try and "cleanse" its banking system. 4. China will move from credit-driven growth to reform-driven growth. 5. Emerging markets need structural reforms but policymakers "are on the wrong track or have near-term headwinds." FREE AppDownload
Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesWilliston, North DakotaEconomists have recently been scrambling to crank up their U.S. GDP growth forecasts. "What's going on here?" asked Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. "In a word, it's energy." In a note today, Valliere called this a huge story that's below most people's radar. As Bloomberg's Bob Ivry said this morning about the Great American Shale Boom: "Nobody Expected U.S. Oil Boom to Be This Boomy."  It's basically true — there have been lots of doubters who've argued it was all just a flash in the pan. But energy has been an amazing growth story in the U.S. for the past few years. And continues to be so today. Now, economist Ed Yardeni believes a "fracking dividend," much like the "peace dividend" that followed World War II, is about to take hold and lift the U.S. economy. He writes: The Fracking Dividend has already narrowed this US petroleum trade deficit from a recent peak of $359 billion (saar) during January 2012 to $182 billion during November 2013. The deficit could go to zero over the next couple of years. That would provide a big dividend to real GDP growth, as well as more purchasing power for Americans. Building the infrastructure to export crude oil would be another benefit, especially for capital goods manufacturers.  On Wednesday, we learned oil had helped cut the U.S. trade deficit to a four-year low. Petroleum product exports climbed to an all-time high of $13.3 billion. Meanwhile, crude imports declined to $28.5 billion, the lowest since November 2010. The petroleum deficit thus shrank to $15.2 billion in November, the lowest since May 2009.  This chart from Yardeni documents these phenomena. The units are in barrels, not dollars, and thus shows an even greater magnitude:Ed YardeniThose gains are all because domestic production continues to boom. Oil output is at 25-year highs: EIA Natgas production is at all-time highs: EIA And the EIA now projects the boom will remain mostly steady into 2020 for oil and well beyond for natural gas.   EIAOil and gas firms are now making a strong push to allow for raw crude exports, which have been banned since the '70s oil crisis. Reuters says they're not facing much opposition, and some analysts think it could help lower gas prices in the long term by releasing more supply onto the market, though it would likely raise prices in the short term.  Even if that were that to occur, they'd merely be rising back to levels we've seen before — not to new highs. That's because gas prices have been drifting lower for the past few years, leading to an outcome we've called "plateau oil."  Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has said every $0.01 change in gasoline prices is worth $1 billion in the economy. Prices have declined more than $0.50 since 2011 highs. Chart:  FRED Most importantly, the boom has created jobs. Although the overall numbers remain modest, payrolls in the oil and gas sector have grown faster than most other parts of the economy. Here's a chart from Bloomberg economics editor Vince Golle chronicling the trend: Bloomberg We have to mention that there remain concerns about the environmental effects of fracking. Evidence continues to mount that activity associated with fracking has caused earthquakes in Oklahoma to spike, and an AP report showed the number of water quality complaints in areas with fracking activity has surged, although not all of these can be linked directly to fracking, which involves sending hundreds of thousands of gallons of water and chemicals into the ground to free up resources. But we'll give the last word to Potomac's Valliere, who agrees with Yardeni's sentiment that energy will tip the U.S. into overdrive. In a note this morning he writes:   With Washington staying out of the way (no crises, no major new fiscal headwinds), when was the last time we could say this: the risks on the economy are upside risks.  This is a major reason why Fed tapering will continue -- and it's still another reason why the budget could get close to a surplus within two years. A long time indeed.  FREE AppDownload
The retailer reported Q3 earnings of $1.12 per diluted share, on revenue of $2.86 billion, up 6% from a year ago. This missed estimates for earnings of $1.15 per share. Q3 comparable store sales were up 1.3%, below expectations of a 2.7% rise. Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond lowered its Q4 guidance to $1.60-$1.67, down from their estimate of $1.70-$1.77. This was also below estimates of $1.79. It sees full-year earnings per share of $4.79-$4.86, below estimates of $5.01. It's been a rough day for retailers. Earlier today we saw J.C. Penney shares take a hit after the retail store said it was "pleased" with holiday sales without releasing any other details. The stock closed down 10%. Meanwhile, Macy's just reported that it plans to cut 2,500 jobs and close five stores. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueIt was a mixed picture in the U.S. stock market in the wake of some encouraging jobs data. Interest rates rallied, which means bonds tumbled. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim WimborneThe Federal Reserve just released U.S. consumer credit data for the month of December. Total credit to consumers rose $12.318 billion in November to $3.087 trillion, up 4.8% from a year earlier but below Wall Street's consensus estimate for a $14.250 billion advance. Revolving credit — reflecting credit card balances and the like — rose $0.5 billion to $856.9 billion, up 0.6% from a year earlier. Nonrevolving credit — reflecting auto loans, student loans, and the like — rose $11.9 billion to $2.230 trillion in total, up 6.4% from a year earlier. October consumer credit growth was revised down to $17.897 billion from the previously-reported $18.186 billion figure. FREE AppDownload
AmazonWe've heard that one of the best books to prepare for a "strat" interview at Goldman Sachs is "Heard On The Street: Quantitative Questions from Wall Street Job Interviews" by MIT PhD Timothy Falcon Crack. Strats — short for strategists — work on trading floors alongside the traders creating models for pricing and risk management, etc. The job description is similar to that of a quantitative analyst, but quants typically aren't on the trading floor.   In a recent blog post on the Goldman's Careers Blog, recruiter Leighton Symons explained that the bank's strat interview is heavily focused on math and candidates are also drilled with brainteasers. "It could be a question on probability theory, partial differential equations, stochastic calculus—or other aspects of math that are not related to finance," Leighton Symons said on the blog.  "Heard On The Street" features hundred of quantitative, logic, derivatives, statistics and non-quantitative questions compiled from real Wall Street job interviews. Dr. Crack's book also has a detailed answer key for how to solve the quantitative questions. "Many of the questions collected and presented here are 'classics' that appear year-after-year without fail. However, this book is definitely not for people who just want 'The Answers' to such questions. Such people are archetypal sheep in wolves' clothing, and they are quickly identified as such in an interview," Crack writes in the book's preface. There are also a bunch of entertaining anecdotes throughout the text.  For example, Dr. Crack explains how one of his students at a Goldman interview was given a pencil and a sheet of paper and asked to draw a picture of himself.  Of course, the book isn't just for those pursuing a career at Goldman.  It seems like a great resource for many people pursuing a position at an investment bank or hedge fund.  "While the book is geared towards more technical positions and does involve a fair amount of math, I would still recommend it even if you are looking for a non-technical position with a hedge fund or an i-bank, since this book contains a lot of brain teasers and logical questions that are commonly asked in all finance interviews to test how well you can think on your feet and under time pressure," reviewer "spaceman" wrote on Amazon. The book isn't cheap, though.  We were able to get a used 9th edition for about $35.  Some of the newer copies were about $89 and we saw a few that were over $100. But hey, if you get the job it's definitely worth the investment. We've included a few of the sample questions from the book below:  "How many elevators (i.e. 'lifts' if you are British) are there in the US?" "How many ping-pong balls can you fit in a jumbo jet (e.g., Boeing 747)?" "How would you move Mount Fuji?"  "Why are manhole covers round?" "Why are images in a mirror flipped horizontally and not vertically? For example, although I wear my wristwatch on my left wrist, and my reflections wears his on his right wrist, my reflection is not standing on his head." "What is the sum of the integers from 1 to 100?"  "Your bedroom sock drawer contains eight red socks and 11 blue socks that are otherwise identical. The light is broken in your bedroom, and you must select your socks in the dark. What is the minimum number of socks you need to take out of your drawer and carry into your (well-lit) living room to guarantee that you have with you at least a matching pair to choose from?" "A snail is climbing up a 10-foot pole. It climbs up by three feet every day. Each night it sleeps. While sleeping, it slides down by one foot. When does it reach the top of the pole?"  "You are given eight balls. They appear identical, but one is heavier than the rest. ...you have a pair of scales. How do you find the heavy ball?   "This is an absolute classic. A king demands a tax of 1,000 gold sovereigns from each of 10 regions of his nation. The tax collectors for each region bring him the requested bag of gold coins at the year end.An informant tells the king that one tax collector is cheating and giving coins that are consistently 10% lighter than they should be, but he does not know which collector is cheating. The king knows that each coin should weigh exactly one ounce. How can the king identify the cheat by using a weighing device exactly once?"  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueA tourist gazes up towards the dome of the U.S. Capitol in Washington.Last week we told you how Texas Rep. Steve Stockman (R-Texas) became the first sitting elected official in Washington to accept Bitcoin for his 2014 campaign against Sen. John Cornyn. Dan Backer is going to make sure Stockman is not the last. Today, Backer, a campaign finance lawyer, is launching Bit-PAC, the first ever Bitcoin political action committee designed to support candidates who will promote the digital currency's acceptance. "Our effort here is how to align the interests of legislators with that of the Bitcoin community to promote the broader acceptance of Bitcoin, both as an instrument of speech and of commerce," he told BI by phone in Washington.  Backer, a conservative who serves as counsel to over 30 PACs and, directly or indirectly, 20 Members of the U.S. House and Senate, came up with the PAC on his own, and led the case that got the Federal Election Committee to look into allowing Bitcoin in campaigns. The agency has punted for now, but Backer believes they can't in good conscience say no. "It's your right to contribute to candidates however you want to. If you want to give a candidate 5,000 plastic cups, if it has a monetary value, your entitled to contribute." Political action committees serve as mediums for channeling donations to candidates who support certain issues. Right now, there is no pending legislation regarding Bitcoin: The two days of Senate hearings that took place in November have not led to much, other than a general realization on the Hill that Bitcoin is now mainstream. But Backer claims there are other outside candidates besides Stockman (a client of Backer's firm) who've announced they're taking Bitcoin, and that the 2014 election is crucial to getting Bitcoin-friendly candidates into office, because it will inevitably start to come up in policy committees.   "There's a desire, an interest to see something happen," he said. "I don't know who champion will be, but if there's a law that's going to be something on Bitcoin, we want to be around." FREE AppDownload
In the long-run, earnings are without question the most important drivers of stock market returns. Dividends, which are a usually financed with earnings, are another big driver of total returns. In the short-run, however, returns can be effected tremendously by swings in the premium investors are willing to pay for those earnings.  This is reflected by an expanding or contracting price-earnings ratio. In 2013, U.S. stock market returns were driven largely by that expanding price-earnings ratio. But that was not the case worldwide. In Morgan Stanley's new issue of On The Markets, strategists Adam Parker, Graham Secker and Jonathan Garner break down what drove stock market returns in Japan, the U.S., Europe, Asia excluding Japan, and the emerging markets. As you can see, the story varies greatly. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
This is how you go from a mild depression to complete and total elation. Earlier this week we pointed out that two of Wall Street's favorite hangs — nightclub SL and restaurant Park Avenue Winter — had quietly closed over the holiday break. Now, happily, Eater has informed us that the Park Avenue Winter space has a new occupant, and it's a chef Wall Street knows and loves. Ladies and Gentlemen... it's Michael White and the Altamarea Group. If anyone knows how to open a restaurant in Manhattan right now, it's these guys. In 2013 alone they opened Costata, The Butterfly and Ristorante Morini — and of course they've got restaurants around the world as well, in cities like London and Istanbul. For all the newbies, understand that White's restaurants are Wall Street staples. It's well documented that he and his staff follow the finance and understand their banker customers. And who doesn't like a little personal attention? One example — Pershing Square's Bill Ackman is a well-known regular at Marea, a restaurant that Altamarea opened in 2009 and has remained a banker favorite since. That doesn't mean that his arch nemesis, Carl Icahn doesn't go eat there every now and again. As such, adjustments must me be made. From the NYT back in 2012 (before Icahn got on TV and called Ackman a "cry baby" after he took the other side of Ackman's Herbalife short, you'll note): At Marea, Michael White’s Italian restaurant on Central Park South, for instance, the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman is a regular and one of many customers who rates an NR, never refuse. What the computer does not say (but the general manager, Rocky Cirino, knows) is that servers can never seat Mr. Ackman next to Carl C. Icahn, another big Wall Street name. The two have sued each other. Ah and what a lawsuit it was... "schmuck insurance", a 7 year battle in court, and a public confrontation at a Midtown restaurant (Il Tinello, where "Pasta Alla Icahn" is on the menu). So stop wallowing and be pumped about what's going to happen to Park Avenue Winter, Wall Street — White's going to keep taking care of you guys. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/ Federal ReserveFOMC meeting.The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's December meeting are out. The biggest question before the minutes were released was whether the FOMC had discussed strengthening the Federal Reserve's "forward guidance" on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. Traders have been pulling forward expectations for when and how fast the Fed will normalize these rates from current ultra-low levels, and the central bank may want to fight back against this by doubling down on its commitment to keep rates low even after the economy improves. Here is the key passage from the December meeting minutes on strengthening forward guidance: Participants also considered the potential for clarifying or strengthening the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate. In general, participants who favored amending the forward guidance saw a need to more fully communicate how, if the unemployment rate threshold was reached first, the Committee would likely set monetary policy after that threshold was crossed. A number of participants pointed out that the federal funds rate paths underlying the economic forecasts that they prepared for this meeting, as well as expectations for the funds rate path priced into financial markets, were consistent with the view that the Committee would not raise the federal funds rate until well after the time that the threshold was crossed. A few participants discussed the potential advantages and disadvantages of using medians of the projections of the federal funds rate from the SEP as a means of communicating the likely path of short-term interest rates. Some worried that, if the Committee began to reduce asset purchases, market expectations might shift, and they wanted to reinforce the forward guidance to mitigate the risks of an undesired tightening of financial conditions that could have adverse effects on the economy. In light of their concern that inflation might continue to run well below the Committee's longer-run objective, several participants saw the need to clearly convey that inflation remains an important consideration in adjusting the target funds rate. Participants debated the advantages and disadvantages of lowering the unemployment rate threshold provided in the forward guidance. In the view of the few participants who advocated such a change, a lower threshold would be a clear signal of the Committee's intentions and was an appropriate adjustment in light of recent labor market and inflation trends. In contrast, a few others expressed concern that any change in the threshold might be confusing and could undermine the credibility of the Committee's forward guidance. Most were inclined to retain the current thresholds for the unemployment and inflation rates and to instead provide qualitative guidance regarding the Committee's likely behavior after a threshold was crossed. Below is the full text. ----------------------- Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet The Manager of the System Open Market Account reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on October 29-30, 2013. The staff also presented an update on the ongoing testing of overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operations that the Committee approved at its September meeting and that is scheduled to end on January 29, 2014. All operations to date had proceeded smoothly. Participation in ON RRP operations varied somewhat from day to day, in part reflecting changes in the spread between market rates on repurchase agreement transactions and the rate offered in the Federal Reserve's ON RRP operations. The staff reported that they saw potential benefits to extending the exercise and in January would likely recommend a continuation along with possible adjustments to program parameters that could provide additional insights into the demand for a potential facility and its efficacy in putting a floor on money market rates. Following the Manager's report, the Committee considered a proposal to increase the caps on individual allocations in the ON RRP test operations from $1 billion to $3 billion per counterparty. The proposed increase in caps was intended to test the Desk's ability to manage somewhat larger operational flows and to provide additional information about the potential usefulness of ON RRP operations to affect market interest rates when doing so becomes appropriate. Participants generally supported the proposal, with one participant emphasizing the usefulness of extending the end date of the program beyond the end of January. However, some participants questioned the extent to which the proposed limited increase in the caps would provide additional insights about the operational aspects of the ON RRP program or the potential market effects of ON RRP operations. A few participants suggested that it would be useful to evaluate the potential role of an ON RRP facility in the context of the Committee's plans for monetary policy implementation over the medium and longer term. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously approved the following resolution: "The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes an increase in the maximum allotment cap for the series of fixed-rate, overnight reverse repurchase operations approved on September 17, 2013, to $3 billion per counterparty per day from its previous level of $1 billion per counterparty per day. All other aspects of the resolution remain unchanged." By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. The staff presented a short briefing summarizing a survey that was conducted over the intermeeting period regarding participants' views of the marginal costs and marginal efficacy of asset purchases. Most participants judged the marginal costs of asset purchases as unlikely to be sufficient, relative to their marginal benefits, to justify ending the purchases now or relatively soon; a few participants identified some possible costs as being more substantial, indicating that the costs could justify ending purchases now or relatively soon even if the Committee's macroeconomic goals for the purchase program had not yet been achieved. Participants were most concerned about the marginal cost of additional asset purchases arising from risks to financial stability, pointing out that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy could provide an incentive for excessive risk-taking in the financial sector. It was noted that the risks to financial stability could be somewhat larger in the case of asset purchases than in the case of interest rate policy because purchases work in part by affecting term premiums and policymakers have less experience with term premium effects than with more conventional interest rate policy. Participants also expressed some concern that additional asset purchases increase the likelihood that the Federal Reserve might at some point suffer capital losses. But it was pointed out that the Federal Reserve's asset purchases would almost certainly provide significant net income to the Treasury over the life of the program, especially when the effects of the program on the broader economy were taken into account, and that potential reputational risks to the Federal Reserve arising from any future capital losses could be mitigated by communicating that point to the public. Further, participants noted that ongoing asset purchases could increase the difficulty of managing exit from the current highly accommodative policy stance when the time came. Many participants, however, expressed confidence in the tools at the Federal Reserve's disposal for managing its balance sheet and for normalizing the stance of policy at the appropriate time. Regarding the marginal efficacy of the purchase program, most participants viewed the program as continuing to support accommodative financial conditions, with a number of them pointing to the importance of purchases in serving to enhance the credibility of the Committee's forward guidance about the target federal funds rate. A majority of participants judged that the marginal efficacy of purchases was likely declining as purchases continue, although some noted the difficulty inherent in making such an assessment. A couple of participants thought that the marginal efficacy of the program was not declining, as evidenced by the substantial effects in financial markets in recent months of news about the likely path of purchases. Staff Review of the Economic Situation The information reviewed for the December 17-18 meeting indicated that economic activity was expanding at a moderate pace. Total payroll employment increased further, and the unemployment rate declined but remained elevated. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's objective, although measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Total nonfarm payroll employment rose in October and November at a faster monthly pace than in the previous two quarters. The unemployment rate declined, on net, from 7.2 percent in September to 7.0 percent in November. The labor force participation rate also decreased, on balance, and the employment-to-population ratio in November was the same as in September. The share of workers employed part time for economic reasons declined slightly while the rate of long-duration unemployment was little changed, but both measures were still high. Other indicators were generally consistent with gradually improving conditions in the labor market. The rate of job openings edged up in recent months, the share of small businesses reporting that they had hard-to-fill positions increased, and the four-week moving average of initial claims for unemployment insurance trended down, on net, over the intermeeting period, although the rate of gross private-sector hiring was still somewhat low. Measures of firms' hiring plans remained higher than a year earlier, and household expectations of the labor market situation improved in early December. Manufacturing production accelerated briskly in October and November after increasing at a subdued pace in the third quarter, and the gains were broad based across industries. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of light motor vehicle assemblies would rise in December, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were consistent with a further expansion in factory output in the coming months. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased modestly in the third quarter but rose at a faster pace in September and October. The components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE increased at a strong pace in November, and light motor vehicle sales moved up significantly. Moreover, recent information for key factors that support household spending was consistent with further solid gains in PCE in the coming months. Households' net worth likely expanded as equity values and home prices increased further in recent months; real disposable income rose, on net, in September and October; and consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved significantly in early December. The pace of activity in the housing sector appeared to continue to slow somewhat, likely reflecting the higher level of mortgage rates since the spring. Starts for both new single-family homes and multifamily units increased, on balance, from August to November, but permits--which are typically a better indicator of the underlying pace of construction--rose more gradually than starts over the same period. Sales of existing homes and pending home sales decreased further in October, although new home sales rose in October after falling markedly in the third quarter. Growth in real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products was subdued in the third quarter. In October, nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft edged down. However, nominal new orders for these capital goods remained above the level of shipments, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months, and other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions, were generally consistent with moderate gains in business equipment spending in the near term. Real business spending for nonresidential structures rose substantially in the third quarter, but nominal expenditures for new business buildings declined slightly in October. Real nonfarm inventory investment increased noticeably in the third quarter, but recent book-value data for inventory-to-sales ratios, along with readings on inventories from national and regional manufacturing surveys, did not point to significant inventory imbalances in most industries. Real federal government purchases declined somewhat in the third quarter but appeared likely to decrease more substantially in the fourth quarter, reflecting the effect of the temporary partial government shutdown in October and further cuts in defense spending in October and November. Real state and local government purchases rose markedly in the third quarter. Moreover, the payrolls of these governments continued to expand, on net, in October and November, and nominal state and local construction expenditures increased in October. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in October as exports rose more than imports. The gains in exports were fairly widespread across categories and were led by sales of consumer goods, industrial supplies, and agricultural products. The higher value of imports reflected increases in services, consumer goods, and petroleum products that more than offset lower purchases of computers, semiconductors, and automotive products. Total U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, was less than 1 percent over the 12 months ending in October, in part because consumer energy prices declined over the same 12-month period. In addition, core PCE price inflation--which excludes consumer energy and food prices--was only a little above 1 percent, partly reflecting subdued increases in medical services prices and recent declines in the prices of many nonfuel imported goods. In November, the consumer price index (CPI) was flat, and core CPI prices rose slightly faster than in the preceding few months. Both near-term and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed, on net, in November and early December. Measures of labor compensation indicated that increases in nominal wages continued to be modest. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose moderately over the year ending in the third quarter, and unit labor costs moved up at a similar pace as gains in productivity were small. The employment cost index expanded a little more slowly than the compensation per hour measure over the same yearlong period. The increase in nominal average hourly earnings for all employees over the 12 months ending in November was also modest. Foreign economic activity strengthened in the third quarter, as the euro area continued to recover from its recent recession, economic growth picked up in China after slowing in the first half of the year, and the Mexican economy rebounded from a second-quarter contraction. Inflation slowed recently in many advanced foreign economies, partly as a result of a deceleration in prices for energy and other commodities. Monetary policy remained very accommodative in most advanced economies, but central banks in some emerging market economies recently tightened policy further to contain inflation and support the foreign exchange value of their currencies. Staff Review of the Financial Situation Financial market developments over the intermeeting period appeared to be driven largely by incoming data on employment and economic activity that exceeded investor expectations as well as by Federal Reserve communications. Investors appeared to read the economic data releases over the intermeeting period as better than had been expected and therefore as raising the odds that the FOMC might decide to reduce the pace of asset purchases at its December meeting. Survey evidence suggested that market participants now saw roughly similar probabilities of the first reduction in the pace of asset purchases occurring at the December, January, or March meeting. Market expectations regarding the timing of liftoff of the federal funds rate seemed to be little changed over the period. In part, a variety of Federal Reserve communications were seen as strengthening the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate and contributing to the stability of expectations for the near-term path of the federal funds rate in the face of an improved economic outlook. On net, judging by financial market quotes on interest rate futures, the expected federal funds rate path through the end of 2015 moved only slightly since the October FOMC meeting. The expected federal funds rate path at longer horizons rose somewhat, and the Treasury yield curve steepened, with the 2-year Treasury yield about unchanged but the 5- and 10-year yields higher by 21 and 34 basis points, respectively. The measure of 5-year inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities dipped 5 basis points, while the 5-year forward measure increased 7 basis points. The 30-year current-coupon yield on agency mortgage-backed securities increased a bit more than the 10-year Treasury yield. Stock prices were about unchanged, on net, over the intermeeting period, even though some broad equity price indexes temporarily touched all-time nominal highs. Corporate risk spreads narrowed somewhat. Business finance flows were robust over the intermeeting period. Gross equity issuance by the nonfinancial corporate sector in October and November reached levels not seen in a decade. Gross bond issuance by nonfinancial corporations picked up again after a dip related to the fiscal standoff in October. Similarly, institutional issuance of leveraged loans rose in October and November, and collateralized loan obligation issuance remained strong. Financing conditions in commercial real estate (CRE) markets were consistent with increased confidence. Year-to-date issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) remained strong, but far below levels seen before the financial crisis. Responses to the December 2013 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms (SCOOS) suggested that demand for funding for CMBS picked up since September. CRE loans on banks' books expanded in October and November at an increasing pace. Automobile loans continued to expand in October, and available data suggested that this trend was sustained in November. Automobile asset-backed securities (ABS) issuance accelerated in November, and issuance of paper backed by subprime automobile loans stayed strong. In contrast, credit card balances moved sideways, and ABS issuance in that sector stayed flat. In the residential mortgage market, several large lenders were reported to have eased their underwriting standards slightly, but data suggested that mortgage lenders generally continued to be reluctant to lend to borrowers with less-than-pristine credit scores. Mortgage rates rose over the intermeeting period to levels about 100 basis points above their early-May lows. On balance, refinancing applications were down substantially since May while purchase applications declined much less. House prices rose significantly in October, but some indicators suggested that the pace of house price gains continued to decelerate relative to earlier in the year. Responses to the December SCOOS generally showed little change in dealer-intermediated financing since September. Credit terms for most classes of counterparties were little changed. One-third of respondents reported a decline in the use of financial leverage by trading real estate investment trusts, whereas the use of financial leverage by other classes of counterparties was basically unchanged. In response to special questions in the survey, dealers indicated that the current use of repurchase agreements or other forms of short-term funding for longer-duration assets was roughly in line with or somewhat below the levels seen early in 2013. Bank credit rose slightly in October and November, as growth in commercial and industrial loans, CRE loans, and consumer loans was partially offset by declines in the outstanding balances of closed-end residential mortgages on banks' books. Stock prices for large and regional domestic banking firms outperformed the broad equity market over the intermeeting period amid better-than-expected economic data and the settlement of mortgage-related litigation by some large banking organizations. Spreads on credit default swaps for the largest bank holding companies also moved lower, on net. M2 contracted in November, likely reflecting in part portfolio reallocations by investors that had temporarily placed funds in bank deposits as a safe haven during the recent federal debt limit impasse. Meanwhile, the monetary base continued to expand rapidly, primarily reflecting the increase in reserve balances resulting from the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. The foreign exchange value of the dollar appreciated following the October FOMC meeting and the October employment report and ended the intermeeting period higher on balance. A shift in market expectations toward easier monetary policy abroad may have also boosted the exchange value of the dollar, most notably against the Japanese yen, and equity prices in Japan rose substantially further during the period. By contrast, equity prices declined in many emerging market economies; in some cases, those declines were large and accompanied by sizable decreases in currency values and sovereign bond prices. European equity prices were also lower over the period. Long-term benchmark sovereign yields in the United Kingdom and Canada increased, in line with, but somewhat less than, the rise in yields on comparable U.S. Treasury securities. Yields on German sovereign bonds, which reacted to a policy rate cut by the European Central Bank and the release of data showing lower-than-expected euro-area inflation, were only slightly higher on net. The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability concluded that the vulnerability of the financial system to adverse shocks remained at moderate levels overall. Relatively strong capital profiles of large domestic banking firms, low levels and moderate growth of aggregate credit in the nonfinancial sectors, and some reduction in reliance on short-term wholesale funding across the financial sector were seen as factors supporting financial stability in the current environment. Valuations in most asset markets seemed broadly in line with historical norms. However, the staff report noted that the complexity and interconnectedness of large financial institutions, along with some apparent increases in investor appetite for higher-yielding assets and associated pressures on underwriting standards remained potential sources of risk to the financial system. Staff Economic Outlook In the economic projection prepared by the staff for the December FOMC meeting, the forecast for growth in real gross domestic product (GDP) in the second half of this year was revised up a little from the one prepared for the previous meeting, as the recent information on private domestic final demand--particularly consumer spending--was somewhat better, on balance, than the staff had anticipated. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was also revised up slightly, reflecting a small reduction in fiscal restraint from the recent federal budget agreement, which the staff assumed would be enacted; a lower anticipated trajectory for longer-term interest rates; and higher paths for equity values and home prices. Those factors, in total, more than offset a higher path for the foreign exchange value of the dollar. The staff continued to project that real GDP would expand more quickly over the next few years than it has this year and would rise significantly faster than the growth rate of potential output. This acceleration in economic activity was expected to be supported by an easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, increases in consumer and business sentiment, continued improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, a further easing of the economic stresses in Europe, and still-accommodative monetary policy. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce resource slack over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate. The staff's forecast for inflation was quite similar to the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting. The near-term forecast for inflation was revised down slightly to reflect some recent softer-than-expected data. The staff continued to forecast that inflation would be modest, on net, through early next year but higher than its low level in the first half of this year. The staff's projection for inflation over the medium term was essentially unchanged. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be measured, and slack in labor and product markets persisting over most of the projection period, inflation was projected to be subdued through 2016. The staff viewed the uncertainty around the projection for economic activity as similar to its average over the past 20 years. Nonetheless, the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were viewed as tilted to the downside, reflecting concerns that the extent of supply-side damage to the economy since the recession could prove greater than assumed; that the tightening in mortgage rates since last spring could exert greater restraint on the housing recovery than had been projected; that economic and financial stresses in emerging market economies and the euro area could intensify; and that, with the target federal funds rate already near its lower bound, the U.S. economy was not well positioned to weather future adverse shocks. However, the staff viewed the risks around the projection for the unemployment rate as roughly balanced, with the risk of a higher unemployment rate resulting from adverse developments roughly countered by the possibility that the unemployment rate could continue to fall more than expected, as it had in recent years. The staff did not see the uncertainty around its outlook for inflation as unusually high, and the risks to that outlook were viewed as broadly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, the meeting participants--5 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participated in the deliberations--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2013 through 2016 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy. The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, meeting participants viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that the economy was expanding at a moderate pace. They generally indicated that the broad contours of their outlook for real activity, the labor market, and inflation had not changed materially since their October meeting, but most expressed greater confidence in the outlook and saw the risks associated with their forecasts of real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as more nearly balanced than earlier in the year. Almost all participants continued to project that the rate of growth of economic activity would strengthen in coming years, and all anticipated that the unemployment rate would gradually decline toward levels consistent with their current assessments of its longer-run normal value. The projected improvement in economic activity was expected to be supported by highly accommodative monetary policy, diminished fiscal policy restraint, and a pickup in global economic growth, as well as a further easing of credit conditions and continued improvements in household balance sheets. Inflation remained below the Committee's longer-run objective over the intermeeting period. Nevertheless, participants still anticipated that with longer-run inflation expectations stable and economic activity picking up, inflation would move back toward its objective over the medium run. But they noted that inflation persistently below the Committee's objective would pose risks to economic performance and so saw a need to monitor inflation developments carefully. Consumer spending appeared to be strengthening, with solid gains in retail sales in recent months and a rebound in motor vehicle sales in November. On balance, retail contacts reportedly were fairly optimistic about holiday sales. Participants cited a number of factors that likely contributed to the recent pickup in spending, including the waning effects of the payroll tax increase that had trimmed disposable income earlier in the year, the drop in energy costs, and the recent improvement in consumer sentiment. More broadly, spending was being supported by gains in household wealth associated with rising house prices and equity values, the still-low level of interest rates, and the progress that households have made in reducing debt and strengthening their balance sheets. These favorable trends were generally anticipated to continue and to be accompanied by stronger real disposable income as labor market conditions improve and inflation remains low. Activity in the housing sector slowed in recent months. Some participants noted that the increase in mortgage interest rates since the spring was having a greater effect on that sector than they had anticipated earlier. Despite the recent softening, participants discussed a number of factors that should support a continued recovery in housing going forward. These included expectations that mortgage interest rates would remain relatively favorable, that rising home values would boost household wealth and further reduce the number of borrowers with underwater mortgages, that consumer incomes and confidence would continue to rise as employment expanded, and that a pickup in household formation would support the demand for housing. Business investment appeared to be advancing at a moderate rate. A number of the fundamental determinants of business investment were positive: Business balance sheets remained in good shape, cash flow was ample, and input costs were subdued. Business contacts in a number of Districts were reportedly somewhat more confident about the outlook than they had been earlier in the fall, but a couple of participants reported that their contacts continued to focus on investments intended to reduce costs and were still cautious regarding investment to expand capacity, or that concerns about health care costs were holding back hiring. In the manufacturing sector, production appeared to be increasing at a solid rate according to both national and most of the regional surveys of activity, and the available indexes of future activity continued to suggest optimism among firms. Renewed export demand and a buildup in auto inventories, which may be reversed in 2014, were cited as contributing to the recent gains in production. Participants heard positive reports from their contacts in the technology, rail, freight, and airline industries, and activity in the energy sector remained strong. In agriculture, record yields were reported for corn and soybeans, but farm income was being reduced by lower crop prices. Measures of farmland values were still rising, but anecdotal reports suggested softening in some areas. Fiscal policy continued to restrain economic growth. However, participants generally judged that the extent of the restraint may have begun to diminish as the effects of the payroll tax increases earlier in the year seem to have waned, and the drag on real activity from restrictive fiscal policies was expected to decline further going forward. Moreover, a number of participants observed that the prospect that the Congress would shortly reach an accord on the budget seemed to be reducing uncertainty and lowering the risks that might be associated with a disruptive political impasse. Committee participants generally viewed the increases in nonfarm payroll employment of more than 200,000 per month in October and November and the decline in the unemployment rate to 7 percent as encouraging signs of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. Several cited other indicators of progress in the labor market, such as the decline in new claims for unemployment insurance, the uptrend in quits, or the rise in the number of small businesses reporting job openings that were hard to fill. Participants exchanged views on the extent to which the decrease in labor force participation over recent years represented cyclical weakness in the labor market that was not adequately captured by the unemployment rate. Some participants cited research that found that demographic and other structural factors, particularly rising retirements by older workers, accounted for much of the recent decline in participation. However, several others continued to see important elements of cyclical weakness in the low labor force participation rate and cited other indicators of considerable slack in the labor market, including the still-high levels of long-duration unemployment and of workers employed part time for economic reasons and the still-depressed ratio of employment to population for workers ages 25 to 54. In addition, although a couple of participants had heard reports of labor shortages, particularly for workers with specialized skills, most measures of wages had not accelerated. A few participants noted the risk that the persistent weakness in labor force participation and low rates of productivity growth might indicate lasting structural economic damage from the financial crisis and ensuing recession. Inflation continued to run noticeably below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, but participants anticipated that it would move back toward 2 percent over time as the economic recovery strengthened and longer-run inflation expectations remained steady. Several participants suggested that some of the factors that had held down inflation recently, such as the slowing in price increases for medical care and banking services, were likely to prove transitory. Some participants suggested that inflation, while low, was unlikely to slow further, pointing to core, trimmed mean, or sticky-price inflation measures as indicative of fairly steady underlying price trends; most measures of wage gains were also steady. Nonetheless, many participants expressed concern about the deceleration in consumer prices over the past year, and a couple pointed out that a number of other advanced economies were also experiencing very low inflation. Among the costs of very low or declining inflation that were cited were its effects in raising real interest rates and debt burdens. A few participants raised the possibility that recent declines in inflation might suggest that the economic recovery was not as strong as some thought. Domestic financial markets were influenced importantly over the intermeeting period by Federal Reserve communications and by economic data that were generally better than market participants expected. These factors apparently led market participants to raise the odds they assigned to a reduction in the pace of asset purchases at the December meeting, and to leave roughly unchanged their expectations for the timing of the first increase in the target federal funds rate. A number of participants noted that current market expectations were reasonably well aligned with the Committee's recent policy communications. Participants also reviewed indicators of financial vulnerabilities that could pose risks to financial stability and the broader economy. These indicators generally suggested that such risks were moderate, in part because of the reduction in leverage and maturity transformation that has occurred in the financial sector since the onset of the financial crisis. In their discussion of potential risks, several participants commented on the rise in forward price-to-earnings ratios for some small-cap stocks, the increased level of equity repurchases, or the rise in margin credit. One pointed to the increase in issuance of leveraged loans this year and the apparent decline in the average quality of such loans. A couple of participants offered views on the role of financial stability in monetary policy decisionmaking more broadly. One proposed that the Committee analyze more explicitly the potential consequences of specific risks to the financial system for its dual-mandate objectives and take account of the possible effects of monetary policy on such risks in its assessment of appropriate policy. Another suggested that the importance of financial stability considerations in the Committee's deliberations would likely increase over time as progress is made toward the Committee's objectives, and that such considerations should be incorporated into forward guidance for the federal funds rate and asset purchases. In their discussion of the appropriate path for monetary policy, participants considered whether the cumulative improvement in labor market conditions since the asset purchase program began in September 2012 and the associated improvement in the outlook for the labor market warranted a reduction in the pace of asset purchases. The most recent data showed that increases in nonfarm payroll employment had averaged around 190,000 per month for the past 15 months, and the unemployment rate had fallen more quickly over that period than most participants had expected. Moreover, participants generally anticipated that the improvement in labor market conditions would continue, and most had become more confident in that outlook. Against this backdrop, most participants saw a reduction in the pace of purchases as appropriate at this meeting and consistent with the Committee's previous policy communications. Many commented that progress to date had been meaningful, and some expressed the view that the criterion of substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market was likely to be met in the coming year if the economy evolved as expected. However, several participants stressed that the unemployment rate remained elevated, that a range of other indicators had shown less progress toward levels consistent with a full recovery in the labor market, and that the projected pickup in economic growth was not assured. Some participants also questioned whether slowing the pace of purchases at a time when inflation was running well below the Committee's longer-run objective was appropriate. For some, the considerable slack remaining in the labor market and shortfall of inflation from the Committee's longer-run objective warranted continuing asset purchases at the current pace for a time in order to wait for additional information confirming sustained progress toward the Committee's objectives or to promote faster progress toward those objectives. Among those inclined to begin to reduce the pace of asset purchases at this meeting, many favored a modest initial reduction accompanied by guidance indicating that decisions regarding future reductions would depend on economic and financial developments as well as the efficacy and costs of purchases. Some other participants preferred a larger reduction in purchases at this meeting and future reductions that would bring the program to a close relatively quickly. A few proposed that the Committee lay out, either at this meeting or subsequently, a more deterministic path for winding down the program or that it announce a fixed amount of additional purchases and an expected completion date, thereby reducing uncertainty about the trajectory of the purchase program. Participants also considered the potential for clarifying or strengthening the Committee's forward guidance for the federal funds rate. In general, participants who favored amending the forward guidance saw a need to more fully communicate how, if the unemployment rate threshold was reached first, the Committee would likely set monetary policy after that threshold was crossed. A number of participants pointed out that the federal funds rate paths underlying the economic forecasts that they prepared for this meeting, as well as expectations for the funds rate path priced into financial markets, were consistent with the view that the Committee would not raise the federal funds rate until well after the time that the threshold was crossed. A few participants discussed the potential advantages and disadvantages of using medians of the projections of the federal funds rate from the SEP as a means of communicating the likely path of short-term interest rates. Some worried that, if the Committee began to reduce asset purchases, market expectations might shift, and they wanted to reinforce the forward guidance to mitigate the risks of an undesired tightening of financial conditions that could have adverse effects on the economy. In light of their concern that inflation might continue to run well below the Committee's longer-run objective, several participants saw the need to clearly convey that inflation remains an important consideration in adjusting the target funds rate. Participants debated the advantages and disadvantages of lowering the unemployment rate threshold provided in the forward guidance. In the view of the few participants who advocated such a change, a lower threshold would be a clear signal of the Committee's intentions and was an appropriate adjustment in light of recent labor market and inflation trends. In contrast, a few others expressed concern that any change in the threshold might be confusing and could undermine the credibility of the Committee's forward guidance. Most were inclined to retain the current thresholds for the unemployment and inflation rates and to instead provide qualitative guidance regarding the Committee's likely behavior after a threshold was crossed. Committee Policy Action Committee members viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as indicating that the economy was expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions had improved in recent months, with monthly gains in payroll employment of more than 200,000 in October and November. The unemployment rate had declined but remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, while the recovery in the housing market slowed somewhat in recent months. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, although the extent of the restraint may have begun to diminish. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth would strengthen and the unemployment rate would gradually decline toward levels consistent with its dual mandate. Moreover, members judged that the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market had become more nearly balanced, reflecting in part an easing of fiscal policy concerns and an improvement in the prospects for global economic growth. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, and this was seen as posing possible risks to economic performance. Members anticipated that inflation would, over time, return to the Committee's 2 percent objective, supported by stable inflation expectations and stronger economic activity. However, in light of their concerns about the persistence of low inflation, many members saw a need for the Committee to monitor inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation was moving back toward its longer-run objective. In their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, most members agreed that the cumulative improvement in labor market conditions and the likelihood that the improvement would be sustained indicated that the Committee could appropriately begin to slow the pace of its asset purchases at this meeting. However, members also weighed a number of considerations regarding such an action, including their degree of confidence in prospects for sustained above-potential economic growth, continued improvement in labor market conditions, and a return of inflation to its mandate-consistent level over time. Some also expressed concern about the potential for an unintended tightening of financial conditions if a reduction in the pace of asset purchases was misinterpreted as signaling that the Committee was likely to withdraw policy accommodation more quickly than had been anticipated. As a consequence, many members judged that the Committee should proceed cautiously in taking its first action to reduce the pace of asset purchases and should indicate that further reductions would be undertaken in measured steps. Members also stressed the need to underscore that the pace of asset purchases was not on a preset course and would remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the efficacy and costs of purchases. Consistent with this approach, the Committee agreed that, beginning in January, it would add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month, and add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $40 billion per month rather than $45 billion per month. While deciding to modestly reduce its pace of purchases, the Committee emphasized that its holdings of longer-term securities were sizable and would still be increasing, which would promote a stronger economic recovery by maintaining downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, supporting mortgage markets, and helping to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee also reiterated that it will continue its asset purchases, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In the view of one member, a reduction in the pace of purchases was premature and, before taking such a step, the Committee should wait for more convincing evidence that economic growth was rising faster than its potential and that inflation would return to the Committee's 2 percent objective. In their discussion of forward guidance about the target federal funds rate, a few members suggested that lowering the unemployment threshold to 6 percent could effectively convey the Committee's intention to keep the target federal funds rate low for an extended period. However, most members wanted to make no change to the threshold and instead preferred to provide qualitative guidance to clarify that a range of labor market indicators would be used when assessing the appropriate stance of policy once the threshold had been crossed. A number of members thought that the forward guidance should emphasize the importance of inflation as a factor in their decisions. Accordingly, almost all members agreed to add language indicating the Committee's anticipation, based on its current assessment of additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments, that it would be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. It was noted that this language might appear calendar-based rather than conditional on economic and financial developments, and one member objected to having forward guidance that might be seen as relatively inflexible in response to changes in members' views about the appropriate path of the target federal funds rate. However, those concerns generally were seen as outweighed by the benefit of avoiding tying the Committee's decision too closely to the unemployment rate alone, while still being clear about the Committee's intention to provide the monetary accommodation needed to support a return to maximum employment and stable prices. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October indicates that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown further improvement; the unemployment rate has declined but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, while the recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in recent months. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint may be diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having become more nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment since the inception of its current asset purchase program, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions over that period as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions, the Committee decided to modestly reduce the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in January, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $40 billion per month rather than $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. The Committee also reaffirmed its expectation that the current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee now anticipates, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, James Bullard, Charles L. Evans, Esther L. George, Jerome H. Powell, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action: Eric Rosengren. Mr. Rosengren dissented because he viewed the decision to slow the pace of asset purchases at this meeting as premature. In his view, with the unemployment rate still elevated and the inflation rate well below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent, changes in the asset purchase program should be postponed until incoming data more clearly indicate that economic growth is likely to be sustained above its potential rate. He saw the costs of delaying action at this meeting as likely to be small relative to the gains from promoting a faster return of both elements of the Committee's dual mandate to their longer-run objectives. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, January 28-29, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 11:00 a.m. on December 18, 2013. Notation Vote By notation vote completed on November 19, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on October 29-30, 2013. FREE AppDownload
Both Scottrade and E*Trade — popular online stock brokerage services — are experiencing problems today. E*Trade is currently down for some users, the company confirmed on Twitter. We know you may be having difficulty accessing etrade. We are working to quickly restore full access and apologize for the inconvenience. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1.Historically, every new chairman of the Federal Reserve has faced a challenge at the beginning of his tenure. For incoming Fed chairman Janet Yellen, who was just confirmed by the Senate on Monday and will take over at the helm of the central bank at the end of this month, that challenge will be convincing market participants to believe her when she says interest rates will stay low for a long time. Following the release of stronger-than-expected private payrolls numbers this morning, traders are pulling forward expectations for when and how fast the Fed will normalize short-term interest rates from current ultra-low levels between 0 and 0.25%, where they have been pinned since the financial crisis. As Chart 1 shows, yields on eurodollar futures contracts, which reflect where the yield on 3-month dollar deposits held in bank accounts outside the United States is expected to be when the contracts mature, are rising across the board today. They are also up substantially from December 18, when the Federal Open Market Committee announced the beginning of the process of winding down (a.k.a. "tapering") the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, under which the central bank buys $85 billion of U.S. Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month. Chart 2 shows how much yields on each eurodollar futures contract have risen since yesterday and since December 18. "As the labor market improves at a faster-than-expected pace, expectations for the Fed's first rate hike are typically priced in at an earlier date," says Gabriel Mann, a U.S. rates strategy analyst at RBS. Or in other words, eurodollars have sold off as investors pulled forward the expected date for the Fed's first tightening." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2.Today's price action in eurodollar futures highlights what is likely to be the biggest story of 2014 for interest rates: market participants testing the FOMC's commitment (known as "forward guidance") to keep the policy rate low well after the unemployment rate falls below 6.5% and the economic recovery becomes cemented. "2014 will probably go down in history as the year of testing forward guidance," says Aneta Markowska, an economist at Société Générale. Today's release of the minutes from the FOMC's December 18 meeting will be thus be important for two reasons. First, they could shed more light on the path the Fed's wind-down of quantitative easing will take. Currently, market economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the FOMC to reduce the pace of its monthly bond buying by $10 billion at each of its next seven meetings throughout 2014, ending the program completely by meeting number 8 in December. "If today’s minutes unveil an FOMC that is united in ending [quantitative easing] sooner rather than later, yields will move higher still," says Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities. The second big question the minutes could answer is what the FOMC is considering to enhance its forward guidance further, if it does in fact want to fight recent price action and keep expectations for future short-term interest rates at bay. "Of all the options to strengthen forward guidance, the FOMC chose the softest one in December," says Société Générale's Markowska.  "It maintained the 6.5% no-rate-hike threshold, but added that rates are likely to stay at zero 'well past' this milestone. Judging from the Committee’s forecasts for unemployment and the fed funds rate, 'well past' probably means around 6-9 months (the FOMC’s median forecast sees the unemployment rate at 6.5% in late 2014 and the lift-off in rates some time in H2 2015). But what will happen if we cross the threshold sooner...does this mean that the lift-off in rates will also be brought forward to early 2015?" The next FOMC meeting is January 28-29, at which the Committee must make a decision on whether or not to further bolster forward guidance. "Importantly, there was no consensus within the Committee to enhance forward guidance in a forceful fashion," says Jens Nordvig, global head of currency strategy at Nomura. "In our opinion, this was no coincidence. The minutes today are likely to show that there is currently no momentum behind materially enhanced forward guidance at this juncture. For those who think Chairwoman Yellen is about to deliver a material dovish surprise, this could be viewed as hawkish news." FREE AppDownload
The growth of fast casual restaurants like Chipotle and Five Guys is killing the lower-end full-service dining industry. Sit-down restaurants like Red Lobster and Olive Garden are among the restaurants at the losing end of the battle for consumers' palettes.   This telling chart from UBS is evidence of the dramatic shift away from casual dining: UBS  The chart was published in a UBS research report on the U.S. restaurant industry. "Increasingly, superior 'food for the money,' not service, is driving restaurant consumption patterns and [same-store sales] trends," UBS analysts wrote. "In our view, consumers don’t want to spend more but want a better food value proposition (either quality value or absolute value), and are willing to swap out some level of service to pay for it." "The recent shift away from the more service intensive casual dining experience toward fast casual concepts is clear evidence of this, in our opinion," the analysts added. UBS also notes in its report that pizza and wing chains have a better outlook in 2014 than steakhouses and Italian restaurants. FREE AppDownload
The SAC Capital Advisors brand starts 2014 severely sullied, but that negative reputation hasn't stopped recent alums of the firm from raising piles of cash. Investors have poured hundreds of millions of dollars into hedge funds run by Jason Karp, Aaron Cowen and James "Jos" Shaver, for example, and more is on the way. Together, they make up a class of successful recent fund launches, easily powering through any negative connotation the SAC association has on their resume. Their success also points to other potentially successful spin-offs as the parent firm downsizes and transitions to a family office for billionaire founder Steven A. Cohen. "Investors know it's not fair to paint everyone from SAC with the same brush. They're much more focused on merit to figure out who is a good candidate to invest with or hire," said Sasha Jensen, founder of hedge fund-focused recruiting firm HFE Search. "Having SAC on your resume isn't a black mark." Karp's Tourbillon Capital Partners is a prime example. Karp worked at SAC's CR Intrinsic unit from 2005 to 2009, where he was a generalist portfolio manager and director of research. After a stop as co-chief investment officer of Carlson Capital, Karp launched his own long/short equity hedge fund firm on Jan. 14, 2013 with about $250 million under management, half of it from U.K. pension funds. Tourbillon has sucked in assets ever since. The firm managed $750 million as of Jan. 1, according to a person familiar with the situation, and plans to add about $250 million more from investors over the second quarter. The fund plans to stop all new investment at about $1 billion, known as a "hard close." Investors were evidently focused on Karp's investing skills. Tourbillon's flagship fund gained 20.7 percent net of fees in 2013, about the same as at SAC and nearly twice the return of the Absolute Return Global Equity Index, which gained 11.85 percent through November. Impressively, the return was accomplished with an average net exposure over 2013 of 14.5 percent, meaning Tourbillon long bets on stocks barely outweighed its shorts. Some of the best performing hedge funds had exposures closer to 35 percent or 40 percent as of December. Successful long trades included Japanese tech company SoftBank and Chinese online travel business Ctrip.com, according to investor letters obtained by CNBC.com. Amy Zipper, Tourbillon's chief operating officer, declined to comment. (Read more: No letup on risk for hedge funds this December) Cowen's Suvretta Capital Management is another fast-rising fund run by an SAC alum. Cowen worked as chief investment officer at SAC from 2008 to 2010, where he co-managed the firm's multi-billion dollar central investment portfolio with Cohen himself. After time at Soros Fund Management in between, Cowen launched Suvretta, a long/short equity focused firm. The shop's funds opened to outside capital in October 2012 and attracted $165 million as of Jan. 1, 2013. But thanks to a strong 26.3 percent net gain in 2013, the firm has more than $700 million as of Jan. 1 this year, according to investor materials obtained by CNBC.com. Cowen declined to comment. (Read more: Hot new eBay item: SAC Capital polar fleece) A third example is Shaver's Electron Capital Partners. The firm's utility and infrastructure stock-focused team and strategy was part of SAC from 2008 to 2012 and managed an average of$1.3 billion. Shaver spun out and opened Electron to external investors on May 1 with $20 million. Electron has already grown to $191 million after gaining 14.72 percent net of fees from March through December 2013, according to investor materials obtained by CNBC.com. That's more than double the MSCI World Utilities Index gain of 7.20 percent over the same period. Recent winners include long bets on the stocks of energy companies NRG Yield and Pattern Energy. Shaver declined to comment. Of course, not all SAC alums have fared as well. Paul Orwicz, a portfolio manager at SAC for 11 years, left to launch Sursum Capital Management in March 2010 and raised significant assets to run $720 million by April 2011. But double-digit losses in 2011 causes Orwicz to shut the long/short equity firm and rejoin SAC. (Read more: Jury finds SAC Capitol Advisors' Michael Steinberg guilty) A more recent stumble came at Adams Hill Partners, run by SAC alum Andrew Schwartz. An SAC portfolio manager from 2004 to 2012, Schwartz raised $334 million from investors as of Dec. 1, 2013 after launching in January 2013. But redemptions could come after his industrials, mining and materials-focused fund performed poorly in 2013, losing 8.58 percent through November, according to investor materials obtained by CNBC.com. Recent losers for the low-net exposure fund were short bets on two unnamed chemical companies and a refining company. Adams Hill didn't respond to a request for comment. Regardless, observers don't expect investors to automatically reject the funds of future SAC alums. Recent or planned launches have come from SAC portfolio manager David Vogt's Point Harbor Partners and Anil Stevens, who co-managed recently-shut SAC unit Parameter Capital Management. "There is very little sense of stigma," said one investor consultant who tracks hedge fund launches closely. SAC has been reeling from a string of insider trading convictions and settlements. Most recently, portfolio manager Michael Steinberg was found guilty on Dec. 18 for various violations. He faces time in prison. Another, Mathew Martoma, faces trial imminently. In early November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.2 billion fine. Cohen, who has not been personally charged with any crime, also agreed to stop managing outside capital. That was on top of a $616 million fine by the Securities and Exchange Commission for related charges. (Read more: Trial to Begin for Ex-SAC Trader Who Cut No Deal) A spokesman for SAC didn't respond to a request for comment, but a recent SAC statement made clear it didn't believe there was a culture of corruption, as the government alleged. "We take responsibility for the handful of men who pleaded guilty and whose conduct gave rise to SAC's liability," the firm said on Nov. 4, 2013. "These wrongdoers do not represent the 3,000 honest men and women who have worked at the firm during the past 21 years." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sean YongChinese financial markets experienced turbulence in 2013, aggravated by two severe surges in short-term interest rates. It was also a year when economists furiously downgraded their growth forecasts in the first half of the year, prompting premier Li Keqiang to step in and put a floor on growth.  But there are four key things that will dominate the Chinese economy and markets in 2014, according to Bank of America's Ting Lu.  Ting expects economic growth to be more stable in 2014. But he expects financial markets to be as volatile as they were in 2013, or even more so, "as accumulated debt risks, financial deepening and too rosy expectations on reforms are set to rattle financial markets once in a while." FREE AppDownload
Government Counterfeiting Although governments have done more to destroy their own currencies than all the counterfeiters in the history of mankind put together, the government is not the correct answer. Governments have debased their own currency for millennia. Historical examples of government-induced debasement include: In holding governments accountable, we are also not talking about one government counterfeiting the currency of another government as the Governments have consistently destroyed their own currency and those of other countries without ever being held accountable for their “crime” the way a counterfeiter is punished.  No, we are not talking about governments; we are talking about individual counterfeiters. It is one thing for the government to expand the money supply in order to stimulate the economy and help the unemployed.  It is quite another for counterfeiters to do the same –albeit on a much smaller scale– to benefit themselves. Counterfeiters provide competition to the government, and though government officials are applauded when they inflate the economy, counterfeiters are condemned to prison – when caught. A Classy Counterfeiter Our vote for the greatest counterfeiter of all time goes to Artur Alves dos Reis whose story was recounted by Murray Teigh Bloom in The Man Who Stole Portugal.  Reis was both smart and classy, and his criminal operation reflected these qualities. To my knowledge, Reis put together the most audacious counterfeiting scheme in history.  He conceived his master plan while he was in jail in Oporto for embezzling the funds of a company he had taken over. Some criminals sit in jail and try to avoid repeating their misfortunes. Others, like Reis or Tony de Angelis, think-up bigger, more foolproof schemes.  While he was sitting in his cell, Reis put together his master plan that would make him the richest, and possibly the most influential man in Portugal in only one year. Although you may not realize it, counterfeiting is a very complex operation.  To be successful, (i.e. not get caught), be able to spend your money, and not receive free room and board from the government, you have to do three things successfully.  First, you have to create counterfeit currency that can’t be detected.  Second, you need a way of laundering the money and converting it into real assets so you can enjoy the fruits of your ill-begotten labors.  Third, you must make sure that you avoid the triple curse of detection, arrest and conviction. Let’s see what Reis’s solution was to this age-old problem. Step One: Create an Undetectable Banknote First, create a counterfeit that can’t be detected. During the 1920s, the Banco do Portugal had the exclusive right to print currency in Portugal. The bank used foreign printing companies with superior anti-counterfeiting technology to protect their banknotes. The English company, Waterlow &amp; Sons, printed the 500 and 1000 Escudo notes (equal to about $25 and $50 in 1923) for the Banco do Portugal. So why not get Waterlow &amp; Sons to print the notes for Reis as well? Reis was a natural-born forger.  He forged his diploma as an engineer from Oxford as a “joke”, but this helped land him a job as a government railroad inspector in Angola at the age of twenty-two. In 1924, he forged $100,000 worth of checks and used the money to take over control of Ambaca, the Royal Trans-African railway Company of Angola. He then used the money in the company’s treasury to cover his own checks. He was arrested in July 1924 for embezzlement, but was released two months later when a court decided his was a civil and not a criminal case. It was during the two months he was the guest of the Oporto police that he conceived his infamous counterfeiting scheme. The key was to find someone with a respected name who could help him convince Waterlow &amp; Sons to print banknotes secretly for Reis. He found three men of questionable repute, but with connections to help Reis: Jose Bandeira, Gustav Adolf Hennies and Karel Marang. Bandeira got his brother, the Portuguese Minister to the Netherlands, to give Marang a letter introducing him as a respected Dutch citizen who had a power-of-attorney for Alves Reis to negotiate the printing of the banknotes.  Marang went to Waterlow &amp; Sons in London, and presented his letter of introduction as the “Consul General of Persia” on forged Banco do Portugal stationary to Sir William Waterlow. Marang spun the story Reis had instructed him to give. A private syndicate was being formed to save the colony of Angola from its current dire financial condition with a $5,000,000 investment.  In return for the loan, the syndicate would be allowed to print and circulate banknotes in Angola.  Waterlow &amp; Sons would print the banknotes for the syndicate, and once the notes reached Angola, the banknotes would be supercharged with the word ANGOLA so they wouldn’t be confused with notes from the mother country. The whole affair had to be kept secret lest Angola fall into further financial difficulties due to ill-placed rumors of pending economic ruin. Of course, Sir William knew that supercharging notes was normal practice for Portugal’s colonies, and that the Banco Ultramarino had the exclusive right to print banknotes for the Portuguese colonies. This was an opportunity for Waterlow &amp; Sons to get this business away from Bradbury, Wilkinson &amp; Co., the current printer of banknotes for the Banco Ultramarino in Angola. Marang asked Waterlow to print the 500 Escudo note with Vasco da Gama on it. The deal was signed on January 6, 1925, and for the printing cost of $7,200, Reis and his conspirators would receive $5,000,000 in banknotes, a 70,000 percent return on their investment.  Bandeira picked up the first group of notes from Waterlow &amp; Sons on February 10, and by March 20, they had 100 million Escudos ($5,000,000) in Portuguese banknotes. Bandeira used his orange diplomatic card to transport the bills in luggage marked the “Legation of Portugal” across the borders without detection.  After the first step had been successfully completed, they placed an order for an additional 190 million Escudos in banknotes ($9,500,000). Of course, the banknotes never made it to Angola. Global Financial Data The greatest risk in the scheme was having banknotes with duplicate numbers discovered, but this was the lesser of two evils.  If Reis and Marang had requested banknotes outside the numerical range of the 500 Escudo notes, the spurious notes would have been quickly discovered.  The lower risk lay in duplicating the existing serial numbers, and hoping the counterfeiters were able to successfully release all the banknotes before the law of large numbers caught up with them. Step Two: Laundering Money with Your Own Bank Step One of the plan was complete, now for Step Two: laundering the money. A small-scale counterfeiter can pass bills through petty criminals, but the notes Reis and friends had were equal to almost 1% of Portugal’s GDP. This was the equivalent of over $150 billion if the same amount had been released in the United States today. Even if Reis hired every petty criminal in Lisbon and Oporto, he wouldn’t be able to unload a fraction of the banknotes. Reis was going first class with his counterfeiting scheme, and he decided the only way to launder the money was to have his own bank.  Reis used his newly printed banknotes to encourage corrupt Portuguese officials and politicians to grant him his bank charter, and on June 15, 1925, the Banco Angola e Metropole’s application was approved by the government.  Of course, the bank would have multiple branches in Lisbon and Oporto to speed up the distribution of their treasure. Want to exchange foreign currency?  The Banco Angola e Metropole provides the best rates.  Want to borrow money for a business or mortgage?  The Banco Angola e Metropole will be happy to extend you the loan in cash.  Want high interest rates on your deposits? Go to the Banco Angola e Metropole? In the meantime, Reis, his wife, and their compatriots spent their money freely, buying jewelry, cars, real estate, and sending money abroad. Reis flooded Portugal with his freshly minted banknotes, and the economy of Portugal was booming.  And as Reis would rationalize, how was this any different from what a real government did?  Was there really any difference between Keynesianism and counterfeiting? Step Three: Avoid Detection (For a While) Step Three and the most important of all was how to avoid detection, arrest and imprisonment.  For this, Reis had a brilliant solution. Since they were counterfeiting Banco do Portugal banknotes, only the Bank could initiate proceedings to prosecute them.  But what if –just what if– Reis controlled the shares in the Banco do Portugal? The bank had already exceeded its statutory banknote limit many times over and the directors of the Banco do Portugal had never been prosecuted, so why should they prosecute Reis?  Or as Reis put it, “How can they arrest us when they’re us and we’re them?” Like most European countries, Portugal had suffered inflation after World War I. Prices had increased 48% per annum between 1919 and 1924, and the Escudo had depreciated by 87% against the Pound Sterling.  Although the Banco do Portugal was only supposed to issue banknotes thrice its capital, it had, in fact, issued banknotes a hundred times its capital. By comparison with this, Reis’s monetary manipulations were minor by comparison. The chart below shows the depreciation of the Portuguese Escudo against the U.S. Dollar after World War I. Global Financial Data Reis began buying up as many shares of the Banco do Portugal as he could, so he could gain a controlling interest in the bank to protect himself. Should his scheme ever be detected, Reis would, quite naturally, refuse to prosecute himself. By November 1925, Reis controlled over 10,000 shares of Banco do Portugal stock. “Just another month” and Reis would have control of the Banco do Portugal.  Then he could live in luxury for the rest of his life. As in all of these cases, whether it be counterfeiting currency, pumping and dumping, forging corporate books, hiding money in offshore accounts, or any of the other financial schemes that crooks are heir to, it was hubris and greed which undid Reis.  He took part of his proceeds and invested them in a mineral and oil exploitation scheme in Angola hoping to increase his wealth even more.  In December 1925, Reis and Hennies were on their way back to Portugal from Angola.  Aboard the ship, they learned that the Banco do Portugal was doing an investigation of the 500 Escudo notes. A lowly, underpaid teller who worked part-time at a jeweler to help make ends meet had become suspicious of the Banco Angola e Metropole. The Escudo notes he received were never in numerical order (Reis’s plan to shuffle the banknotes to avoid detection actually caused detection), and the pages that recorded foreign exchange transactions at the bank were torn out. The teller alerted the Banco do Portugal, an investigation began, and soon duplicate banknotes were discovered. Hennies, sensing that the scheme was up, decided to sail on, but Reis disembarked in Lisbon.  His goal was to lay the blame for the duplicate banknotes on officials at the Banco do Portugal by forging documents that the Governor of the Banco do Portugal was the originator of the whole plot. The Scam Exposed The crisis broke on December 4, 1925 when the newspaper O Sêculo published an expose of the Banco Angola e Metropole. When one of its branches was closed, huge caches of duplicate 500 Escudo banknotes were discovered.  Reis, his compatriots, and almost anyone associated with the Banco Angola e Metropole, (save Hennies who had sailed on), were arrested.  Incredibly enough, the Governor and the Vice Governor of the Banco do Portugal were also arrested, so convincing were Reis’s forged documents. It was as if Ben Bernanke and Janet Yellen had been arrested for counterfeiting! The Banco do Portugal faced a tough decision. What should it do with all the 500 Escudo notes?  It was impossible to differentiate between the original and the duplicate banknotes because they were printed by the same printer using the same plates. The Banco do Portugal came to the only conclusion possible.  Every single Vasco da Gama 500 Escudo note would have to be withdrawn from circulation.  People could exchange up to 200 of the Vasco da Gamas for 1000 Escudo notes until December 26. After that, they would be worthless. The revelation of the counterfeiting plot created a huge loss of confidence in the corrupt, democratic government. Military officers who were aggrieved over their pay failing to keep up with inflation, overthrew the democratic government on May 28, 1926.  This eventually led to the dictatorship of Portugal by Dr. Antonio de Oliveira Salazar (who had been Portugal’s Finance Minister) in 1932. Salazar remained dictator of Portugal until his death in 1968.  A scheme to counterfeit currency and make a forger rich had led, indirectly, to the downfall of a democracy which was followed by a forty-year dictatorship. Reis remained in jail and was found guilty on June 29, 1930 of falsely introducing 330,000 banknotes into Portugal. He was sentenced to twenty years in prison. His compatriots were found guilty as well, but received lesser sentences. Reis was released from prison on May 14, 1945, and died ten years later. Sir William Waterlow was sued by the Banco do Portugal for damages for printing the banknotes. Of course, Waterlow had no knowledge of the counterfeiting scheme and as his lawyers argued, no actual damage had been done to the bank by the banknotes. If anything, Portugal was better off as a result of Reis’s unconventional stimulus plan.  Though Waterlow spent a million dollars on lawyers defending him, he lost the case and Waterlow &amp; Sons was forced to pay of £610,392 (about $3,000,000) in damages. There must be a certain irony in the fact that as a result of the lawsuit, the main beneficiary of the scheme to counterfeit the banknotes was the Banco do Portugal itself.  Sir William died of peritonitis in 1931 and the case was settled in April 1932. Reis was the last of the great counterfeiters. His scheme had style and panache, as did he.  His story ripped through the papers just as his scam ripped through the economy.  This case study should not be forgotten nor should we forget Reis and the ingenuity that rested behind his schemes.  The piranha of Portugal may be gone, but there will always be a new Wolf on Wall Street attempting to profit at the expense of others. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Forget Alibaba and the tantalizing prospect of its IPO, it's time to take a hard look at China's eCommerce and brick and mortar retail sectors as whole. That's what Bank of America did this week in an exhaustive report called "eCommerce vs. retail: A power shift to consumer sovereignty,"  What the bank determined is that both eCommerce and brick and mortar retailers have serious game of catch up to play. Consumers are getting sophisticated about shopping than they are, and that could mean trouble ahead for their businesses. In other words, there are going to be clear winners and losers in this game, and the crazy growth you're seeing now is going to level off soon. Bank of America writes: "...technology now creates a new generation of eConsumers, featuring diminishing info asymmetry, social connectivity, fragmented retail touch-points, quest for superior experience and sense of participation. For the first time, consumers are in command, and the rules of the game have changed. Forget about market share battles among online and offline channels. Those who can adapt to consumer sovereignty will survive and thrive." Brick and mortar retailers and eCommerce retailers have different challenges, but both need to be confronted soon. Brick and mortar retailers are confronting a "competency gap," according to the bank. Instead of getting to know their customers, merchandising, and curating an experience for them — something the sophisticated Chinese shopper would leave their house for — they still use a marketplace model like eCommerce businesses. They also haven't mastered supply chain or logistics to cut costs. To these retailers, it's all about location location location, not customer customer customer. They don't control price or merchandising, but rather rely on marketplace income to boost profits. "...merchandise differentiation, supply chain efficiency and consumer service are not the priorities," says the report. "Most of them do not control what they sell, do not differentiate what they sell, do not control pricing, do not know their consumers, and do not understand how to service consumers." The challenge in eCommerce is different — companies are all trying to undercut each other on price (it's why 50% of online shoppers in China choose eCommerce) and that has some serious consequences. "Today’s China eCommerce is reminiscent of the US tech bubble in the late 1990s. Boosted by PE/VC money, many eCommerce players are willing to sacrifice short-term profitability to gain market share. They may offer such compelling pricing and free shipping that much bigger overseas peers may not match." The eCommerce retailers that survive this and gain market share will eventually increase their prices, Bank of America argues. This should happen in the next three years. The bank also says that if brick and mortar retailers are able to become more sophisticated and efficient, both kinds of retailers should level off. "We believe eCommerce will end its hyper-growth and enter a steady-growth stage within three years. Increasing online costs and other factors could narrow the price gap, while eCommerce also has its competency gap to fill, partly as a result of its own marketplace model. In the end, the two worlds could converge and leverage each other to better service eConsumers. In face of a bumpy road towards equilibrium, we prefer early-movers who proactively adapt to consumer sovereignty, and Intime remains our preferred retail name in the context of paradigm shift." This should be fun to watch. FREE AppDownload
Chen Guangbiao is an audacious man, and not just because he wants to buy the New York Times for $1 billion (or $2 billion or $3 billion). One of China's top 400 richest people, he was estimated to have a personal fortune of worth $740 million in 2012, but how he's really made his name is by high-profile charity donations — something he brands "flashy philanthropy." One interesting insight into Chen's mindset might be to look at his English-language business card, one of a number of promotional materials he gives out to U.S. journalists. We're not sure quite how Chen got all those titles on the right, but it's incredible anyway: Adam Taylor / Business Insider    FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1.In November, the number of employed Americans rose 1.7% from a year earlier, according to unadjusted nonfarm payroll data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. This measure of the rate of job growth has been steady in a 1.6-1.9% range for the past two years, as Chart 1 shows. If we assume November's 1.7% year-over-year rate of growth held steady in December (actual numbers will be released Friday by the BLS), then 2.3 million jobs will have been created in 2013, marking the biggest annual rise in employment since 2005, when 2.5 million workers were added to nonfarm payrolls (Chart 2). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 2. If we assume further that November's 1.7% rate of job growth extends into 2014, then America will have recovered all of the jobs it lost since the recession by October, as Chart 3 shows. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 3. Green line represents extrapolation based on 1.7% rate of year-over-year payroll growth. FREE AppDownload
AP/Jacquelyn MartinJanet Yellen was confirmed Monday as the first woman to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve — becoming one of the most powerful people in global finance and the top regulator in the U.S. financial system.  The Center for Public Integrity spoke to Yellen in June about her views on bank regulation and supervision. The incoming Fed chairwoman appears to be someone who will be tougher than her predecessor when it comes to financial oversight.  When it comes to monetary policy by contrast, Yellen is known as a "dove," someone who favors lowering interest rates to help boost job growth at the risk of allowing some inflation. Here are a few key quotes from Yellen during the past year — from speeches, interviews and her nomination hearing — that show where she stands on a variety of issues.  On Fed policy:  1. "I would be strongly committed to working with the FOMC to continue promoting a robust economic recovery ... I consider it imperative that we do what we can to promote a very strong recovery." On unemployment:  2. "About 36 percent of those unemployed have been unemployed for more than six months. This is a very unprecedented situation. We know that those long spells of unemployment are particularly painful for households, impose great hardships and costs on those without work, on the marriages of those who suffer these long unemployment spells and on their families." On financial stability:  3. "One of our top priorities is ramping up and monitoring of the financial system as a whole to detect financial stability risks. That’s something we weren’t doing on an adequate basis before the crisis." 4. "We cannot rule out the possibility that monetary policy might have to do something related to financial stability ... Monetary policy could be creating financial risk, even while we’re trying to achieve other concrete goals ... We need to know what those risks are.’’ On mega-bank regulation: 5. "It's extremely important for our banks to have more capital, higher quality capital." 6. "There are further steps that we will be taking with other regulators down the line to make sure that the most systemically important institutions, those who failure would create financial distress, will be asked to hold more capital." Yellen believes that the 2.5 percent capital surcharge proposed for systemically important financial institutions may not be enough. On the market benefits enjoyed by mega-banks: 7. "Our objective in regulation should be to put in place tough enough regulation and capital and liquidity standards that we level the playing field and make it costly. We should make it tougher for them to compete and encourage them to be smaller."   On asset bubbles: 8. "No one who lived through that financial crisis would ever want to risk another one that could subject the economy to what we’re painfully going through and recovering from. We have a variety of different tools that we can use if something like that were to occur." 9. "It's important for the Fed, hard as it is, to attempt to detect asset bubbles while they’re forming." 10. "I don’t see evidence at this point in major sectors of asset-price misalignment, at least at the level that would threaten financial stability." On bank oversight:  11. "I absolutely believe that our supervisory responsibilities are critical and they're just as important as monetary policy. We need to take just as much time to devote to them." 12. The Fed is taking a “belt and suspenders” approach, Yellen said. 13. “We don’t want these entities to fail. We want to make them much more robust and less likely to come under pressure,” she said. ”Then if something did happen, we would have a way to deal with it that we were not able to do during the financial crisis.” On Congress, a balanced budget and fiscal policy: 14. "I certainly recognize the importance of the objective of putting the U.S. deficit and debt on a sustainable path … but some of the near term reductions in spending we have seen have certainly detracted from the momentum of the economy and from demand, making it harder for the Fed to get the economy moving, making our task more difficult." 15. "It certainly would be helpful going forward for deficit reduction efforts to focus on the medium term while not subtracting from the impetus we need to keep a fragile economy moving forward." 16. "We are worried about a fragile economy and more supportive fiscal policy or one that creates less drag would be helpful." FREE AppDownload
Pew ResearchStateline released an infographic yesterday that incorporates Moody's projections for which states will have the strongest job growth in 2014. Topping the list is North Dakota which is projected to have job growth of 3.6%. However, because the state is so small, that only adds up to 15,000 additional jobs. That's in comparison to Illinois which is projected to have the slowest job growth in the country at 1.0%. Yet, Moodys expects the state to add nearly 60,000 jobs. Texas is expected to add the most number of total jobs at over 300,000. Here's the projected job growth for all 50 states: Pew ResearchCheck out the full infographic. Correction: This post originally stated that the infrographic was released by the Pew Research Center. It was actually Stateline. FREE AppDownload
Fifty years after President Lyndon Johnson embarked on the "War on Poverty," the U.S. Census has released an infographic explaining how the bureau has tracked poverty through the years. According to the official poverty measure, there were 46.5 million people living in poverty in 2012. Check it out:   [Source: U.S. Census Bureau]
Hulton Archive /Getty ImagesWall Street in 1929.As regular readers will know, I have recently become concerned about the possibility of a stock-market crash — or, at the very least, a long period of crappy stock returns. Importantly, I'm not predicting a crash, but I think the odds of one are increasing. And I am holding onto my own stocks only because I have a balanced portfolio and a long-enough investment horizon that I am comfortable with the possibility of stocks plunging, say, 50%, over the next year or two. Of course, stocks have done so well over the past five years that almost everyone is bullish these days, so whenever I talk about the possibility of a market crash, people cackle with laughter or dismiss me as hater, shortseller, or moron. For what it's worth, I'm not short stocks. I'm very long. I hope stocks continue to charge higher, but I just can't find much valid data to suggest that they will. I only have vague hopes that the Fed will continue to pump air into the market balloon, the U.S. economy will finally start cranking again, and corporations will continue to find ways to cut more costs and grow their already record-high profit margins and earnings. Meanwhile: None of this means that stocks will crash. But, the valuation data, at least, does suggest that, at best, stocks are likely to produce lousy returns over the next 10 years (0%-2% per year, including dividends). I'll describe these issues in detail below. Before I do, though, I want to stress that I am not giving you investment advice. I know nothing about your personal investment goals, risk tolerance, or time horizon, and without that information, I have no idea what you should do with your portfolio. (I'm also not allowed to give you investment advice, but that's a different story). What I do think you should do is ask yourself, "If stocks dropped 50% over the next two years, would I be comfortable with that?" If your answer is "no" — if a drop of that magnitude would cause you to lose sleep or panic and sell — then I would respectfully suggest that you consider rebalancing your portfolio. Not selling all of your stocks — for many reasons, that would almost certainly be dumb. Just rebalancing. Okay, which valuation measures suggest the stock market is very overvalued? These, among others: (See charts below.) And what about profit margins? Why are they important? One of the reasons stocks have done so well over the past 5 years is that US companies have been able to hike their profit margins and profits every year, in part by firing people and replacing them with technology. The trouble with this is two-fold. First, it's not a sustainable way to grow profits: Margins can't go up for ever or eventually they'll be more than revenue. Second, by firing employees, companies are putting the actual spenders in the economy out of work. As a result, too many American consumers are still broke. And consumer spending accounts for about 70% of the economy. So the collective short-term effort of companies to grow earnings by cutting costs is actually making it harder for companies to grow revenue. In any event, profit margins are already at an all-time high, and some analysts think they are rolling over. (See charts below.) Lastly, sentiment... One of the few folks on Wall Street who shares my concern about the market just sent me a note about various sentiment indicators — measures of the number of analysts who are bullish vs. bearish, etc. By themselves, none of these indicators is particularly meaningful. But it is rare to see so many indicators flashing yellow (extreme bullishness) at the same time. Below, some charts with more details on why I am concerned ... The following three charts show three long-term, time-tested valuation measures, all of which suggest the market is drastically overvalued. First, from Bill Hester of the Hussman Funds, a recent chart of Professor Robert Shiller's "CAPE" (cyclically-adjusted PE ratio). The blue line shows the prediction for 10-year returns. The red line shows the actual returns. If you have heard people say, "CAPE doesn't work anymore," you might want to read Bill Hester's analysis. He looks at all the arguments why CAPE doesn't work and concludes that it does. (We'll know for sure in 10 years.) Hussman Funds Second, in case you have been convinced that the "CAPE" ratio no longer works, here's a look at price-to-revenue. This measure is calling for a slightly better long-term return for the S&amp;P 500 — just under 5% — but still a far cry from the long-term average. Hussman Funds Third, in case your favorite bulls wave away both earnings and revenue, here's a chart of market-value-to-GDP. It's the most pessimistic of the lot. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500's average annual returns for the next 10 years will be negative. Hussman Funds One thing that people do when stocks get expensive is to find ways to explain why they aren't expensive. They don't do this to hoodwink you. They do this because stocks have been expensive for so long that the obvious conclusion must be that they're not expensive — that it's different this time. One measure that people are using right now to argue that stocks are not expensive is the difference between the "earnings yield" and "Treasury yield." Interest rates are low and earnings are high, so it appears that stocks are delivering far higher "yields" than bonds and are therefore cheap. The problem with this analysis is that it doesn't work. Check out this chart below from John Hussman, which "backtests" the analysis. It doesn't have any predictive power at all. Hussman Funds Over the long haul, stocks track profits. And profits and profit margins are at record highs. Every time previously that profit margins have gotten way above or below average, they have violently reverted to the mean. Many people, including me, think this will happen again this time. The only question is when. Here's a long-term look at profit margins. Note how high they are. Note what has happened every time this has been the case in the past. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Byron Wien, a strategist at Blackstone, is worried about profit margins. He also just circulated this chart, which he says suggests that profit margins are "rolling over." This, he says, is bad news for earnings in 2014. Blackstone, Wisdomtree John Hussman is also worried about profits. He thinks profit margins are so out of whack that corporate earnings will decline at 10% per year for the next four years. Hussman Funds Hussman thinks that two things might cause profits to tank: 1) the decline of government deficits (which have been going directly into corporate coffers), and 2) increasing labor costs, as the labor market gets tighter. Hussman believes that these factors are already causing profits to miss estimates. This, Hussman suggests, may be why there are suddenly way more companies missing profit estimates than beating them: Market timing is always tough, and I don't know when profits and the market might break down. That really is anyone's guess. John Hussman has posted a fun technical chart that addresses this question, though. Technical analysis is generally bunk, and I would never bet a dime on it. But it's also often fun. And this chart is especially fun. This chart, a "log-periodic bubble" analysis, suggests that the S&amp;P rise off the 2009 bottom has followed a clear "fractal" pattern that is often seen near the end of speculative advances. This chart suggests that the S&amp;P 500 (blue) might hit 1900 before collapsing. (It's at about 1,850 now). According to Hussman, the chart also suggests that the market will peak between December 31, 2013 and January 13, 2014 — e.g., now. John Hussman, Hussman Funds Anyway, none of these indicators mean that the market will definitely crash, let alone when. And market timing is a dangerous and destructive investment strategy. So bear that in mind. But if the spectacular run-up of the past 5 years has given you too much equity exposure, well, then, this might be a smart time to consider rebalancing. FREE AppDownload
Infamous Twitter jokester and Business Insider contributor Goldman Sachs Elevator (@GSElevator) is shopping a book deal, New York Magazine's Kevin Roose reports. Roose got his hands on the book proposal for Straight to Hell: True Tales of Deviance and Excess in the World of Investment Banking, which touts istelf as "the definitive exposure of investment banking culture today." Some of the more colorful anecdotes from the pitch: The Stakeout: A degenerate IT person informs me that our competitor’s Head of Regional Sales has been spotted on multiple occasions shamelessly trolling for hookers (the “smash-and-grab”) in Hong Kong’s Wan Chai district. There’s only one thing to do: stakeout. The Handover: The outgoing Hong Kong hedge-fund sales guy has one week overlap to show me the ropes. Our first meeting, to introduce me to one of his best clients, involves karaoke, cocaine, and prostitutes. This week teaches me all I need to know about banking in Asia, and almost kills me. Fitting, seeing as the book is being represented by the literary who helped get Tucker Max on his way. But @GSElevator told Roose he wants his book to be more in the vein of Liar's Poker, Michal Lewis's seminal tell-all about the debaucherous days at Salomon Brothers in the 1980s. So how does @GSElevator's experience compare to Lewis's? He was kind enough to send Business Insider a note explaining: I feel I have been uniquely positioned (having worked across investment banking, capital markets, and sales and trading on 3 continents) during an amazing period in the history of the industry... Similar to Michael Lewis, I think my stories can capture the essence of Wall Street. Quite a few people have compared my book to Wolf of Wall Street, which is absurd to me. Bucket shop scam artists who peddle penny stocks to names in a phone book aren’t even allowed into community college, let alone on Wall Street. Great… So scumbags break the law and party like rock stars; I think I got it the first time (Boiler Room). My book is not just about excess, there's an actual culture there — and that brings me back to Liar's Poker. Readers will take away from it what they want. Similar to my Twitter feed, some people will love it and perversely aspire to this kind of career path or lifestyle. For others who work or have worked in the industry, it will ring true and remind them of things they may have experienced or heard about, although I would bet that my stories are slightly more outrageous. And for people who view Wall Street tales as vulgar or grotesque, hopefullythey're able to appreciate the subtle cynicism, and will see my efforts as an attempt to pull back the curtain. Though that's not my motivation for writing this. I think these are funny, insightful, and entertaining true stories that cover a broad range of topics. I am trying to tell them in a way such that there is something in there for everyone. Yes, these are my stories, but it’s not just about me. It’s about the guys in black tie at the Robin Hood Gala, the best and brightest, the guys you want your daughter to marry, the personification of hard-work, success, and respectability. That person is more than what they seem, they're also is part of the dark, dysfunctional, and deviant side that permeates Wall Street to its core. I don't necessarily aim to change anyone's perceptions. After reading what are a collection of very funny and entertaining stories, people can draw their own conclusions. We'll be waiting for our advanced copy. FREE AppDownload
Ashley Lutz/Business InsiderJ.C. Penney's stock is down 7.2% to $7.60. Earlier today the retailer said it was "pleased" with its holiday performance but did not release any specific sales figures. Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors pointed out three takeaways from both the release and the market reaction.  Basically, J.C. Penney has been pushed out of its comfort zone to draw in shoppers and investors think the retailer will need other sources of liquidity this year. Here's a look at its five-day performance. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
This morning Wall Street's buzzing about Bloomberg Markets Magazine's annual list of 100 best big hedge funds of the previous year (big meaning more that $1 billion assets under management). Part of what stands out about it is the huge gap between how well the best hedge fund did, and the year's average hedge fund performance. In 2013, the average hedge fund was up 8.2% through December. Bloomberg's list puts Larry Robins' Glenview Capital up 84% through October. Overall, it's an improvement over last year, when the best hedge fund, Deepak Narula's Metacapital Management returned almost 40% betting on mortgage bonds, while the industry's average was a 1.3% return. But it's still not great. Glenview's strategy was to go into stocks and go in big — a strategy that worked for the funds that had the stones to try it. For its part, Glenview specifically targeted healthcare stocks knowing that the Affordable Care Act would give them a boost. Only 16 hedge funds on Bloomberg's list out-performed the S&amp;P, which closed the year up about 30%. Only 16 hedge funds ignored the bears, levered up, and let stocks take them. Sounds kind of scary, actually. Who's not afraid of a bubble?  One more thing — even thought this average performance is pretty dismal, investors are still pouring money into hedge funds. According to a report from eVestment, industry assets are at $2.8 trillion, which is only 3% from an all-time high. Moreover, industry inflows in November were at $71 billion, almost double last year's. Check out the top 30 funds on Bloomberg's list here. FREE AppDownload
It wasn't alone. Forty percent of Northrop Grumman's profit in early 1998 came from its overfunded pension. IBM booked a $454 million gain. Boeing took a $121 million boost. Ten companies in the S&amp;P 500 had a pension surplus of nearly $80 billion. These stories sound crazy today. All we've heard about for the last decade is how underfunded corporate pensions are. "More than two-thirds of the companies that make up the S&amp;P 500 have defined-benefit plans, and as of last quarter only 18 of them were fully funded," TIME magazine wrote just a year ago. In December 2012, corporate pensions in the S&amp;P 1500 were underfunded by $557 billion, according to consulting firm Mercer. But things changed in 2013. A new report by consultants Towers Watson estimates corporate pensions are now 93% funded, on average. In another report, consultants at Mercer said pension plans among S&amp;P 1500 companies are now 95% funded, up from 74% a year ago. The half-trillion deficit a year ago has been reduced by more than 80%, to less than $100 billion. Two things fueled this turnaround. Stocks just had their best year since the mid-1990s, up nearly 30%. That was more than enough to offset any decline suffered in bonds. I think we got so used to a decade of dismal returns that a lot of people forecasting the pension crisis forgot this could occur. A year ago, I interviewed Joseph Dear, then chief investment officer of CalPERS, the nation's largest pension fund, who said this about market returns: It's not been so great for the past ten years, but if you look at big cycles in investment and see 10-year returns from equities relatively low, what we've seen after that is a return to better returns, a reversion to the mean. So I think there is a reasonable basis to be confident. That's exactly what happened. Two, and a little more complicated, is that rising interest rates reduced the present value of pension plans' future liabilities. Pensions use a "discount rate" -- an interest rate typically linked to corporate bond yields -- to convert future obligations into a present value. The lower that rate is, the higher a pension's liabilities are. And with interest rates at all-time low in recent years, that discount rate has been incredibly low, pushing up the present value of pension funds' liabilities.  But with interest rates now rising, the present value of future obligations is coming down. Towers Watson says the average discount rate used in corporate pensions rose to 4.8% in 2013, from 3.9% in 2012. When I asked Dear about low discount rates last year, he replied: In a super-low rate environment like we have today, liabilities are definitely bigger. But are interest rates going to stay low? Is the 10-year Treasury going to stay at 1.6% indefinitely? I doubt it. So it's going to go up and the interest rates will go up and even those who want to do the yield curve will see liabilities coming down. That, too, is exactly what happened. In June, Mercer estimated that rising corporate bond yields reduced S&amp;P 1500 pension obligations by $150 billion. Yields have increased sharply since then -- the 10-year Treasury bond rose from 2.2% in June to 3% today -- shrinking liabilities even further. If interest rates keep rising this year, and most analysts expect they will, pension funding levels could keep rising. Is our corporate pension crisis over? Sort of. I think a more accurate observation is that these things constantly move in cycles. Pensions looked underfunded in the early 1990s. Then they were way overfunded in the late 1990s. Then they became strained in the early 2000s. Then they were overfunded again by 2007. Next came the half-a-trillion-dollar shortfall last year, and today, we're back to fairly healthy levels. Funding calculations rely on assumptions. Those assumptions are usually wrong, and they can change dramatically overnight. There's almost never a time when pensions are perfectly funded at just the right level and stay there forever, nor should there be. Any investor it in for the long run has to accept big ups and downs. It's just part of the deal.  So be happy corporate pensions are doing better. But realize we'll be back to Crisisville before long. FREE AppDownload
Expatistan This year, London was the most expensive city, where monthly rent for a furnished one-bedroom apartment was the equivalent of $4,250. A monthly ticket for public transportation was $215, and a typical man's haircut cost roughly $28. Oslo, Geneva, Zurich, and New York City rounded out the top five. The bottom of the list included Caracas in Venezuela, as well as the cities of Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune, and Madras in India. According to Expatistan data, London is around 1,000% more expensive than Caracas. The team at Expatistan calculated the price index value for hundreds of global cities based on the current cost of items such as housing, clothes, transportation, medicine, and food. Below is the full list of the top 20 cities based on Expatistan's Cost of Living index. 1. London, UK (280) 2. Oslo, Norway (267) 3. Geneva, Switzerland (259) 4. Zurich, Switzerland (256) 5. New York City, USA (237) 6. Lausanne, Switzerland (233) 7. Singapore, Singapore (228) 8. Paris, France (219) 9. San Francisco, USA (218) 10. Copenhagen, Denmark (217) 11. Sydney Australia (215) 12. Hong Kong, China (214) 13. Brisbane, Australia (208) 14. The Hague, Netherlands (204) 15. Stockholm, Sweden (204) 16. Honolulu, USA (199) 17. Amsterdam, Netherlands (199) 18. Melbourne, Australia (198) 19. Tokyo, Japan (198) 20. Washington D.C., USA (197) To see an interactive map and the full list of cities, head over to Expatistan's website. 
ShutterstockIf you abandoned the American solar story after the Solyndra debacle, you've missed one of the greatest growth stories in the country. Since 2011, solar generation has skyrocketed more than 2,300%. For the first time ever, last year the U.S. added more solar capacity than wind. Goldman Sachs analysts currently see a 40GW medium-term opportunity in the U.S. residential segment alone, and we only just breached 180 MW per quarter. This has all been thanks to a combination of falling prices, state subsidies and plain old demand by more environmentally conscious consumers.  It is true that there have been lots of bankruptcies along the way. At the end of 2012, GTM Research predicted that 180 solar module manufacturers would go under by 2015. This appears to have come to pass: According to Mercom Capital Group, a clean tech consulting firm, global VC investments (which are mostly concentrated in the U.S.) dropped 40% to $600 million in 97 deals in 2013 compared with $992 million in 106 deals in 2012. "Since mid-2012 the new normal for VC funding has been smaller funding quarters and smaller deal sizes," Mercom says. Of the American solar firms once active on this list, just a handful remain. This winnowing process has left four main publicly traded American players: The good news is, almost everyone agrees they're poised for another year of incredible growth. But that's not to say it's time to buy the stocks. And the two manufacturers, First Solar and SunPower, may experience slightly different fates from the two service providers, SolarCity and SunEdison.  Still, recent performance will be difficult to top: In the past 12 months, the top three have climbed more than 250%. The "laggard," First Solar, climbed more than 50%. By comparison, the S&amp;P500 gained 25%. Chart: Yahoo SunPower has the longest track record among the four, having gone public in 2005, and it had a stellar performance in 2013. It also figured among the top-5 fundraisers among U.S. solar firms, according to Mercom. It has led the way in one of the biggest emerging themes in solar: leasing, which allows customers to avoid installation fees and only pay a basic monthly fee. Also, Warren Buffett spent $2.5 billion at the beginning of last year to buy the largest solar photovoltaic project in the world from SunPower. SunPower is now partnering with Digital Federal Credit Union to provide up to $100 million in loans to finance solar installations using SunPower hardware, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. IHS says the firm plans to increase its solar cell production capacity by 25%, or 350 megawatts, by 2015. Goldman is neutral on SunPower shares, Deutsche Bank rates them "hold," and BAML rates them "underperform." Next up is SolarCity, the solar service provider chaired by Elon Musk and run by his cousin Lyndon Rive. The firm just launched the first-ever bonds backed by revenues from solar electricity generation. The $54.4 million facility priced at 4.8%, according to BAML. It now leads market share in the residential sector, and acquired two key companies to beef up customer service and installation. The company has said publicly that it plans to pursue a second, substantially larger solar bond program in the first half of this year. Goldman estimates they can earn over $350 million for the new round, and get to $700 million by 2016. Goldman also forecasts 50-60% volume CAGR for the firm through 2016, ahead of 45% market growth. SolarCity is rated "buy" by both Goldman and BAML. It is not covered by Deutsche Bank. SunEdison rounded out the top five U.S. solar fundraisers of 2013, and places in the top three installers in the country. In 2014, it is likely to be among the first renewable energy companies to form a "yield co" firm, which are publicly-traded companies formed to own operating assets that produce cash flow. The cash is distributed to investors as dividends. Goldman believes SunEdison will more than double its current installation target to 250 megawatts, which would add to the 200 megawatts it installed in 2014. It also has an international footprint, with projects in both developing and developed countries. SunEdison is rated "buy" by Goldman and BAML. It is not covered by Deutsche Bank. First Solar has the largest international presence of any American firm. It recently opened an operations center in Japan and is expected to partner with local manufacturer TetraSun to distribute there. It also recently bought into a utility-scale project in Mexico. According to Deutsche Bank, it has more than double the cash "of any other player in the industry," and has now "closed the cost gap" with Chinese module manufacturers, which had a slight advantage in the beginning of the year.   But First Solar shares remain controversial — David Einhorn dropped his stake entirely in 2012, it once came in No. 1 on our most-shorted-stocks list, and JP Morgan named it the No. 1 stock to avoid in 2013. Still, as previously mentioned, it ended up surging more than 50% — not as much as its peers, but way better than the broader market. And yet, Goldman has now downgraded First Solar from "hold" to "sell" in its new note. Analyst Brian Lee and his team said First Solar has benefitted from the rush in utility-scale solar projects, but believes the company will get left behind as the rooftop-based market proliferates. That's because the company uses too much "low-efficiency technology" not suitable for smaller projects. Lee also notes First Solar is the only stock he covers that has seen its price-to-earnings ratio expand without any EPS revisions. Deutsche Bank currently rates it "hold." While these four firms will get the lion's share of attention since they're public, it's also important to note that there are plenty of private firms out there that are still sailing along. Provo, Utah-based Vivint and San Francisco-based SunRun were among solar's top five fundraisers in 2013, according to Mercom. We've also left out the two major Chinese firms, Yingli and Trina, that survived that country's own massive culling process among solar developers. But we now have our four protagonists that we'll be watching closely this year. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/dave416(Reuters) - Promotions and discounts offered by U.S. retailers drove a 2.7 percent increase in holiday season sales despite a cold snap that kept shoppers away from stores, retail industry tracker ShopperTrak said. U.S. retail sales in the November-December holiday shopping season rose for the fourth consecutive year, even though the number of people walking into stores across the United States fell 14.6 percent in the period, ShopperTrak said. "It's a result of more and more technology in the hands of the consumer, which allows them to virtually window-shop," ShopperTrak founder Bill Martin told Reuters. The holiday period between Thanksgiving and Christmas in 2013 was six days shorter than a year earlier, which prompted retailers to offer more promotions than usual earlier in the season. As a result, retailers had a strong November. They also benefited from strong sales in the last few days of the year, Martin said. "Consumers took a break from shopping after Thanksgiving weekend, so retailers were pressured to offer deep discounts and promotions in the final week before Christmas to finish the holiday on a positive note," Martin said. (Reporting by Maria Ajit Thomas in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey and Robin Paxton) FREE AppDownload
Earlier, ADP estimated that 238,000 workers were added to private-sector payrolls in December, crushing expectations for 200,000. ADP is often seen as the preview for the official U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics jobs report that will be released Friday. And while it can be flimsy, ADP has tracked the BLS fairly well recently. From ADP: ADP Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has already raised his forecast for Friday's report to +250,000 from +200,000. "[T]his report does suggest some modest upside risk to our forecast of a 175k increase in headline payrolls and a 175k increase in private payrolls," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. But many economists are also cautioning against getting too excited. "We're not entirely convinced by the ADP's usefulness as a leading indicator of non-farm payrolls but, to the extent it can be trusted, it supports our existing forecast that the official figures will show a 200,000 gain when they are released this Friday," wrote Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. High Frequency Economics' Jim Sullivan throws a bucket of cold water on ADP. He wrote clients ahead of the report: The report’s accuracy appears to have improved since Moody’s became the compiler of the data, although it is still quite fallible, and a couple of factors could make this month’s report less reliable than usual for forecasting payrolls. First, weather fluctuations tend to affect payrolls more than the ADP series, since a person temporarily not working but still on a company’s books is counted as employed in the ADP survey. Second, December is typically when employers "purge" their employee lists, dropping individuals who have left the firm permanently. Adjusting for that purging has always been an extra source of volatility in the ADP data. At 46K, ADP’s error last December, just after Moody’s took over, was not especially large. Sullivan says that some of ADP’s biggest misses have historically been in December.  Regardless, the ADP report can either be ignored or it can be seen as a good sign. "In one line: No guarantees, but the odds now favor a consensus-beating report on Friday," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. FREE AppDownload
George Frey/Getty Images/AFP/FileA pile of Bitcoin slugs sit in a box ready to be minted on April 26, 2013 in Sandy, Utah.As many as two million European users of Yahoo may have received PC malware from virus-laden ads served by its homepage over a four-day period last week. Some of the malware would turn PCs into bitcoin miners - a huge drain on its computing resources - without users' knowledge. Yahoo has been criticized for not saying how many people could be affected or doing anything to help those with the malware, which attacked flaws in Java modules on systems. In a statement, Yahoo said: "From December 31 to January 3 on our European sites, we served some advertisements that did not meet our editorial guidelines – specifically, they spread malware." Users in North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America weren't affected, Yahoo said. Nor were users of Apple Macs or mobile devices. "We will continue to monitor and block any advertisements being used for this activity," the company added. "We will post more information for our users shortly." According to Light Cyber, a security research firm which warned Yahoo of the attacks in late December, one of the malware programs delivered in the attack turned the victim's computer into a bitcoin miner. The computer is set to work performing the calculations required to make the bitcoin network run, but the rewards for doing so accrue to the malware writer. Yahoo has been criticised for not doing more to aid users infected by the faulty adverts. Dan Farber of technology site CNET says that: "At this point, Yahoo hasn't addressed any of the details, such as how the malware exploit got into its Web pages, how many users are impacted, and what victims of the attack should do. The company may still be gathering data." Fox IT, the Dutch cybersecurity firm which first disclosed the vulnerability to the public, estimated that there were around 27,000 infections every hour the malware was live on the site. If the malware was being served consistently for the three days, it may be the case that almost 2 million computers were infected. Java target "The attack focused on outdated software," says Steve Regan of security site CSO. "The only way for the exploits to work is to have outdated versions of Java on your system. If Java is up to date, then the odds are, you're safe. However, I don't trust Java, so unless you absolutely need it, my advice is to uninstall it from your system. It seems like I see more zero-day attacks aimed at Java than anything else, the risk isn't worth it for me." Zero-day attacks exploit previously unreported flaws in software to install malware or take over a computer. As well as the bitcoin mining malware, other software installed includes ZeuS, which attempts to steal banking information; Andromeda, which turns the computer into part of a "botnet" for use by third parties, and "adjacking" malware which hijacks the user's browser to click on adverts, thus channeling income to corrupt site owners. Bitcoin is fast becoming a tool of choice for malware developers. As well as directly using compromised computers to mine for new coins, software such as ZeuS lets criminals install Cryptolocker, a dangerous new type of malware which first encrypts the user's files and then demands a ransom, payable in bitcoin, to decrypt them. In most versions of Cryptolocker, the ransom is set at two bitcoins, currently worth around $2,000. Bitcoin is so valuable to botnet owners, criminals who control large numbers of compromised computers, that one academic paper argues that the security of the network is permanently at risk. Philipp Güring and Ian Grigg argue that the currency violates Gresham's Law (pdf), an economic theorem that states that bad money drives out good. Since bitcoin mining is far more profitable done on stolen computers with stolen energy, they argue, it will soon be uneconomical to do it any other way. • Marissa Mayer aims to revive Yahoo with shift 'from complexity to clarity' This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thinkorswim10-year Treasury futures fall Wednesday.Payroll processing firm ADP just released its monthly National Employment Report — which estimated that 238,000 workers were added to private-sector payrolls in December — and Treasuries are taking a hit in the wake of the release. 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.4%, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is trading at 2.99%, up 5 basis points from Tuesday's close. The 7-year note is trading 6 basis points higher at 2.42%. S&amp;P 500 futures, meanwhile, just went positive. "The jump in jobs per the ADP report fits with the tone of the employment component of the ISM services PMI report," says Adrian Miller, director of fixed income strategy at GMP Securities. "And if historical relationships are observed, Friday’s nonfarm payrolls report should reveal private-sector job growth in December of 215,000, compared to expectations of 197,000, and provide the Fed with an all clear signal to continue its taper program." Next up is a Treasury auction of 10-year notes at 1 PM ET. "The market has been weak all morning and took another dip on this report providing a nice concession later today," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group. After the auction, all eyes turn to the release of the minutes from the FOMC's December meeting, due out at 2 PM. "The FOMC minutes are likely to be the most market-moving event today, with the Fed potentially discussing additional qualitative easing options," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "With the December communique bringing relatively 'soft' forward guidance in accompaniment to QE tapering, there is room for the Treasury market to rally if the Fed discussed lowering the unemployment rate threshold or improving forward guidance in other ways (e.g. balance sheet guidance). While the discussion of such options is likely to be a positive for Treasuries, upcoming long-end auctions could serve to delay any rally attempt." Click here to refresh for the latest updates » FREE AppDownload
ADPADP's December National Employment Report is out. The payroll firm estimated that 238,000 workers were added to private-sector payrolls in December, well above expectations for 200,000. The figure reflects an acceleration in hiring from November's 215,000 addition. Below is a summary of the data from ADP: Goods-producing employment rose by 69,000 jobs in December, up from an upwardly revised figure of 46,000 in November. Construction had its best month since 2006, adding 48,000 to payrolls. Manufacturing was strong as well, but growth slowed slightly to 19,000 in December. Over the course of 2013, goods-producers added 286,000 jobs. Nearly 75 percent of these gains came from construction as the housing recovery accelerated throughout 2013. Service-providing industries added 170,000 jobs in December, down slightly from an upwardly revised November figure of 182,000. The ADP National Employment Report indicates that professional/business services contributed the most to growth in service-providing industries, adding 53,000 jobs. This was the largest gain in the industry in a year. Expansion in trade/transportation/utilities slowed slightly, adding 47,000 jobs in December. Private payrolls increased by nearly 1.9 million jobs in the service-providing industries in 2013. The bulk of this increase was split evenly between transportation/trade/utilities and professional/business services. Finance brought up the rear gaining just 59,000 in the last twelve months. "The U.S. private sector added 238,000 jobs in December, surpassing November as the strongest month for job growth in 2013,” said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. “It’s encouraging news that hopefully bodes well for 2014." Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, said, "The job market ended 2013 on a high note. Job growth meaningfully accelerated and is now over 200,000 per month. Job gains are broad-based across industries, most notably in construction and manufacturing. It appears that businesses are growing more confident and increasing their hiring." The report foreshadows the official jobs report that will be released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics on Friday. Before the release of the ADP report, economists predicted the BLS report would reveal a net change of 197,000 private-sector payrolls, while total nonfarm payrolls were expected to rise by 195,000. Click here to refresh for the latest updates » FREE AppDownload
This week starts the earnings reporting season—the start of which is traditionally marked by the earnings report from Alcoa, no longer a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, but still a well-known company. Alcoa’s report on Thursday, January 9, 2014 is joined late this week by reports from retailers Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and Family Dollar. The earnings season tends to be a good period for stock market performance. Stocks posted gains during the six-week period that runs from two weeks before to four weeks after Alcoa reports since the bull market began around the start of the second quarter of 2009. In fact, nearly 80% of rises in the S&amp;P 500 Index since the second quarter of 2009 took place during these quarterly earnings periods. Moreover, since the end of 2009, the entire gain in the index came during those quarterly periods, leaving nothing on average but volatility during the other seven weeks of every quarter. Will the stock market again welcome the news this earnings season? It should for three key reasons: 1.    Stronger Guidance. We expect businesses to support their earnings outlook by citing the improving trend in economic data and the improved visibility now that the worst of the political brinkmanship is likely behind us. This should help boost business leaders’ confidence in future earnings growth and help to improve the outlook for future quarters. Most notably, the widely followed Institute for Supply Management (ISM) Purchasing Managers’ Index has a solid track record forecasting earnings growth in coming quarters, as you can see in Figure 1. The latest reading, reported last week, confirms this indicator is suggesting a rebound in earnings and revenues in the quarters ahead. LPL Financial 2. Dividend Increases. Historically, the first few months of the year tend to be the biggest months for dividend increases. Increasing dividends helped to lift stocks in the first quarter of last year. In 2013’s first quarter, the S&amp;P 500 Dividend Achievers Index, which measures the performance of companies that consistently raise their dividends, led the overall S&amp;P 500 Index higher, outperforming by 2%. S&amp;P 500 dividends have risenat a double-digit pace over the past year and are now about 30% above their 2008 peak. As investors seek yield in a rising rate environment, businesses are increasingly returning their strong cash flow to shareholders. We may see sizable dividend increases, especially after last year’s strong price run-up effectively lowered yields. 3. Better International Results. About 40% of S&amp;P 500 corporate profits are derived from global sources. U.S. companies have seen gains in export orders and economic growth in the Eurozone is expected by the consensus of economists to have been 0.4% in the fourth quarter, the fastest pace since the second quarter of 2011. This may result in better international revenue for U.S. businesses. The consensus of Wall Street analysts’ estimates is for an overall pace of about 7–8% earnings per share (EPS) growth for S&amp;P 500 companies. Given the history of earnings results during the reporting season, companies may beat the estimates by 2–3%. If realized, the 9–10% pace of earnings growth would be the fastest in two years [Figure 2]. LPL Financial We expect 3–4% global gross domestic product (GDP) growth and inflation of 1–2% in 2014 to drive sales growth for S&amp;P 500 companies of about 5%. In conjunction with the benefit of ongoing buybacks and profit margin expansion, we expect EPS growth of 5–10% in 2014. A strong fourth quarter would be a great start to 2014, where we expect earnings growth to accelerate from a pace of around 5% for most of 2013. This pace of earnings growth, along with a slight rise in the price-to-earnings ratio, should help to drive 10 – 15% returns for the S&amp;P 500 in 2014. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Margin CallVia Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, here's a quick rundown of what he's talking about with clients today: Good Morning! Futures are lower, as global equities seemed to take a whack around 5 AM ET on better-than-expected EU data, oddly met by a surge in the yen against the euro. E-minis are off 15 basis points, but AAPL has a bid on China headlines, helping Nasdaq futures to slightly outperform.  Over in Europe, despite strong German data, the DAX is under slight pressure, but the EU financials remain on their upward tear, adding another 1% (EU Fin Index up 5% in 2014). Volumes across Europe are heavy, with major markets trading 50-80% higher than their 20-day averages. Over in Asia, Japan’s Nikkei jumped 1.9% after this week’s slump, but futures are indicating the Nikkei 1% lower right now as the yen is catching a bid. China lost small, as their biggest IPO in years is getting scaled back, while Aussie was off small weighed down by continued pressure in the materials sector. In single stocks pre-open — MU is the big gainer, adding 10% on earnings, and BAC is adding 1% as global bank stocks are in favor this AM (Japan, UK and Chinese banks all up 1.5%+). Losers include TWTR (-3% on Cantor downgrade), and MSFT off 1% (Mulally staying at F). U.S. yields are up very small ahead of ADP and FOMC minutes, and focus is on central bank Thursday, with ECB, BOE, Korea, and Indonesia on tap. The DXY is jumping, but at expense of €, Not yen — providing a headwind to commodities early this AM. Gold is off 25 basis points, as it retreats from continued failures against the 50-day moving average — and attention will be on ore with negative headlines for pricing in the WSJ. Energy complex remains higher in the U.S., as cold weather combined with a massive WTI draw last week support the complex. Brent is outperforming WTI (discount nearing $14) as shipment expectations for February are reduced and continued concerns over supply from Libya and Iraq. There is heavy focus on the ADP employment print today at 8:15 and the FOMC minutes at 2. Aside from that, energy players are watching the DOE data at 10:30, as well as the GS conference today. Bond investors will be focused on the 1 PM 10-year auction (3-year auction was weak yesterday), and retail/financial investors will be watching the 3 PM consumer credit print. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric MillerPatrick O'Brien jogs around Lake Harriet in south Minneapolis in a Spiderman wind suit, January 6, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The Eurozone may be backsliding. Italian unemployment has now hit a 37-year high of 12.7%, while youth unemployment climbed 20 bps to 41.6%. Eurozone-wide unemployment has been at 12.1% literally since April. We're also seeing signs of deflation, as price growth has now slowed for the past six months. It's not all bad — retail sales have picked up a bit, and Ireland has just rejoined the bond market — but if you want to be concerned there's plenty of evidence for you to be so.  — Ford CEO Alan Mulally is now vehemently denying he will become Microsoft's next head, as the software giant says it is now close to announcing Steve Ballmer's successor. Reuters: "Sources familiar with the process have told Reuters that Microsoft is down to a "handful" of candidates, including one or more outsiders from the tech industry, former Nokia CEO Stephen Elop and insiders Satya Nadella and Tony Bates." — Netflix, shares of which fell more than 5.5% yesterday after a Morgan Stanley downgrade, is banking on the success of the latest season House of Cards to erase doubters. Marketwatch: "...no network may have more riding on a show in terms of its prestige or how its reception could affect its programming efforts than Netflix. 'There is some risk that if it doesn’t live up to the quality of season one, people will perceive more risk in Netflix’s original content effort,' said Andy Hargreaves, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities. 'That doesn’t necessarily put more pressure on the other shows. It’s just a reflection of the high bar they’ve set and the reality that sub-par shows or seasons are inevitable.'" — Yahoo is making a huge bet on digital magazines focused on food and tech. "We found our inspiration in magazines," CEO Marissa Mayer said at CES yesterday. "They are elegant, beautiful and have a distinctive voice." The tech mag, simply called Yahoo Tech, will be run by former New York Times columnist David Pogue. — Twitter announced it would hold its first-ever earnings call Feb. 5. It got another downgrade this morning from Cantor Fitzgerald. "While historically we've reserved our "SELL" rating to business models with structural challenges, we find TWTR's valuation to be excessive and currently see materially more downside than upside," analyst Youssef Squali said. — Markets in Asia mostly surged on Wednesday, while European markets were falling. U.S. futures were pointing lower. Silver is down more than 1%. — Fifteen Turkish police chiefs were relieved of their duties in the latest chapter of that country's corruption probe. The Borsa Istanbul  erased yesterday's gains, falling 1%. Reuters reports Fitch is now warning "strains on institutional integrity" caused by tensions between the government and judiciary could eventually lead to a downgrade. "In the latest move by the ruling AK Party, it sent plans seeking more say over the appointment of judges and prosecutors to parliament late on Tuesday. 'This is the latest sign that things are not about to calm down ahead of March local elections,' a research note from Commerzbank said,'" according to Reuters. — December ADP payrolls beat expectations, coming in at 238,000 versus 200,000 expected and 215,000 in November. At 3 p.m. we get November consumer credit, with an increase of  $14.2 billion expected. — At 2 p.m. we'll get the latest FOMC minutes. "Economists have many questions," Marketwatch's Greg Robb writes. "They want to know if the taper pace is on auto-pilot, continuing at $10 billion per meeting, and therefore ending by the fourth quarter. Another question is why did the Fed choose not to lower its rate-hike threshold from 6.5% ... ? And on inflation, they’re looking for whether the Fed will change its story that inflation will pick up over the next several months, despite all evidence to the contrary." — Alibaba, China's largest e-commerce website, announced it had banned Bitcoin payments. The price on the Mt. Gox exchange is now back down to $952 after breaching $1,000 over the weekend. FREE AppDownload
I have been reading quite a few articles, as of late, regarding the resurgence of corporate fixed investment in 2014 that will provide a much needed boost to the economy.  My friend David Rosenberg recently penned in his daily missive: "The hallmark of this cycle is that it goes down as the weakest ever in term of growth in the real private sector capital stock.  Volume capital spending growth has barely averaged a 1% annual rate in the past half-decade, as the business sector moved forcefully to reward their shareholders in the form of dividend hikes and initiations and stock buybacks while refraining from investing organically in their own businesses. I sense that this is coming to an end, and I say that because years of neglect and decay have now resulted in productivity growth slowing to zero percent on a year-over-year basis which is a development that tends to happen late in the cycle, not in the middle of one. Given the time worn link between productivity ratios and profit margins companies are going to be incentivized to divert their casl1f lows and cash on the balance sheet towards productivity-enhancing investment strategies in the coming year. And now that Patty Murray and Paul Ryan managed to cobble together at least a two-year budget plan, with bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate, also removes an obstacle which was a complete lack of fiscal clarity for the better part of the past half-decade. But the real impetus is going to come from merely preventing more obsolescence to occur in the nation's productive capital stock. The average age of the private sector capital stock is fast approacl1ing 22 years! That is total plant and equipment. The last time the corporate sector allowed its capital stock to get this old and obsolete was back in 1958. The very next year the annual growth rate in volume capital spending swung from -6% to +13.5%." David is not the only one hoping for a rebound in corporate spending in the next year.   It has been a central focus in many of the outlooks and forecasts that I have read for the coming year.  However, is that really the case?  Economically speaking, it would be much better for David to be correct on all points.  However, from an investment risk standpoint we should also consider the other side of the argument. In regards to the rewarding of shareholders, that is a trend that is unlikely to change anytime soon.  This was clearly seen in 2013 as share buybacks surged in order to boost earnings per share in a stagnating revenue environment.   I discussed this in some detail in my recent analysis of Q3-2013's earnings stating: "One of the primary tools used by businesses to increase profitability has been the accelerated use of stock buybacks.  The chart below shows the total number of outstanding shares as compared to the difference between operating earnings on a per/share basis before and after buy backs."  Corporate decision making is always based around profitability.  This is particularly the case with publically traded companies whose executives are compensated through stock options and grants.   The problem going forward is the topline revenue is likely to weaken for two primary reasons: 1) The majority of the benefits received from cost reductions has already been seen. 2) With wage growth stagnant personal consumption expenditures have been on the decline as cost of living has risen faster.  The onset of higher healthcare costs from the ACA in 2014 and 2015 will likely impede that growth further. The importance of the second point should not be dismissed.  Corporate profits are ultimately driven by consumer demand.  If consumer demand weakens, so too will profitability which will keep businesses on the defensive.  The chart below shows the link between two measures of fixed investment and personal consumption expenditures.  The decline in PCE is troubling for a couple of reasons.  First, PCE comprises almost 70% of the economy and that consumption is what drives corporate demand.  Secondly, all previous annualized declines in PCE have led to declines in fixed investment.  Given the current annualized decline in PCE, this would be the first time in history that fixed investment surged against such a backdrop. David also makes an interesting assumption that we are currently in the middle of an economic growth cycle rather than a late-stage cycle.  As I recently discussed in "30% Up Years" we are currently very long in the current economic recovery cycle: "Ultimately, all economic recoveries will eventually contract.  The chart below shows every post recession economic recovery from 1879 to present."  "The statistics are quite interesting: Think about this for a moment.  We are currently experiencing the 7th longest economic recovery in history with most analysts and economists giving no consideration for a recession in the near future." Given the data above, it is far more likely that we are closer to the next recession versus the middle of an economic cycle.  The fact that productivity growth is approaching zero is likely due to the reality that businesses have already extracted the majority of the benefits from their ongoing cost cutting and productivity measures. One of the most interesting points, however, was the assumption that the Ryan-Murray budget deal removed uncertainty from businesses and will now unleash a spending revival.  This is not likely to be the case for a couple of reasons. 1) There is NO obligation that the next Congress, due to be elected in November of this year, will honor the Ryan-Murray budget deal.  If Republicans hold the House of Representatives, and gain control of the Senate, then there is a risk of more disruption in the future particularly if they move towards austerity. 2) The Ryan-Murray deal does not remove "uncertainty" from business owners. While "government shutdowns" are certainly disruptive in the short term, the real cause of "uncertainty" for business owners has been government regulations, taxes and poor sales.  The ACA is the current cause of uncertainty to business owners as the increasing cost of healthcare, and compliance with the law, combined with waning consumer demand is clouding the profitability picture.  The National Federation of Independent Business regularly reports on the biggest concerns by small businesses and government regulations tops the list by a wide margin.  The chart below shows the average of the top three concerns by small business owners.  See the problem here?  Lastly, David is correct that the last time capital stock was this old (1958) there was a sharp rebound in the following year.  There is also a massive difference between now and then.  In 1958-59, the United States was in the midst of the post-WWII industrial expansion as the U.S. was the manufacturing center of the "known universe" as the rebuilding of Europe and Japan were underway.  During this period of time savings rates were high, personal incomes and spending were rising, and economic growth rates were accelerating.  That is not the case today as shown in the 6-panel chart below.  I want to be clear that I certainly hope that David is right.  A resurgence of capital investment would certainly help stabilize the economy and potentially lift it to a level that would stimulate stronger employment and consumer demand.  However, when it comes to managing investment risk, "hope" is not an investment strategy that works long term. This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoWhat's a new year without a scoreboard check? The February issue of Bloomberg Markets Magazine contains its annual ranking of the 100 best performing large ($1 billion-plus AUM) hedge funds of the previous year. We have the top 30 for you here. In 2013, only 16 hedge funds were able to outperform the S&amp;P 500, and for the most part those 16 did the same thing — go long stocks all the way.    The number one spot belongs to Larry Robbins, the CEO of Glenview Capital. His fund finished the year on top with an astonishing 84 percent return. While some managers were nervous and held on to cash, Glenview bet that Obamacare would pump up healthcare stocks and ran with that. For what it's worth, Robbins sees more "underhanded softballs" being thrown all over the stock market in 2014 too. (Note: Bloomberg Markets' list features the top 100 large hedge funds.  The performance numbers are calculated through October 31, 2013) FREE AppDownload
KraftBad news for some processed cheese lovers: Kraft is low on Velveeta. Kraft Foods Group on Tuesday said customers might not be able to find some Velveeta products on store shelves for several weeks. The announcement comes just as the cheese dip season -- aligned with the NFL playoffs -- gets into full swing. "This is really a short-term issue that's more noticeable right now given the increased seasonal demand," Kraft spokeswoman Jody Moore said in an emailed statement to the Tribune. "We have not heard many complaints from consumers so far." Moore did not elaborate on why the shortage occurred or whether it would affect other Kraft products. It was also unclear how hard-hit the Chicago market would be. The shortage was first reported by Advertising Age after a few stores on the East Coast reported running low on the product. One Brooklyn-area employee told AdAge that the store wasn't expecting shipments again until February due to a plant issue. Moore told AdAge that high driver demand was one factor contributing to the Velveeta shortage. The story was trending on Twitter Tuesday, leading some to worry about munchies for the Big Game. "@kraftfoods has announced a possible #Velveeta shortage. This will greatly impact our #SuperBowl food options," one user posted Tuesday evening. Velveeta cheese, the staple of many-a-nacho recipe, has been serving Kraft well recently. The slices and Velveeta dinner kits have boosted sales, according to the company's third-quarter earnings release. The cheese product, its name concocting a velvety smooth product that melts evenly over chips or noodles, has been around for 86 years. ehirst@tribune.com ___ (c)2014 the Chicago Tribune Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Agence France PresseYahoo dove deeper into being an Internet Age media company, bringing in news, music and television stars for the launch of online magazines focused on technology and food. The fresh online offerings were showcased by Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer during a Consumer Electronics Show (CES) keynote presentation at a packed theater in Las Vegas. "Yahoo is about making the world's daily habits inspiring and entertaining, and there are few places as inspiring and entertaining as CES," Mayer said. "We have been hard at work re-imagining Yahoo's core businesses across search, communications, media and video — all powered by two powerful platforms, Flickr and Tumblr." Late last year, Yahoo had more than 400 million mobile monthly users for the first time in the Internet pioneer's history, according to Mayer. About 800 million people use Yahoo monthly overall, the California-based company said. The theatrical keynote production included appearances by newly-hired Yahoo Global Anchor Katie Couric and Yahoo Tech vice president David Pogue, a former New York Times reporter.Agence France PresseDavid Pogue speaks during the Yahoo Keynote at CES 2014. Cecily Strong and Keenan Thompson of beloved US comedy program Saturday Night Live appeared in a faux news report skit lampooning trendy technology companies and concepts. Targets included SnapChat, Bitcoin, and in-flight smartphone use. Grammy award-winning musician John Legend entertained the audience with a set of songs. Announcements woven into the stage show included the launches of a Yahoo News digest app design to deliver concise, personalized summaries of global happenings twice daily to smartphones. "Yahoo News Digest, at its core, simplifies news and solves the problem of information overload and TL;DR," said Yahoo product manager Nick D'Aloisio, referring to an acronym for 'Too Long; Didn't Read.' Digital magazines Yahoo Food and Yahoo Tech were launched with fanfare. "We found our inspiration in magazines," Mayer said. "They are elegant, beautiful and have a distinctive voice." Yahoo Food is devoted to things culinary, while the Tech magazine team headed by Pogue has a stated mission of demystifying the world of geeky gadgets, services and trends. "Everyone at CES is a gear-head, but the rest of the country is struggling," Pogue said. "The first language we are going to speak is called English; it's called human." Pogue said Yahoo Tech would be a "jargon-free, cool-looking" source of news and information presented in terms people not immersed in the industry can appreciate. And instead of banner or display ads, Yahoo digital magazines will follow the lead of their glossy predecessors and weave clearly labeled advertising into content, according to Mayer. Pogue said he will be reviewing projects seeking backing at crowd-source funding websites Kickstarter and Indiegogo, giving as an example a stand that keeps a single razor blade sharp for five years. "It is brilliant, but it also costs $600," Pogue said of the razor system. Mayer mentioned the acquisition of yet another firm, Aviate, which specializes in automatically organizing applications on smartphone home screens based on clues such as location or time of day and on people's habits. Mayer took over as Yahoo chief in July of 2012, and her plan to revive the company includes being at the center of people's Internet habits, especially on mobile devices. "We reach for our mobile devices as soon as we wake up to check the morning headlines," Couric said, telling the audience she was eager to get to work interviewing "anyone with an important or interesting story to tell." Digital magazines were touted as part of Yahoo's longterm strategy. "A common theme for us is simplifying our business and how people consume information," Mayer said. Forrester analyst David Cooperstein saw it as a savvy move to differentiate Yahoo from Google, Facebook or other online venues by providing the professional content people are looking for instead of user-generated material they might find interesting. "It is a more mainstream play, basically," Cooperstein said. "By bringing in familiar faces from John Legend to SNL it indicates to me she is talking about more traditional content online, which is the only angle her competitors haven't taken. And every good keynote should have some theatrics in it." Despite many investments, Yahoo last year lost its Number 2 position in the US digital ad market to social networking titan Facebook, according to industry-tracker eMarketer. Yahoo's share of global digital ad revenue slid about a half percent to 2.87 percent last year, while Facebook and Google say their shares rise, eMarketer reported. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooAn employee carries bundles of 100 yuan Chinese bank notes to store after counting at a bank in Taiyuan, Shanxi province July 4, 2013.China's investment in the United States doubled to $14 billion last year despite sometimes rocky political ties, with private firms leading the way, said a study out Tuesday. About half of the value consisted of Shuanghui International's takeover of prominent pork producer Smithfield Foods, a $7.1 billion deal that marked the largest ever Chinese acquisition of a US company. But the report by the Rhodium Group, a New York-based firm that looks closely at Chinese investment, found that the total number of deals had also risen from 2012 to 82. It said that Chinese companies accounted for 70,000 full-time jobs in the United States. The total value of investment hit a record high of $14 billion, with high-profile deals in real estate as well as Chinese investors took stakes in the General Motors Building and Chase Manhattan Plaza in New York. Private firms and entrepreneurs dominated, accounting for 87 percent of transactions and 76 percent of the total value of Chinese investment, a contrast to the dominance of state firms until recently, the study said. US lawmakers have raised concern about investments by several Chinese firms. Telecoms giant Huawei has largely dropped hopes of expansion in the world's largest economy after Congress warned that its equipment could be used for spying. The United States has also raised intellectual property as a top concern with China, accusing hackers in the emerging economy of waging a vast theft campaign of American companies' trade secrets. But the Rhodium Group said that most deals that failed were not linked to politics. It predicted future growth in investment. "With its large market, educated workforce and world-leading technology and brands, the United States has strong appeal to the next generation of Chinese outbound investors," it said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Esam Omran Al-FetoriA member of the Libyan army's Thunderbolt Brigade flies the Libyan flag as the army prepares for deployment in Benghazi, November 8, 2013. TRIPOLI/LONDON (Reuters) - Armed groups demanding autonomy for eastern Libya have invited foreign companies to buy oil from ports they have seized in defiance of the central government in Tripoli. In an announcement on Tuesday, they also pledged to protect tankers loading crude, after the Libyan defense ministry said it would destroy vessels using ports in the east, which are under control of the protesters linked to a self-proclaimed regional government. The development adds to an air of chaos as the weak Tripoli government struggles to rein in the armed groups that helped oust Muammar Gaddafi in 2011 but which kept their guns and are now demanding political power and a bigger share of the country's oil wealth. The conflict is hurting oil revenues, which fund the OPEC nation's government and the import of wheat and other staple foods. The government has warned it will be unable to pay public salaries if the standoff continues. On Monday, the Libyan navy said it fired warning shots at a tanker trying to load oil at the eastern port of Es-Sider, which was seized with two other terminals by the autonomy group in August. The three harbors accounted previously for 600,000 barrels a day. But the group, led by tribal leader and 2011 civil war hero Ibrahim Jathran, shrugged off Tripoli's warning by inviting foreign companies to buy eastern oil. "We welcome global oil companies ... The oil security guards will guarantee the safety of tankers," said Abd-Rabbo al-Barassi, prime minister of Jathran's self-declared government in the eastern Cyrenaica region. Workers at the seized ports had returned to work, he said. A newly founded oil company called Libya Oil and Gas Corp would be dealing with potential buyers. A new army and coast guard, made up of Jathran's battle-hardened fighters, would secure the ports. Barassi said his group had nothing to do with the tanker shot at by a Libyan navy vessel on Sunday on its way to Es-Sider. Tripoli has said the tanker was intending to load oil at the seized port, but Barassi said this was a "lie." The confrontation has raised worries that Libya, also struggling with Islamist militias and armed tribesmen, might break apart as Cyrenaica and the southern Fezzan region demand political autonomy. But Barassi said in a television broadcast that his group had no plans to secede. He also invited Tripoli to send a delegation to help oversee oil sales. "We assure all Libyans that the sale of oil will be according to the law." The group is campaigning for a federal state sharing power and oil wealth between Cyrenaica, Tripolitania in the west, and Fezzan, as was the case in the kingdom that preceded Gaddafi's rule. Oil sales were then shared between the regions. Libya's defense ministry had earlier warned potential buyers against any docking at the seized ports. "If a ship docks in one of the closed ports, and it does not leave the port again, then we will destroy it," said Defense Ministry spokesman Said Abdul Razig al-Shbahi. Tribal leaders have sought to negotiate on behalf of the government with the group holding the ports. Those negotiations to have gone nowhere despite pressure from tribal leaders, some of whom look down on Jathran as a warlord leading the country into chaos. The risks of an escalation were clear over the weekend when the Libyan navy said it opened fire on a vessel trying to reach Es-Sider before the tanker, Baku, turned back to Malta. The owner of the tanker said on Tuesday the vessel had been in international waters and denied it was involved in trying to smuggle crude oil. The owner, Palmali, said a Libyan naval vessel fired warning shots even after it provided written confirmation to the Libyan National Oil Company (NOC) that it was no longer sailing to Es-Sider. While negotiations with Jathran have failed, they worked elsewhere: Output at the southern government-controlled El Sharara oilfield rose further on Tuesday to over two-thirds of full capacity and a pipeline shipping condensate - very light crude - to a western port reopened. Talks had ended a protest by tribesmen at El Sharara with production there climbing to 277,000 bpd on Tuesday and expected to reach full capacity of 340,000 bpd by Wednesday. Libya's output was over 1 million bpd in July before the strikes started. "I think if we keep up at this level we will reach capacity by tomorrow," NOC spokesman, Mohamed al-Harari, said. Protesters, who had blockaded the El Sharara field for two months, had been calling for the establishment of a local council and the granting of national identity cards for tribesmen from the Tuareg minority. The pipeline carrying condensates from Wafa oilfield to Mellitah port, jointly operated by Italy's ENI in the west, has also been reopened after protesters briefly blocked the line, with output now at around 30,000 bpd, the NOC said. (Additional reporting by Ayman al-Warfalli and Ulf Laessing; Writing by Patrick Markey and Ulf Laessing; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Bentley Motors said sales of its ultra-luxury saloons, coupes and convertibles set a record last year as demand from the Americas outweighed shrinking deliveries in China. Bentley, owned by Germany's Volkswagen &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt;, sold 10,120 cars in 2013, 19 percent more than the previous year and the fourth-straight year of double-digit volume growth, the Britain-based carmaker said on Wednesday. "We continue to be very successful in winning new customers and are confident that 2014 will be another successful year," Chief Executive Wolfgang Schreiber said in a statement. Sales in the Americas, Bentley's No. 1 market, surged 28 percent to 3,140 cars while Chinese deliveries fell 2.8 percent to 2,191. European sales were up 11 percent at 1,480. A new generation of the Flying Spur saloon, rolled out last year, and a convertible version of the Continental GT Speed coupe, introduced in late 2012, helped boost sales, Bentley said. (Reporting by Andreas Cremer; Additional reporting by Sarah Young; Editing by Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP(Reuters) - Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt; is closer to naming a new chief executive, according to a source familiar with the board's thinking, but it lost a front-runner candidate on Tuesday when Ford Motor Co's &lt;F.N&gt; chief, Alan Mulally, said he would not be going to the software giant. Mulally's comments reignited the guessing game over who will take over at Microsoft, following the elimination in December of another reported candidate, Qualcomm Inc's &lt;QCOM.O&gt; Steve Mollenkopf. Microsoft said last month it expects to appoint a new CEO early this year. It has been seeking a replacement for Steve Ballmer since the long-time CEO in August announced his plan to retire. Sources familiar with the process have told Reuters that Microsoft is down to a "handful" of candidates, including one or more outsiders from the tech industry, former Nokia &lt;NOK1V.HE&gt; CEO Stephen Elop and insiders Satya Nadella and Tony Bates. Mulally, who has never denied his interest in the Microsoft job, told the Associated Press on Tuesday that he will remain at Ford at least this year. Two people close to the matter told Reuters that Mulally is no longer under consideration for the top job at Microsoft. "Out of respect for the process and the potential candidates, we don't comment on individual names," a Microsoft spokesman said. The Ford CEO said he wanted to end the Microsoft speculation "because I have no other plans to do anything other than serve Ford." When the AP asked whether his comments should end concerns from investors about his exit, Mulally said: "You don't have to worry about me leaving." Ford spokesman Jay Cooney confirmed the comments. After news of the interview, Ford shares rose 1.3 percent in extended trade, while Microsoft shares fell 1.1 percent. Several prominent Microsoft investors had campaigned behind the scenes for Mulally to succeed Ballmer. But one source familiar with Microsoft's board's discussions said Mulally's candidacy raised questions about "culture and leadership style". Mulally's apparent interest in the job attracted considerable media attention that overshadowed Ford's product-related announcements, such as the roll-out of the new Mustang, something that frustrated Ford's board of directors, people familiar with the matter said. (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman and Bernie Woodall in Detroit, Nadia Damouni in New York and Bill Rigby in Seattle; Editing by Dan Grebler, Leslie Adler and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer(Reuters) - Federal regulators are probing whether several big banks deliberately mispriced mortgage bonds in the years following the financial crisis, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people close to the inquiry. The new investigation is a potential blow to the banks as they have already paid billions of dollars in penalties and fines to various federal agencies following scrutiny of their conduct leading up to and during the market panic of 2008. Banks continued to hold billions of dollars in hard-to-price assets on their books even in the aftermath of the credit crisis. Regulators are now seeking information about whether banks made "significant misrepresentations" about some of those assets to make deals, the Journal said. The probe focuses on whether traders bought or sold residential mortgage-backed securities at artificially depressed or inflated values from around 2009 through 2011, the paper said. The other parties in such deals would typically be rival banks, hedge funds and other large investment firms, according to the paper. The banks being probed include Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt;, Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt;, Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;,Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, Royal Bank of Scotland Group &lt;RBS.L&gt; and UBS AG &lt;UBSN.VX&gt;. The investigation, which began less than a year ago, is still at an early stage and may not lead to enforcement action. Subpoenas have been sent to several firms to gather information, according to the newspaper. The probe is being conducted by the Securities and Exchange (SEC) and the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (Sigtarp). Spokesmen for the SEC, Sigtarp and JPMorgan declined to comment to the newspaper. RBS spokeswoman Mary Taylor declined to comment to Reuters on the Journal report. None of the other parties could immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad and Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane) FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesYesterday, the Senate passed a key procedural hurdle in a Democratic-led effort to continue extended unemployment benefits. The vote in the Senate wasn't final passage, however, and there's still an uphill climb in The House. Goldman's Alec Phillips has two important points on the situation and what it means:  The upshot is that although the probability of an extension has increased, it is still below 50%. The fact that the bill was not defeated at the outset is a positive sign for extension, but at this point there is still much more disagreement than common ground. Assuming that emergency benefits are not extended, this is likely to reduce labor force participation incrementally, resulting in a reported reduction in the unemployment rate of 0.1pp to 0.2pp over the next few months. Our forecast incorporates this effect. In September 2013 (the most recent month for which data is available), $1.4bn in emergency unemployment benefits were paid, or $17bn (0.1% of GDP) at an annualized rate. CBO estimates a one-year extension would cost $25.5bn. Our estimate of fiscal drag assumes expiration, so a surprise extension would reduce drag slightly compared with our expectations in Q1. But for now, expiration still seems like the most likely outcome. FREE AppDownload
Nicholas CarlsonBEIJING (Reuters) - China's biggest online marketplace, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's Taobao, will ban the sale of bitcoins on the heels of a government crackdown against the virtual currency to plug a potential gap in its tight controls on capital flows. The move comes as Alibaba, China's biggest e-commerce company, seeks the smoothest of rides toward a giant initial public offering of stock expected later this year. In a statement posted on its website late on Tuesday, Taobao said the ban is effective from January 14. Taobao's move to fall in line with the government's wishes also comes as Alibaba presses on with efforts to stamp out the sale of fake goods on the online marketplace ahead of the IPO. Alibaba has been conservatively estimated to be worth over $100 billion. "The central bank clearly has required third-party payment services to close bitcoin...trading channels," Taobao said in its statement, without disclosing any details on bitcoin sales through its platform up to now. Backed by neither a government nor a bank, bitcoin has attracted currency speculators in recent months. Alibaba spokeswoman Florence Shih said, "In the interest of consumer protection, Taobao has banned the sale of bitcoins on the platform." Taobao uses Alibaba's online payment affiliate Alipay to process transactions across the world's second-biggest economy, handling over 1 trillion yuan ($165 billion) in annual sales volume together with its sister shopping portal T-Mall. The Taobao ban, which covers other virtual currencies, also includes the sale of any guides, computer hardware or software related to bitcoin "mining". In the mining process users can mint new bitcoins of their own by having a computer solve complex mathematical problems. Most bitcoin sales take place on specialized electronic platforms, rather than online marketplaces like Taobao, that are designed to trade the virtual currency for various physical currencies. In December, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) banned financial institutions from trading in bitcoins, saying the government would act to prevent money laundering risks from bitcoin, which is not backed by a government or central bank. It did not ban individual trading. Later the same month, the Chinese Business News reported that the government had asked third-party payment services to stop handling bitcoin transactions, forcing Shanghai-based BTC China, the world's largest bitcoin exchange platform by volume, to stop taking Chinese yuan deposits. "I think it's overreaching," said Bobby Lee, Chief Executive Officer of BTC China, referring to Taobao's ban on bitcoin-related accessories. "I think they're trying to just win favors from the government." The PBOC stance reflects the fact that the bitcoin trade represents a potential hole in the country's capital controls. They are minted anonymously, untraceable, and can be carried on memory sticks or transmitted electronically. However, analysts say that given the total value of bitcoins in circulation remains tiny relative to other currencies, the trade is unlikely to have much impact on the wider economy for now. The price of bitcoins on BTC China fell 15 percent on Tuesday to 4718.51 yuan, but had bounced back 4.5 percent by late afternoon on Wednesday. ($1 = 6.0512 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Adam Rose; Additional reporting by Paul Carstens in BEIJING; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Finally, here's some good news in Europe. Highest retail sales growth in 12 years! From Eurostat: Eurostat FREE AppDownload
Heidi Moore asked a good question on Twitter yesterday about the most prominent myths in economics. I’ve compiled a substantial number of “myth busting” articles over the last 5 years so I thought it might be worth touching on a handful of the more destructive ones in some detail. A lot of this will be very familiar to regulars, but should provide a nice summary regardless.  So here we go: 1) The government “prints money”.   The government really doesn’t “print money” in any meaningful sense.  Most of the money in our monetary system exists because banks created it through the loan creation process.  The only money the government really creates is due to the process of notes and coin creation.  These forms of money, however, exist to facilitate the use of bank accounts.  That is, they’re not issued directly to consumers, but rather are distributed through the banking system as bank customers need these forms of money.  The entire concept of the government “printing money” is generally a misportrayal  by the mainstream media. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/stop-with-the-money-printing-madness http://pragcap.com/where-does-cash-come-from 2)  Banks “lend reserves”.   This myth derives from the concept of the money multiplier, which we all learn in any basic econ course.  It implies that banks who have $100 in reserves will then “multiply” this money 10X or whatever.  This was a big cause of the many hyperinflation predictions back in 2009 after QE started and reserve balances at banks exploded due to the Fed’s balance sheet expansion.  But banks don’t make lending decisions based on the quantity of reserves they hold.  Banks lend to creditworthy customers who have demand for loans.  If there’s no demand for loans it really doesn’t matter whether the bank wants to make loans.  Not that it could “lend out” its reserve anyhow.  Reserves are held in the interbank system.  The only place reserves go is to other banks.  In other words, reserves don’t leave the banking system so the entire concept of the money multiplier and banks “lending reserves” is misleading. See the following for more detail on the basics of banking: http://brown-blog-5.blogspot.com/ Also see this Fed paper on this topic: http://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/feds/2010/201041/201041pap.pdf 3)  The US government is running out of money and must pay back the national debt. There seems to be this strange belief that a nation with a printing press whose debt is denominated in the currency it can print, can become insolvent.  There are many people who complain about the government “printing money” while also worrying about government solvency.  It’s a very strange contradiction.  Of course, the US government could theoretically print up as much money as it wanted.  As I described in myth number 1, that’s not technically how the system is presently designed (because banks create most of the money), but that doesn’t mean the government is at risk of “running out of money”.   As I’ve described before, the US government is a contingent currency issuer and could always create the money needed to fund its own operations.  Now, that doesn’t mean that this won’t contribute to high inflation or currency debasement, but solvency (not having access to money) is not the same thing as inflation (issuing too much money). See the following piece for more detail: http://pragcap.com/why-the-usa-isnt-going-bankrupt http://pragcap.com/inflation-is-not-necessarily-a-different-form-of-default 4)  The national debt is a burden that will ruin our children’s futures.   The national debt is often portrayed as something that must be “paid back”.  As if we are all born with a bill attached to our feet that we have to pay back to the government over the course of our lives.  Of course, that’s not true at all.  In fact, the national debt has been expanding since the dawn of the USA and has grown as the needs of US citizens have expanded over time.  There’s really no such thing as “paying back” the national debt unless you think the government should be entirely eliminated (which I think most of us would agree is a pretty unrealistic view of the world). This doesn’t mean the national debt is all good.  The US government could very well spend money inefficiently or misallocate resources in a way that could lead to high inflation and result in lower living standards.  But the government doesn’t necessarily reduce our children’s living standards by issuing debt.  In fact, the national debt is also a big chunk of the private sector’s savings so these assets are, in a big way, a private sector benefit.  The government’s spending policies could reduce future living standards, but we have to be careful about how broadly we paint with this brush.  All government spending isn’t necessarily bad just like all private sector spending isn’t necessarily good. See the following pieces for more: http://pragcap.com/the-us-government-is-not-16-trillion-in-the-hole http://pragcap.com/is-social-security-a-ponzi-scheme 5)  QE is inflationary “money printing” and/or “debt monetization”.   Quantitative Easing (QE) is a form of monetary policy that involves the Fed expanding its balance sheet in order to alter the composition of the private sector’s balance sheet.  This means the Fed is creating new money and buying private sector assets like MBS or T-bonds.  When the Fed buys these assets it is technically “printing” new money, but it is also effectively “unprinting” the T-bond or MBS from the private sector.  When people call QE “money printing” they imply that there is magically more money in the private sector which will chase more goods which will lead to higher inflation.  But since QE doesn’t change the private sector’s net worth (because it’s a simple swap) the operation is actually a lot more like changing a savings account into a checking account.  This isn’t “money printing” in the sense that some imply. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/understanding-quantitative-easing http://pragcap.com/why-didnt-qe-cause-high-inflation 6)  Hyperinflation is caused by “money printing”.   Hyperinflation has been a big concern in recent years following QE and the sizable budget deficits in the USA.  Many have tended to compare the USA to countries like Weimar or Zimbabwe to express their concerns.  But if one actually studies historical hyperinflations you find that the causes of hyperinflations tend to be very specific events.  Generally: The hyperinflation in the USA never came because none of these things actually happened.  Comparing the USA to Zimbabwe or Weimar was always an apples to oranges comparison. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/understanding-hyperinflation http://pragcap.com/inflation-is-not-necessarily-a-different-form-of-default 7)  Government spending drives up interest rates and bond vigilantes control interest rates.   Many economists believe that government spending “crowds out” private investment by forcing the private sector to compete for bonds in the mythical “loanable funds market”.   The last 5 years blew huge holes in this concept.  As the US government’s spending and deficits rose interest rates continue to drop like a rock.  Clearly, government spending doesn’t necessarily drive up interest rates.  And in fact, the Fed could theoretically control the entire yield curve of US government debt if it merely targeted a rate.  All it would have to do is declare a rate and challenge any bond trader to compete at higher rates with the Fed’s bottomless barrel of reserves.  Obviously, the Fed would win in setting the price because it is the reserve monopolist.  So, the government could actually spend gazillions of dollars and set its rates at 0% permanently (which might cause high inflation, but you get the message). See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/i-want-to-come-back-as-the-federal-reserve-you-can-intimidate-everybody http://pragcap.com/the-mainstream-economists-finally-realize-bond-vigilantes-are-mythical http://pragcap.com/american-bond-vigilantes-asleep-at-the-wheel 8)  The Fed was created by a secret cabal of bankers to wreck the US economy. The Fed is a very confusing and sophisticated entity.  The Fed catches a lot of flak because it doesn’t always execute monetary policy effectively.  But monetary policy is not the reason why the Fed was created.  The Fed was created to help stabilize the US payments system and provide a clearinghouse where banks could meet to help settle interbank payments.  This is the Fed’s primary purpose and it was modeled after the NY Clearinghouse.  Unfortunately, the NY Clearinghouse didn’t have the reach or stability to help support the entire US banking system and after the panic of 1907 the Fed was created to expand a system of payment clearing to the national banking system and help provide liquidity and support on a daily basis.  So yes, the Fed exists to support banks.  And yes, the Fed often makes mistakes executing policies.  But its design and structure is actually quite logical and its creation is not nearly as conspiratorial or malicious as many make it out to be. See the following pieces for more detail: http://pragcap.com/feds-dual-mandate-bull-sht http://pragcap.com/who-owns-the-federal-reserve 9)  Fallacy of composition.   The biggest mistake in modern macroeconomics is probably the fallacy of composition.  This is taking a concept that applies to an individual and applying it to everyone.  For instance, if you save more then someone else had to dissave more.   We aren’t all better off if we all save more.  In order for us to save more, in the aggregate, we must spend (or invest) more.  As a whole, we tend not to think in a macro sense.  We tend to think in a very narrow micro sense and often make mistakes by extrapolating personal experiences out to the aggregate economy.  This is often a fallacious way to view the macroeconomy and leads to many misunderstandings.  We need to think in a more macro way to understand the financial system. 10)  Economics is a science.   Economics is often thought of as a science when the reality is that most of economics is just politics masquerading as operational facts.  Keynesians will tell you that the government needs to spend more to generate better outcomes.  Monetarists will tell you the Fed needs to execute a more independent and laissez-fairre policy approach through its various policies.  Austrians will tell you that the government is bad and needs to be eliminated or reduced.   All of these “schools” derive many of their understandings by constructing a political perspective and then adhering a world view around these biased perspectives.  This leads to a huge amount of misconception which has led to the reason why I am even writing a post like this in the first place.  Economics is indeed the dismal science.  Dismal mainly because it’s dominated by policy analysts who are pitching political views as operational realities. See the following piece for more detail: http://pragcap.com/economics-is-mostly-a-policy-debate-masquerading-as-a-scientific-debate There’s a lot more where that came from.  You can read more myths here.  I would also highly recommend my paper on the monetary system. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Nicholas CarlsonAnother blow for Bitcoin in China. Alibaba — the e-commerce giant — will no longer allow bitcoin use on its site. From the FT: Alibaba said that as of January 14 it would stop its users from doing any deals in Bitcoins or other virtual currencies such as Litecoins, and would bar merchants from selling any Bitcoin mining software or offering any related products. The decision was taken to “promote the healthy development of Taobao Marketplace and to more effectively protect the interests of Taobao members,” Alibaba said in a statement. It added that the ban stemmed from the central bank’s ruling in December that prohibits any payment companies or financial institutions from handling Bitcoins. The whole press release is here (in Chinese). The price of Bitcoin dropped precipitously late last year after the first signs that China would crack down. But it hasn't really mattered. The price has proved resilient, and as the FT noted yesterday, trading is springing back to life, as people find a way around the government ban. Given that circumventing government regulations is one of the main appeals of Bitcoin, it was probably naive to think that China's crackdown would have major ramifications.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/US Federal ReserveNew U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (R) joins the Board of Governors attending the Federal Open Market Committee meeting in Washington, March 28, 2006.Pay attention: There are three significant economic events happening today. From CalculatedRisk, they are: • At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for December. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 205,000 payroll jobs added in December, down from 215,000 in November.• At 2:00 PM, the Fed will release the FOMC Minutes for the Meeting of December 17-18, 2013.• At 3:00 PM, Consumer Credit for November from the Federal Reserve. The consensus is for credit to increase $14.2 billion in November. The minutes from the FOMC decision should be very interesting, as that was the taper meeting. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiMarkets are starting to come to life in 2014. For the first couple of days, things were in the doldrums, and looking like the exact opposite of 2013. But that's changed in the last 24 hours or so. The Dow registered a triple-digit gain in Tuesday trading. And after two days of losses, the Nikkei clocked in with a 1.94% gain. Other markets are very quiet this morning. U.S. futures are essentially unchanged. So is Germany's DAX index. Italy's FTSE MIB index is gaining 0.8% despite an ugly unemployment report. In the U.S., the big event today will be the ADP jobs report, which will be a preview of Friday's jobs report. FREE AppDownload
Italy is looking sick today. According to stats that have just come out, the unemployment rate has risen to a 37-year high of 12.7% in November. Youth unemployment jumped from 41.4% in October to 41.6% in November. This isn't the only bad Italian number lately. Recall that earlier this week, Italy clocked in with its second-straight sub-50 reading in its service sector PMI (even as most Eurozone countries showed improvement, especially Spain, with which it's frequently compared). Markit In terms of an economy with problematic structural issues, Italy is looking more and more France-like these days. FREE AppDownload
