NEW YORK (Reuters) - Digital discount broker E*Trade Financial Corp on Thursday bid farewell to the precocious baby who starred in the television commercials advertising its trading platform for the last seven years. Or rather it gave the baby with the baritone voice the chance to angrily announce that he has resigned. In a 30-second ad that debuted during the opening games of the NCAA March Madness tournament, a singing cat named Beanie interrupts the baby's announcement that he is funding his retirement account through E*Trade. Told that the cat, who bursts into song with nonsensical lyrics about bundling and options and ETFs, is his new sidekick, the baby smashes his cellphone and barks: "I'm done. I'm out of here." For the brokerage firm that is recovering from a near-fatal venture into mortgage lending and banking, the baby's retirement is no laughing matter. Chief Executive Officer Paul Idzik said soon after his arrival in January 2013 that E*Trade was taking the wrong approach to marketing and should be more scientific in measuring how its messages resonate with clients. He fired marketing head Nick Utton, along with many other top executives. Last summer, he replaced Grey Advertising, which created the baby ads, with Oglivy &amp; Mather. "The baby was a wonderful iconic expression of what we were," new chief marketing officer Liza Landsman told Reuters. "But we want something that better reflects our present and where we are going." She wouldn't be specific about the new marketing campaign that will be launched in the next few weeks, but said it will be delivered mostly through online channels such as Yahoo Finance, search engines such as Google and Bing and social networks such as Facebook rather than on television. An increasing number of E*Trade clients of all ages and wealth levels are using digital means to research investment ideas, communicate with each other and trade. Digital reflects the client experience and is "becoming the brand, to a certain extent," Landsman said. E*Trade President Navtej Nandra, who like Landsman was hired last May, told Reuters that about 10 percent of the company's trades are now executed through mobile and tablet devices, just behind the 12 percent of trades that rival TD Ameritrade Holdings recently said were sent through smartphones and other mobile devices. Nandra described the firm as a "digital hybrid" that works across many platforms, including those that rely on customer service representatives and live advisers for clients who want the "human touch." E*Trade is no longer trying to be all things to all people, he said, but it is also going well beyond its old image as a firm whose major appeal is discounted stock trading commissions. Landsman promised that the new campaign will be as iconic and "witty" as the baby-centric ads. She also said that the firm's advertising budget is "up a little" from last year. (Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsJan HatziusJanet Yellen's first decision as Fed chief was perceived to be somewhat hawkish yesterday for two reasons. One is that the "dots" the charts showing when various FOMC members foresaw the first rate hike saw a slight shift to the left, meaning the first rate hike is now expected somewhat sooner than before. Also, Yellen used the term "6 months" to describe what a considerable period of time might be, when asked about the gap between the end of QE tapering and the start of the first rate hike. But Goldman's top economist Jan Hatzius doesn't see a rate hike in 2015. Here's why, according to a new note that just went out: ...we still think that rate hikes are far off. First, we do not think that Yellen meant to send a strong signal of a shift in the reaction function. Second, while we agree that the most likely path for growth is a pickup to a 3%+ pace, the risk to this forecast is on the downside. Third, we expect a more gradual return to 2% inflation than the FOMC. Fourth, we see a significant risk that a tightening of financial conditions in the run-up to the first rate hike will delay the first hike, much as last summer's "taper tantrum" delayed the actual move to QE tapering. Our central forecast for the first hike remains early 2016, although the risks now tilt in the direction of a slightly earlier move. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro GarofaloPeople wait for the start of a race at the San Siro horseracing center in Milan.Earlier today, David Nussbaum wrote at FiveThirtyEight about how, when making bets on football games, people tend to overly bet on the favorite. This is in spite of the fact that point spreads for football betting are chosen by bookies so that the odds of a team being over or under the spread are about even. Justin Wolfers pointed out on Twitter that in betting on horse racing, the opposite occurs: people overestimate the likelihood of longshot horses winning and underestimate the likelihoods for favorites. This phenomenon is called the favorite-longshot bias. Wolfers put up the chart below illustrating the bias from a paper by him and Erik Snowberg of the California Institute of Technology. The horizontal axis shows the odds given to a horse by bettors, and the vertical axis gives the return on a dollar bet on a horse with those odds, which is directly related to the likelihood of the horse actually winning. The sharp downward slope that starts to kick in when odds become long shows the bias — bettors are behaving as though longshots have a better chance of winning than they actually do. Justin Wolfers Wolfers and Snowberg then go on to explore a pair of possible models for why this happens — either bettors are deliberately trying to take on riskier bets for some reason, such as the thrill of making a long shot bet, or they are misperceiving the actual probabilities of race outcomes.  Through some clever analysis of more complex bets on multiple horses finishing in some particular order, they found pretty good evidence that this phenomenon might be caused by the latter. People overestimate the likelihood of low probability events, like long shots winning, and underestimate the likelihood of high probability events, like favorites winning. This is consistent with a number of other results from behavioral economics. Numerous experiments have shown that people routinely overemphasize low probability events and underemphasize high probability events.  Whether it's betting too much on favorites in football, or on longshots in horse racing, it is clear that people are not the completely rational utility seeking agents predicted by conventional economic theory. FREE AppDownload
Sony Pictures / ColumbiaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Number One Reason Wealthy Clients Switch Advisors (Vanguard)  A new report from Spectrem Group and Vanguard finds that response time is crucial to the wealthy. As it turns out, affluent investors care more about having an advisor who cares for them as opposed to having the best stock picker. "Not returning phone calls in a timely manner," is the top reason clients dump advisors. In fact the top four reasons all have to do with communication. "It’s important to note that not far behind the communications-related causes was, “long-term losses to my portfolio. …You have to be able to effectively balance both sets of expectations," according to the report. Stock Market Investors Have Learned To Ignore Geopolitical Crises (Dr. Ed's Blog)  "Stock investors have learned over the years to either ignore geopolitical crises or use them as buying opportunities," writes Ed Yardeni, in Dr. Ed's Blog. "The forward P/Es of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 rebounded dramatically at the start of the bull market as investors bet that the Fed’s ultra-easy monetary policy, FDIC guarantees for new bank debt, and the suspension of mark-to-market would end the financial crisis and revive the economy. They tumbled during the spring of 2010 as the Eurozone seemed to be heading for disintegration. They recovered over the rest of the year on hopes that wouldn’t happen. "The P/Es plunged during the summer of 2011 on renewed fears of a Eurozone meltdown and on the downgrade of US Treasury debt. Since then, the forward P/Es of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 are up 46%, 43%, and 50% to 15.2, 17.4, and 19.2. In a melt-up scenario, they could go higher. Right now, uncertainty about Yellenomics and geopolitics might put a lid on them." For now valuations have mostly been impacted by financial risks, not geopolitical ones, but going forward that could change. Tax Rates Are The Most Important Factor In Choosing A Traditional Or Roth IRA (Morningstar)  Investors often struggle in choosing between traditional individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and Roth IRAs — where you don't get a tax break while investing in it but if you meet certain conditions you get a tax break on withdrawals. Michael Kitces told Christine Benz at Morningstar that tax rates are the most important factor in choosing between the two.  "And we really found that it comes down to only four factors, and one of them is really the dominating one: tax rates. It's simply to recognize at the end of the day, if we've got this money that we've earned pretax and we're trying to figure out where to send it, should we send it to the IRA or the Roth side?" "If we send to the [Traditional] IRA side, we get a deduction now, we pay the taxes later. If we send it to the Roth side, we pay the taxes now, and then we don't have to deal with them later. That fundamental split really actually just comes down to: If you are going to pay the taxes now or you are going to pay the taxes later, pay the taxes when the rate is lower, and then you finish with more money." Four Things Advisors Can Learn From March Madness (WealthManagement.com)  It's time for March Madness, but Robert Sofia, co-founder of Platinum Advisor Strategies, writes that advisors can learn some important lessons from March Madness.  1. "Have a game plan" — Don't get so caught up in daily tasks that you forget about your overall goals. Write out your goals every year.2. "Assemble the right team, and get out of their way" — Stop micromanaging. "The most effective financial advisors focus 100% of their energy on the things they are uniquely qualified to handle – meeting with clients, gathering assets, selecting investments, etc. Everything else gets delegated."3. "Pay attention to details" – Sometimes clients leave not because of one big mistake but "because a multitude of minor details are out of place."4. "Make your timeouts productive" – Schedule a time to meet and go over your game plan and see if you're satisfied with the way things are going. Here's How 18 Categories Of Equity Funds Measure Up Against Their Respective Indices (S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices) It's frequently argued that low-cost index funds are better for long-term investors, than active fund which try and outperform relevant benchmarks. But a report from S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices shows that "55.8% of large-cap managers and 68.09% of small-cap managers underperformed the benchmarks over the past 12 months ending Dec. 31, 2013," according to Aye Soe, director of index research and design. "The picture is equally unfavorable when reviewing the performance over the longer-term three- and five-year investment horizons. The results show that the majority of the active managers across all the domestic equities categories failed to deliver returns higher than their respective benchmarks." S&P Note: The chart accompanying the Vanguard write-up was removed on request. FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: Below is an interview with Peter Tchir, founder of TF Market Advisors. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Wednesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: Is there a single most important market price to be watching right now in terms of gauging the prospects for the global economy? PETER TCHIR: We are watching China closely. In particular, we are seeing signs of stress in some of the Chinese funding levels which concerns us, especially as they are experiencing their first corporate bond defaults. We don’t believe in the decoupling argument. BI: The focus this week is on the Fed. What do you think will be the next Fed story to move markets?  PT: I think we will shift from "taper" — which will continue, according to the current schedule — and start discussing timing of the first rate hike. This will destabilize equities, and we could see signs in the FOMC projections that they release. BI: What is the scariest thing going on in ETF land? PT: A proliferation of small ETFs. They don’t have the diversification and are too specific. ETFs are best when they represent "beta," are liquid, and provide access to the market. In fixed income, products like HYG let investors trade beta. BKLN lets investors trade the loan market, which isn’t really accessible in any other way. I don’t like the small funds that are too specific. BI: What is the most exciting trade out there right now, in your opinion? PT: Sadly, the trades that I see as most exciting are AAA CLO bonds which are extremely cheap as investors lack the institutional knowledge to get comfortable with them. They offer the best risk/reward in income products and are one area I would like to see an ETF. AAA CLOs pay Libor +150 compared to 5-year investment grade floating-rate bonds which are more like LIBOR +30 (which hasn’t stopped FLOT from growing to almost $4 billion). I am scared to say this, but I like selling credit default swaps. With Russia still an issue, I would hold off, but CDS have performed extremely well and are very liquid — at least in the CDS indices I would use. They are cleared now, which helps reduce counterparty risk, and transparency has increased since SEFs have launched. We are still double the pre-crisis spread levels, so there is room to get good income and possibly price appreciation. Stocks and bonds are back to pre-crisis levels. PIMCO uses them  in at least one of their ETFs, so it is conceivable that over time we will see some CDS-based ETFs. Finally, I am looking at China. FXI could be interesting. We aren’t ready to pull the trigger, but this is getting reminiscent of Italy and Spain last summer, when the best potential returns were available before everyone else fell in love. BI: Which developments in global financial markets, if any, would you flag as most concerning for risk appetite? PT: The lack of volatility. Volatility is something that hedge funds need to thrive. Lack of volatility leads to leverage, which leads to problems. We are potentially sowing the seeds of our own destruction as this extended rally, with low volatility, is creating a mentality where positions get riskier and larger, and historically that ends badly. We might have a long way to go to get the leverage back to 2007 levels, but it is something we are watching closely, and even the CLOs that we like are part of that growing, and troubling trend. FREE AppDownload
Life expectancy is an incredibly important variable to consider when you're planning for retirement. You don't need to save more than you expect to live. But you also don't want to find yourself outliving your savings. To help with that, JP Morgan Asset Management included this chart of life expectancy probabilities in its 2014 "Guide To Retirement." JP Morgan Funds
On this date in 1602, the Dutch East India Company, known around the world as the VOC (for Verenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie, United East-India Company referring to the country's union after driving out the Spanish) was formed. It was the first public company to issue negotiable shares, and by some measures is considered the most successful company of all time.  The company lived for nearly 200 years, before being quasi-nationalized by Napoleon Bonaparte's client state in what became known as the Batavian Republic.   Wikipedia user Red4Tribe has uploaded a map showing the extent of the VOC's holdings, in light green, over its lifetime. This is as if Apple or GE owned entire countries. We've previously documented how the British East India Company, born two years earlier, likewise ended up holding large amounts of land in India, not to mention paying their own armies. The map also shows the holdings of the Dutch West India Company, created 19 years later, in dark green. In yellow are territories held later, during the 19th century.  Red4tribe/Wikimedia   FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) In the week ended March 12, the Federal Reserve's custody holdings of U.S. Treasuries plummeted by $104.5 billion, marking what was far and away the single-largest weekly withdrawal on record. The massive drop fueled speculation that Russia had moved a large portion of its holdings out of the U.S. in order to avoid asset freezes from impending financial sanctions. Custody holdings have been falling in recent weeks and months as central banks in emerging markets have been forced to liquidate dollar assets in order to prop up their own currencies, which have come under pressure, but the size of the move seemed far too large to be explained by such activity. The Fed just reported custody holdings data for the week ended March 19, and the numbers are sure to add to the confusion. As the chart shows, custody holdings increased by $32.3 billion this week. FREE AppDownload
It's the eternal conundrum: What color dress shoes go with a navy or brown suit? Style aficionado and redditor stRafaello put together this handy graphic showing which types of shoes match with which suits. It even lets men know which colors match best for a traditional look, and which are fashion-forward. Next time you're suiting up for a special event or considering buying a new pair of oxfords, we suggest you refer to this neat visual guide, which we first saw on /r/malefashionadvice.  reddit/stRafaello
Philly FedThe severe winter has weighed on the U.S. economy in the past few months. Economists expect GDP for the January-March quarter to fall below 2%, but pick up again later this year. The Philly Fed's coincident indexes combine different state-level indicators to give us a picture of current economic conditions for that state. And the Philly Fed's latest coincident indexes were up for 48 states and were stable in two. Every month, the Philly Fed publishes a color-coded map tracking economic activity across the country. Red shows economic contraction while blue or green show expansion. The maps start in 2005 when the economy was booming and get really ugly through the recession. FREE AppDownload
Brendan McDermid/ReutersDavid Koch Libertarian billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch were among the first to grasp the political potential of social welfare groups and trade associations — nonprofits that can spend money to influence elections but don’t have to name their donors. The Kochs and their allies have built up a complex network of such organizations, which spent more than $383 million in the run-up to the 2012 election alone. Documents released in recent months show the Kochs have added wrinkles to their network that even experts well versed in tax law and campaign finance say they’ve never seen before — wrinkles that could make it harder to discern who controls each nonprofit in the web and how it disperses its money. A review of 2012 tax returns filed by Koch network groups shows that most have been set up as nonprofit trusts rather than not-for-profit corporations, an unusual step that reduces their public reporting requirements. It sounds complicated and arcane because it is. Some of the nation’s top nonprofit experts said they could only speculate on the reasons for the network’s increasingly elaborate setup. “My guess is that we’re looking at various forms of disguise — to disguise control, to disguise the flow of funds from one entity to another,” said Gregory Colvin, a tax lawyer and campaign-finance specialist in San Francisco who reviewed all the documents for ProPublica. Four other leading nonprofit experts and three conservative operatives with knowledge of the Koch network said the most likely reason that the Kochs and their inner circle are using this arrangement was to exert control over the groups without saying publicly who was in charge. In particular, they said, the Kochs likely wanted to prevent any of the groups that they help fund from going against their wishes — as happened with the Cato Institute, the libertarian think tank the Kochs had long supported before they got into a dispute with its president, Ed Crane. After a top Cato official ridiculed Charles Koch in a 2010 New Yorker article, the brothers pushed to put allies on the think tank’s board. The following year, they pressed Cato to provide “intellectual ammunition” for their oldest politically active nonprofit, Americans for Prosperity, Cato officials later alleged. The dispute was settled in 2012, with the departure of Crane and the installation of a traditional board. (Cato previously was controlled by four private shareholders, including the Kochs, an unusual setup for a nonprofit.) Robert Levy, Cato’s board chairman, told ProPublica that while he didn’t disagree with the Kochs’ aims, Cato’s leaders were uncomfortable with serving as advocates for their political agenda. Charles Koch “The Kochs had their notions about what they wanted to focus on, and those tended to focus on intellectual ammunition for what their political ambitions were,” Levy said in an interview last fall. “We didn’t disagree with that, but we didn’t want to operate at the direction of the Kochs. We’re not involved in electoral politics. We are strictly nonpartisan.” The Kochs have disputed the allegation that they tried to force Cato to do their political bidding. In this story, we define the Koch network as including 12 nonprofits active in 2012 — 11 social welfare nonprofits and one trade association. These nonprofits all shared the same attributes: They used LLCs, installed Koch allies at the helm and hired the same set of lawyers. (We did not include think tanks, foundations or other charities, nor the like-minded groups that are funded by the Kochs.) Officials with Koch Industries and groups in the Koch network did not respond to calls or written questions from ProPublica. When asked about his involvement with Americans for Prosperity in a rare interview with the Wichita Business Journal last month, Charles Koch downplayed his political activity, saying he and his brother did not have day-to-day involvement with the group. “Listen, if I could do everything that’s attributed to me, I would be a very busy boy,” he told the Journal. Here’s what we know so far about how the Koch network uses trusts and LLCs, as well as the advantages they may offer. Disregarded Entities As of 2012, all 12 Koch network groups had offshoots known as “disregarded entities” — LLCs that are “owned” by their parent nonprofits and are considered part of them for tax purposes. The first such LLC sprang up in February 2010, when Sean Noble, the head of a Koch network nonprofit called the Center to Protect Patient Rights, formed SDN LLC, using the initials of his own name. (ProPublica wrote a story last month about Noble, the Koch network’s money man in 2010 and 2012.) Koch network groups came to have a total of 19 disregarded entities, tax records show; Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce, a trade association that distributed almost $236 million to other nonprofits in the year before the 2012 election, led the way with five. Propublica Unlike corporations, LLCs set up in Delaware are not required to disclose who runs them. The only documentation available is the name of the person who creates them. In the Koch network, 11 of the disregarded entities were formed by the same Chicago trust lawyer, Jonathan Graber. Most had nonsensical strings of letters for names, like SLAH, ORRA or DAS MGR. All were set up in Delaware. Charities typically use disregarded entities to protect themselves from liability. For instance, they’ll hold property in a disregarded entity to shield the nonprofit from lawsuits over anything from environmental pollution to slip-and-falls. But these LLCs appear to serve different purposes for the Koch network, experts said. Before the 2012 election, two groups sat at the top of the Koch money spigot. TC4 Trust, which has since folded, and Freedom Partners, which remains on top of the Koch pyramid, shelled out more than $204 million to the network’s 10 other nonprofits. But instead of giving the money directly to the nonprofits, TC4 and Freedom Partners gave those millions to the groups’ disregarded entities. That made the money more difficult to follow. Consider the case of the LLC with the inscrutable name of TOHE. (No, that’s not a typo.) Records for TC4 Trust show that it gave a $1,968,500 grant to TOHE between July 2011 and June 2012. So what’s a TOHE? You would think you could go to the Internal Revenue Service web site, punch in the magic letters, and get an answer. But that’s not how it works. Disregarded entities cannot be searched by name because their tax returns are filed as part of their parent nonprofit, which of course is exactly what you don’t know. To solve the mystery, we searched IRS databases of recognized nonprofits by the names of lawyers known to work for the Koch network. We found one, Vets for Economic Freedom Trust, that seemed like a possible match for TOHE. Then we requested the group’s application from the IRS, which showed a leader, Wayne Gable, who had deep ties to the Koch brothers, earlier serving as a managing director at Koch Industries. But still, the application didn’t mention TOHE. We had to wait for the group’s tax return, filed in August 2013, to become public, which took a couple of months. The return showed that Vets for Economic Freedom Trust was using a different name: Concerned Veterans for America. And it showed the group’s disregarded entity: TOHE. Concerned Veterans spent most of its money on ads criticizing the government for not doing more to help veterans vote and for the rising national debt.   A more recent tax filing by Freedom Partners gave the names of the disregarded entities and their parent nonprofits when listing grants, dispelling some of the confusion. The Center for Responsive Politics and The Washington Post have also written about how the Koch network has used disregarded entities to hide the money trail. But disregarded entities offer other advantages. Donors to social welfare groups and trade associations have only become public in a handful of cases, but some corporate and individual donors still worry about scrutiny from stockholders or the IRS. One operative told ProPublica he’d heard a Koch network official suggest that a donor with such concerns write checks to disregarded entities rather than to better-known nonprofits.   “You don’t want to just create one layer of anonymity, because that layer could be breached, maybe just by accident — you know, the memo that’s left lying around kind of situation,” said Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer, a law professor and associate dean at the University of Notre Dame who specializes in nonprofits and campaign finance and who reviewed the groups’ available documents for ProPublica. Further, while nonprofits are required to disclose their top administrators and boards in tax filings, disregarded entities can have separate managers who are not identified anywhere, said Ellen Aprill, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles who has studied politically active nonprofits. Such a manager would be able to control how the money received by the LLC was spent. Seven disregarded entities in the Koch network took in more than three-quarters of the money received by their parent nonprofits. POFN, the disregarded entity of a nonprofit called Public Notice, for instance, brought in more than 75 percent of its parent’s $6 million in revenue from May 2011 through April 2012. POFN’s manager — whoever that may be — would control how that money was spent, nonprofit experts said. So far, the Koch network’s use of disregarded entities has been unique. ProPublica reviewed tax returns filed by more than 100 liberal and conservative nonprofits that reported spending money on elections in 2010 and 2012. No group unaffiliated with the Kochs had such offshoots. Their use might be catching on: In July 2012, the American Future Fund, a dark money behemoth that received most of its money through the Koch network but is not part of it, formed its own disregarded entity, Franklin Squared. Trusts Social welfare nonprofits are typically formed as not-for-profit corporations, with boards that set their policies. But nine of the 12 nonprofits in the Koch network were formed as trusts — an approach several tax experts said they had rarely, if ever, encountered. The first was TC4 Trust, which was established in August 2009 and folded in 2012. Eight more Koch-affiliated groups were set up as trusts in 2010 and 2011. Trusts are subject to little outside oversight. They don’t have to file incorporation papers or annual reports to the state. Any documents filed with the IRS take effort and time to get. “It keeps it out of the public eye a little longer,” said Lawrence Katzenstein, a lawyer in St. Louis who has formed charitable trusts. Trust agreements rarely have to be filed publicly, but since most of the Koch-connected trusts have been recognized by the IRS as social welfare nonprofits, their trust agreements are available from the agency. ProPublica examined six trust agreements for groups that are still active. The trust agreements are all “irrevocable,” meaning the trustee cannot change them, except for changing the trust’s name or anything necessary to maintain the group’s tax-exempt status. Two of the trustees are longtime Koch insiders; a third used to be a lawyer for the Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation. Two other trustees are relatively new to the Koch fold but have long conservative pedigrees. Despite those credentials, the trustees can be axed at any time. Each trust agreement gives an LLC — not a disregarded entity, but a different one with a similarly nonsensical string of four letters for a name — power to remove the trustee for any reason. For instance, Daniel Garza, the trustee for the LIBRE Initiative Trust, can be removed by an LLC called THGI. Tax experts say that this means that someone behind that LLC can actually control the nonprofit. “It’s someone having control, and it’s that someone going to great lengths to avoid being known,” said lawyer Marcus Owens, who used to run the Exempt Organizations division of the IRS. Little else is known about these LLCs except that they, too, were formed by Graber in 2010 and 2011 in Delaware, a state that requires virtually no disclosure. Giving someone the power to remove the trustee is increasingly common, said Charles Durante, a Delaware lawyer who does work with trusts, nonprofits and LLCs. But it’s typically a named individual, he said, not an anonymous LLC. “That is not customarily how people structure their trusts,” he said. One employee of a nonprofit with ties to the Kochs, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he feared retribution, said the LLC arrangement fit in with the brothers’ desire to keep a tight grip on their organizations. “Their level of degree to which they insist on control is truly spectacular,” he said. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStocks recovered almost all of yesterday's losses. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedThe FT's Stephen Foley reports that a man tapped to be a deputy to PIMCO fund chief Bill Gross quit the day his appointment was to be announced "after becoming disillusioned with the famed investor’s stewardship of the bond fund management group." Marc Seidner had been serving as interim head of PIMCO’s equities business. He quit just hours before the firm was going to announce CEO and co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian was leaving. The report will add uncertainty about the fate of the boardroom at the world's largest bond fund. After the unexpected resignation El-Erian, unflattering reports surfaced regarding Co-CIO Bill Gross' unique and aggressive management style. That in turn led Gross to tell a Reuters reporter that El-Erian was trying to "undermine" him. Meanwhile, PIMCO has seen more than $50 billion in outflows over the past year, according to Morningstar.Here's Foley: According to two former Pimco executives with knowledge of the tensions, Mr Seidner found Pimco an increasingly difficult environment over the past 18 months and believed that Mr Gross’s behaviour had become “increasingly illogical and irrational”. Tensions flared over Pimco’s push away from core bonds, former executives say, as newer members of the company’s investment committee became disillusioned with what they said was Mr Gross’s apparent disinterest in other assets. Click here to read the full story at FT.com »  FREE AppDownload
American Greed/CNBCLee FarkasLee Farkas, 61, hid billions of dollars through phony accounting and triple-selling mortgages to various financial institutions. He is serving a 30-year prison sentence at Butner Federal Penitentiary in North Carolina and supposedly withering away.  Farkas, who says he is lonely and suffering from depression said, "You're not really alive in here, you're a zombie—just a body walking around, eating, sleeping and being yelled at," the WSJ reports.  Farkas' story was featured in CNBC's series "American Greed" and, according to the documentary, this is how it all went down. In 1991, completely broke and with no formal training in finance, Farkas bought a small mortgage company called Taylor, Bean &amp; Whitaker with $75,000 that he had borrowed from a friend. Within 10 years, TBW was easily processing more than 6,000 mortgages a year, and the company became one of the nation's top mortgage lenders during housing-bubble inflation. Farkas manufactured phony mortgages while looting his own company into debt. He misappropriated nearly $38.5 million to finance a lavish lifestyle with several homes, vintage cars, and a private jet, the WSJ reports. Catherine Kissick, Farkas' partner in crime and senior vice president of Alabama-based Colonial Bank, swept massive funds into TBW's accounts to cover up a staggering accumulated deficit.  Farkas and six co-conspirators were responsible for one of the biggest fraud schemes to emerge from the housing crisis and the sixth-largest bank failure in American history.American Greed/CNBC"It's not a crime to have a plane," Farkas reportedly said. In this photo, he stands in front of his private jet. Farkas' trial lasted less than three weeks and, on April 19, 2011, he was found guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and fraud, all the while refusing to admit to his crime.American Greed/CNBCA courtroom sketch of Farkas and District Court Judge Leonie Brinkema. He was sentenced to 30 years in prison by District Court Judge Leonie Brinkema who later criticized Farkas's lack of remorse, saying his only regret was "getting caught." Farkas and six others were ordered to pay a total of about $3.5 billion in restitution. Farkas is scheduled for release in 2041, when he will be 88 years old. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Grigory DukorREUTERS/Grigory Dukor When President Barack Obama announced sanctions on seven Russian individuals Monday, the officials themselves spent most of the day openly mocking the effect they would have. Far from a game-changer, they only served to irritate the officials and provoke threats of retaliation. On Thursday, the roles shifted. Obama announced more sanctions — and this time, Russia's retaliatory "sanctions" are the ones being mocked.  The reason: Obama's sanctions target four of Russian President Vladimir Putin's closest inner-circle members. In total, the expanded list of sanctions includes some of his top advisers, some former KGB colleagues, and some entities that could slam both Putin and Russia's finances. "They're being designated for being part of the leadership's inner circle," a senior administration official said, "colloquially known as 'The Cronies.'" Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny wrote an op-ed in The New York Times on Thursday outlining a list of officials he said the U.S. should sanction. Many common names showed up on the list Thursday, and four of those were the members of Putin's "inner circle." As Navalny described them, they are part of "the Kremlin mafia who pillage the nation's wealth." 1. Gennady Timchenko He is one of the one of the founders of Gunvor, one of the world’s largest independent commodity trading companies involved in the oil and energy markets, and the 12th-richest man in Russia. Putin has investments in the company, a senior Obama administration official said Thursday. Timchenko's "activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin," the official said. In 2009, Timchenko sued The Economist for what he said was a misrepresentation of his relationship with Putin. He was more of Putin's acquaintance, he said, and not a friend. He eventually dropped the suit. The two brothers are influential Russian businessmen and, according to Navalny, former judo-sparring partners with Putin. The White House said they received approximately $7 billion in contracts for the Sochi Olympic Games. And their personal wealth has increased by $2.5 billion in the last two years alone. They made billions on Putin-awarded contracts with Gazprom, the state-controlled energy company. According to Forbes, the brothers are worth $4 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively.  He is the largest shareholder of Bank Rossiya, which also had sanctions levied on it, as well as Putin's personal banker. He has a net worth of more than $1.4 billion, according to Forbes. The U.S.'s latest punitive measures freeze any assets of sanctioned individuals and entities currently held within U.S. jurisdiction. The sanctions also prohibit Americans from conducting business with those on the list. There were other important Russians who were among the 20 new individuals listed. Vladimir Yakunin, the chairman of the state-owned company Russian Railways, was there, as was Sergei Ivanov, Putin's chief of staff. Most of the individuals and officials on the list have two common traits: They are wealthy, and they are close to Putin. Obama administration officials warned Russia that if it refuses to de-escalate the situation, more pain would be coming. "Nobody should believe that this is the end of what we are prepared to do," a senior administration official said Thursday morning on a conference call with reporters. "It's only the beginning." FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesThe bad news is that three Bitcoin thefts made headlines this week. The slightly better news is they tell us two important things about the state of Bitcoin.  The hook of the first heist was how mind-bogglingly simple the scheme was: A guy called tech support pretending to be James Grant, the head of Canadian Bitcoins, and was subsequently able to gain access to a wallet containing $100,000 worth of Bitcoin.  The fault clearly lay with with the tech support firm, which is in fact owned by Canadian telecom giant Rogers Communications, and in itself should not undermine confidence in the viability of the digital currency. The other two thefts were more straightforward: A digital currency exchange based in Palau called CoinEX was hacked and robbed of all its Bitcoin. And Polish exchange BitCurex lost between 10% and 20% of its Bitcoins.  But there was some decently heartening news for users of the sites: all three burglarized firms promised to reimburse any affected users out of their own pocket. This now seems to be industry practice — something that was not the case in earlier years. "I believe it is the responsibility of any business that deals in the Bitcoin space to have sufficient security and policies in place that should something happen, they can cover the loss without any affect to the customers," (the real) James Grant told BI by email. He added, "Because we have sufficient cold storage, and distributed storage in place for our bitcoins, only a a small portion are ever at risk from a single attack vector." The wallet industry leader, Coinbase, only keeps amounts it is able to fully reimburse customers for in "hot" or online vaults. At the same time, it seems clear that Bitcoins remain tremendously attractive to thieves. Not because the Bitcoin code itself can be hacked, but because the cryptocurrency is so young — and entirely digital. That makes it a ripe piece of meat for anyone with the requisite skills and an acquisitive bent. The Guardian's Alex Hern recently went down the list of every Bitcoin hack in history, counting at least a dozen since June 2011, or one every 2.5 months. That is not exactly a standard rate for other currencies or commodities. And (with the exception of Gox) the market no longer responds very much to new robberies, each one adds an incremental level of doubt in the mainstream about  Those fully committed to Bitcoin as a business — not just as a token of a libertarian movement —  are now embracing increased regulation in a further attempt steer the currency away from those kinds of headlines.   Given that the robbery rate appears to show no sign of slowing, however, mainstream investors interested in the currency will have to decide whether the word of the firms they use — strong as it is — is still enough.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters, Carlos Garcia Rawlins As it stands now, the official protest death toll in Venezuela is up to 31, and the way President Nicolas Maduro's government sees it, someone has to take the blame. First it was Leopoldo Lopez, the former mayor of Chacao who became a wanted man after beginning the protests last month. He gave himself up, and left his wife Lilian (and children) to continue protesting in the streets. Since that didn't fix matters, the government has a new target — 46-year-old opposition politician and Lopez ally — Maria Corina Machado. Vowing revenge for the deaths (especially that of a Venezuela National Guard captain who died on Monday) the legislature has demanded an investigation into her activities on Tuesday. Some legislators chanted "justice, justice" as a video played showing Machado's close ties to the U.S., the Maduro/Chavez regime's ideological enemy. She is accused of a variety of crimes against the regime, including treason. Being a legislator herself, Machado was there to watch the entire production. She cannot be tried without approval from the Supreme Court and state prosecutor, but that shouldn't be much of a holdup. There is, however, one thing working in Machado's favor. She isn't in Venezuela. On Wednesday she left the country to appeal to the Organization of American States. Panama's representative ceded his seat to her so that she could present the opposition's case to the body. When she goes home, though, she'll go directly to jail. At least that's what Maduro deputy, Diosdado Cabello, made it sound like in a speech this week (that's the video, it's in Spanish). "She can go to the OAS court, she can go to the kingdom of heaven," said Cabello. "But here in Venezuela, she is going to be tried as a murderer, a terrorist; she is going to be tried for crimes against humanity, for conspiracy, for destabilization of this country." Meanwhile, the protests continue, the prices for food (which is already scarce in the country) are on the rise, the official unemployment rate hit 9.5% last month meaning 1.32 million are jobless, and more mayors are joining Lopez in jail. For now, Venezuelans are still protesting. On her Twitter account, Machado called for a major protest on Saturday.  The picture below says, "In China it's the year of the horse, in Venezuela it's the year of the donkey" on the top sign. The bottom sign says "Leave, Castro Communist!" And yes, that's a picture of Nicolas Maduro. Reuters, Carlos Garcia Rawlins  They're also remembering their dead. Reuters, Carlos Garcia Rawlins FREE AppDownload
Northumbria University conducted a study about the male dance moves that are attractive to women. Now you won't have to think twice the next time you go to a wedding. Just take a look at the science. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
It's raining in Brazil.  This may explain why coffee futures are down more than 5% today. The Commodity Weather Group says the return of rains to the country’s growing areas will halt crop losses, Bloomberg reports. Coffee prices “should end the quarter below the current levels, unless weather risks continue,” added Kona Haque, an analyst at Macquarie in London, in an e-mailed report.  That will cool off performance for what has been the best performing commodity of the year — the soft has climbed nearly 60% YTD. Due to severe drought in the aforementioned areas, which are concentrated mostly along the country's coast, prices have been surging. Here's the chart: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderCredit rating agency S&amp;P just revised its outlook on the Russian Federation to negative. "The outlook revision reflects our view of the material and unanticipated  economic and financial consequences that EU and U.S. sanctions could have on  Russia's creditworthiness following Russia's incorporation of Crimea, which  the international community currently considers legally to be a part of  Ukraine," they said. "At the same time, we  affirmed our 'BBB/A-2' foreign currency and 'BBB+/A-2' local currency long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings on Russia," they added. Here's the release: OVERVIEW As a "sovereign rating" (as defined in EU CRA Regulation 1060/2009 "EU CRA Regulation"), the ratings on the Russian Federation are subject to certain publication restrictions set out in Art 8a of the EU CRA Regulation, including publication in accordance with a pre-established calendar (see "Calendar Of 2014 Publication Dates For EMEA Sovereign, Regional, And Local Government Ratings," published Dec. 30, 2013, on RatingsDirect). Under the EU CRA Regulation, deviations from the announced calendar are allowed only in limited circumstances and must be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the reasons for the deviation. In this case, the reason for the deviation is the material and unanticipated intensification of geopolitical risks since our most recent release on Dec. 13, 2013, the introduction of sanctions, and the increased financial and economic downside risks to Russia related to these events. The next scheduled rating publication on the sovereign rating of the Russian Federation will be on April 25, 2014. RATING ACTIONOn March 20, 2014, Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services revised its outlook on the Russian Federation (Russia) to negative from stable. At the same time, we affirmed our 'BBB/A-2' foreign currency and 'BBB+/A-2' local currency long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings on Russia. We also affirmed our 'ruAAA' long-term national scale rating on Russia. RATIONALEThe outlook revision reflects our view of the material and unanticipated economic and financial consequences that EU and U.S. sanctions could have on Russia's creditworthiness following Russia's incorporation of Crimea, which the international community currently considers legally to be a part of Ukraine. In February 2014, pro-Russian forces took control of Crimea. As a consequence, on March 6, the European Union (EU) and the U.S. agreed on an initial round of sanctions, as part of a staged approach to imposing sanctions on Russia. On March 16, a referendum was held in Crimea in which approximately 97% of voters reportedly were in favor of Crimea joining Russia. The following day, the EU and U.S. announced that they viewed the referendum as illegitimate and sanctioned certain Russian and Ukrainian nationals through travel bans and asset freezes. On March 18, Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, signed a decree incorporating Crimea into the Russian Federation which was ratified by parliament today.We expect that the EU and U.S. will impose further sanctions.  In our view, the deteriorating geopolitical situation has already had a negative impact on Russia's economy. The Central Bank of the Russian Federation appears to have abandoned its policy of increased currency flexibility and limited intervention in the foreign-exchange market. The Central Bank is now focused on stabilizing financial markets in light of the inflationary impact of the around 10% depreciation of the currency so far this year and the significant capital outflow, which we estimate at about $60 billion in the first quarter of 2014, similar to the level for the whole of 2013. The Central Bank also called an extraordinary meeting in March, raising its benchmark interest rate by 150 basis points to 7%. Economic growth in Russia slowed to 1.3% in 2013, the lowest rate since 1999--excluding the economic contraction in 2009. We expect a further modest deceleration in growth this year and have lowered our GDP growth forecasts for 2014 and 2015 to 1.2% and 2.2%, respectively, from 2.2% and 3.0% in December 2013. In our view, there is a significant downside risk that growth will fall well below 1% if the uncertainties caused by the geopolitical tensions do not subside in the near term. In our view, there is a material risk that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine could extend beyond Crimea and that violence between pro- and anti-Russian protesters could spread to other cities in Eastern Ukraine. Should the situation deteriorate, we believe further and wider sanctions could be imposed against Russian institutions and individuals, potentially including trade restrictions. In our view, these sanctions could further undermine Russia's economic growth prospects. We note, however, that sanctions, particularly those that might be imposed by EU countries, could be tempered by European economic trade and energy interests. Our ratings on Russia continue to be supported by its relatively strong external and government balance sheets. The ratings remain constrained by structural weaknesses in Russia's economy, in particular the strong dependence on hydrocarbons and other commodities. Further constraints are what we view as comparatively weak governance and economic institutions that impede the economy's competitiveness, investment climate, and business environment.The Russian government's finances continue to be buoyed by strong commodity revenues, particularly from oil. These account for almost one-half of the government's budget revenues, but also leave it exposed to swings in commodity prices. To mitigate this vulnerability, the government has instituted a fiscal rule from 2013, which caps government expenditure based on long-term historical oil prices. This fiscal rule is designed to lead to the accumulation of assets in times of high oil prices, and to the drawing on fiscal assets in times of low oil prices, reducing the procyclicality of fiscal policy. In our view, the government's commitment to this fiscal rule will likely be significantly tested by the recent further deterioration in growth prospects, while off-budget measures to support additional spending could also increase. We estimate Russia's 2013 general government budget to have recorded a deficit of 0.6% of GDP. Based on our expectation that commodity revenues will decline slightly on the back of a slightly weaker oil price (falling to $95 by 2015), we think the general government deficit will gradually worsen, reaching 1.5% of GDP by 2016, just outside the level targeted by the fiscal rule, and implying an average annual change in general government debt of 1.5% of GDP over 2013-2016. Russia's aging population will be a source of considerable medium- to long-term fiscal pressure. In a no-policy-change scenario, we expect the aging of the population to add more than 10% of GDP to government spending by 2050 compared with 2010 levels. While the government has been adjusting pension system parameters, it has so far shied away from more decisively tackling the issue. We now estimate the Russian government to be in a marginal net debtor position due to revised data on the outstanding stock of gross general government debt. Nevertheless, low levels of gross debt imply low general government interest payments at about 2% of revenues during 2014-2016.Commodity exports are also behind Russia's persistent current account surpluses, resulting in a net external asset position of about 4% of GDP in 2014. Measured in terms of narrow net external debt, that is, external debt minus liquid external assets held by the public and banking sector, we expect Russia to be in a small net external creditor position. This strong external asset position has been declining since reaching a peak of 34% in 2009. We note, however, that due to consistently negative errors and omissions in Russia's balance of payments (averaging almost $8 billion annually, or 1.5% of CAR in 2007 to 2013) the reported net asset position is considerably lower than implied by the large current account surpluses. We expect the current account surpluses to disappear by 2015, owing to imports rising faster than exports. Further ruble weakness could weigh on imports and keep current account deficits from occurring a little later, but we believe the longer-term trend of a weakening current account will remain in place even so. Gross external financing needs (current account payments plus short-term external debt by remaining maturity) will amount to 70% of CARs and usable reserves in 2014, in our view. Dependence on commodity exports results in terms-of-trade volatility, although past experience has shown that imports tend to adjust strongly, offsetting part of a commodity price-induced drop in export revenue.Russia's political institutions remain comparatively weak and political power is highly centralized. Protesters, opposition members, nongovernmental organizations, and liberal members of the political establishment have come under increasing pressure. We do not expect the government to decisively and effectively tackle the long-standing structural obstacles to stronger economic growth over our forecast horizon (2014-2017). These obstacles include high perceived corruption, comparatively weak rule of law, the state's pervasive role in the economy, and a challenging business and investment climate.OUTLOOKThe negative outlook reflects our view that there is at least a one-in-three chance that we could reassess the risks to Russia's creditworthiness based on its deteriorating external profile and reduced monetary policy flexibility. As a result, we could lower our ratings on Russia within the next 24 months. Geopolitical reaction to Russia's incorporation of Crimea could further reduce the flow of potential investment and negatively affect already weak economic growth, which would provide a further basis for lowering the ratings. Similarly, we could equalize the local and foreign currency ratings on Russia if we were to view Russia's transition toward a more flexible exchange rate regime as having stalled. We could revise the outlook to stable if Russia's economy were to prove resilient to the current challenges, resulting in a return to a policy of a more flexible exchange rate, and if its external and fiscal buffers were to remain in line with our current expectations. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Grand Lodge of England, the founding building of Freemasonry in 1717.The Freemasons, a fraternal organization developed from the stonemasons, include more than 6 million members worldwide. Despite nearing 300 years of activity, the Freemasons remain mysterious, with many of their records destroyed naturally by time. But a few member lists survived — and they name some of the most influential people throughout history. Anyone can petition to become a member, but prospects must put their faith in a Supreme Being. The members believe in "truth, tolerance, respect, and freedom." Once limited to white men, now any nationality or race can join. However, African-American freemaons have split into their own sect called the Prince Hall Freemasons. And women technically still can't join, but many modern lodges allow them. Although somewhat secret, most scholars agree the hierarchy of Freemasonry includes 33 degrees. Freemasons begin as Entered Apprentices and can work their way all the way to Sovereign Grand Inspector General. We listed 17 members, living and dead, who took the solemn vow. Eric Goldschein contributed research to this article. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Andrew BurtonBy David Sheppard LONDON (Reuters) - JPMorgan &lt;JPM.N&gt; commodity chief Blythe Masters laid out an ambitious plan four years ago to become the top Wall Street bank in energy and metals trading. Last year Masters achieved that goal, a closely watched report said on Thursday, the day after the bank announced the sale of the giant physical commodities operation she had assembled. UK analytics firm Coalition's annual sector league table showed JPMorgan had the largest revenues of any investment bank in commodities last year, leapfrogging last year's winner Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;, which was second ahead of Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;. For Masters it is something of a Pyrrhic victory, with the rump of the business she built now going to Swiss commodities trader Mercuria in a $3.5 billion deal. The bank announced it was selling its physical commodities business last summer in the face of unprecedented political and regulatory pressure after a $410 million settlement with U.S. regulators over allegations of power market manipulation. {ID:nL4N0FW4G7] Other pressures also contributed to the decision. Total commodity trading revenues on Wall Street have fallen by about two-thirds in the last five years, with the top 10 banks notching just $4.5 billion last year, according to an earlier report by Coalition. That is down from more than $14 billion at its peak in 2008, when the bumper returns earned by sector stalwarts Goldman and Morgan Stanley encouraged many other banks to expand into energy and metals trading. While JPMorgan was a relative late comer to large-scale commodities dealing, Masters was the architect of a multi-billion dollar expansion plan that saw the bank buy or absorb oil, electricity and metals desks from firms such as Bear Stearns, UBS, and RBS Sempra. By August 2010, Masters was telling employees that Goldman and Morgan Stanley should be "scared" of JPMorgan's newly-expanded commodity operation, Bloomberg reported. "They'd better be, because this is a platform that's going to win," Masters said. JPMorgan's own internal review of the business last year concluded the returns from commodities weren't worth the capital or regulatory risks. A source close to the bank said on Thursday it was too early to say what the future held for Masters, adding that she and her management team had been primarily focused on achieving the sale. "Our goal from the outset was to find a buyer that was interested in preserving the value of JPMorgan's physical business," Masters said of the sale to Mercuria on Wednesday. The Coalition league tables ranked BNP Paribas &lt;BNPP.PA&gt;, Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; as the second tier of commodity banks, followed by a third tier filled by Citi &lt;C.N&gt;, Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;BAC.N&gt;, UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; and Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt;. Coalition does not rank the banks individually outside of the top three. (Reporting by David Sheppard; Editing by Anthony Barker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers assemble built-in appliances at the Whirlpool manufacturing plant in ClevelandBy Lewis Krauskopf (Reuters) - Energy-intensive manufacturing employment will increase by more than 1 percent a year in the United States through 2020, with 72 percent of those jobs going to metropolitan areas, according to a report released on Thursday. The U.S. Conference of Mayors report on the economic impact of the domestic oil and natural gas boom said manufacturing employment in metropolitan areas has expanded by 1.7 percent per year on average over the past three years. It said energy-intensive industries such as fabricated metals and machinery were crucial parts of that growth. Energy-intensive manufacturing sectors added more than 196,000 jobs in metro areas from 2010 to 2012, according to the report, which was prepared by IHS Global Insight. "We're all aware of the incredible impact the energy revolution is having on our national economy," Virg Bernero, mayor of Lansing, Mich., and chair of the conference's advanced manufacturing task force, told reporters on a conference call. "The growing competitiveness and increase in employment from these manufacturing sectors are important to our cities and metro economies." Manufacturing industries including steel, iron, fabricated metals and machinery have benefited from the natural gas boom, the report said. In U.S. metropolitan areas, employment in those industries all increased by 9 or 10 percent between 2010 and 2012, according to the report. Speaking on the call, Waterbury, Conn., Mayor Neil O'Leary said savings from cheaper natural gas has helped manufacturers in Connecticut fund retraining programs. "All that equates to jobs," O'Leary said. Environmental activists and some U.S. communities have criticized the removal of natural gas from shale in the ground using a process known as fracking, saying it pollutes groundwater and causes other problems. Bernero said that, to his knowledge, the conference had no official policy on fracking. (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFigures in a cortege, from a wall mural in the Tang Dynasty Chinese tomb of Li Xian.Ever since China's new leadership took the helm in November 2012, they have been pushing through economic reforms rather aggressively. These reforms have not been without pain. They have, in part, contributed to slower economic growth, and to a rise in defaults. So, why have policymakers traded high growth for slower growth? What would happen if China abstained from any reforms? What if Beijing didn't try to curb lending, or shadow banking? More liquidity and would probably lead to continued inefficient allocation of resources. It's likely that the property market would swell, China's excess capacity would worsen, and money would generally go into projects that were basically intended to drive GDP. Societe Generale, Wei YaoBanks can continue to roll over debt and continue to finance new projects with increasing amounts of credit. While this would stave off any pain for the moment, it would push the problems further down the road and risk exacerbating them. In recent years we've noticed that credit growth has far outpaced economic growth, prompting Societe Generale's Wei Yao to ask where all the money has gone. According to Yao, China is facing its own Minsky moment where periods of speculation and credit growth inflate assets can only to lead to a crisis.  Runaway credit train In a Bloomberg View column, Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, wrote that "China’s leaders are riding a runaway train that they don’t quite know how to stop. And they’re running out of track." And when this does go sour, its effect will be felt beyond China. "China’s credit-fueled investment boom has been a driver of metals prices and machinery exports," wrote Chovanec. "China has become the world’s largest automobile market, its largest oil importer, and its largest buyer of gold. Although foreign banks have relatively little direct exposure to Chinese financial markets, capital flows into and out of the mainland are potentially large enough to have a significant impact on asset classes not normally associated with China. A financial train wreck would send tremors through global markets." The result "Japan’s debt didn’t start to rise at a similar speed until the mid-1980s," wrote Lombard Street Research's Diana Choyleva. "China’s debt has surged sooner because its economy is much bigger than Japan’s was." She said that debt has grown much faster in the past five years than it did in Japan during the same stage of development. And the rate of debt increase is "as important, if not more important, in precipitating a crisis than the absolute level of debt." Lombard Street Research "The world is just not big enough to let China continue to increase its income per capita and waste its savings on a vast scale for years to come," she said. "The financial crisis was the beginning of the end of China’s export and investment-led growth model." Choyleva warns that China's burgeoning debt has made it, so that its "Bear Stearns moment" may strike at any time. This would basically change the market's perception of inherent credit risk in the Chinese economy and cause a liquidity crunch. If China were to "mop up the mess while still wasting capital, it could be only two to three years before a major financial crisis hits the economy." Alaistair Chan, of Moody's, told Business Insider that if China fails  to push through reforms, "the end result would be that the economy stagnates in a middle-income trap." "Zero reform would mean that productivity growth would continue coming entirely from adding more capital to labour, rather than from improved efficiency. This method of growth is already hitting diminishing returns and if it continues then China’s potential growth rate would fall sharply." If reforms aren't pushed through, Standard Chartered's Stephen Green thinks inequality and corruption will rise as growth slows and it would leave China vulnerable to foreign and domestic shocks. "At the same time, more money and talent would leave for sunnier and clearer skies. Its not a pleasant thought – and the sense of crisis, and the need to avoid such a future, is partly what's driving Beijing these days." Not everyone is as gloomy. Chan says "it should be noted that this won’t necessarily result in a financial crisis or hard landing because if productivity is slow then the government won’t need to pile on much debt/investment to boost employment." Yao is far more blunt on the subject. In the absence of reforms, "China could potentially face its own lost decade." FREE AppDownload
Stocks are getting a lift this afternoon as the U.S. and Russia levy financial sanctions against each other. The S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1872, up 0.6% from Wednesday's closing levels and above Tuesday's closing levels. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading unchanged at 2.77%. The U.S. dollar is advancing against the Japanese yen and is up against the euro as well, but gains against the latter are fading. Most European equity indices (save for the London FTSE 100 and Spain's IBEX 35) closed positive after spending the majority of the session in the red. Most of the gains in stocks today came in the first few minutes following the release of better-than-expected data from the Philly Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey — a gauge of regional manufacturing conditions — at 10 AM ET. Geopolitical headlines have been crossing newswires as U.S. President Obama announced widened financial sanctions against Russian elites, and Russia responded by sanctioning several high-ranking members of the U.S. congress. The charts below show price action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
WartskiLONDON (Reuters) - When a scrap metal dealer from U.S. Midwest bought a golden ornament at a junk market, it never crossed his mind that he was the owner of a $20 million Faberge egg hailing from the court of imperial Russia. In a mystery fit for the tumultuous history of Russia's ostentatious elite, the 8-cm (3-inch) golden egg was spirited out of St Petersburg after the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution and then disappeared for decades in the United States. An unidentified man in the United States spotted the egg while searching for scrap gold and purchased it for $14,000, hoping to make a fast buck by selling it to the melting pot. But there were no takers because he had overestimated the value of the watch and gems tucked inside the egg. In desperation, the man searched the Internet and then realized he might have the egg that Russian Tsar Alexander III had given to his wife, Maria Feodorovna, for Easter in 1887. When the scrap metal man approached London's Wartski antiques dealer, he was in shock. "His mouth was dry with fear - he just couldn't talk. A man in jeans, trainers and a plaid shirt handed me pictures of the lost Imperial egg. I knew it was genuine," Kieran McCarthy, director of the Wartski antique dealer, told Reuters. "He was completely beside himself - he just couldn't believe the treasure that he had," said McCarthy, who then traveled to a small town in the U.S. Midwest to inspect the reeded yellow golden egg in the man's kitchen. Wartski acquired the egg for an unidentified private collector. McCarthy said he could not reveal the identity of the man who found the egg, its sale price or the collector, though he did say that the collector was not Russian. Reuters was unable to verify the story without the identities of those involved and when questioned whether the story was perhaps too fantastic to be true, McCarthy said: "We are antique dealers so we doubt everything but this story is so wonderful you couldn't really make it up - it is beyond fiction and in the legends of antique dealing, there is nothing quite like this." Rich Russians, who before the revolution once dazzled European aristocracy with their extravagance, have since the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union returned to stun the West by snapping up treasures, real estate and even football clubs. Wartski Metals tycoon Viktor Vekselberg bought a collection of Imperial Faberge Easter Eggs for $90 million from the Forbes family in 2004. The eggs were brought back to Moscow and put on exhibition in the Kremlin. A Russian businessman with a passion for Tsarist treasures, Alexander Ivanov, said he was behind the $18.5 million purchase of a Faberge egg in London in 2007. Peter Carl Faberge's lavish eggs have graced myths ever since they were created for the Russian Tsars: Only royalty and billionaires can ever hope to collect them. Current owners include Queen Elizabeth and the Kremlin. Tsar Alexander III asked Faberge to make one egg a year until his son, the next Tsar Nicholas II, ordered him to make two a year - one for his wife and one for his mother. The tradition ended in 1917 when Nicholas was forced to abdicate and he and his family were executed by the Bolsheviks. As Russia's rich rushed to the exits, treasures were sold off under Vladimir Lenin and his successor Josef Stalin as part of a policy known as "Treasures into Tractors". The mystery golden egg, which opens to reveal a Vacheron Constantin watch set with diamond set gold hands, was last recorded in Russia in 1922, two years before Lenin's death. It will go on display in London next month. "It is nothing but wonderment and miracle - a miracle that the egg survived," said McCarthy. "The treasure had sailed through various American owners and dangerously close to the melting pot." Peter Carl Faberge made some 50 imperial eggs for the Russian Tsars from 1885 to 1916. Forty-two have survived, according to Faberge. Some others were made for merchants. (Editing by Mark Heinrich) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovWBC heavyweight Vitali Klitschko of Ukraine poses.Tensions are high on the Ukraine-Russia border. The forecast for the region include economic sanctions against Russia and an escalating Russian military intervention into Ukraine. Investors who don't care for this uncertainty would probably rather stay out of the region altogether. "[T]he worst case scenario that Russia becomes uninvestible (capital controls, such as in Malaysia in 1998, and even the expropriation of foreign owned assets in Russia) with Russia kicked out of MSCI GEMs cannot be entirely ruled out," warned UBS's Geoff Dennis. It's not just Russian and Ukrainian stocks that investors should be concerned about. There are also the foreign names with exposure in those regions. "The stocks most exposed to Ukraine or Russia include Carlsberg, Nokia Renkaat, BASF, OTP Bank, Raiffeisen," noted Citi's Robert Buckland in a recent note to clients. Here's a table of names Buckland identified. Citi FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonThere's no shortage of data out there to convince you that low-cost index funds are the best options for long-term investors. S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices just published its scorecard of S&amp;P indices versus active funds (SPIVA). Active funds are the funds that attempt to offer some sort of superior return relative to some benchmark. "According to the figures, 55.8% of large-cap managers and 68.09% of small-cap managers underperformed the benchmarks over the past 12 months ending Dec. 31, 2013," said Aye Soe, director of index research and design. "The picture is equally unfavorable when reviewing the performance over the longer-term three- and five-year investment horizons. The results show that the majority of the active managers across all the domestic equities categories failed to deliver returns higher than their respective benchmarks." Below is a table from S&amp;P showing 18 categories of funds. For some categories, more than half of the funds seem to be able to pull-off better returns over short periods. But as you can see in the red box, there's no category in which more than half of the funds have beaten the index over a five year period. "There is nothing novel about the index versus active debate," said Soe. "It has been a contentious subject for decades, and there are a few strong believers on both sides, with the vast majority of investors falling somewhere in between." S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
Julia LaRoche, Linette Lopez, Business InsiderIn the 1970s, New York City was on the decline. Crime was up, graffiti was everywhere, and the city was broke. To figure out how to solve these problems, then Loews Corporation CEO Bob Tisch invited business leaders for breakfast at the Tisch family's hotel, the Loews Regency. That's how New York's most famous Power Breakfast was born. The tradition lives on today with the biggest names in business, finance, and politics dining there each day. Last year, Loews Regency's entire dining room and lobby were redone to give it a new feel. We had breakfast there Thursday morning. The updated place has a more modern and sleeker appearance compared to the old red velvet booths.  You can still expect to pay a fortune for eggs, toast, and coffee, though. That hasn't changed.  FREE AppDownload
Nina MatthewsNobel laureate and Yale economics professor Robert Shiller has pretty much captured the economic zeitgeist in a new post on Project Syndicate.  On a recent speaking tour of Japan, he writes, he was struck by the message of aggressive action to revive the economy that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been doubling down on since he took office in 2012. "He inspires confidence," Shiller says. "I felt it immediately." But that kind of narrative has been lacking in the rest of the world. Specifically, political leaders have failed to incorporate the parts of the economy that have been doing well — mainly tech — into a tangible case that the future will be better. Shiller's words are striking:  To understand why economic recovery (if not that of the stock market) has remained so weak since 2009, we need to identify which stories have been affecting popular psychology. One example is the rapid advance in smartphones and tablet computers. Apple’s iPhone was launched in 2007, and Google’s Android phones in 2008, just as the crisis was beginning, but most of their growth has been since then. Apple’s iPad was launched in 2010. Since then, these products have entered almost everyone’s consciousness; we see people using them everywhere – on the street and in hotel lobbies, restaurants, and airports. This ought to be a confidence-boosting story: amazing technologies are emerging, sales are booming, and entrepreneurship is alive and very well. But the confidence-boosting effect of the earlier real-estate boom was far more powerful, because it resonated directly with many more people. This time, in fact, the smartphone/tablet story is associated with a sense of foreboding, for the wealth that these devices generate seems to be concentrated among a tiny number of tech entrepreneurs who probably live in a faraway country. These stories awaken our fears of being overtaken by others on the economic ladder. And now that our phones talk to us (Apple launched Siri, the artificial voice that answers your spoken questions, on its iPhones in 2010), they fuel dread that they can replace us, just as earlier waves of automation rendered much human capital obsolete. This is important stuff. Shiller doesn't call out any one leader by name, and admits shaping upbeat narratives can be difficult. But he says those in a position to do so should be making much stronger attempts. FREE AppDownload
The NYSE TICK index measures the number of stocks trading on an uptick minus the number of stocks trading on a downtick at any given time. Yesterday afternoon, during her inaugural FOMC press conference, Janet Yellen sent the TICK index to its lowest level since the height of the European debt crisis in November 2011. At 3:09 PM ET, the index registered a -1706 reading as a wide range of issues moved lower. "Historically, extreme low readings in the TICK have been bullish looking forward, as it indicates capitulatory action," says Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners. In a note to clients, Krinsky examines stock market performance subsequent to other extreme low readings seen in recent years. "Consider that as of yesterday over 80% of S&amp;P 500 components were above their 200-day moving average," he writes. "Of the 25 lowest TICK readings over the last 10 years, only TWO have occurred with more than 80% of S&amp;P 500 components above their 200-day moving average. One was yesterday, and the other was June 19th, 2013. Interestingly, while returns 20 and 30 days out were bullish following that reading last June, returns during the initial ten days did see further selling. We think given the current structure of the market, that is a more likely scenario. (i.e. short-term weakness, followed by a potential rally)."  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThousands rally in support of charter schools outside the Capitol in Albany, N.Y., on Tuesday, March 4, 2014. (AP Photo/Tim Roske)Editor's note: The authors are Maceo Marquez and Jessica Toonkel, and their daughter Elena Marquez is a first grader at Success Academy Cobble Hill. Last month, Mayor Bill de Blasio— who received the teachers union endorsement during his mayoral campaign—revoked plans to open three new Success Academy charter schools. The Success schools were supposed to co-locate in public school buildings rent-free. The plans had been approved toward the end of Mayor Michael Bloomberg's administration. Eva Moskovitz, a former NYC Councilwoman and the CEO of Success Academy, called it the "saddest day" in the charter school network's history. Shortly after, thousands of parents descended upon Albany to protest the decision. Governor Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, threw his support behind the charter schools and their parents and students. Today, parents of students at Success Academy's Harlem Central have filed a lawsuit against New York City to reverse de Blasio's decision, Bloomberg News reported. __________________________________ As lifelong liberals, and one of us the child of teachers, we have historically been suspicious of charter schools.  But now we find ourselves spending a lot of our free time defending the existence of these institutions or worrying what will happen if Mayor de Blasio gets his way and forces these schools to shut down. Our daughter was one of the first kindergartners at Success Academy Cobble Hill when it opened its doors last year. We got in after months of being on the waiting list. People warned us to hold out, as the United Federation of Teachers would be suing the school to prevent it from opening (consider that for a moment). We watched our friends and neighbors withdraw their children before the school even opened in the flurry of anxiety created by the suit. As others left, our daughter slowly rose to the top of the waiting list and was accepted. The results have spoken for themselves: our daughter reads above grade level, she is a focused and diligent scholar with a love and aptitude for academics (at Success Academy, they use the term "scholars," not students). She plays chess at six! Most importantly, we see a lifelong learner, a child who writes in her diary nightly and who picks math books out of free bins so she can do the exercises in her free time. She wants to be a Cheetah veterinarian. As far as we’re concerned, the only reason these charter schools are controversial is because the teachers are non-union.  The mayor, after winning the endorsement of the teachers union in last November’s election, has now set his sights on making it difficult, if not impossible, for Success Academy and other schools like it to continue to grow. He is pushing for the closure of one Success school in Harlem, Success Academy Harlem Central Middle School, which incidentally was one of the best performing schools in the state last year. Unless he creates more receptive policies for public charter schools to co-locate in public school buildings, schools like ours may not be able to enroll new students in coming years. That means our daughter would have no comparable middle school to attend. We absolutely believe that teachers deserve reasonable protections that allow them to concentrate on their work with administrative and contractual support.  However, the union contract is hundreds of pages long, and the herculean effort required to fire a bad teacher is, unfortunately, well known to parents and administrators alike. And we believe in unions. One of us is a member of a union and has witnessed firsthand the benefits of that kind of protection. However, there have to be limits. And there needs to be accountability. Public charter schools are accountable to parents. They offer a choice, which is especially needed in neighborhoods in Harlem and Bed-Stuy and the South Bronx where traditional public schools are tragically failing children. Choice is also wanted in neighborhoods where parents might simply be seeking an alternative. Access to a great school should not depend on zip code, or income level, or a parent's own education level. All New York City children should have what our daughter has — a great school with well-trained, engaging teachers and a strong caring community. It's no surprise that 11,000 parents traveled to Albany to make their voices heard about their children's futures. It's just a shame that our city leaders couldn't be more supportive of these parents. Why would a Mayor choose, as one of his first actions in office, to close down a top school serving primarily low-income families? Why is he attempting to undo the work of dedicated teachers who put in over 50-hour weeks,  to deliver an excellent education to city kids with few choices? This is the question that all families and taxpayers should be asking. FREE AppDownload
The Philadelphia Fed's March business and manufacturing survey came in at 9.0. Consensus was for a reading of 3.2, up from -6.3 last month. The employment index remained positive for the ninth consecutive month but edged 3 points lower. Nearly 49% of firms asked about expectations for capital spending for 2014 compared with 2013 said they planned to increases, compared with 21% saying it would decrease. "Expected high sales growth and the need to replace equipment were the most cited reasons for the increase," the Fed said in a statement. "Among the firms that did not plan to increase capital spending, the most cited reasons were low sales growth, low capacity utilization, and a limited need to replace capital and technology equipment."   Here's the updated chart: Philadelphia Fed FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales were down 0.4% on the month to an annualized pace of 4.60 million units. This was right in line with expectations. February's pace of sales was the lowest since July 2012. This compares with a 5.1% fall to 4.62 million units in January. The severe winter has weighed on housing data. The median price for existing homes was up 9.1% from a year ago to $189,000. "We had ongoing unusual weather disruptions across much of the country last month, with the continuing frictions of constrained inventory, restrictive mortgage lending standards and housing affordability less favorable than a year ago," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. He does however think as the job market improves and delayed transactions get resolved home sales should pick up modestly through this year. "The underlying trend in existing home sales was clearly downwards long before the severe weather set in, but it seems reasonable to think that at least some of the drop in the past three months reflects the severe winter and will reverse," according to Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Whether that will be enough to generate an increase in activity is another question, though, given that mortgage demand continues to fall." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: Pending home sales, considered a leading indicator for future existing home sales, finally ticked up modestly in January but had been down for some time. FREE AppDownload
APCameron and Tyler Winklevoss were supposed to launch the first-ever publicly traded Bitcoin ETF.  They are now likely to be lapped by Barry Silbert's SecondMarket. The firm, whose Bitcoin Investment Trust (BIT) is already the largest regulated private Bitcoin investment fund in the world, has begun taking steps to open their own publicly traded, over-the-counter Bitcoin ETF, with a projected launch date of Q4 2014. Because the BIT already complies with FINRA statutes, it will be able to file to open the exchange on a much more accelerated timeline than the Winklevosses, Silbert told BI Thursday. "The plan all along was to move the [Bitcoin Investment Trust] into the public market in a similar way to the Winklevosses," he said. "But we've learned the route they're taking takes many years to get approved, and there's a high level of uncertainty when it will get done. [SecondMarket's process] does not require SEC approval." The Winklevosses did not respond to a request for comment. Once online, anyone with a mainstream trading platform, like e-Trade or TD Ameritrade, will be able to buy shares in the fund, which is billed as a safe, regulated means for getting exposure to Bitcoin. Existing BIT customers who've had an account for at least 12 months will also automatically qualify.   The long-term goal, Silbert says, is to get the fund on NASDAQ or NYSE, though he says that will likely not come for awhile. Silbert is one of the most successful Bitcoin evangelist, and admits he's playing a long game. He does not expect an immediate rush into the shares, given Bitcoin's ongoing dramatic price fluctuations. But he says ETFs are key to tamping down those swings. "I think we're going to see volatility for the foreseeable future, given the fragmented nature of exchange markets and the low levels of liquidity," he said. "Large purchaser sale orders can still move the market. I do think vehicles like this will help to reduce it, it will be bringing in larger sums of money, which will ultimately reduce supply of Bitcoin subject to volatility. [SecondMarket's] vehicle will not in itself help, but it will help as more vehicles do hit the market." Bitcoin prices were at $592 this morning according to Coindesk. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBill and Melinda GatesSpeaking yesterday at the TED 2014 conference in Vancouver, British Columbia, Bill and Melinda Gates gave a revealing answer to a question about how they're raising their kids when it comes to money, reports Wired. The couple has enough money to make each of their three children billionaires if they want to do so, but as they answered, that's not the plan. "We want to strike a balance so they have the freedom to do anything, but not sort of a lot of money showered on them so that they can go out and do nothing," said Bill Gates. "They need to have a sense that their own work is meaningful and important." Wired calls it the "anti-Paris Hilton approach." The Gateses came to this attitude on child rearing after reading an article by Warren Buffet before they were even married. The takeaway from it was that you don't do your children any favors when you make them instantly rich. While it's unclear which article they read, you can read this recent interview with Mr. Buffett that delves extensively into "Buffett family values," which he describes this way: Our kids had a very normal growing-up. I mean, they’ve only and I’ve only lived in one primary house that I’ve owned in my life, and I bought that in 1958. So they did not see us moving into progressively fancier houses; they did not ride in private planes. They went to school on the bus. Every member of the Buffett family in Omaha has gone to a public school. They went to the same school that their mother had gone to. They went to the same high school that she’d gone to.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers walk past Caterpillar excavator machines at a factory in Gosselies(Reuters) - Caterpillar Inc has a long tradition of proudly - and publicly - proclaiming how much it loves its dealers. In recent years, the Peoria, Illinois-based company has called the 178 independently owned businesses that distribute its earth-moving products worldwide everything from "a critical competitive differentiator" to "the foundation" of its success. Now the world's largest maker of construction and mining equipment is adopting a cooler tone with those dealers, asking them: "What have you done for us lately?" Caterpillar believes its distributors are missing out on somewhere between $9 billion and $18 billion in easy-to-capture revenue each year because they are falling down in at least three ways. They are not tapping into the wealth of real-time customer data now at their fingertips; they are not communicating with each other; and they are not providing customers across the globe with a consistent experience when it comes to everything from e-commerce to parts and services pricing. So Caterpillar, which is in a hunt for new revenue because of weakness in key markets, is giving dealers until the end of the year to come up with a three-year plan to capture those lost sales. Distributors who fail to meet their targets could have their dealership agreements terminated, though top executives insist a cull of dealers probably won't be needed. "That would be the last resort, the last outcome and certainly not desirable," says Chief Executive Officer Doug Oberhelman. Like its rivals, Caterpillar has integrated all kinds of diagnostic technology into its machines that throws off a torrent of real-time information about the health of the products. The data helps owners track their equipment, optimize its utilization and manage fuel and maintenance costs. Better exploited by the dealers, the information could immediately increase part and service sales to existing customers, Caterpillar says. Dealers could anticipate problems, schedule preventive and predictive maintenance and help customers manage their equipment fleets more efficiently. The company says its best dealers already do that pretty decently and have, in the words of Stu Levenick, the group president in charge of dealer relations, "an awareness of about 90 percent of their parts demand by customer, have it very well segmented and understand where 90 percent of the opportunity exists." Many more dealers are missing out. "The average dealer, or lower-performing dealer, he only knows 40 percent of his opportunity," Levenick says. "And we demonstrated that if we just take the best practices of the first group and apply it to the other group, they automatically get a 6 to 8 percent aftermarket share improvement ... just by doing something obvious. But they haven't done it because we haven't directed them to do it or helped them to do it." BYPASSING BILLIONS IN SALES Caterpillar is the latest company to see big dollars in so-called Big Data. There are, by its reckoning, more than 3.5 million pieces of Caterpillar equipment in the field, many of them fitted with sensors that send out continual status updates about important mechanical systems and operator performance. Caterpillar believes dealers could be billing for billions of dollars more each year if they did a better job of thinking of those machines as smart digital devices, constantly pinging them with sales and service opportunities - not just dumb pieces of iron. The push, code-named Across the Table, was unveiled last month at a private meeting of distributors and made public earlier this month at an analyst meeting in Las Vegas. Company executives say dealers are missing out on additional billions in sales by not coordinating better with one another and not offering consistent e-commerce solutions to customers who, in many cases, work with more than one Caterpillar dealer across the globe. "Customer expectations have changed," says Levenick, who is in charge of the initiative. "If they work with multiple dealers, they want to have a common experience wherever they go." Oberhelman says cooperation and communication among Caterpillar dealers often is "disjointed," especially when it comes to locating parts and serving customers. He cites the example of Australia, where the four dealers that have carved up the country - and Caterpillar itself, which sells a handful of specialized products directly to customers - operate dozens of supply depots whose order and inventory systems aren't meshed. "I don't know how many individual parts warehouses there must be among four dealers and ours," Oberhelman says. "But it's probably over 100. And we don't really today … have those talk to each other. You need a part in Perth. Our warehouse in Melbourne may not have it, but it may not communicate with all the other places in Australia before we have to go overseas to get it." A big chunk of any incremental revenue the dealers pick up with the push would flow to Caterpillar, says Levenick. "It can't go to them without going to us." A SCRAMBLE FOR REVENUE Caterpillar is also challenging dealers to do a better job of navigating the sea change that's taken place in the construction machine market, where sales of equipment to rental companies now outnumber sales to contractors. That creates problems because the independent dealer model, which Caterpillar embraced shortly after its founding in the 1920s, "was never designed originally to handle the financial loads or the operational capabilities of running a rental organization," Levenick says. "If you look at a CAT dealer, they're not structured in a way that United Rentals is." Jason Marx, a director in the heavy-equipment practice of AlixPartners, an industry consulting group, says the rental business requires "a huge amount of working capital" and can divert money away from other parts of a dealer's business that might require some funding for growth. Oberhelman acknowledges the strain the switch to rental is putting on the company and its dealer network. "It moves the financial pressure from the customer to the dealer and ultimately up to us," he says. "And we just have to figure out how to deal with that." The push is not without risk. Caterpillar has long touted its independent dealers, whose 162,000 workers more than double its global headcount, as a key competitive advantage, especially in recent years as lower-priced Asian rivals with less robust dealer support networks rose up to challenge its supremacy in the construction equipment market. Messing with that could sour the special relationship that Caterpillar says has been critical to its success in remaining the world's No. 1 maker of construction and mining equipment. But the company is in a scramble for additional revenue. After peaking at $65.9 billion in 2012, sales plunged nearly 16 percent in 2013 as capital investment by the global mining industry tanked. The company has warned that sales could slip another 5 percent in 2014 in part because of the slow-motion recovery of the global construction market. Analysts say that hasn't completely derailed Caterpillar's goal of reaching $100 billion in annual revenues by 2020, but it has made the target a little harder to reach. Hence the focus on dealer performance, which Caterpillar says is a way to significantly lift sales even if construction and mining fundamentals don't improve dramatically anytime soon. Caterpillar is focused on nine or 10 dealer metrics, most of which it refuses to discuss with analysts or the media. That has made it difficult for investors to assess the likelihood the move will deliver the promised results. Ann Duignan, an analyst at JP Morgan, is among those who say they have more questions than answers about the dealer effort and remain dubious about the effect it will have on the company's top and bottom lines. "It's hard to assess accurately because they didn't give us enough detail," Duignan says. But in conversations about the program with Reuters, top executives have made it clear that dealers need to significantly increase the performance of their parts and service departments and to boost their share of the global parts and service market. A key gauge here is something Caterpillar calls "the absorption rate," which measures how long a dealership could keep its doors open if it never sold another piece of equipment and had to survive on the profits booked from servicing existing machines in its territory. If a dealer's gross profit from those parts and service sales can cover its total overhead and interest expenses for a year, the dealer is said to have a 100 percent absorption rate. For years, 100 percent was considered good enough. No more. Dealers' new absorption-rate goals will be different, but they have all been given until 2018 to improve performance. Leveraging the insights the embedded technology affords them is one way to get there. Even the best dealers in the network are being assigned new goals that Jim Parker, the owner of Carter Machinery, a Caterpillar dealership in Salem, Virginia, says "won't be a lay-up." Tapping into the technology already deployed on Caterpillar's machines could make their task a little easier. For years now, Caterpillar has been installing all kinds of cameras, sensors and satellite-based positioning control and guidance systems on its machines to help customers increase their productivity and efficiency and eliminate workplace accidents. Those electronic gadgets and the remote monitoring they make possible have created a huge opportunity for dealers to move beyond the equipment and parts and services sales and into the potentially much-more lucrative fleet-management business. Dealers already offer a tiered fleet-management program, which is marketed as CAT Equipment Management Solutions (EMS). Indeed a highlight of Caterpillar's exhibit at the recent ConExpo trade show in Las Vegas was a demonstration of how the system works for customers and dealers. Caterpillar wants dealers to move more customers into higher-levels of EMS, where dealers take over monitoring of the equipment and - at the highest level - actually take over the management of customers' fleets. The company has tried to increase dealer buy-in to the plan by asking 20 of its top-performing distributors - including Parker in Virginia - to help design its carrots and sticks. So far, Levenick says there has been little resistance to the basic goals. But Parker says talk of raising performance measures has prompted some nervousness among dealers. "We have a common set of metrics. You know what they are, and you know they're weighted. And that's how Caterpillar is going to judge every dealer. It's very, very black and white. It's about market share," he says. "But I know some dealers - because they're friends of mine - are saying, ‘I got some work to do.'" (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Chicago; Editing by Prudence Crowther) FREE AppDownload
ChinaFotoPress/ChinaFotoPress via Getty ImagesChinese workers process packages for Alibaba sales (among others). The hype surrounding the float of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba climbed one notch higher on Thursday, with one London-based spread better revealing expectations of an initial valuation reaching as much as $250 billion. A "grey market" for its shares has sprung up after the company announced on Sunday that it had decided to begin the process of an initial public offering (IPO) in the United States, ending months of speculation. This unofficial pre-market enables traders to place bets as to what level its market capitalization will close at after the first day of official trading. London-based spread better IG Markets told CNBC that the highest bid it had received for Alibaba's valuation had been $250 billion. It had received no sell orders. "It's IPO central around here at the moment," Brenda Kelly, a market strategist at the company told CNBC via telephone. A figure of that magnitude would mean Alibaba would emerge as the world's tenth-biggest company by market value, according to Reuters data. Kelly added that the heightened interest had been garnered by the previous listings of Facebook and Twitter, but said that its growth possibilities meant it could receive a lot more attention. "This is the grand daddy of them all, I reckon," she said. Alibaba, the e-commerce platform set up in 1999 by billionaire Jack Ma, is expected to use Twitter's November IPO as a barometer of investor appetite for technology shares. It comes as talk of a bubble in the tech sector resurfaces.  Twitter's sizzling debut raised around $2.1 billion and the firm ended its first day with a market capitalization of about $25 billion. This made it larger than more than half the companies in the S&amp;P 500. On Facebook's debut it sold 421.2 million shares to raise $16 billion, giving it a $104.2 billion market value. Expectations have been building for months, with bankers predicting an IPO that could raise up to $15 billion for Alibaba and value the company at more than $100 billion. A Reuters survey this week sees traders having a more optimistic view, with an average from 12 brokers giving an expected value of $141 billion. Alibaba serves millions of buyers and suppliers from more than 240 countries and regions, it says on its website, and is classed as a new technology heavyweight that could rival Amazon. On Thursday, messaging app Tango announced Alibaba had invested $215 million in the group. This gives the Chinese company a minority stake in a messaging service with over 200 million registered users and over 70 million active users. Garvis Toler, head of equity capital markets at Dealogic said that the size of Alibaba's IPO would be "major" and would give underwriting fees of roughly $400 million to the banks involved. "(This) is the fourth largest on record for a U.S.-listed IPO," he told CNBC, regarding the underwriting fees. FREE AppDownload
TBIInitial unemployment claims climbed to 320,000 during the week ending March 15 from 315,000 the week prior. This was a bit lower than the 322,000 expected. The 4-week moving average slipped to 327,000 from 330,500. "The smaller than expected increase in claims is particularly positive for March nonfarm payroll prospects," said TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg. "Despite the increase in claims this week, we expect initial claims in the 315K-335K range to remain consistent with monthly payroll reports in the 175K-225K range, suggesting that labor market momentum should improve more notably as negative weather effects begin to abate in the spring." Continuing claims climbed to 2.889 million from 2.848 million. "We look for the continuing claims series to continue drifting lower in the coming weeks – consistent with recent declines in the unemployment rate," said Goldberg. However, Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson cautions against jumping to conclusions. "Realistically, though, it takes a couple of months properly to establish a shift in the trend in these volatile numbers, and with potential seasonal adjustment distortions likely as a result of the late Easter this year, we are not yet going to call these data definitive evidence of anything," said Shepherdson. "But we'd always rather see claims falling than rising." Pantheoan Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
There are lots of valuation models, but It’s easy to see that when the US became the sole superpower during the 1980s and 1990s, the P/E trended higher. During the previous decade, the US increasingly lost some its international stature, and the P/E trended downwards. The jury is out on where we go from here now that the P/E is the highest since June 2007. It may very well depend on geopolitical factors again. So far, the stock market doesn’t seem to be giving much if any weight to rising geopolitical risks. During the current bull market, valuations have been driven mostly by perceptions of financial risks. That’s understandable given the Trauma of 2008. The forward P/Es of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 rebounded dramatically at the start of the bull market as investors bet that the Fed’s ultra-easy monetary policy, FDIC guarantees for new bank debt, and the suspension of mark-to-market would end the financial crisis and revive the economy. They tumbled during the spring of 2010 as the Eurozone seemed to be heading for disintegration. They recovered over the rest of the year on hopes that wouldn’t happen. The P/Es plunged during the summer of 2011 on renewed fears of a Eurozone meltdown and on the downgrade of US Treasury debt. Since then, the forward P/Es of the S&amp;P 500/400/600 are up 46%, 43%, and 50% to 15.2, 17.4, and 19.2. In a melt-up scenario, they could go higher. Right now, uncertainty about Yellenomics and geopolitics might put a lid on them. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Yellenomics &amp; Geopolitics. (1) No fairy dust yesterday. (2) FOMC participants see 1% fed funds rate at end of 2015. (3) Yellen says ignore the “dot plot.” (4) Reconsidering “considerable time.” (5) From data dependent back to calendar based? (6) Giving Yellen a D for a failure to communicate. (7) Yellen’s dashboard. (8) How’s reset working out? (9) WH freezes Putin’s account. (10) Putin’s Cold War speech. (11) Geopolitics and valuation. (12) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerPro-Russian supporters walk after breaking into the territory of the naval headquarters in Sevastopol, March 19, 2014. Around a dozen Ukrainian servicemen, unarmed and in civilian clothes, walked out of the Ukrainian naval headquarters in the Crimean port of Sevastopol on Wednesday after it was taken over by pro-Russian forces, a Reuters witness said. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. FOMC dominating the discussion. Yesterday's FOMC meeting and inaugural press conference for new Fed chair Janet Yellen is setting the tone globally. "There is quite a bit of re-evaluation about just how hawkish the FOMC actually was, especially regarding Yellen’s off-hand remark that 'considerable period' represented six months or something like that," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "The sense we’re getting — and trust that we are very much in this camp and so risk talking up our own view — is that the Fed really didn’t change things too much at all and that the market’s reaction was more a case of positions and expectations for a bit more dovishness which didn’t materialize as opposed to being really more hawkish." The yuan continues to slide. The U.S. dollar-Chinese yuan exchange rate rose 0.6% to 6.2286, trading more than 1% higher than the PBoC's daily reference rate again on Thursday following a widening of the daily trading band to 2% over the weekend. The moves are likely being exacerbated by hedging needs related to structured products designed to appreciate on a rising yuan. "While some observers have placed a greater deal of emphasis on the 6.20 level as triggering large-scale losses on highly-leveraged investment instruments, our understanding is that it is more dynamic and the pressure has been increasing since 6.15," says Marc Chandler, head of global currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. Markets. Both S&amp;P 500 futures and U.S. Treasury futures are losing ground this morning in the wake of Wednesday's FOMC-induced sell-off. Eurodollar futures continue to slide as market participants price in a faster rate-hike path. European equity indices are sliding across the board, and Asian indices gave up more than 1% overnight. Gold and copper futures are both down more than 1% as well. Merkel on Russia. German chancellor Angela Merkel told the German parliament that "the EU summit today and tomorrow will make clear that we are ready at any time to introduce phase-3 measures if there is a worsening of the situation" between Ukraine and Russia, marking the latest comments from Western powers in the ongoing conflict. She also hinted that Russia may be expelled from the Group of Eight, saying, "As long as there is no political climate for an important format such as the G8, as is the case at the moment, the G8 no longer exists, neither does the summit nor the format as such." Japan flows. In the week through March 14, Japanese investors bought ¥143.1 billion of foreign bonds after selling ¥617.9 billion in the previous week, and sold ¥137.1 billion of foreign stocks, following sales of ¥92.2 billion the week before. Meanwhile, foreign investors were buyers of Japanese bonds to the tune of ¥482.6 billion after selling ¥267 billion in the previous week, and sellers of ¥1.09 trillion of Japanese stocks, following purchases amounting to ¥383.9 billion the week before. Initial claims. Weekly jobless claims figures are due out in the United States at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict initial claims rose to 322,000 in the week ended March 15 from 315,000 the week before. Continuing claims are expected to have risen to 2.88 million in the week ended March 8 from 2.86 million in the previous week. Philly Fed. At 10 AM, the Philadelphia Fed releases the results of its monthly Business Outlook Survey. The report's headline index is expected to rise to 3.2 from -6.3, marking an improvement in business conditions for regional manufacturers 0ver the last month following deterioration the month before. Existing home sales. Also out at 10 AM are monthly existing home sales data. Economists predict sales fell 0.4% in February to 4.60 million units at a seasonally-adjusted annualized pace after tumbling 5.1% to 4.62 million units annualized in January. TIPS auction. The U.S. Treasury will auction $13 billion of 10-year TIPS today. "The tremendous market volatility post-FOMC is adding much uncertainty to the $13 billion 10-year TIPS reopening," say Nomura interest rate strategists. "Prior to the Fed meeting we had thought demand could be decent for the 10-year TIPS supply, potentially from foreign accounts, while domestic investors should also embrace the liquidity event in their preference to own real, rather than nominal, yields. However, the massive real curve bear flattening after a hawkish Fed event should keep investors on a more cautious stance in bidding for $13 billion 10-year real duration." MH370. Investigators have a new lead on missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370. Australian authorities spotted two objects floating in the southern Indian Ocean off Australia via satellite imagery, and are looking into whether this may be possible debris from the missing plane. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA miner smokes a cigarette during a break at a coal mine in Changzhi, Shanxi province November 25, 2009. Goldman Sachs has become the latest bank to downgrade its gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast for China, noting the world's second largest economy faces a "bumpy road ahead." The bank lowered its 2014 forecast to 7.3 percent from 7.6 percent late Wednesday. It also cut its 2015 outlook to 7.6 percent from 7.8 percent. "Both trade and consumption - factors that we had expected to provide positive support to growth this year - disappointed in the first two months of 2014, relating to the anti-corruption efforts, which affected consumption, and the soft DM (developed market) recovery," economists led by Li Cui, managing director, China Macro Research at the bank wrote in a note. "The exit of overcapacity sectors, along with the emerging default cases in the related sectors, are negatively impacting growth in the near term but are necessary from a longer-term perspective by allowing proper signals to dampen wasteful investment," they added. A number of banks including Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML), Barclays and Nomura have lowered their growth projections for the mainland economy over the past week. (Read more: Fresh worries over China prompt slew of downgrades) Many economists believe the government will tolerate slightly lower growth than the official 7.5 percent target this year after Premier Li Keqiang said last week that there was some "flexibility" around the target. While Goldman forecasts 7.3 percent growth in the first quarter, it doesn't expect the economy to slow much further beyond this level for the remainder of the year. It sees growth at 7.5 percent, 7.3 percent and 7.2 percent for the second, third and fourth quarters, respectively. The bank argues that the drag on growth from the anti-corruption campaign to eliminate lavish spending by officials and pollution control measures will lessen in the coming quarters. Furthermore, it says easing in financial conditions and policy reforms - for example allowing more participation of private capital in previously restricted areas - could support the economy. Finally, it notes that a recovery in exports driven by demand out of developed economies will be a positive. "Downside risks include [a] muted global recovery, further drags of overcapacity sectors on investment, and a sharper-than-expected slowdown in property activities," Li said. (Read more: Default risks trigger fresh fears over China property crisis) "The main upside risks are a more-robust-than-expected policy easing and a bigger-than-expected near-term impact from supply-side reforms (such as the launch of the further opening up of state-owned enterprise sectors to private enterprises and a boost to low-end consumption from urbanization initiatives)," she added. Goldman says barring major further downside growth surprises or a significant policy shift, it does not expect a cut to the reserve requirement ratio (RRR) for banks. And it sees continued and gradual deceleration of money and credit growth. (Read more: China central bank ready to act if growth falters) Expectations of monetary easing have risen recently following reports that China's central bank is prepared to take its strongest action since 2012 to loosen policy if economic growth slows further. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBitcoins created by Mike Caldwell are seen in this photo illustration at his office in Sandy, UtahWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Companies have inquired in the past month about regulations that would govern exchanges for bitcoin derivatives, a top U.S. regulator said on Wednesday, a sign such virtual currencies could become a more mainstream financial product. Regulators have stepped up their efforts to rein in bitcoin after incidents such as the collapse of Mt. Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange that filed for bankruptcy after losing an estimated $650 million worth of customer bitcoins. The novelty of the technology has made it hard for regulators to categorize bitcoin, but trading derivatives such as futures or swaps would subject companies to oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. "Let me tell you, (if) they've got a derivatives contract, we have jurisdiction... and we should regulate it," Bart Chilton, a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission told Reuters in an interview. In the past 30 days, a number of companies requested information to see what the rules were for setting up a market place to trade bitcoin derivatives, Chilton said. "These are people that are inquiring about what they should do if they wanted to request (official) status," he said. He declined to name the companies, which have not officially filed any paperwork to get legal status, he said. Chilton is set to leave the commission on Friday after more than six years with the regulator. Unlike conventional money, bitcoin is generated by computers and is independent of control, or any backing, by a government or a central bank - something its proponents like, but that also makes it vulnerable to mishaps. New York state's top financial services regulator, Benjamin Lawsky, has been the most vocal about regulating bitcoin, saying last week that he wants prospective virtual currency exchange operators to submit formal applications. The CFTC, which regulates futures and swaps, is also studying whether it should regulate the new electronic currencies, its head said last week. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christian HartmannFormer IMF head Dominique Strauss-KahnSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn plans to raise $2 billion in a macro hedge fund, his firm, LSK &amp; Partners, said on Thursday, as investors continue to back a low-risk and rapidly growing investment strategy. The venture marks Strauss-Kahn's first partnership with an asset manager for the DSK Global Investment Fund that will invest globally, Mohamad Zeidan, the firm's chief operating officer told Reuters. Strauss-Kahn will manage the fund with his daughter and economist, Vanessa Strauss-Kahn, and is currently on a trip to China to raise capital for the hedge fund from institutional investors and wealthy individuals. "China plays and will play a predominant role in this fund," Zeidan told Reuters in an interview in Shanghai, where he is promoting the fund. He said the fund is awaiting regulatory approval from Luxemburg before it can start raising the money. "We have met with the largest groups in each sector and I'm talking to the financial sector, insurance companies, bankers, financial groups, private and public," he added. China, home to some 643,000 millionaires in 2012, according to a Capgemini and RBC Wealth report, and large institutional investors, is seen as a major source of capital for alternative investments such as hedge funds and private equity funds. Institutions such as China Investment Corp, the country's sovereign wealth fund, as well as China's currency regulator and National Social Security Fund, have been actively seeking opportunities to diversify into alternative investments. Strauss-Kahn, who is the special economic adviser to the Serbian government, joined forces in 2013 with Thierry Leyne, a civil engineer and a member of the french society of financial analysts, to create LSK &amp; Partners. LSK &amp; Partners' Luxembourg-based hedge fund will rely on Strauss-Kahn's analysis of economic, financial and political events and other policy trends that affect market prices. Macro hedge funds focus on major economic trends and events and bet anywhere they see value, including stocks, bonds, currencies, commodities and derivatives markets. Such funds managed $166 billion at the end of February in the $2 trillion global hedge funds industry and raised $16.3 billion last year, data from Eurekahedge shows. (Reporting by Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Nishant Kumar and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAutignac, Hérault, France.Markets are down early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.6%. Germany's DAX is down 0.6%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.6%. This follows a volatile U.S. trading session on Wednesday when Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen suggested that an interest rate hike could come sooner than later. During the Q&amp;A of her FOMC press conference, Yellen attempted to clarify what the Fed meant by the "considerable time" between the Fed's asset purchase program and the first increase in the federal funds rate. Yellen said "something in the order of six months." That's a bit earlier than what most were expecting. "Based on this assessment, if QE ends this fall then first rate hike could take place by the summer of 2015," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "It is hard to know if Yellen wanted the market (which has taken it hard on the chin following that particular remark) to start thinking of mid-2015 hike, but that is what was implied by her statement." Later today, the U.S. Labor Department will publish its latest weekly tally of initial jobless claims. This will be followed by the Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook index and existing home sales report. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn exterior view of the headquarters of SAC Capital Advisors, L.P. in Stamford, ConnecticutBy Svea Herbst-Bayliss BOSTON (Reuters) - Billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen hired a top Silicon Valley data analytics firm to keep closer tabs on his employees just months after his hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors pleaded guilty to insider trading charges. Palantir Technologies, a "big data" information intelligence firm that has worked for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency, will help strengthen the firm's compliance and surveillance teams, SAC President Tom Conheeney wrote to employees on Wednesday. "We have asked ourselves if there are ways to better detect improper activity and to create a clearer picture of the different types and sources of information that enter the firm," he said in the memo, which was seen by Reuters. SAC agreed to pay a $1.2 billion penalty and return all money to outside investors as part of a plea to settle criminal insider trading charges. Cohen was not accused of any wrongdoing but the U.S. government brought criminal and civil cases against 10 former SAC employees and said that insider trading was "pervasive" and "rampant" at the hedge fund. As SAC tries to move forward, with less capital and a tattered reputation, the firm has announced new oversight initiatives plus a name change all with the intention of continuing to invest. "We have been looking for a technological solution that will help us make sense of the disparate pieces of information we already have, to help us 'connect the dots'," he wrote. Palantir is coming on board only a few months after SAC Capital Advisors, once one of the world's biggest and most successful hedge funds with $14 billion in assets at the start of 2013, plead guilty to insider trading. The U.S. government had been investigating the firm for about a decade and unveiled its most recent case last week when the Securities and Exchange Commission brought a civil suit against Ronald Dennis. Dennis agreed to pay $200,000 and be banned from the securities industry to settle the charges. SAC's guilty plea in November essentially put the hedge fund out of business since the government forced SAC to return all outside clients' capital as part of the deal. Now the firm is transforming itself into a so-called family office which will manage only Cohen's personal fortune, estimated at $9 billion. To distance itself from the past, SAC plans to change its name to Point72 Asset Management next month. It will also hire a chief surveillance officer to monitor trading and has consolidated some of its units. "We will continue to look for other ways we can strengthen our surveillance efforts," Conheeney wrote in Wednesday's memo, adding "The steps I have outlined to you over the past several weeks show we are matching our words with actions." Cohen first considered hiring Palantir nine months ago when he invited the firm, run by former philosopher Alex Karp and backed by investor Peter Thiel, to "embed" a team in SAC's compliance and technology group, Conheeney wrote. SAC has also shrunk in size and now employs roughly 850, down from about 1,000 in early 2013. The firm shut down its London office, which prompted a string of employees to move to rival hedge fund BlueCrest, including Lia Forcina, who managed a portfolio of roughly $700 million. People familiar with the firm speculate that more employees may leave in the coming months. Most recently two managers quit to join Highbridge Capital. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSandy Roberts pours samples of Starbucks Reserve Sun Dried Ethiopia Yirgacheffe coffee during the company's annual shareholders meeting in SeattleSEATTLE (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp &lt;SBUX.O&gt; is wrestling with higher costs for milk and coffee, the two ingredients in its popular lattes, but that does not mean its customers are going to pay more. "I want to resist raising prices in this environment," Howard Schultz, Starbucks' chairman and chief executive, said, referring to still cautious spending by many consumers. "I am concerned about dairy, both domestically and around the world, and we are working feverishly with our suppliers, (and to) identify new suppliers," Schultz told reporters after the company's annual meeting in Seattle on Wednesday. U.S. dairy prices are at record highs and could move up a bit more in March before easing as a result of increased production, said Jerry Dryer, editor of the Dairy &amp; Food Market Analyst. He and other experts say the rise is primarily due to increased demand from Asia and other markets. "The demand for dairy in Asia, specifically China, is something the world's going to have to deal with," Schultz said. General Mills Inc &lt;GIS.N&gt;, which sells Yoplait yogurt and Haagen-Dazs ice cream, earlier on Wednesday said that its Yoplait business was the main driver behind an 11 percent decline in its U.S. retail segment operating profit in the latest quarter. Roughly two-thirds of that profit decline was due to dairy inflation and higher merchandising and marketing investments in its domestic yogurt business, Don Mulligan, General Mills' chief financial officer, said. "We've been assuming that it will top off for the last few months and it hasn't yet," Mulligan said, referring to dairy prices. Elsewhere, coffee prices recently hit a two-year high due to crop-damaging drought in Brazil, the top producer. "I'm not concerned about where coffee is going," Schultz said. "I think the market has significantly overreacted to the issue in Brazil and I don't see coffee prices spiking at very much higher levels than they are today, over the long term." Schultz said Starbucks has managed through prior commodity cost hikes and "can absolutely do it again." During the annual meeting, Schultz promised more growth in the years ahead, vowing to turn Starbucks into a "$100 billion company" by an unspecified date in the future. Starbucks' current market value is about $57 billion. (Reporting by Bill Rigby in Seattle and Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)
