It is a long way from the mean streets of south Los Angeles to becoming the world's richest hip-hop star. But that is the path set by Andre Young -- better known as Dr Dre -- helped by some very cool headphones. The 49-year-old rapper turned producer and entrepreneur is likely to find himself atop Forbes's hip-hop rich list after a $3 billion deal to sell Beats Electronics to Apple was confirmed Wednesday. Forbes said Wednesday the deal would boost his net worth from about $550 million to between $700 million and $800 million, making him hip-hop's richest man. Sean "Diddy" Combs has been hip-hop's top mogul with $700 million. Jay-Z checks in at about $520 million. "Hip-hop is now central to American popular culture," Robert Thompson, professor of popular culture at Syracuse University in New York state, told AFP recently. "If you get a hip-hop artist who can establish a name and a basis of fame and wealth and then they're smart enough to .. make sorties into other parts of the culture .. that seems a typical American story." Along the way Dre has discovered and worked with some of the biggest acts in music, including Eminem, Snoop Dogg, Combs and others. He pioneered gangsta rap in a career that has seen him win six Grammy awards including one for producer of the year in 2001. But it all started in the tough south Los Angeles neighborhood of Compton, where he was born in February 1965, to parents who divorced when he was a child. Compton was well known for gang violence but also for producing hip-hop groups and rappers, including gangsta rap group N.W.A. formed by Young and Ice Cube, making their name with its debut album in 1988 "Straight Outta Compton." The record was criticized for violent language and triggered a warning from the FBI. In 1990 he left the group to form Death Row Records, releasing his solo debut "The Chronic" in 1992 to huge commercial success. In 1996 he again left to form Aftermath Entertainment. Shortly after that, rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B.I.G. were murdered, prompting Dre to lay low for a few years. His comeback came after releasing his second studio album in 1999. He is credited with discovering and encouraging several hip-hop stars including Eminem and 50 Cent. His 2001 Grammy success propelled him up the financial rankings, as he increasingly moved towards producing and business -- co-founding Beats Electronics in 2008 with partner Jimmy Iovine. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeA woman poses with a box of Cialis in Beijing, March 29, 2007.PARIS (Reuters) - Sanofi and Eli Lilly and Co have agreed to pursue regulatory approval for over-the-counter sales of erectile dysfunction treatment Cialis, the French and U.S. drugmakers said in a statement on Wednesday. Cialis is currently available by prescription only, and was first approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2002 and then by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2003. It generated $2.16 billion in worldwide sales in 2013 and has recorded total sales of more than $14 billion since launch. Under the terms of the agreement, Sanofi is buying the exclusive rights to apply for approval of Cialis tablets over the counter in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia. Terms of the licensing agreement were not disclosed.   (Reporting by James Regan; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
MGM screengrab via MovieClipsIf you are like most people, you learned history in classes that largely covered facts related to dates, places, and people ... and you probably couldn’t wait until the school bell rang. Sadly, children’s exposure to history is often framed in a way that is less interesting and engaging than it could be, and it robs students of a curiosity about the past that could benefit their own future by understanding the richness of the human experience. When it comes to the intersection of the financial markets and human history, there is a kaleidoscope of tales drawn from centuries of market mischief, mishaps and mayhem. This article reveals a few less-known but notable events drawn from the past half-millennium that might pique your own interest in the rivers of time that have led us to the present day. You are probably acquainted with the fabled “tulipmania” that gripped Holland during the early 1600s. What most people don’t know is that two viruses played central roles in this drama. The tulip bulbs themselves were classified into three groups: the single-colored, the multi-colored, and the “bizarres.” This last category is most important, as bizarres were the rarest and most sought-after tulip. The reason these unusual flowers came about was due to a virus that interfered with the plant’s ability to create a uniform color on the petal. It is today known as a “breaking” virus, since it breaks the plant’s lock on a single petal color without killing the plant. The effect on the flower was striking, producing mosaic-like flames of color on each petal. Of course, the Dutch of the time knew nothing of such things; they merely took a strong liking to these rare and unusual flowers. As tulipmania neared its frenzied peak, an outbreak of bubonic plague emerged in the land. The psychological effects of this varied from person to person, but for some, it created a reckless, fatalistic disregard for financial risk, since no one was sure if they would be alive or dead in the months ahead. The same plague was also to blame when an important auction of tulip bulbs took place and not a single buyer showed up, ostensibly out of fear of the disease. Of course, plenty of sellers were there, but with no one to sell to, it swiftly became apparently that the top was in, and holders of the bulbs scrambled to get out at any price. In early 18th century France, John Law had revolutionized finance in the country by introducing paper money in lieu of specie (money in coin). As the frenzy surrounding the mania known later as “The Mississippi Scheme” turned into panic, banks were under terrible stress from holders of the paper notes who demanded their “real” money (that is, precious metals) back. As the crowds pressed in, the Royal Bank took measures to try to slow down the extraction of real money from its vaults. For example, if a person came to withdraw gold in exchange for notes, the teller would count out the change at a comically slow pace, thus frustrating the others in line and reducing the amount that physically could be taken out in the business day. Another trick was to put clerks in line who were instructed to withdraw some gold and then simply return the coinage to the vault immediately afterward. This practice slowed down legitimate customers even further merely by making the lines longer. Two hundred years later, a similar situation occurred in the U.S. as “bank runs” became commonplace during the Great Depression. Between 1929 and 1933, more than 43% (10,763 out of 24,970) of commercial banks in the country failed. Some banks, desperate to stay in business, resorted to ridiculous measures. One Utah bank instructed its tellers to work as slowly as possible, counting out small bills one by one, in order to reduce the pace at which money was being extracted by anxious account holders. Although two centuries had passed, it seems there had been no innovation in methods of stalling anxious customers during a financial calamity. The digital currency bitcoin famously ascended to unthinkable heights in 2013, only to crumble from its peak value during the first four months of 2014. A similar trajectory was experienced by shares of the South Sea Company during the time of Isaac Newton. As mythic a figure as Newton is, he was still human, and he had watched jealously as his friends made fortunes in South Sea shares. He jumped on board early in 1720, enjoyed a portion of the ascent in the stock’s price, and sold at a profit. As the stock kept climbing, he elected to put even more money in this time, hoping to “catch up” with the gains his peers had enjoyed. Although the great scientist got to enjoy the stock’s final vault to above 1,000 pounds, he watched, dumbfounded, as South Sea fell by its own form of gravity. In the second half of 1720, Newton’s holdings created a loss of 20,000 pounds before he dumped all his shares. His earlier profits were wiped out, and his misadventure with South Sea was a financial folly from which he would never recover. He said of the experience, “I can calculate the movement of heavily bodies, but not the madness of men.” Abraham Lincoln has the status of a near-deity in U.S. history. After years of civil war, however, he became an unwitting actor in an elaborate hoax. Following the hoax, he came dangerously close to infringing on the right of free speech enshrined in the U.S. Constitution. During the war, the opportunities to profit from gold’s dynamic price movements were not missed by the unscrupulous, and one fascinating account from 1864 captures this neatly. In May of that year, after four years of war, the Union was growing hopeful that a successful conclusion might be in sight. However, on May 18, the morning papers the New York World and the Journal of Commerce came out with shocking news. They reported that the president had ordered an additional 400,000 men to be conscripted into the Union army on account of “the situation in Virginia, the disaster at Red River, the delay at Charleston, and the general state of the country.” The discouraging report and the demand for such a huge quantity of fresh soldiers sent a shockwave through the financial community. This was because the report made it seem obvious that things were not going nearly as well in the war as believed. Stocks tumbled, and hard assets such as gold soared in value. Some people became puzzled, however, because this important report was nowhere to be found in any of the city’s many other newspapers. Late that morning, crowds had gathered at the offices of both papers that had published the news. The editors assured the crowds that the story was true, producing the dispatch from the Associated Press with the matching information. The Associated Press, however, the ostensible source of the information, quickly issued a statement making clear that they had never sent out this dispatch. This soon caught the attention of the State Department in Washington with Secretary of State William Seward declaring the news dispatch to be “an absolute forgery.” It turns out that the forgery was a clever creation of Joseph Howard, the city editor of the Brooklyn Eagle newspaper. Howard, who was intimately acquainted with the workings of New York’s newspapers, had come up with a scheme. He knew that bad news from the war would cause gold to rise in value. He also knew that the best way to get a dispatch into the morning papers would be to submit the dispatch when the newspaper staff was most vulnerable — that is, in the wee hours of the morning, when there were hardly any personnel around to verify the facts. Howard worked with an accomplice to craft a realistic-looking Associated Press news release. Howard, along with Francis Mallison (a reporter for his journal), then distributed the news item at 3:30 in the morning to New York City’s newspapers. Most of them were reluctant to print such an important piece without verification, but two of them proceeded to run with the story. Of course, before any of this took place, Howard acquired as much gold as he could in his margin account. Once the grim news was raging throughout the financial community, he disposed of his position at a handsome profit, never suspecting the false item would be traced back to him. It was, however. President Lincoln ordered the closure of both papers that had printed the dispatch, an order that was later rescinded. Lincoln’s furious demand for the paper’s closures, however, became one of the few black marks on his presidency since, in spite of the ugly circumstances involved, it went right to the heart of freedom of the press guaranteed by the Constitution. The irony to the newspaper hoax was that only two months later, Lincoln did indeed order the conscription of more men into the Union army. However, the figure demanded was not the 400,000 that Howard had dreamed up for his bogus news release. It was, in fact, a full half million. Howard’s fanciful fraud was, in the end, prescient. There’s no magic secret to spotting a bubble: After all, if there were, bubbles wouldn’t last for very long. One consistency about bubbles is how obvious they seem in hindsight. As we now look back on the Internet bubble, the Hunt silver debacle, the South Sea bubble, or any of the others, it’s all too easy for us to shake our heads at the foolhardiness of our ancestors and take comfort in our newfound wisdom. If only this were ever the case! Humans will always be able to concoct a new and, for its contemporaries, undetectable bubble. Analogs to the past can be helpful, however, since — as the old saying goes — history may not repeat, but it does rhyme. There are a couple of big challenges to drawing parallels between the past and the present, however. First, as the world speeds up, through such developments as improved communication and new technologies, it becomes necessary to “translate” instances of the past to modern-day equivalents. The kinds of rumors or narratives that might have spurred on a market in the past might have spread “like wildfire” a hundred years ago, when “wildfire” could have been measured in weeks instead of milliseconds. The other challenge, and probably the most important, is trying to divine when a top is at hand, even if the bubble is relatively obvious. Those who took advantage of the “top” in NASDAQ stocks in late December 1999 would have been extraordinarily close to pinpointing the peak of the bubble, but they would have also suffered a complete portfolio wipe-out as Internet stocks vaulted a final 100% in the waning weeks of the tech bubble. Although speculators will undoubtedly leave money on the table by waiting, it’s probably wisest to wait until it’s evident that the bubble is deflating before taking action, even if you miss the first portion of the move downward. Late in the 19th century, there was a widespread struggle in the U.S. over whether silver or gold, or a combination, should be the basis for “sound money.” The drama around this debate was captured allegorically in a popular children’s tale published around the time entitled “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.” The book was written in the late 1890s by L. Frank Baum during the throes of the gold/silver political dichotomy. The major elements of the book represented the circumstances and characters of Baum’s surroundings: In the end, of course, Dorothy simply has to make use of the silver slippers — which she could have done at any time — to return her to the simple, safe, and secure life she yearned for. Before the U.S. had a central bank, its closest equivalent came in the form of one man: J.P. (John Pierpont) Morgan. On more than one occasion, he single-handedly averted a major financial crisis (often profiting handsomely by doing so). During one particularly dangerous crisis in 1907, known later as the Rich Man’s Panic, Morgan brought together the most important bankers of the country to address the crisis on a Saturday night, and he gave them use of the library at his opulent New York mansion to do so. Morgan told the men that they needed to come up with a solution to the problem, and he left the library to attend to other matters. Only later did the bankers realize that Morgan had literally locked them inside the library. When Morgan entered the room some time later, no consensus had been reached, so he told the men that they needed to come up with $25 million to shore up the trust companies through the crisis or else the city would face unmanageable panic. After considerable prodding, Morgan was able to persuade the de facto leader of the group to sign an agreement to advance the funds, and the rest of the men followed suit. The agreement having been reached, Morgan produced the key and allowed the bankers out of the library at 4:45 that Sunday morning. Having successfully satisfied their leader (and captor), they were permitted to go home. You are already well familiar with the real estate crisis that gripped the U.S. starting in 2007. A full decade before that, and half a world away, Thailand experienced its own peak and collapse, although the origins of the high valuations were somewhat different from our own. Thailand was one of the “Asian tigers,” Southeast Asian economies that had attracted so much investment and speculation in the early 1990s. An important conduit for the free-flowing credit that pushed real estate higher was a large commercial bank named Finance One. For years, it had borrowed dollars from overseas banks and made loans to Thai developers in the local currency, the baht. This had been a profitable strategy, provided that regular payments kept flowing in from Thai business. However, the first sign of trouble took place in February 1997, when property developer Somprasong Land announced that it was defaulting on its $80 billion loan portfolio, since it was unable to even make its $3.1 million interest payment. Other developers, who had their own bad news but had been hesitant to make public their misgivings about their ability to pay, swiftly followed in Somprasong’s footsteps. The details behind Finance One’s default were grim: Its non-performing loans had doubled during the course of 1996, and in the first quarter of 1997, the quantity of non-performing loans doubled once more. As the banking sector in Thailand looked increasingly shaky, the Thai baht began to lose its footing as well. The Thai government responded by frantically deploying its own U.S. dollar reserves to try to shore up the baht. What this required of the Thai government was to buy up baht and sell off its dollars. On the books, the government showed that it had depleted its dollar reserves down to $33 billion. What was hidden from the public, however, was that the amount in reserve was close to a mere $1 billion, since the government had already tied up so much collateral in currency futures contracts. When the Thai leadership finally announced that it had “discovered” this information, it was forced to let the baht float freely, which put the currency into a free fall, along with the nation’s real estate interests. Of course, the shock waves from a relatively small Asian economy were not as severe as would be experienced with the United States’ own real estate debacle. The Thai crisis was, nonetheless, an interesting precursor to what happens when the close partnership between a nation’s government, large commercial banks and real estate developers takes a turn for the worse. Most Americans understandably think that Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), was conjured up in the Middle East as a tool to artificially support crude oil prices, but the model for OPEC was actually an American creation. The U.S. organization was called the Texas Railroad Commission (TRC). It was established late in the 19th century in order to, as the name suggests, regulate railroads. As the 20th century dawned, and the decades passed, the domain of the TRC began to spread far beyond just rail lines, particularly with respect to energy resources. In spite of its name, the modern-day Texas Railroad Commission holds sway over many local industries with one notable exception: railroads. The TRC’s control of production levels in the oil industry gave it tight control over oil prices for most of the 20th century. Although it was established in Texas, the TRC was a crucial arbiter for the “Seven Sisters” — the big U.S. and Dutch oil producers — since no other body was so influential in controlling the price of crude oil. The countries outside of this domain closely studied the TRC’s practices and effectiveness, since they had ambitions of their own about being bigger players in the global energy markets. For much of the 20th century, oil was a relatively cheap and plentiful commodity. This made the focus of the TRC suppressing production levels to avoid a repeat of the crash in oil prices that Texas suffered in the 1930s, when a barrel of oil could be had for as little as 25 cents. The principal oil-producing states of the U.S. (Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma) had excess oil capacity, and the TRC had to regulate the flow in order to keep the price high enough for the industry to operate profitably. This was not always an easy task, since it is always tempting for any member of a cartel to break rank and increase their own profits by selling more of the product in question, but the TRC had been a consistent-enough enforcer of production ratios to garner the obedience of the oil producers in its domain. After World War II and until the end of the 1960s, the nominal price for oil remained within a relatively narrow band of $2.50 to $3.00 per barrel. (In inflation-adjusted terms, this spans from $17 to $19.) Oil and its by-products were typically American and always cheap, which led to a boom in large, gas-guzzling American automobiles. There was little need for energy efficiency on either the road or in gas-heated households. America had more oil than it knew what to do with. Around this time, in 1960, OPEC was founded by five member countries: Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Venezuela. So even from its inception, OPEC was not an entirely Middle East entity. In the decade that followed its founding, other countries joined the organization: Algeria, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Indonesia, and the United Arab Emirates. So while OPEC had a strong Arabian presence, it actually spanned three different continents. As we study and learn of the oddities and disruptions that take place over the course of time, probably the most financially germane phenomenon is the asset “bubble,” which has taken many forms over the centuries, some of which have been mentioned here such as tulipmania and the South Sea bubble. The commencement, inflation and bursting of these bubbles follow a template common to similar financial catastrophes throughout human history, running along these lines: As history continues to unfold before you, keep this template in mind: It may provide the impetus to get on board with a potentially lucrative investment while in its relatively early stage, or it may save you from joining the crowd near a top, only to see yet another one of history’s bubbles burst in front of your eyes. Timothy Knight is a money manager, author of the book “Panic, Prosperity, and Progress” (John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2014) and the creator the trading blog SlopeOfHope.com. This article originally appeared at American Association Of Individual Investors Journal.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Kim Kyung Hoon/ReutersToyota recently announced it was ending its electric vehicle parts contract with Tesla.  Yet there was very little discussion of what this seemingly ominous announcement about the future of electric vehicles seemed to imply. Today, Morgan Stanley's Adam Jones stepped up. In a new research note titled "EVs are Dead, Long Live TSLA!," he explains what news like Toyota's plug-pull on Tesla means: "The auto industry’s push into EVs has fallen far short of expectations." Jonas says that where analysts once believed EVs could comprise up to 10% of the market by 2020, reaching 1% penetration would now seem "respectable".  Ford Focus EVs, for instance, accounted for just 0.07% of the company's Q1 sales. Jonas also recounts how Fiat-Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne recently explicitly told an audience they should not buy a Fiat 500e, since the company loses $14,000 on each vehicle. Despite all that, he is still bullish on Tesla. Why? Because Teslas are so cool that they alone possess the ability to outlive the broader EV sector — though there's no guarantee it ultimately will: Tesla’s true success is making compelling performance vehicles that just happen to be EVs. A true democratization of EVs? We don’t even expect the Gigafactory to turn that optionality into a reality any time soon. We’ll never know... but we believe if the Model S had 2x the battery range but was unexciting to drive, it would be far less successful than it is today. To be a winner, the Gen 3 must first and foremost be an absolute riot to drive. Electric range comes second.  To meet new emissions targets, Jonas says, traditional automakers are increasingly turning to fuel cell vehicles, and making improvements on the standard internal combustion engine.  "Autonomous technology takes fuel efficiency to entirely new levels, ultimately making a 100mpg ICE vehicle an attainable goal," he says.  FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 sits right near all-time highs. However, that belies the fact that few of the 500 stocks in the S&amp;P 500 are actually doing the same. "Only 48 stocks made a new high with the market yesterday," wrote FBN Securities' J.C. O'Hara. All Star Charts' J.C. Parets alerted us to this. "There are many perceived discrepancies between what one would expect to find at new highs vs what we currently have," continued O'Hara. "Small Caps are lagging, yields continue to decline, new highs are scarce, and the average stock is still -11% from making a new 52 week high." Earlier this month, O'Hara pointed out that many stocks were actually in full-blown bear markets. That is, they were down by more than 20%. FBN Securities FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachSpain's players celebrate after the final whistle at their 2010 World Cup final soccer match against Netherlands at Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg July 11, 2010.The most recent expansion of the World Cup took place before the 1998 tournament, when FIFA opened the tournament to 32 teams. And there has recently been speculation the tournament could expand to 40 teams.  This chart out of Goldman Sachs new report "The World Cup and Economics 2014" shows how world exports and World Cup expansion have roughly been in step since the tournament's inception in 1930. Back then, only 13 teams participated. During that period, world exports increased from around $30 billion to $22 trillion today. "Although the decision on how many countries participate in the World Cup is made by FIFA’s governing bodies, the same market forces that are driving up exports are also likely to push for a larger representation of teams, especially as African and Asian nations increase their presence on the global stage," wrote the analysts. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Kin CheungFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Ways To Invest In The Emerging Market Consumer (US Trust) Consumption in developing nations jumped 231% between 2000 and 2012, according to Joseph P. Quinlan, chief market strategist at U.S. Trust. But what consumers spent in developing nations in 2013, was only 60% of what developed nations spent. "There is tremendous upside to emerging market consumer spending as more women in Africa become educated and enter the workforce; as more Chinese and Indian workers move from the farm to the cities and become urbanized shoppers; and as more consumers in the Middle East and Central and South America log on to the Internet and become connected to the world," writes Quinlan. He highlights two ways to invest in the emerging market consumer.1. "The Power of Global Brands and America’s Competitive Advantage" — "The appeal of Western brands and an expanding middle class will continue to drive brand value, in our view. Some of the best plays on the expanding middle-class consumers in the emerging markets are outlined on the accompanying table."2. "China and the Coming Boom in Global Tourism" — "The world is shrinking, transportation costs are declining, new destinations are becoming accessible and new travelers/tourists from China and other places are taking to the roads, rails and sky in record numbers." writes Quinlan. "Global brand leaders in hotels, airlines and other related tourist activities (including real estate) will be the primary beneficiaries of this trend." HIRSCH: 'We Might Sell In May, But We Don't Go Away' (Investment News)  "Sell in May and go away," is an often heard investing rule of thumb. Jeff Hirsch, editor-in-chief of the Stock Trader’s Almanac, tells Investment News that "we might sell in May, but we don’t go away." Instead Hirsch is taking a defensive stance. "We tighten some stops, limit new longs and take some additional bond positions, usually through the iShares Core Total U.S. Bond Market ETF (AGG)," he said.  "The Fed is still very accommodative. Even with the tapering, rates are still at zero. And there is some decent economic data starting to show up. We are expecting some form of correction of maybe 10% to 15% over the next six months, but it doesn’t mean you have to just sell willy-nilly. You can sell some underperformers and take some defensive positions." 4 Things To Consider When Selling Your Firm (The Wall Street Journal) Jim Whiddon, director of investor enrichment for the BAM Alliance, sold his firm in his early 50s. In a new WSJ column he writes that it might make sense to make a sale sooner rather than later. Some of the factors that weighed on him were 1. His ability "to weather another financial storm;" 2. "Coping with new federal regulation was another factor in my decision," by way of Dodd Frank; 3. "The rise of robo-advisers and online-advising solutions;" 4. It was also a matter of timing. "Close to eight million companies are set to be sold by boomer-age business owners over the next 15 years. That's a demographic tsunami whose waves will be felt throughout the RIA space. The longer I waited to sell my firm the less attractive my prospects looked." Whiddon writes that advisors should be flexible about their future plans and should perhaps consider selling sooner rather than later. Investors Around The World Have A Huge Bias Toward Home (Mebane Faber Research)  This chart from JP Morgan, via Mebane Faber shows that global institutional investors around the world have a domestic bias. JP Morgan Department Of Labor Delays Fiduciary Rule Proposal (WealthManagement.com)  The Department of Labor has postponed the its proposal for a fiduciary rule  intended to reduce conflicts of interest to January 2015, reports Megan Leonhardt. "With the election, it was completely unsurprising and perhaps good news,” Knut Rostad, president of the Institute for the Fiduciary Standard told Leonhardt. "Fiduciary duty has received a beating in Washington. The outreach strategy needs a reboot; this extra time could prove hugely beneficial." FREE AppDownload
AppleBeats co-founder Jimmy Iovine, Apple CEO Tim Cook, Beats co-founder Dr. Dre, and iTunes boss Eddy Cue.Apple announced today it will buy Beats Electronics for $3 billion. News of the deal broke nearly three weeks ago, but was reportedly delayed. The original price was said to be $3.2 billion. Beats co-founders Jimmy Iovine and Dr. Dre will join Apple. It's unclear what their specific responsibilities will be, but their titles will simply be "Jimmy and Dre," Iovine told the Wall Street Journal. You can learn more about Iovine and Dr. Dre here &gt;&gt; The deal is for $2.6 billion up front and another $400 million that will vest over time, Apple said in a statement. This is Apple's largest acquisition ever. (Click the chart embedded to the right to see for yourself). It's expected to close by the end of the fiscal year 2014. Business Insider Intelligence With the purchase, Apple will get Beats' audio accessories business, which includes a line of pricey headphones. The headphones are very popular, but they're not very good compared to other high-end audio products. Apple will continue selling Beats products under the Beats brand. Beats also has a streaming music service similar to Spotify called Beats Music, which will now be part of Apple.  Beats Music tries to set itself apart because of its recommendation engine that can curate playlists based on what you're doing. For example, you can tell Beats Music you're at the gym, and you'll get tunes to fit the mood. Beats Music CEO Ian Rogers will report to Eddy Cue, the vice president at Apple in charge of iTunes. The streaming music service will run separately from iTunes for now. Beats Music is tiny compared to Spotify though. The service launched in January and reportedly only has about 200,000 users. Meanwhile, Spotify recently announced it has 10 million paying subscribers. Iovine will work at Apple full time. Dr. Dre told the Wall Street Journal that he'll keep producing music, but work at Apple whenever he's needed there. Beats Electronics is a private company, so we don't know how much revenue the business generates. However, the headphones are very popular and are likely sold at high margins. Morgan Stanley believes Apple's iTunes revenue is in decline because it is being stolen away by popular streaming services like Pandora and Spotify. So Beats' subscription streaming music service will bolster that business. Ever since the news of the deal originally broke three weeks ago, tech pundits have been trying to figure out why Apple is buying Beats. Now we finally have an answer. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Cook emphasized that Apple will gain two great executives in Iovine and Dr. Dre. He also thinks Beats Music has a lot of potential. "We think these guys have a very rare talent. We love the subscription service that they built. We think it's the first one that really got it right," he told WSJ. Here's why Iovine and Dr. Dre will be great at Apple &gt;&gt; In an internal memo to Apple employees obtained by 9to5Mac, Cook elaborated: Both Apple and Beats believe that a great music service requires a strong editorial and curation team, and we will continue to expand what we do in those areas. The addition of Beats will make our incredible iTunes lineup even better, extending the emotional connection our customers have with music. Here's the full press release from Apple announcing the deal: Apple today announced it has agreed to acquire the critically acclaimed subscription streaming music service Beats Music, and Beats Electronics, which makes the popular Beats headphones, speakers and audio software. As part of the acquisition, Beats co-founders Jimmy Iovine and Dr. Dre will join Apple. Apple is acquiring the two companies for a total of $3 billion, consisting of a purchase price of approximately $2.6 billion and approximately $400 million that will vest over time. “Music is such an important part of all of our lives and holds a special place within our hearts at Apple,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “That’s why we have kept investing in music and are bringing together these extraordinary teams so we can continue to create the most innovative music products and services in the world.” “I’ve always known in my heart that Beats belonged with Apple,” said Jimmy Iovine. “The idea when we started the company was inspired by Apple’s unmatched ability to marry culture and technology. Apple’s deep commitment to music fans, artists, songwriters and the music industry is something special.” Iovine has been at the forefront of innovation in the music industry for decades, and he has been an instrumental partner for Apple and iTunes® for more than a decade. He has produced or collaborated with some of the most successful artists in the history of the iTunes Store®, helping make it the world’s number one music retailer. Iovine and Dr. Dre are sound pioneers, artists and entrepreneurs. Beats Electronics has brought the energy, emotion and excitement of playback in the recording studio back to the listening experience and has introduced an entirely new generation to premium sound entertainment. Beats Music was developed by a team of people who have each spent their entire career in music and provides music fans with an incredible curated listening experience. “Music is such an important part of Apple’s DNA and always will be,” said Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet Software and Services. “The addition of Beats will make our music lineup even better, from free streaming with iTunes Radio to a world-class subscription service in Beats, and of course buying music from the iTunes Store as customers have loved to do for years.” In just five years since launch, the Beats “b” has become the brand of choice in the music and sports worlds, and is the market leader in the premium headphone market. Music superstars including Lady Gaga, Lil Wayne and Nicki Minaj have designed their own customized Beats headphones and speakers. Fashion designers and street artists such as Alexander Wang, Futura and Snarkitecture have collaborated on special limited products, while renowned athletes including LeBron James, Serena Williams and Neymar use Beats as a critical part of their training and game day process. Beats has quickly become part of pop culture in the US and with the acquisition the Beats product lineup will be offered in many more countries through the Apple Online Store, Apple’s retail stores and select Apple Authorized Resellers. Subject to regulatory approvals, Apple expects the transaction to close in fiscal Q4. Formally established in 2008 as the brainchild of legendary artist and producer Dr. Dre and Chairman of Interscope Geffen A&amp;M Records Jimmy Iovine, Beats Electronics (Beats) comprises the Beats by Dr. Dre family of premium consumer headphones, earphones, and speakers as well as patented Beats Audio software technology and streaming music subscription service Beats Music. Through these offerings, Beats has effectively brought the energy, emotion and excitement of playback in the recording studio to the listening experience and has introduced an entirely new generation to the possibilities of premium sound entertainment. Beats Music is a subscription streaming music service that focuses on providing a personalized music experience for each user through a unique blend of digital innovation and musical passion. Programmed by a trusted team of well-respected music experts with over 300 years of experience across all genres, Beats Music delivers the right music for any situation, any time, and any preference, personalized to your tastes. The result is an artist-friendly digital music service that does more than simply offer access to music, but one that establishes an emotional connection to it as well. Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad. FREE AppDownload
Looking great is easy when you have unlimited resources. However, most of us live within limited means where every dollar is accounted for. So how do you build a wardrobe that serves both your professional and personal needs without breaking the bank? What can Average Joe do to look sharp without investing big bucks in clothing? Here are ten of my favorite tips for upgrading your style and your wardrobe on a budget. Get to the thrift store. Second-hand, charity, consignment, and other used clothing stores can be a gold mine for sharp-looking menswear. If you’re patient and thorough, you can find everything from a conservative-looking business suit to funky concert clothes. But to really make thrift stores work, you’ve got to be a habitual browser. The odds of walking out with something that fits and looks good on any one trip are vanishingly small. It takes multiple trips and an open mind to start building a wardrobe from thrift stores. Ideally, you should get to know the selection and staff at the closest thrift stores, checking in several times a week for a while until you get a sense for when the new stuff comes out and who to ask about any goodies hidden away in the corners. If you can’t make that many trips, get as many as you can in, and shop with an eye for anything that could look good on you, not just whatever your need of the moment happens to be. Finally, if you can travel, take an occasional trip out to more distant thrift stores. Ones close to well-heeled suburbs often have a much better selection of upscale clothes than urban stores, and are less picked over as well. A nice pair of leather shoes is an instant upgrade to any outfit. It’s one of the simplest ways to dress your style up. Even a guy in blue jeans and a plain white T-shirt looks like a respectable man if he’s got some nice black leather shoes or boots and a matching belt on. Trouble is, good leather shoes are also one of the most expensive wardrobe items out there (and cheap ones just don’t have the same authority). The solution? Second-hand shoes, plus a good knowledge of re-crafting and restoration specialists. A solid shoe brand like Allen Edmonds can be restored from a truly bedraggled state to something close to the original, if you know a good craftsman. Some brands also offer their own re-crafting services, and most aren’t too picky about demanding an original receipt or proof-of-purchase so long as it’s obviously one of their shoes. Be on the lookout for hard-used but well-made shoes. Advanced repairs aren’t cheap, but they’re still a bargain compared to buying new. For the price of a cheap pair of shoes, you could end up with something much nicer and sturdier. Do the little things. They matter. Shoes get polished. Frayed cuffs get hemmed. Little rips get stitched up or patched before they turn into big rips. Make it a habit to brush your suit jacket after wearing. This doesn’t build your wardrobe or expand your style, of course, but it keeps your wardrobe from shrinking while you’re on the lookout for new pieces. Good storage counts too — a suit or sports jacket will last a lot longer if you’ve got it on a proper wooden hanger and store it in a garment bag for long periods of disuse. Shoes should be stored with shoe trees inserted (or at least gently stuffed with rolled-up newspapers — the poor man’s shoe tree). Read this AoM article on protecting, storing, and cleaning your clothing. Just like shoe repairs, a professional tailor’s adjustments can turn lightly-used clothing into something resembling a brand new garment fitted just for you. The trick is finding someone who actually specializes in adjustments, and is willing to take the time to get them truly customized. A lot of in-house tailors at ready-to-wear menswear stores aren’t really making custom adjustments even if they do take your measurements — they’re just trimming to pre-determined lengths and widths. Look for local, independent shops and take the time to build a rapport with the tailors you find. The extra time is worth it in the long run. Here are my 7 tips for finding a great tailor. Minor repairs don’t take much time to learn. Anyone can become proficient at sewing buttons onto clothes in a day, and closing up small rips or applying patches isn’t that much more complicated. The next time you need something minor fixed on a piece of clothing, look up how to do it yourself. Not all repairs will be worth the effort, but you can save a lot of money if you don’t depend on tailors’ shops for the really basic stuff. Learn how to sew a button in 5 minutes with this AoM post. Taking the DIY approach one step further, a dedicated hobbyist can get nearly as good as a professional at minor clothing alterations. As old shirts and trousers wear out, practice hemming them to different lengths. See if you can make an old shirt of yours fit a family member with a slightly different build, at least in the sleeves. If it turns out to be something you’re good at, you can move on to more challenging adjustments like taking in darts. Not everyone has the knack or the inclination, but someone who can take a thrift store shirt home and hem it to fit without a tailor’s help can both save money and enjoy a wider thrift-store selection. Clothes handed down from father to son are as traditional as it gets. If you don’t have a father with a suitable build (or wardrobe), check around with brothers, uncles, cousins — any male relative in about your size. This dovetails especially nicely with the self-taught repairs and adjustments we’ve mentioned. It’s one thing to ask for charity cast-offs out of the blue, but it’s quite another when your relatives know that “fixing up old clothes” is a hobby of yours. Of course, you do have to be careful. Once word gets out that you’re a dab hand with a needle, they’ll probably want you to start working on their clothes, too. But that’s not a bad trade if you’re getting a good supply of lightly-worn pieces for your own wardrobe. Not all cheap clothes have to be second-hand. Even some pricey brands have deep discounts from time to time. The trick is learning to tell real discounts from the “sale” prices that manufacturers expect to sell the majority of their goods at. Red numbers and a sign saying “sale” do not a real bargain make. Clearance sections are usually better than sales sections, both online and in brick-and-mortar stores. There are also websites that keep an eye on discounts for their members. Dappered.com is an excellent one for menswear, and there are more niche-focused sites tracking sales in just about any category of clothing you can think of. A brand that you know you like is worth a little extra expense. It’s rare to find a manufacturer whose clothing always works well on your body, so when you do find one, treasure it. Sign up for their online mailing list. You’ll end up deleting most of the offers you receive in your inbox, but there’ll be one or two every year that have a really good price on an item you really need, and those moments are worth a few seconds of clicking every few days. If there are rewards programs associated with a brand you like (or a store that carries it), get in on those too. Be leery of any “price clubs” or similar offers that require you to spend money up front, of course, but simple reward or frequent shopper programs are almost always worth the minor added hassle (and, it must be admitted, the increase in e-mail and print advertising). For the truly brand loyal, there may even be a point at which an associated credit card is worthwhile. Be cautious of getting into credit cards, especially if you have any history of overuse, but a smart shopper can easily use one to make only brand-specific purchases, paid off promptly, which results in savings, rewards, and a good credit history. Okay – so you’ve read this article. Have you read the many other helpful dressing and grooming posts here at AoM? Over the last 6 years I’ve written quite a few articles for AOM on why clothing matters, specifically how to dress better, and what should be in your wardrobe. But reading isn’t enough! You have to apply this knowledge. Start to prepare today. Having that interview suit ready before you need it will save you money as you have the time to apply the above principles vs. having to spend more because you’re in a rush. Yes, you will make mistakes along the way. Use the above tips to piece together those first few outfits that make you feel like a million bucks. From there – you’ll gain the confidence and learn to truly own your image.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben SprichChairman and Chief Executive of BlackRock Laurence Fink(Reuters) - BlackRock Inc &lt;BLK.N&gt; Chief Executive Officer Larry Fink said on Wednesday that leveraged exchange-traded funds contain structural problems that could "blow up" the whole industry one day. Fink runs a company that oversees more than $4 trillion in client assets, including nearly $1 trillion in ETF assets. "We'd never do one (a leveraged ETF)," Fink said at Deutsche Bank investment conference in New York. "They have a structural problem that could blow up the whole industry one day." Fink spoke during a conversation with Deutsche Bank co-CEO Anshu Jain in a broader discussion about regulating financial companies. Leveraged ETFs account for 1.2 percent of the $2.5 trillion in global ETF assets under management. At the end of April, there were nearly 270 ETF funds with $30.3 billion in assets, said Deborah Fuhr, managing partner of ETF research firm ETFGI LLP. A leveraged ETF uses financial derivatives and debt to amplify the returns of an underlying index. Fink said he believes regulators should focus on the structure of financial products. "If you want to create a safer and sounder marketplace, it has to be at the product level," Fink said. Leveraged ETFs are allowed, but staff at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has issued warnings about them. Leveraged ETFs seek to deliver multiples of the performance of the index or benchmark they track. Regulators say individual investors may not realize that the investment products are designed to achieve their performance objectives on a daily basis rather than over the long term. In one real-life example given by the SEC, an unnamed leveraged ETF seeking to deliver twice the daily return of an index fell by 6 percent, even though that index gained 2 percent over a 5-month period.  (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin; Editing by David Gregorio and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders at the London International Financial Futures and Options gesture to their colleagues during trading December 6, 1996.Stocks declined with the S&amp;P 500 closing modestly lower from its all-time high. But Treasuries had a huge day as reflected by tumbling yields. First, the scoreboard: Top stories of the day: FREE AppDownload
KIPS BAY — You won't find even a drop of Coca-Cola at a new lounge opening in Kips Bay this fall. The Third Avenue bar and eatery, called Raw, will specialize in healthy and organic foods and drinks — which means the cocktails will feature liquor made from grain grown without pesticides, and the mixers will contain real sugar rather than high-fructose corn syrup. Owners David Jaffee and Ross Rachlin, former investment bankers who are making their first foray into nightlife, decided to open Raw after struggling to find a spot in the neighborhood that met their healthy standards. "People aren’t really thinking about health benefits when they go out — it's more about having a good time," Jaffee said. "But if there was a healthy substitute product offered, then people would be more likely to choose the healthier option." Raw, which will open in the 800-square-foot former Bar 29 space at 405 Third Ave. near East 29th Street, will still offer all the typical liquor brands such as Grey Goose and Patrón, but the liquors the owners plan to promote will be organic ones like TRU Organic Spirits and Prairie Organic Spirits, Jaffee said. To earn the "organic" label, Prairie's liquor — which comes in flavors including cucumber vodka and gin — is distilled from grain grown without pesticides or herbicides, relying instead on Minnesota's bird and bat population to keep unwanted insects away from the crop, according to the company's website. And rather than using Coca-Cola and other artificially sweetened drinks as mixers, Jaffee plans to offer juices, smoothies and carbonated drinks from the brand Hard Beverages, which offers club soda and cola flavors made with natural ingredients and sugar instead of corn syrup, he said. “For a Jack and Coke, we’ll have natural alternatives to Coca-Cola, but if someone were to insist we use Coca-Cola, well, we wouldn’t carry it,” Jaffee said. In addition to the drinks, Raw will offer plenty of food, including salads, sandwiches, wraps and panini made using only organic and locally sourced ingredients. Dishes will range from $8 to $10. “It’s pretty much the kind of food that even if you ate a lot of it, it wouldn’t be unhealthy for you,” Jaffee said. Community Board 6 voted to give advisory approval to the bar’s liquor license last week, and now Jaffee and Rachlin are wrapping up lease negotiations for the space. They hope to open in September or October. The goal, Jaffee said, is to open a lounge where he and Rachlin would want to spend time. “We both live pretty healthy lifestyles," Jaffee said. "We want to feel good eating the food we offer, and not have to go outside to find the food we’d eat ourselves.” FREE AppDownload
I once looked at a “liquid alternative fund” from Natixis – liquid alts are products that purport to offer hedge fund strategies in a ’40 Act mutual fund wrapper – and I couldn’t understand a word of what the wholesaler was talking about. It was early 2011 and they were pushing this Dr. Andrew Lo vehicle called ASG Diversifying Strategies Fund. The idea what that Dr. Lo, perhaps one of the most brilliant quantitative scientists and academicians in finance(MIT, Harvard, all kinds of awards, PhDs out the ass, etc), would be incorporating a variety of approaches to manage the fund using all asset classes, derivatives and trading methodologies that he and his team saw fit to apply. As the strategies were explained to me, I nodded as though I understood – but it was Greek, locked in a black box, dumped into a river, in the middle of the night, as far as I was concerned. Regretfully, I declined to get myself involved. But I promised the nice man from the mutual fund company to watch it and perhaps feel foolish in hindsight. But that’s not what ended up happening. What actually did happen was this: Andy Lo, maybe one of the smartest men in the history of finance, managed to invent a product that literally cannot make money in any environment. It’s an extraordinarily rare accomplishment; I don’t think you could go out and invent something that always loses money if you were actually attempting to. Since its inception in August of 2009 – weeks after the generational bottom – the ASG Div Strat Fund lost money during almost every quarter. It’s compounding at something like negative 7% a year since 2010. It managed to lose money in a bad market (2011, negative 2.75%), a good market (2012, return was negative 7.69%) and a raging bull market (2013, in which it lost another 8%, inexplicably). It’s hard to say that it’s meant as a bear market vehicle or a short fund, because it actually earned 8% in 2010 with the S&amp;P up 15. So if you ask “What is the ideal environment for this strategy?” the answer is that there isn’t one. By the way, it’s actually somehow down another .73% year-to-date – with stocks, commodities and bonds all higher so far in 2014. I have no idea what the hell is in this thing. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything like it. In the meantime, this fund – and other alternative funds like it – takes a net internal expense ratio of close to 2% of assets while the brokers who sold their clients the A shares have been paid 5.75% upon purchase. In other words, if this is the “alternative”, the real thing probably ain’t all that bad in comparison. Actually, just for the hell of it, let’s look at the alternatives to the alternative since this fund’s start date: Josh Brown We won’t even get into the turnover and tax consequences here… And yes, this is an extreme example – but again, coming from an extremely well-pedigreed management team, perhaps the best you could find. You would write Dr. Lo a check ten seconds after seeing him speak somewhere, trust me. So this is why you rarely see fiduciary advisors getting excited about black boxes and unorthodox strategies – even when wrapped inside a friendly mutual fund casing. But brokers on the other hand… Wall Street Journal: In 2013, liquid-alternative funds made up half of the net sales at firms like Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley that sell mutual funds to investors, up from 38% in 2011, according to a report from Dover Financial Research, a Boston-based consulting firm, on behalf of the Money Management Institute, a trade association. But despite that growth, investor portfolios have less than 5% of assets in liquid-alternatives funds, compared with as much as 20% recommended by banks. One of the reasons money managers like the funds is the same reason financial advisers don’t: high fees. Because they use more complicated trades, the average expense ratio for a liquid-alternative fund is 1.9%, compared with 1.3% for a typical mutual fund and 0.8% for an index fund, according to Morningstar. An investor would pay $190 for every $10,000 invested in a liquid-alternative fund, versus $80 for every $10,000 in an index fund. We see here a stark contrast between the brokerage model and the advisory model, through the lens of a predilection for complex, expensive products.  The broker who sells liquid alt funds gets paid on those fees while the true financial advisor gets paid the same amount whether he recommends these funds or not – and he only gets paid by the client, never receives compensation from the fund family. Night and day. There’s nothing wrong with liquid alternative funds – some of them do things for a portfolio that other solutions and strategies simply can’t. But how much is the salesman’s compensation driving these recommendations? If all things were equal, we’d be able to find out. But they’re not. The bottom line is that brokerage sales forces, in the aggregate, will usually push the higher-margin, more complex product – even while referring to themselves as “financial advisors.” Their whole-hearted embrace of really expensive, often inscrutable liquid alts is just one more example of this. FREE AppDownload
Even at the top, income inequality still exists. The Wall Street Journal and the Hay Group studied the pay of the CEOs at the three hundred largest U.S. companies. Business Insider put up a list of the twenty CEOs with the highest pay here. We took the CEO pay data and made a histogram chart showing the distribution of compensation amounts. Each column shows the number of CEOs whose compensation fell into each $2,000,000 wide bracket: WSJ, Hay Group The distribution is lopsided. Most of the CEOs made under $12,000,000, but there were a handful of extreme outliers who made more than $30,000,000. Here are those outliers: Wall Street Journal FREE AppDownload
APIn one of the most under-reported stories of the year, Apple's stock has made an impressive comeback. It's trading at $628, which is up 42% on a year-over-year basis. Over the same period, the Dow is up about 20%, and the NASDAQ is up less than 10%.   Why is Apple on the comeback trail? It's not rocket surgery. It's all about the iPhone. ScreenshotYesterday, Brian Blair at Rosenblatt Securities said, "The supply chain is buzzing primarily about iPhone units for the back half of the year, which we believe are stronger than expected at north of 100 million units" for the second half of the year.  Blair was in Taiwan last week meeting with sources that work with Apple to manufacture its products. He came away pretty bullish on Apple's second half of the year.  He says Apple will make a redesigned 4.7-inch iPhone and a 5.5-inch iPhone. He expects those to be blockbusters. People tend to want to buy the newly designed model versus the off-year "S" models. In other words, people like to buy an iPhone 5 more than an iPhone 5S, since the 5 is new.9to5 MacIn addition to the iPhone, Apple is expected to release an iWatch at the end of the year. Blair estimates Apple sells 18 to 21 million iWatches, which will pick up the slack for Apple's dying iPod business. Blair isn't the only analyst pounding the table about Apple's second half of the year. In March, ISI said, "the 'mother lode' of all Apple upgrade cycles" is coming this fall. It estimated Apple could sell over 100 million iPhones in the second half of the year, too.  In general, analysts think Apple is going to produce an insane year starting next week at its WWDC conference, where it will reportedly unveil a redesigned Mac operating system, a new health-oriented iPhone app, and a new home-automation platform.  When Apple crashed after the release of the iPhone 5, a few things were happening. Analysts cut EPS estimates because they thought the iPhone business was going to slow down. They were right on both counts. At the same time, Apple was truly entering the post-Steve Jobs era and no one knew what to expect.  Apple didn't release any products, and there was not talk of Apple releasing any products, so sentiment got very negative on the company.  This year, Apple has new products in the pipeline, and analysts are expecting big things from the iPhone.  So the stock is booming right now. FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, we published Kleiner Perkins Partner Mary Meeker's presentation on the state of the web. Within her deck, she highlighted seven industries that the Internet is causing to be reimagined. We highlight them below, using one of her slides to portray her arguments for each. Kleiner Perkins Kleiner Perkins Kleiner Perkins Kleiner Perkins Kleiner Perkins   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/lachlanhardy Choosing a good Scotch whisky can be tricky. Unless you really know your stuff, it's hard to tell a good Scotch from a mediocre one. Luckily our friends over at FindTheBest helped us narrow down the 10 best bottles of Scotch for experienced and novice drinkers alike. FindTheBest used a smart rating to rank the different kinds of Scotch. The smart rating is a weighted average of four whisky-rating sources: the San Francisco World Spirits Competition, the Beverage Testing Institute, the Los Angeles Whiskey Society, and Wine Enthusiast Magazine. The refined palate of the Arran 12-year-old Scotch brings to mind the bitterness of coffee and dark chocolate while finishing off spicy and citrusy. It's a complex blend of 17 first-fill sherry butts and four second-fill sherry hogsheads, which have been bottled at natural cask strength. The most expensive Scotch on our list, this whisky by Royal Salute ages for 38 years and is known as "the Stone of Destiny," the name of the ancient stone used for British royal coronation ceremonies. Its richness comes through with notes of cedar and dark fruits. Inver House's Green Plaid Scotch is slightly sweet with a light body; it earned a Double Gold distinction at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition last year. At about $25 a bottle, Green Plaid is proof that a good Scotch doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg. Matured in casks that used to house sherry and bourbon, the Hankey Bannister 25-year-old is spicy and fruity with a long finish. It's a special selection of the distillery's Master Blender, Stuart Harvey. Bowmore's 10-year single malt is known as the Tempest because it "encapsulates all the rugged, stormy sea qualities" of the centuries old distillery where it was made. Drinkers enjoy its briny tang. American oak barrels lend to this Scotch's warm toffee aroma. Balblair's 11-year-old single malt is honey-colored and slightly sweet and spicy, with a finish that warms from the first sip to the last. Perhaps one of the more well-known brands, Macallan's 21-year-old Scotch is aged in Spanish oak casks that have been seasoned with bourbon. This is a great full-bodied whisky that invokes thoughts of burning wood, but is surprisingly light in color with a slight, vanilla scent. At 30 years old, this Scotch is the oldest in the Highland Park range. The color is striking, with red-gold hues and strong flavors of nuttiness that contrast the oaken, chocolaty aroma. The second Bowmore bottle to make the list, this 25-year Scotch is produced in the Islay region, and is a blend of whiskies matured for 25 years in American bourbon and Spanish sherry casks. Drinkers note hints of toffee and a warm, smoky flavor. This 10-year-old single malt is only a decade old, proving that age isn't the only factor that goes into making a great Scotch. Laphroaig's was still named the Best Single Malt Whisky In The World in 2005 by Whisky Magazine. Its rich flavor comes from a distilling process that incorporates peat-fire-dried malted barley. FREE AppDownload
 Russia's economy is expected to avoid the worst case scenario following its incursion into Ukraine, according to a new report from Morgan Stanley. Although Russia's aggression towards its southern neighbor has created lasting problems for the Russian economy and made it a riskier investment, commodities prices remain high, the ruble is slowly recovering value, and Russian corporate credit remains "fundamentally sound." Perhaps most importantly, the firm sees Ukraine's recent, successful elections as a sign of "de-escalation" between Kiev and Moscow — a prerequisite for a longer-term Russian economic recovery. More highlights from the report: The ruble is rebounding, but won't recover fully from its post-Crimea invasion losses this year, according to Morgan Stanley. Russian bonds "have been on a rollercoaster since February as spreads move between 600 and 800 [basis points]," yet Morgan Stanley is still "neutral" on them, concluding that "the risk/reward in the medium term is more balanced" and even "[acknowledging] there is room for further strength in the near term." Russian corporate credit hasn't cratered. Quite the opposite: "Valuations are attractive and fundamentals are currently sound" from the perspective of foreign investors, a fact which will "provide the basis for investors to increase exposure in the scenario of de-escalation, in our view." And in the firm's analysis, Ukraine's recent elections, which were among the cleanest in the country's history, could bring about just that scenario. There are several "potential catalysts for further upside," like the "de-escalation" of the Ukraine crisis, the end of gas negotiations with China, and the strength of Russia's energy and natural resources sectors.  ... but the pre-Crimea invasion status quo isn't coming back for a while. The Russian economy has "subdued medium-term prospects," and the firm "[does] not expect a full return to the status quo before Crimea's annexation for some time." The lingering economic and political sting of EU and US sanctions, along with Putin's position that Russian-speaking areas in Moscow's near-abroad now have the right to secede, means that investors "are likely to reduce their exposure to Russian assets."  The firm projects the Russian economy will grow in 2014 but at a sluggish 1%. Could this mixed economic landscape convince Putin to pull back from eastern Ukraine? The Morgan Stanley report suggests that Putin's adventurism has had some real mid-term costs attached to it. At the same time, the Russian president has annexed part of a neighboring country and is still succeeding in sowing chaos throughout Ukraine's east. The week of the election saw heavy combat between pro-Russian militants and the Ukrainian military at the Donetsk airport and the deaths of 17 Ukrainian soldiers in the eastern town of Volnovakha.  For that kind of a hard power play — which has weakened the government in Kiev while lengthening Moscow's territorial reach, and put the entire western security alliance on notice — some slow growth, a faltering-but-recovering currency, and wild but not junk-status interest rates, might be an acceptable asking price.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukMasha, an 11-year-old bear from a travelling circus troupe based in Moscow, walks in costume during rehearsals in the Circus on Fontanka in St. Petersburg February 1, 2013.Today, Valeant — the Canadian pharmaceutical company that's teamed up with Bill Ackman to buy Allergan — held a long webcast on why Allergan should accept its newest bid, and there were a few weird moments in which CEO Michael Pearson walked back from bold statements he's made in the past. Valeant increased the cash component of its bid for Allergan by $10, to $58.30 per Allergan share. Awkwardness is to be expected in this case, though. Allergan released its own presentation slamming Valeant on Tuesday, and has swallowed a poison pill in order to avoid acquisition. Allergan also accused Valeant of being a rollup — using aggressive acquisition accounting to hide a lack of revenue growth. “It was a little insulting to be called a Tyco," Pearson said referencing a rollup from of ages past, "but I guess time will tell." The name calling was just the beginning of the presentation's awkwardness. What stood out more prominently were some of the statements Pearson made in Valeant's defense. One moment he was saying he learned the value of spending money on R&amp;D from his time at McKinsey — perhaps an attempt to assuage the fears of those who believe that Allergan's R&amp;D budget will be culled if it's bought — the next moment he was saying things like this: “This industry the R&amp;D productivity has been very very low, so how all companies grow in this industry is through making really good acquisitions and growing those acquisitions after they make them," adding, "The strategy we're embarking on is exactly the same as other pharmaceutical companies. We just don't happen to spend the billions and billions of dollars on R&amp;D that produces very little." It's a defense of a strategy that some find strange, and sets Valeant apart (for better or worse) from other pharma companies. Valeant Pearson also added that Valeant may do 20 acquisitions in the first half of this year. "Right now we have no constraints over our activities as a company," he said. Things also got weird when Pearson was asked about transparency. An analyst asked why Valeant changed its reporting so often. He responded that the company was trying to be as transparent as possible, and tried to compare its reporting changes to Allergan's with this Fox-News-Graphic-slide (the arrows suggest that we're comparing equal periods of time, but they're not). Valeant The weirdest part of the presentation, though, was when Pearson walked back from his former pledge to make Valeant a $150 billion market cap company. "We don't care about getting bigger, we care about getting value for our shareholders," he said, adding that if that meant splitting up the company in order to continue to pursue aggressive acquisition strategies on a smaller scale, so be it. This is a quick turnaround from: "Is the task of growing from $1 billion to $40 billion in six years more difficult than the task of growing from $40 billion to $150 billion in three? I don't know," Pearson said at conversation with Goldman Sachs analyst Gary Nachman earlier this year. "People have always been skeptical and ... our investors are rooting us on and others are rooting against us. That's life." Pearson said that the $150 billion mantra was simply meant to illustrate that Valeant was not going to "sit back and do nothing." All this said perhaps we are meant to be confused. Pearson said over and over again that his company isn't well understood. "We're much more like a consumer company, a self pay company, and conventional data sources... it's [pharmaceutical data] just not applicable to the way we run our business," he said. "I'm not sure how you guys [Wall Street analysts] think." But it doesn't matter as much what they think as what Allergan shareholders, who will vote on this matter, think. And 60% know that they want more cash from the deal — $180 to $200 a share according to a survey conducted by JP Morgan. That's where the key misunderstanding is. During the presentation Pearson said there was basically no chance Valeant would offer up an all-cash deal for Allergan, he also said that eventually the shares of the combined companies would be far more valuable than cash. "If this drags out 6 months... this is only going to be to the detriment of Allergan," said Pearson, adding that waiting for the deal makes no difference to Valeant. That definitely sounds like a contradiction too. FREE AppDownload
APSolarCity is doing a Groupon. For $1, homeowners will get a $400 discount on the firm's rooftop panel leasing package.  It will be available in the 15 states in which SolarCity operates, including New York. The discount will be applied toward the electricity consumed. Installation is free. "This takes us back to our roots," Jonathan Bass, the firm's VP for communications, said in an interview, referring to the fact that in its earliest days SolarCity offered community-wide discounts for greater penetration. "It's a really attractive model, it makes it digital and allows us to scale it." The firm has previously partnered with Best Buy and Home Depot to sell access to solar panels.  The offer runs through the next four days. FREE AppDownload
Alcohol is one of the most dangerous substances on the planet. Someone dies from alcohol use every ten seconds, and one night of binge drinking can take a huge toll on your immune system. Dr. Samuel Ball of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University (CASAColumbia) reveals the myriad effects alcohol has on your brain and body. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
Internet analyst Mary Meeker is out with her big annual slide presentation on the state of the internet. She comes out with one every year, and it really is a great product to click through, filled with charts and stats on all the big trends about the web. In addition to focusing simply on the internet, Meeker always devotes some time to other big economic trends, and it's here that we learn something interesting. In recent years, she has been concluding her presentation with some ominous charts about the deficit and the debt. Mary Meeker Mary Meeker In recent years, this has been the Zeitgeist: No discussion about the future of America is complete without serious warnings about the healthcare system and the deficit. But that's changed in 2014. As Conor Sen points out, this year there's no big sectioning warning about the deficit. There's still a slide in there about the budget, but it's much less ominous. And as for healthcare, this year there's a whole section devoted to reasons for optimism and "green shoots" in the industry, with slides like this one. Kleiner Perkins If nothing else, this represents a turning point in the thinking of the elites. Stressing about the debt is tired. Talking about how we're actually solving our big problems is hot. FREE AppDownload
I construct estimates of world GDP over the very long run by combining estimates of total human populations with largely-Malthusian estimates of levels of real GDP per capita. Population I take my estimates of human population from Kremer (1993), but it would not matter if I had chosen some other authority. All long-run estimates of human population that I have found are quite close together (with the exception of estimates of population around 5000 BC, where Blaxter (1986) estimates a population some eight times that of other authorities). Note that this does not mean that the estimates are correct—just that they are roughly the same.  Kremer (1993) sees human populations as growing at an increasing proportional rate from perhaps 125,000 in one million B.C. to 6 billion today. Population reached approximately 4 million by 10000 BC, 50 million by 1000 BC, and 170 million by the year 1. Population then reached 265 million by the year 1000, 425 million by 1500, and 720 million by 1750 before exploding to 1.2 billion by 1850, 1.8 billion by 1900, 2.5 billion by 1950, and 6 billion today. Up until 1950 Kremer calculates that the rate of growth of human populations was roughly proportional to their total level. Angus Maddison (1995) has constructed estimates of real GDP per capita for the world from 1820 to 1992. His estimates are best thought of as Laspeyres purchasing power parity estimates in 1990 international dollars. That is, they: Compare income levels across countries not using current exchange rates, but instead trying to change one currency into another at rates that keep purchasing power constant (“purchasing power parity”). Value goods in relative terms using the prices found in a country in the middle of the world distribution of income (“international”). Calculate a value for 1990 GDP per capita in the United States equal to U.S. current-dollar GDP per capita in 1990 (“1990 dollars”). Do not take explicit account of the benefits of the introduction of new goods and new types of goods, but instead calculate GDP per capita in the past by valuing the commodities produced in the past at recent prices—and not making any correction for the restricted range of choice enforced by limited production possibilities (“Laspeyres”). All of these save the last is reasonable—is in fact a way of proceeding vastly preferable to the alternatives. I will return to the last of these later. But first I want to extend Maddison’s estimates backward before 1820. Economies in the long ago were very different from our economy of today. For one thing, for 95% of the time since the invention of agriculture economies were Malthusian: improvements in productivity and technology showed up not as increases in average standards of living but as increases in population levels at a roughly constant standard of living. For a second, in the long-long ago the pace of invention and innovation can most optimistically be described as glacial—two hundred years to achieve the pace of relative change that we see in twelve months. For a third, arithmetic tells you that in the long-long ago the overwhelming majority of those who are or become well-off have either held on to what their parents bequeathed them or proven successful in zero- or negative-sum redistributional struggles—rather than having found or placed themselves at a key chokepoint of positive-sum productive processes. This means that, lacking data, we can make data up out of thin air by making inferences from very low pre-1500 population growth rates that material standards of living were back then very close to "subsistence". We know that a preindustrial not-very literate population with ample access to food and resources can and will roughly double every generation: that is the pace of European settler expansion in the Americas, after all. And we know that from 5000 BC to 1345 the average rate of global population growth was 0.07%/year—not the 2.5%/year of normal human biology with ample food and other resources. The inescapable conclusion is that resources were scarce: just barely more than necessary to keep human populations from declining given the socio-cultural institutions then prevailing. We can check these by consulting the long-run biomedical studies of Rick Steckel (1995), “Stature and the Standard of Living,” Journal of Economic Literature 33:4 (December), pp. 1903-40, and many others. We can use Steckel’s estimates of the relationship between height and income found in a cross-section of people alive today and evidence from past burials to infer what real incomes were in the past. The conclusion is inescapable: people in the preindustrial past were short—very short—with adult males averaging some 63 inches compared to 69 inches either in the pre-agricultural Mesolithic or today. Therefore people in the pre-industrial past were poor—very poor. If they weren’t very poor, they would have fed their children more and better and their children would have grown taller. And they were malnourished compared to us or to their pre-agricultural predecessors: defects in their teeth enamel, iron-deficient, skeletal markers of severe cases of infectious disease, and crippled backs. Pre-industrial dire poverty lasted late. Even as of 1750 people in Britain, Sweden, and Norway were four full inches shorter than people are today—consistent with an average caloric intake of only some 2000 calories per person per day, many of whom were or were attempting to be engaged in heavy physical labor. And societies in the preindustrial past were stunningly unequal: the upper classes were high and mighty indeed, upper class children growing between four and six inches taller than their working-class peers. Moreover, there are no consistent trends in heights between the invention of agriculture and the coming of the industrial age. Up until the eve of the industrial revolution itself, the dominant human experience since the invention of agriculture had been one of poverty so severe as to produce substantial malnutrition and stunted growth. It is this experience that makes Jared Diamond conclude that the invention of agriculture was the worst mistake ever made by the human race. If you plot the rates of world population growth against Maddison’s estimates of world GDP per capita, you find a very high and significant correlation between the two from the early nineteenth century until roughly World War II. After World War II the demographic transition has begun to take hold in large parts of the world, but before World War II the higher is world GDP per capita, the faster is population growth—with a 1 percentage point per year increase in population growth associated with an increase in average world GDP per capita of $1,165 (with a t-statistic of 7.4 and an adjusted-R2 of 0.84).  If you are enough of a Malthusian to believe that this tight relationship before World War II is not coincidence but instead reflects a near-linear dependence of the rate of human population growth on the margin between actual production and bio-cultural subsistence, then you can use the fitted relationship between population growth and Maddison-concept GDP per capita to backcast estimates of world GDP per capita before 1820. An alternative (preferred by Maddison) is to assume that GDP per capita was constant in Asia and Africa from 1500-1820, grew at 0.1 percent per year from 1500-1820 in Latin America and Eastern Europe, and grew at 0.2 percent per year from 1500-1820 in Western Europe (an estimate that Maddison attributes to Simon Kuznets (1973)); this alternative could then be backcast further by assuming that pre-1500 GDP per capita was constant at near-Malthusian bio-cultural subsistence. I prefer the first alternative (and have used it). But I also report estimates using the second. New Goods A large proportion of our high standard of living today derives not just from our ability to more cheaply and productively manufacture the commodities of 1800, but from our ability to manufacture whole new types of commodities, some of which do a better job of meeting needs that we knew we had back in 1800, and some of which meet needs that were unimagined back in 1800. How much has this change—the fact that we make not just the same goods, but new goods and new types of goods—enhanced our material prosperity? Nordhaus (1997) provides perhaps the most eloquent and sophisticated argument that standard measures—like those of Maddison—that do not take explicit account of these factors grossly understate the rate of economic growth over the past two centuries. I know that I at least would be extremely unhappy if I were handed my current income, told that I could spend it on goods at current prices, but that I was prohibited from buying anything that was not made before 1800. Yet Maddison’s procedures would implicitly take such a reduction in the range of goods I could purchase as having no effect on my real income or real material standard of living. But by how much has our power to make new things—not just the same things more efficiently—amplified our material prosperity? In at least some models of growth in which the set of goods that can be produced expands, the correct measure of real output is proportional to the product of purchasing power (income divided by the average price of a good) and the number of goods that can be produced. As best as I can determine, about three-quarters of world expenditure today is spent on commodities that simply did not exist back in 1800. So I—somewhat arbitrarily—use this to assign an additional fourfold multiplication to output per capita since 1800 in addition to the increases in output per capita calculated by Maddison. But since this—large—extra adjustment is not to everyone’s taste, I also report the “ex-Nordhaus” series without the “new kinds of goods” adjustment. Conclusion The outcome of this set of calculations is thus seven series: Kremer’s (1993) estimates of population; three estimates of GDP per capita (my preferred estimate, the constant-before-1500 estimate, and the ex-Nordhaus estimate); and three estimates of total world real GDP (capita (my preferred estimate, the constant-before-1500 estimate, and the ex-Nordhaus estimate). They are reported in the table below:  This article originally appeared at Grasping Reality With Both Hands.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Eric RisbergOracle CEO Larry Ellison.Average CEO pay at the biggest companies in the U.S. has been increasing at a moderate rate with the majority of wealth concentrated in fewer hands over the past several years, according to a new annual survey by the Wall Street Journal and the Hay Group. Total annual compensation for the top 301 CEOs in America increased by a median 5.5% to $11.4 million from 2012 to 2013. The top 10% of earners made 23% of the total compensation, according to the report. Meanwhile, wages and salaries for private sector employees in the U.S. increased by 1.8% during the same period, a growth discrepancy also indicative of a trend since the recession. Notably, none of the CEOs in the top 10 lead companies ranked in the top 10% for performance. Larry Ellison is the highest paid CEO in the U.S., but Oracle ranks as No. 152 in performance. Similarly, Disney CEO Robert Iger is the sixth highest paid, but the company's performance ranks at No. 165. Total direct compensation consists of salary, annual incentives, stock option grants, restricted stock grants, and performance awards. Most of those in the top 10 made their money from stock options and cash. Here are the top 20 highest paid CEOs: 2013 Compensation: $76.9M / One-Year Change: -18.7% 2013 Compensation: $65.4M / One-Year Change: 11.1% 2013 Compensation: $45.4M / One-Year Change: 248.2% 2013 Compensation: $38.9M / One-Year Change: 125.1% 2013 Compensation: $36.8M / One-Year Change: 11.0% 2013 Compensation: $33.4M / One-Year Change: -8.1% 2013 Compensation: 32.4% / One-Year Change: 26.9% 2013 Compensation: $31.2M / One-Year Change: 174.9% 2013 Compensation: $30.9M / One-Year Change: 140.1% 2013 Compensation: $28.2M / One-Year Change: 262.1% 2013 Compensation: $28.0M / One-Year Change: 16.7% 2013 Compensation: $27.6M / One-Year Change: 3.2% 2013 Compensation: $25.8M / One-Year Change: 16.9% 2013 Compensation: $24.9M / One-Year Change: 284.5% 2013 Compensation: $24.4M / One-Year Change: 10.9% 2013 Compensation: $24.0M / One-Year Change: 11.6% 2013 Compensation: $23.4M / One-Year Change: N/A 2013 Compensation: $22.6M / One-Year Change: 5.7% 2013 Compensation: $22.5M / One-Year Change: 11.2% 2013 Compensation: $22.4M / One-Year Change: 146.4% Among the lowest-paid CEOs are company founders John Mackey of Whole Foods Market, Richard Kinder of Kinder Morgan Inc., and Larry Page of Google, who each earned "effectively nothing." See the Wall Street Journal's full report here. FREE AppDownload
Andrew D. Bernstein / Getty ImagesLong faces from the San Antonio Spurs after getting blown out last nightThe markets are lower after the S&amp;P 500 yesterday made a new all-time closing high for the second straight session. The Dow is down 42 points (0.2%), the S&amp;P 500 is down 4 points (0.2%), and the Nasdaq is down 18 points (0.4%).  The economic calendar is light. The Mortgage Bankers Association reported U.S. mortgage applications fell 1.2% for the week ending May 23. In the Eurozone, German unemployment jumped to its worst level in 5 years, and M3 — a measure of money supply — grew just 0.8% in April, the slowest pace in 3 years.  In corporate news, Valeant Pharmaceuticals increased the cash component of its offer for Botox-maker Allergan by $10 per share. Valeant has teamed with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman in its bid to acquire Allergan. Ackman holds a nearly 10% stake in both companies.  Shares of Allergan are down about 4%, and Valeant stock is lower by about 3.5%. Other equity movers include:  Meanwhile, Treasury notes are surging. Moments ago, the 10-year Treasury yield touched a low of 2.4395%. FREE AppDownload
The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has tumbled to 2.4413%, a new low for 2014, per Bloomberg data. There are a variety of factors fueling the rally, some of which we've previously discussed. The main ones are ongoing uncertainty about the recovery and constrained inflation. “Long-dated Treasuries outperformed because of the perception that the U.S. is going to have moderate growth without inflationary pressure,” Salman Ahmed, a London-based global strategist at Lombard Odier Asset Management, told Bloomberg. “Or at least, that’s what the Fed is saying.” Other factors include fears that the European Central Bank will lower interest rates, making Europe's bonds relatively less appealing; overseas demand for U.S. debt; and short covering among those who thought yields would rise. Here's the chart: Yahoo  FREE AppDownload
William Wei, Business InsiderTesla's Model S sedan.S&amp;P has assigned an "unsolicited" 'B-' corporate credit rating to Tesla Motors. The outlook is stable. S&amp;P said its rating on Tesla's bonds is "unsolicited" because the firm does not have a rating agreement with Tesla. S&amp;P said it believes, "there is sufficient market interest in the company's obligations to initiate analytical coverage." Corporate bonds rated 'BB' or lower by S&amp;P are referred to as non-investment grade, or "junk." These bonds typically offer investors higher yields in exchange for increased risk. In its report on Tesla, S&amp;P said its "vulnerable" business risk profile assessment incorporates Tesla's, "narrow product focus, concentrated production footprint, small scale relative to its larger automotive peers, limited visibility on the long-term demand for its products, and limited track record in handling execution risks that could arise in managing high volume parallel production." Tuesday, we profiled the challenges Tesla is facing in its plans to build its first gigafactory. The gigafactory is a facility that would allow Tesla to make lithium ion batteries to be used both in its electric vehicles and as power storage units sold by SolarCity.  Tesla is issuing $1.6 billion worth of debt to help pay for the gigafactory.  In morning trade, Tesla is down more than 2.5%.  From S&amp;P: NEW YORK (Standard &amp; Poor's) May 27, 2014--Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services said today that it assigned its unsolicited 'B-' corporate credit rating to Tesla Motors Inc. The outlook is stable.  We also assigned our unsolicited 'B-' issue-level and '4' unsolicited recovery ratings to the company's $920 million 0.25% unsecured convertible notes due 2019, $1.38 billion 1.25% unsecured convertible notes due 2021, and $660 million unsecured convertible due 2018. The '4' recovery rating indicates our expectation for average recovery (30%-50%) for the noteholders in the event of a payment default. Our "vulnerable" business risk profile assessment incorporates Tesla's narrow product focus, concentrated production footprint, small scale relative to its larger automotive peers, limited visibility on the long-term demand for its products, and limited track record in handling execution risks that could arise in managing high volume parallel production. The business risk profile is also constrained by Tesla's niche and independent market position, compared to its significantly larger and stronger peers, and its very limited product range and operating diversity. We expect global competition for alternative fuel vehicles to intensify over the next few years as competitors penetrate this market through improved products. We believe there is considerable uncertainty in Tesla's long-term prospects and believe that the company is less likely (compared to larger, more established automakers) to successfully adapt to competitive and technological displacement risks over the medium to long term.  Mitigating factors include improving brand recognition, ongoing cost structure improvements with higher unit sales leading to better absorption of fixed costs and lower logistics costs, as well as Tesla's ability to command a price premium through its Model S product, design, and technology.  "The stable outlook reflects our view that Tesla will continue its recent improvement in gross margins and generate positive cash flow from operations in 2014 while maintaining sufficient liquidity despite its large growth-related cash investments," said Standard &amp; Poor's credit analyst Nishit Madlani. We could lower the rating if it appears likely that the projected long-term demand for Tesla's vehicles will fall meaningfully below our estimates, leading to overcapacity, or if FOCF will likely remain significantly negative for the foreseeable future, causing liquidity to become insufficient. A downgrade may also occur if additional debt funding needs arise or significant execution risks and cost overruns materialize related to the company's expansion of Model S into Europe and Asia this year or the launch of its Model X in early 2015.  Though unlikely over the next 12 months, we could raise the rating if a combination of higher demand for Tesla's product and operational cost reductions leads to a credible pathway for positive free operating cash flow (FOCF to debt approaching 5%), with leverage falling well below 6.5x and liquidity remains "adequate." We would also need to believe that the company's improved market position is sustainable. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Yves LoggheMcDonald's CEO Don ThompsonAt an investor conference, McDonald's said it plans to return $18 to $20 billion to shareholders between 2014 and 2016. The company said it will return this cash to holders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases, representing a 10% to 20% increase over the cash amount returned to holders between 2011 and 2013. In addition to its capital return plans, McDonald's also said it will refranchise 1,500 restaurants by the end of 2016. Refranchising is the process of selling company-owned restaurants to franchisees.  McDonald's shares are down about 1% just after the market open. The company is set to release May sales on June 9. Here's the full text of McDonald's plans: During an investor conference presentation today, McDonald's Corporation President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson announced an intensified commitment to the Company's customer-focused strategic framework – the Plan to Win – and other actions to enhance long-term shareholder value. "The Plan to Win along with our competitive advantages, System alignment and financial discipline has served as our strategic roadmap, guiding the execution of our global growth priorities," said Don Thompson.  "Today, the Plan to Win has evolved as we reenergize the McDonald's System by placing the customer at the center of everything we do.  We are pursuing targeted growth opportunities to provide our customers with their favorite food and drink, create memorable experiences, offer unparalleled convenience and become an even more trusted brand to deliver the most meaningful impact for our customers and our business." In addition, the Company announced plans to optimize its capital and ownership structures and scrutinize G&amp;A spending.  Specifically, the Company expects to: "The actions we are taking to enhance long-term shareholder value fit squarely within our proven business model," said Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen. "Our 3-year cash return target is based on several activities including the significant free cash flow generated from our operations, as well as the use of cash proceeds from our debt additions and refranchising activity.  Financial discipline has always been a cornerstone of McDonald's strategic plan, and we will pursue these activities while maintaining appropriate levels of financial flexibility, liquidity and access to capital for the Company and the System.  Our commitment to this discipline continues to fortify our long-standing financial strength and our ability to deliver sustained profitable growth."  Don Thompson concluded, "We are committed to continuous improvement in everything we do – from the food we serve, to our engagement with our customers, to the management of our financial resources.  Guided by our evolved customer-focused priorities, the McDonald's System is determined to create experiences that our customers notice and appreciate so they reward us with their business and loyalty." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeHomebuilder Toll Brothers reported quarterly profit and earnings that beat expectations. The stock is up around 3% in early trading. "Demand over the past year has been solid, although relatively flat, compared to the strong growth we initially experienced beginning in 2011, coming off the bottom of this housing cycle," said CEO Doug Yearly. Yearly's comments are in line with the lackluster signals from the broader housing market and economists' readings of the tea leaves. Earlier today, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported a 1.2% decline in mortgage applications last week. On Tuesday, we learned the 20-city S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price index climbed 1.24% month-over-month in March, beating expectations for a more modest increase of 0.7%. But following the Case-Shiller report, Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said "this report makes no sense."  Shepherdson added that, "every indicator" of the house market he watches is slowing or falling. While all the signs point toward a cooling off in the housing market, Yearly doesn't see this as a preceding a downturn. Rather, he sees the opposite. "We note that last cycle's recovery, in the early 1990's, began with a period of rapid acceleration, followed by leveling, before further upward momentum," he said. "We believe that we are in a similar leveling period in the early stages of the housing recovery with significant pent-up demand building." As a homebuilder, Toll Brothers stands gain from tight supply in the market. "According to the April 2014 U.S. Census Bureau's New Home Sales Report, new home inventory stands at just 5.3 months' supply, based on current sales paces," said executive chairman Robert Toll. "If demand and pace increase, the 5.3 months' supply could quickly be drawn down.  Current demographics seem to suggest that new home sales should pick up. If the tight supply bumps into increasing demand, prices could rapidly rise." While the execs at Toll Brothers are probably biased, we can appreciate that they're at least sticking their necks out on the line. FREE AppDownload
Barclays It's been a good few decades for America's electric utilities. As regulated monopolies, they face almost no competition and enjoy access to cheap credit. In a new note, a Barclays team led by Y.C. Koh says the industry is finally facing its day of reckoning, from a source many have long dismissed as an unviable pipe dream: solar.  Specifically, the threat is residential solar — that is, people creating their own electricity. To prove that the threat is real this time, Barclays is downgrading its electric sector rating to "underweight" from "market weight."  "The regulatory responses to the growing competitive threat from solar + storage may prove inadequate to address potential strains to the credit profiles of issuers in these states," it writes. There are two main reasons solar is finally for real, the group says. The first is that for more than a decade, there's been a huge push from governments around the world, and at every level, to subsidize renewables. Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) estimates that the annual output of PV modules increased almost 30 times in the past decade, from 1,000MW per year in 2005 to more than 30,000MW in 2013, Barclays notes. With that scale has come cheaper prices for panels.  Here's what the cost curve looks like: Barclays The second reason is the advent of cheap storage. For the past few years, homeowners have addressed renewables' intermittency problem — the wind isn't always blowing, the sun doesn't always shine — by making a deal with their utility: They'll continue to buy electric power, but they get to keep their solar panels running when they're not home and sell any excess power they generate back onto the grid. This is called net metering. Net metering has been a boon for incentivizing rooftop solar adoption. But what if you could truly power up your home through a solar-charged battery and only have to buy utility electricity in an emergency? As recently as 2009, the all-in costs for such batteries would have been as much as $17,000. But with the expansion of electric vehicles, Barclays says the cost of storage has been falling rapidly and now stands at about $3,700. And it just so happens that the power required to operate an electric vehicle can power the average home for up to three days, Barclays notes, "potentially opening a new use in residential distributed generation systems." Battery costs could come down even further if Elon Musk's gigafactory launches, the group adds.  Yesterday we discussed this idea in detail. Here's the price-decline chart: Barclays  Barclays sees that the solar + storage wave has the potential to spread beyond its roots in California and Arizona. Here is their timeline for when solar costs could reach parity in all 50 states: BarclaysCheap solar panels combined with cheap storage will spark a grid "defection spiral" that will pry away utilities' grip on the power monopoly. In this scenario, early adopters begin leaving the grid, incrementally increasing utilities' power costs rise — which further exacerbates the shift into solar and storage, and so on. We are already seeing evidence of step one, as utilities have begun complaining that solar customers are causing electricity prices for nonsolar users to go up.  This is maybe the most vivid description in the note of what solar will do to utilities:  [W]e envision an electricity market where demand for grid power falls, peak hours shift (perhaps dramatically), and regulatory mechanisms need to be adjusted or overhauled to accommodate some utilities becoming the electricity generators of last resort. We expect the net effect to be higher grid power costs (thereby exacerbating the consumer shift to solar + storage), lower average credit quality for regulated utilities and unregulated power producers, and increased recognition of the long-term threat to grid power. Whatever roadblocks utilities try to toss up — and there's already been plenty of tossing in the states most vulnerable to solar, further evidence of the pressures they're facing  — it's already too late, Barclays says: We fully expect utilities and regulators to make a good faith effort to preserve the status quo “regulatory compact,” whereby the monopoly utility provides a safe and reliable service and regulators allow it to earn a reasonable low-risk return. However, we also expect them to be playing a constant game of catch-up as solar develops. The costs of solar and storage technologies are falling quickly and may fall even faster as higher demand builds additional scale. But the cost of distribution grids and thermally generated power are more likely to rise than to fall, in our view. As a result, regulators and utilities will be constantly trying to respond to a moving target, which is precisely the environment where slow-moving incumbents can fall behind. It's been a good run. FREE AppDownload
Jason Langlois via flickr creative commons Starbucks has taken heat for failing to offer recycling at many of its stores. As noted by Bloomberg View's Adam Minter, the chain is far behind its goal of offering recycling at all of its company-owned stores by 2015, with the option only available in 39% as of the company's 2013 Global Responsibility Report. In fact, Starbucks is way behind on many stated environmental goals. The company reduced energy consumption in its company-operated stores by only 7.1% between 2008 and 2013, far from its goal of 25% reduction by 2015. The company's 2013 report further noted that it was behind track in purchasing renewable energy to offset its electricity use. As of 2013, Starbucks also only sold 1.8% of beverages in personal tumblers compared to a goal of 5% by 2015. While these missed goals may suggest the coffee behemoth is an environmental failure, the truth is starkly different. In fact, Starbucks is better than most industry peers when it comes to environmental impact, according to corporate watchdog GMI Ratings. "Starbucks Corporation’s environmental ratings is around the 90th percentile when compared to U.S., Global, and Industry Peers," GMI senior research analyst Greg Ruel wrote in an email citing data provided by Trucost plc. "The company’s carbon emissions, water use, and supply chain impact are all favorable compared to peers of a similar market cap, like Chipotle Mexican Grill and the Yum! Brand chain. Waste disposal, normalized for revenue, is average when compared to Chipotle, Yum! Brands and McDonald’s." "[E]ven HAVING the kinds of aims that are listed in its Global Responsibility Report is not just unusual, it’s exemplary," former GMI CCO and senior research analyst Paul Hodgson wrote in 2012. John Kelly, Starbucks' senior vice president for global responsibility and public policy, was quick to point this out in a recent conference call with Business Insider.  "The purpose in originating these goals was to be very aspirational. We are more interested in being aspirational, innovating, listening to our partners, listening to our customers than in what it looks like if we fall short," Kelly said, noting also that company leaders "certainly set out to achieve the goals." Caveats aside, it's interesting to see why Starbucks is struggling to hit some goals. When it comes to recycling, as Minter discussed, the company has found it hard to establish an efficient system in many markets, a problem it blames on local politics. Reducing energy has proven hard given Starbucks' expanded product offerings. "Starbucks’s business has changed very significantly," Jim Hanna, Starbucks director of environmental impact, said during the same conference call. "If you look at the acquisitions we’ve made as a company, purchasing La Boulange, the bakery company, purchasing Evolution Fresh, and really incorporating those new businesses and the new platforms into our stores, what we’ve seen frankly is a lot more warm pastry sales and a lot more warm food sales, increasing refrigeration needs within the stores, and frankly just more business going into the square footage of the stores." While increasing sales in reusable cups has proven difficult, the company has gotten "a good lift" from offering cheaper containers and from redesigning stores to promote ceramic mugs for in-store consumption.  The company has had more success in other areas. Here's the scorecard from Starbucks' 2013 report: globalassets.starbucks.com We also asked about Starbucks' controversial failure to hit its 2010 goal to raise and donate $10 million to alleviate the world water crisis through sales of Ethos Water, which it purchased in 2005. The company went on to raise only $6.2 million by 2010 and blamed the economic crisis among other things. It turns out the company has now belatedly hit its target, setting aside $12.3 million for water donations. It does not have a new target. While Starbucks is doing relatively well when it comes to the environment, GMI says the company has bigger problems in another area that the corporate watchdog tracks: social impact. As noted by Ruel: Social Ratings for Starbucks Corporation are in the bottom five percent when compared to all peers in the U.S. and globally. Our key areas on concern when monitoring restaurants are community relations, labor practices, and discriminatory employment practices. Over the past three years, the company has been party to a number of investigations and settlements according to filings and news reports. Issues with product concerns, labor practices, tax evasion, stakeholder abuse, and discriminatory business practices have significantly hampered the company’s ESG [environmental, social, and governance] Rating. Most recently, the company has conducted three separate product recalls in 2014.  In November 2013, Starbucks stated that it would restate fourth-quarter results to show an operating loss of $2.12 billion to reflect damages related to its dispute with Kraft Foods. Just prior in July 2013, a lawsuit was filed against New York Starbucks claiming repeated discrimination against deaf customers. In 2012, international issues included a claim by UK lawmakers that executives weren’t paying their share of taxes and Chile’s labor department blacklisted Starbucks local units over labor practices, preventing them from bidding to supply local government offices for two years. In the area of workplace safety, Starbucks has not yet implemented OHSAS 18001 as its occupational health and safety management system, nor does it actively disclose its workplace safety record in its annual report or other reporting vehicle. Starbucks poses a much greater social risk than industry peers, issues which have the potential to hamper long-term sustainability. You win some, you use lose some, Howard Schultz. We've asked Starbucks for comment on GMI's social analysis and will add any that we receive. Disclosure: I worked as a Starbucks barista in 2009.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergio MoraesA man walks behind a graffiti depicting Brazilian soccer player Neymar and a phantom representing the Uruguayan soccer team, who won the 1950 World Cup in Brazil, in Rio de Janeiro May 14, 2014.Politicians love to tell their constituents about the big boost an international sporting event will bring to their economy. Surely, this is what Brazil's leader have tried to sell to the Brazilian people ahead of the World Cup. Societe Generale's Dev Ashish is out with a research note on how hosting the World Cup will impact Brazil's economy. Ashish notes that spending during the World Cup is expected to total 25.5 billion Brazilian reals (BRL), or just less than 0.6% of Brazil's nominal GDP. This spending will also help pare Brazil's deficit. Ashish writes: A study by the Brazilian Tourism Institute (EMBRATUR) suggests that around 3.7 million tourists will visit various cities in Brazil for the 30 days the WC is being held and spend a total of BRL25.5bn (=0.57% of nominal GDP). Of this, domestic travellers are expected to spend BRL18.5bn, while foreign travellers should spend BRL6.85bn (=over USD3.2bn). The additional foreign spending (on top of the usual number of tourists who visit Brazil every year) should help reduce about 0.2% point of the estimated overall current account deficit which stands at -3.8% of GDP in 2014e. However, some of this tourism income may not materialize to the extent assumed if the usual number of tourists, i.e. those not attending the event, avoid traveling to  cities hosting the event due to higher prices or the inconvenience factor. Asish, however, notes that costs related to the World Cup, which is estimated at more than $11 billion has been behind some of the inflation Brazil has experienced over the last several years. It's also set off huge protests in the country. He adds that long-term gains from an event like the World Cup are often exaggerated, especially if stadiums built for the event fail to generate enough revenue in the future. As with most things, you have to spend money to make money. Brazil can only hope that it makes enough money to at least offset what it spent. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jon GosierWhen you're involved in making business decisions for your company, you want to make sure they're the right ones.  A lot of factors come into play. How do you do your research? Whose opinions and recommendations do you trust most? Does social media play a role at all? Executives and managers, we're looking to understand what matters most to you in making business decisions. With so much at stake, how do you decide what — and how — to decide? Click here to take our quick survey and let us know. Thanks in advance for your candid responses. FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday, pharmaceutical company Allergan filed a presentation with the SEC trashing Valeant — the company trying to acquire Allergan with the help of hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. He has an almost 10% stake in Allergan to help this process along. Ackman or no Ackman, Allergan's board still must be persuaded. So Wednesday morning, Valeant increased the cash component of its bid for Allergan by $10, to $58.30 per Allergan share and struck back on a webcast accompanied by a 176-page presentation (if that's not Ackman style, what is?). Think of this like Ackman and Valeant stunning their prey before swallowing it whole. The song and dance was necessary. After Allergan's presentation, Valeant had a lot to answer for. In short, Allergan said Valeant is a company with little to no organic growth that hurts the companies it acquires, in part, by slashing their R&amp;D budgets to bits. One powerful slide in the presentation argued that — since Valeant acquired Bausch and Lomb — the latter is only growing due to unsustainable price increases. Sales have actually fallen. Allergan Worse than that, Allergan accuses Valeant of being an accounting shenanigans. Specifically — it accuses Valeant of being a rollup, a company that uses aggressive acquisition accounting to hide its lack of revenue. The problem with a rollup is that when a company stops being able to make acquisitions it can completely fall apart. For those who believe that Valeant is playing this game, that is why it's insisting on buying Allergan and upping its offer price, even though in an interview earlier this month Valeant's CEO said the company would do no such thing. Allergan is not the only one saying this. President of Kynikos Associates, short-seller Jim Chanos, says the same thing about Valeant's accounting. He's identified these issues in the past too, in companies like Tyco. Allergan put this Chanos quote in its presentation: “We're short [Valeant] because it's a rollup. Androll ups present a unique set of problems," said Chanos on CNBC earlier this month. "Roll ups are generally accounting-driven, and we certainly think that's the case in [Valeant]. We think [Valeant] is playing some very aggressive accounting games when they buy companies, write down the assets, and also engaged in what we call spring-loading.” That's basically as bad as your mother saying she doesn't like your girlfriend. So for the K.O., Allergan ended its presentation with this slide about what it gets out of being acquired (headaches). Allergan To counter all this, Valeant CEO Michael Pearson said Wednesday morning that Allergan's presentation is "misleading." He says that his company does have a focus on R&amp;D and that its organic growth has been hidden by the fact that generic versions of some of its major products just hit the market (not a problem that's going away, to be fair). As for B&amp;L, Valeant said that it expects B&amp;L's revenue to grow 10% in 2014. But this is what one executive called "the money slide." The slide that shows Valeant completely turned around OraPharma, another pharmaceutical company it acquired in 2012. Valeant All this drama ultimately boils down to one question no matter what anyone says: If you were an Allergan shareholder, which side would you believe?   FREE AppDownload
The profits outlook remains bright according to the S&amp;P 500 forward earnings. This series has been highly correlated with capital spending in real GDP and with nondefense capital goods orders. Comparing capital spending in real GDP during the current expansion to the previous six shows that it has also been growing at a subpar pace. Spending on structures, on information processing equipment, and on intellectual property products (including software and R&amp;D) have been especially weak. On the strong side have been industrial and transportation equipment. I believe that as a result of the IT revolution, companies may be getting more bang for their capital-spending bucks now than in the past. They can spend less on IT hardware and software in current dollars and get much more computing and communicating power. The industrial equipment they buy comes with powerful embedded IT capabilities. Nevertheless, if profits remain strong, their capital spending should grow. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Durable Economy. (1) Slow, but steady. (2) Below-average expansion could last longer than average. (3) Forward earnings is a very upbeat leading indicator. (4) Other good omens. (5) Regional business surveys and flash PMIs are strong. (6) Young adults are more optimistic. (7) Profits driving capital spending higher. (8) IT revolution increases bang per capital-spending buck. (9) Transportation stocks outperforming ytd. (10) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Industrials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/PIMCO PIMCO’s Bill Gross and Paul McCulley in a picture taken early May in Newport Beach, California. NEW YORK (Reuters) - Pimco said on Tuesday it has rehired Paul McCulley, who was previously a portfolio manager and the bond giant's top analyst of the U.S. Federal Reserve's policies, in the latest management change after the departure of the firm's chief executive Mohamed El-Erian earlier this year. The firm, which oversaw $1.94 trillion at the end of March, said McCulley will be its chief economist, a newly created role, and will report to Bill Gross, co-founder and chief investment officer. McCulley will assume much of El-Erian's role as Pimco's public face in leading "discussion on global macroeconomic issues and central bank policy, writing and publishing commentary, and speaking with Pimco's clients around the world," the firm said in a statement. El-Erian, who has repeatedly called McCulley "my good friend", declined to comment for this story. Gross and El-Erian had a very public falling out in the weeks after El-Erian announced his departure from Pimco, whose full name is Pacific Investment Management Co. Gross spent several months wooing McCulley back to Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, according to four sources close to McCulley. REUTERS/Lori SheplerPaul McCulley in his home in Newport Beach, California, November 4, 2011.McCulley had been vying for a second time for a Federal Reserve board seat over the past year and even cut his long hair to help his case but he lost out to others, the sources said. McCulley told Reuters back in 2011 that he has always dreamed of being on the Fed. PIMCO AS CAMELOT He decided to retire from Pimco at the end of 2010 as a senior partner and member of the firm's investment committee shortly after he failed in his first attempt to get President Barack Obama to nominate him for a Federal Reserve governorship. "I look forward to working side by side with Bill as economic counselor and interacting with the Deputy CIOs," McCulley said in a statement on Tuesday, with reference to Pimco's recent appointment of six new deputy chief investment officers who report to Gross. "I anticipate writing frequent scholarly essays, as well maintaining a robust calendar of speaking engagements. Pimco will always be Camelot to me." Pimco said McCulley will not manage client portfolios or serve as a portfolio manager. Gross has not only been dealing with the fallout from the El-Erian departure but also facing concerns about the firm's performance, including that of its flagship Pimco Total Return Fund, which suffered an 12th straight month of outflows in April. In a statement, Gross said: "Paul is an experienced and respected thought leader on macroeconomic issues and central banks and he will be an important contributor to our investment process. During his previous years at Pimco, he played an instrumental role in anticipating and understanding economic dynamics that led to the global financial crisis." McCulley was named a managing director and will be a member of Pimco's investment committee. McCulley will spend up to 100 days per year working in Pimco offices around the world, and he will also continue to dedicate a portion of his time to activities outside the firm, including leading the Morgan le Fay Dreams Foundation, as well as academic activities, Pimco said. Over the past three years, McCulley, 57, has been chairman of the Global Society of Fellows at the Global Interdependence Center, a think tank, where he published two papers on monetary and central bank policy.¬† McCulley first joined Pimco in 1990 as an account manager. He left two years later to become chief economist for the Americas at UBS. He returned to the firm in 1999 as a portfolio manager, and became head of its short-term desk and a member of the investment committee. (Editing by Peter Galloway and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/libertygrace0NEW YORK (AP) — Here's a look at median CEO pay by industry last year, as calculated by executive pay research firm Equilar and The Associated Press. For the fifth time in six years, health care CEOs got the most pay while CEOs at utility companies got the least. —Health care: $12.3 million, up 13% —Financial: $12 million, up 22% —Industrial goods: $10.8 million, up 7% —Basic materials: $10.5 million, up 7% —All companies: $10.5 million, up 9% —Consumer goods: $10.3 million, up 8% —Technology: $10.2 million, up 9% —Services: $10.2 million, down 3% —Utilities: $7.9 million, up 8% Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Here are 7 proven methods you can use to talk your way into an even cheaper gym membership. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
APFacebook is seeking an anti-trust review by the European Union over its $19bn acquisition of messaging service WhatsApp. The social network has approached the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm which deals with anti-trust issues, to see if the body could help it avoid anti-trust reviews in multiple EU countries, according to The Wall Street Journal. The request comes after European telecom companies put pressure on Facebook over the fact that WhatsApp would give the social network an unfair advantage in the instant messaging market in Europe. The deal, which was announced in February, marks Facebook’s largest acquisition to date, leap frogging Instagram which was bought for around $1bn in 2012. According to figures from eMarketer Facebook accounted for a 17.5 per cent share of worldwide mobile ad spend in 2013, up from a 5.4 per cent in 2012, with 20.8m mobile phone Facebook users in the UK in 2013, up 41.7 per cent from 2012. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joedson AlvesBrazilian soccer fan Marilza Guimaraes da Silva, 63, plays with a ball as she poses for picture, dressed in one of her many outfits matching the colors of the Brazil's national flag (green, yellow, white and blue) at her home in Brasilia May 27, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Battle For Botox. Valeant Pharmaceuticals just increased the cash portion of its offer to buy out Botox-maker Allergan. The company is now offering $58.30 in cash per share, up from a previous offer of $48.30. REPORT: Beats Deal On, But Lower. The New York Post's Claire Atkinson reports the Apple-Beats deal is definitely on, but that the price is now just $3 billion instead of the $3.2 billion reported by the FT. Google Unveils Self-Driving Car. Google announced it would be building its self-driving cars from scratch. "It's a little pod that has no steering wheel, and only goes 25 miles per hour, but it's a step towards a future with driverless cars," BI's Jay Yarow says. GE In France. GE upped the stakes in its bid acquire the power division of French conglomerate Alstom, promising more new jobs and saying it would leave certain subdivisions in Alstom's control. "Today we can see that GE's offer has been detailed, improved, strengthened," an official in President Francois Hollande's office told Reuters, adding, however, that there was still "some work to be done". Skype Translation. Microsoft announced it is launching a real-time translation service through Skype. It sounds amazing. "On stage, an English-speaking Skype executive, Gurdeep Pall, called up a German-speaking Skype executive, Diana Heinrichs. They held a 5-minute conversation. The first executive would say something in English. Then, after a pause, the a computer voice would repeat what he said, but in German. Then the German executive would speak in German. After a pause, the computer spoke in English." German Unemployment. The number of unemployed in Germany unexpectedly surged to 23,937; forecasts were for a decline of about 15,000. BI's Joe Weisenthal says it may have been due to weather, but that it could also further nudge the ECB into lowering rates. EZ Money Supply. Speaking of ECB, the Eurozone's M3 money supply grew less than 1%, the lowest reading since 2010 — a further sign of possible deflation.  No Major Econ Data Today. Sorry about that. However, the not-so-closely-followed weekly MBA mortgage applications report showed that mortgage rates, purchase applications, and refinancings all fell last week. Markets. Stocks were mostly up around the world. The yield on Spain's 10-year note fell to a record low 2.827%. Goldman's World Cup Call.  Goldman puts the odds of Brazil winning at nearly 1:1, mostly thanks to their talent and home-field advantage.   FREE AppDownload
From the MBA: Mortgage Applications Decrease Slightly in Latest MBA Weekly Survey Mortgage applications decreased 1.2 percent from one week earlier, according to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association’s (MBA) Weekly Mortgage Applications Survey for the week ending May 23, 2014. ... The Refinance Index decreased 1 percent from the previous week. The seasonally adjusted Purchase Index decreased 1 percent from one week earlier. ... ...The average contract interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages with conforming loan balances ($417,000 or less) decreased to 4.31 percent, the lowest level since June 2013, from 4.33 percent, with points decreasing to 0.15 from 0.20 (including the origination fee) for 80 percent loan-to-value ratio (LTV) loans. Calculated Risk Blog The first graph shows the refinance index. The refinance index is down 73% from the levels in May 2013 (one year ago). As expected, with the mortgage rate increases, refinance activity is very low this year.Calculated RiskThe second graph shows the MBA mortgage purchase index.   According to the MBA, the unadjusted purchase index is down about 15% from a year ago. FREE AppDownload
Valeant Pharmaceuticals just increased the cash portion of its offer to buy out Allergan. The company is now offering $58.30 in cash per share, up from a previous offer of $48.30. It continues to offer 0.83 shares of Valeant for every share of Allergan. The original deal first came to light after activist hedge fund manager Bill Ackman filed regulatory paperwork disclosing a 10% stake in Allergan. Today's news follows an announcement from Valeant earlier this morning that it would be selling several assets to Nestle. From the press release this morning: "Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. today announced that it has entered into an agreement with Nestle S.A. to sell all rights to Restylane, Perlane, Emervel, Sculptra, and Dysport owned or held by Valeant for $1.4 billion in cash.  Nestle expects to complete its acquisition of Galderma S.A. in July and would expect to operate the acquired assets through Galderma." Here's the letter Valeant CEO J. Michael Pearson sent to Allergan CEO David Pyott today. Dear Mr. Pyott, As we publicly stated two weeks ago, today Valeant is increasing its offer for Allergan. Over the past several weeks, we have met with, and listened carefully to the views of, a number of Allergan shareholders.  Our revised offer is based on specific feedback we received in our discussions and offers Allergan shareholders, for each Allergan share (1) $58.30 in cash, representing an increase of $10, or approximately 21%, in the cash portion of the consideration, (2)  0.83 of a Valeant share and (3) a new CVR related to DARPin® sales which would provide up to approximately $25.00 per share of additional value  based on the approximately $20 billion in potential cumulative 10-year DARPin®  sales referred to in your May 12th presentation. We are prepared to fund up to $400 million to develop DARPin® and will pay 40% of the net sales of DARPin® referred to in your May 12th presentation after recovery of our shareholders' investment in DARPin® development expenses.  Shareholders will continue to be able to elect their mix of cash and shares, subject to proration, as well as receiving the CVR.  We would propose to retain Allergan employees to continue development of DARPin® and will ask Allergan to provide us a list of eight independent scientific and business leaders.  From these eight, we will select five to oversee DARPin® development and decide on all go / no-go decisions as the compound progresses.  We will work with Allergan's board and management to finalize the details of the CVR. Our increased offer provides additional immediate value to the Allergan shareholders -- we note that the cash portion of our revised offer alone represents approximately 50% of Allergan's unaffected share price -- and provides Allergan shareholders with significant substantial additional value if DARPin® achieves Allergan's expectations.  It appears based on Allergan's recent public statements that you have a fundamental misunderstanding of our business model and its performance.  We would be delighted to provide you and the Allergan board with the opportunity to better understand our business model and address any concerns that you may have.  This can be best accomplished by an in-person meeting with our team to better understand our business.  A meeting of our respective teams will allow you to review the facts regarding our offer and enable you to provide your board with the information necessary to fulfill its fiduciary duty in assessing the value of a Valeant-Allergan business combination.  We reviewed your consultants' analysis in the report Allergan filed yesterday, which contained numerous errors and misstatements of facts.  We hope you and your board have the opportunity to listen to our presentation later this morning, which we believe will address all your concerns regarding Valeant and our business model. We strongly believe that applying Valeant's operating philosophy, strategy, and financial discipline to a broader set of durable assets will create substantial long-term returns for Allergan shareholders over the short, intermediate, and long term, and exceed returns available to Allegan shareholders through alternative options, including a standalone alternative.  As importantly, we believe the combined companies can better serve the patient and medical communities with a more complete offering of products and continued innovation in ophthalmology, dermatology, aesthetics, neurology and emerging markets. Our discussions with Allergan's shareholders, many of whom are also our shareholders, have continued to express enthusiasm about our potential business combination.  We are confident they will view this offer – which delivers them greater upfront cash proceeds, the opportunity to continue to participate in the substantial cost and strategic synergies as a 43% shareholder of the combined company, and a CVR with significant upside based on the success of  DARPin® — as one that merits your immediate engagement with us. We ask you once again to enter into discussions with us promptly so that we can consummate this mutually beneficial transaction in a timely manner. We look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, J. Michael Pearson Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officercc: Allergan, Inc. Board of Directors FREE AppDownload
AFPPARIS (Reuters) - U.S. conglomerate General Electric has improved its offer for French train and turbine maker Alstom, notably concerning the impact on jobs, an official at French President Francois Hollande's office said on Wednesday. The comments, which followed a meeting between Hollande and GE Chief Executive Jeff Immelt, signaled a change of tone from Paris. The French government had until now criticized GE's $16.9 billion bid for Alstom's power arm and earlier this month passed a decree giving itself an effective veto on any deal. On Tuesday evening, Immelt told French lawmakers his group would make detailed commitments to increase jobs in France, including by opening new sites. He also said GE was considering a tie-up in rail signaling that would give Alstom control of that business, addressing government concerns that a straight sale of the power business would weaken the once-bailed out engineering group by reducing it to its smaller transport arm. "Today we can see that GE's offer has been detailed, improved, strengthened," said the official at Hollande's office, adding, however, that there was still "some work to be done". Shares in Alstom jumped as much as 1.9 percent. Alstom management and investors have welcomed GE's bid, saying it would give the company cash to pay its growing debts and the critical mass it lacked in a difficult global power market. The French government had lately criticized GE's bid and sought to drum up better offers, including from Siemens, Alstom's longtime German rival, which has signaled its interest in making a competing proposal but has yet to make a formal bid. The chairman of Siemens France said on Tuesday the group hoped to make a formal offer by June 16 to buy most of Alstom's power assets and in exchange give up its own trains business, but that it was still looking at the opportunities and risks of a tie-up. (Reporting by Julien Ponthus and Natalie Huet; Editing by James Regan) FREE AppDownload
screenshot/"The Usual Suspects""And like that ... he's gone."LONDON (Reuters) - The business cycle may not be dead, but financial markets sense this one will stretched to the limits. Just one year after then Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke unleashed a summer of global market ructions by flagging a gradual withdrawal of the Fed's extraordinary monetary stimulus, financial volatility has mysteriously evaporated yet again. That Fed moment in May 2013 caused such a stir because it foretold a potential return to "normality" after the most spectacular financial and economic bust in a generation - an inexorable return to prior policy settings and the consequent repricing of inflated financial assets that would ensue. 'Mean reversion' - in the jargon of economics wonks - means the pendulum always swings back eventually and markets craving trends typically experience their most violent episodes at the turning points. And for a year equities and bond yields surged and emerging markets that had sucked up all the cheap western money quaked. The Fed stayed good to its word and has been tapering its bond buying this year. The slow, steady recovery continues apace. Yet far from seeing amplified gyrations as 2014 got into gear, markets appear to have nodded off. Long-term interest rates have swooned, equities have found an elevated groove rather a sharp reversal and emerging markets recovered smartly. So much so that despite the myriad political risks that have surfaced this year, measures of financial volatility have cratered while indices of world stock markets rebounded to within 2 percent of the all-time high last set in November 2007 - on the eve of the 'Great Recession'. Wall St's 'fear gauge' of implied volatility on the S&amp;P500 has returned to lows not seen since last March and its long-term average is back to its lowest since 2007. Treasury bond volatility is flatlining at half the peaks seen last summer, and inertia in major currency markets also pushed implied volatility in the euro/dollar exchange rate to its lowest since 2007. In fact, on the major equity, bond and currency market gauges, volatility is now some 30 percent or more below the average of the four years leading up to the crisis in 2008.  So, has the recovery run into sand and are the Fed and its global counterparts set to change course yet again? To the extent global growth is being sapped by a slowing China and the European Central Bank is still clearly in easing mode, maybe so. And given the United States is five years into a recovery and the average post-World War Two business cycle has lasted 5 1/2 years, then a U.S. downswing seems historically plausible. But if the U.S. and world economies are about to roll over, then why are equities still so pumped up? Well known market bears, such as U.S. fund manager John Hussmann, argue multiples are historically way overvalued, markets overstretched and stocks ripe for a big fall. "One can always find solace from the same Broadway kick-line of dancing clowns that reassured investors that credit was sound, subprime was contained, and stocks were still cheap in 2000 and 2007," Hussmann told clients this week. Yet what appears to be sapping volatility - and Treasury yields that have shed 50 basis points this year - is precisely the much-lampooned argument that 'this time it's different'. Markets have had a rethink on the speed with which spare economic capacity in the form of both unemployment and idle plant and equipment is being eroded by the pace of expansion. And the conclusion is that the scale of the hit in 2008/2009 was such that many economists now assume it could take twice as long as normal before the business cycle hits the buffers of rising prices, wages and interest rates. Leading that thinking is former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, who in London on Tuesday reiterated his view of a 'secular stagnation' where influences from aging demographics to advancing technology or the paying down of debts may mean super low interest rates for far longer before full employment is hit. And it's this idea of persistent economic slack that's invading markets after a year of Fed-related anxiety. Easy credit, expensive bonds, slow steady growth of the underlying economy and high margins can make for an extended 'sweet spot' for equities in that environment. Gerry Fowler, head of equity and derivatives strategy at BNP Paribas, reckons the falloff in market volatility hinges on this macro view for all the micro stock-to-stock gyrations around. "Even fairly aggressive estimates suggest the U.S. output gap won't close until 2017 and the cycle might not end until 2018," he said. "Given that, offloading equity now in its entirety doesn't make a lot of sense in our view." (Graphics by Vincent Flasseur. Additional reporting by Jamie McGeever and Carolyn Cohn. Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
The 10-page document emerged from a recent hush-hush meeting of top conservative leaders, including Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Mike Lee (R-Utah), co-organized by Reagan Attorney General Ed Meese. Titled "Reform, Restore, Modernize &mdash; An Agenda To Restore The American Dream," the plan covers foreign policy and cultural issues, as well as economic policy. From the get-go, the manifesto stumbles in its macroeconomic analysis. It bemoans the Not-So-Great Recovery. But there is no suggestion the economy faces longer-term problems that predate Obamanomics. There have been jobless recoveries after each of the past three downturns, with each leading to a depressed share of middle-class jobs. Globalization and automation are playing a role. Going forward, some economists fear a permanently bifurcated labor force with rising pay for a slice of tech-savvy workers, and stagnant wages for everyone else. It's not all about Obama's economy. Such a potential scenario demands a policy agenda including education reform, a national innovation policy encouraging more startups and federal research spending, and wage subsidies for low-income workers. But if your analytical lens is a simplistic "Barack Obama is Jimmy Carter," then a different policy path naturally follows. Not surprisingly, the conservative plan calls for a vague lowering of "tax rates for every taxpayer." Broad, across-the-board tax cuts are straight out of the Reaganomics playbook, and have been a GOP policy staple for three decades. Such tax cuts made terrific sense 30 years ago, when the top rate was 70 percent and inflation kept nudging households into higher and higher tax brackets. But even with the Obama tax hikes, the top-marginal tax rate today is just 39.6 percent. And nearly half of Americans don't pay any income tax at all. For most of those folks, payroll taxes are what really count. Moreover, lowering income taxes without offsetting spending cuts or higher taxes elsewhere &mdash; the plan offers neither &mdash; is unrealistic. And let's face facts: Coping with America's rising elderly population will require a higher national tax burden in coming decades even with a reformed entitlement system. Another blast-from-the past policy proposal: Requiring Congress to pass a balanced budget. As with the tax cut idea, this budget balancing is presented as obviously self-recommending. It ignores the fiscal reality that the current budget deficit is collapsing after temporarily ballooning during the Great Recession. There is no evidence that markets fear a U.S. debt crisis. Of course, rising entitlement spending will soon cause the red ink to start running again. But the plan makes no mention of reforming Medicare or Social Security. Light taxation and small government are principles worth preserving. But they must be applied in a modern fashion. If conservatives and Republicans desire a return to relevancy, then they can't offer today's voters reruns from the '80s and '90s in an attempt at solving yesterday's problems. You can read the whole manifesto here: Reform, Restore, Modernize by Zeke Miller 
Thomson ReutersA street sign for Wall Street hangs in front of the New York Stock ExchangeLONDON (Reuters) - The business cycle may not be dead, but financial markets sense this one will stretched to the limits. Just one year after then Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke unleashed a summer of global market ructions by flagging a gradual withdrawal of the Fed's extraordinary monetary stimulus, financial volatility has mysteriously evaporated yet again. That Fed moment in May 2013 caused such a stir because it foretold a potential return to "normality" after the most spectacular financial and economic bust in a generation - an inexorable return to prior policy settings and the consequent repricing of inflated financial assets that would ensue. 'Mean reversion' - in the jargon of economics wonks - means the pendulum always swings back eventually and markets craving trends typically experience their most violent episodes at the turning points. And for a year equities and bond yields surged and emerging markets that had sucked up all the cheap western money quaked. The Fed stayed good to its word and has been tapering its bond buying this year. The slow, steady recovery continues apace. Yet far from seeing amplified gyrations as 2014 got into gear, markets appear to have nodded off. Long-term interest rates have swooned, equities have found an elevated groove rather a sharp reversal and emerging markets recovered smartly. So much so that despite the myriad political risks that have surfaced this year, measures of financial volatility have cratered while indices of world stock markets rebounded to within 2 percent of the all-time high last set in November 2007 - on the eve of the 'Great Recession'. Wall St's 'fear gauge' of implied volatility on the S&amp;P500 has returned to lows not seen since last March and its long-term average is back to its lowest since 2007. Treasury bond volatility is flatlining at half the peaks seen last summer, and inertia in major currency markets also pushed implied volatility in the euro/dollar exchange rate to its lowest since 2007. In fact, on the major equity, bond and currency market gauges, volatility is now some 30 percent or more below the average of the four years leading up to the crisis in 2008.   IS IT DIFFERENT THIS TIME? So, has the recovery run into sand and are the Fed and its global counterparts set to change course yet again? To the extent global growth is being sapped by a slowing China and the European Central Bank is still clearly in easing mode, maybe so. And given the United States is five years into a recovery and the average post-World War Two business cycle has lasted 5 1/2 years, then a U.S. downswing seems historically plausible. But if the U.S. and world economies are about to roll over, then why are equities still so pumped up? Well known market bears, such as U.S. fund manager John Hussmann, argue multiples are historically way overvalued, markets overstretched and stocks ripe for a big fall. "One can always find solace from the same Broadway kick-line of dancing clowns that reassured investors that credit was sound, subprime was contained, and stocks were still cheap in 2000 and 2007," Hussmann told clients this week. Yet what appears to be sapping volatility - and Treasury yields that have shed 50 basis points this year - is precisely the much-lampooned argument that 'this time it's different'. Markets have had a rethink on the speed with which spare economic capacity in the form of both unemployment and idle plant and equipment is being eroded by the pace of expansion. And the conclusion is that the scale of the hit in 2008/2009 was such that many economists now assume it could take twice as long as normal before the business cycle hits the buffers of rising prices, wages and interest rates. Leading that thinking is former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, who in London on Tuesday reiterated his view of a 'secular stagnation' where influences from aging demographics to advancing technology or the paying down of debts may mean super low interest rates for far longer before full employment is hit. And it's this idea of persistent economic slack that's invading markets after a year of Fed-related anxiety. Easy credit, expensive bonds, slow steady growth of the underlying economy and high margins can make for an extended 'sweet spot' for equities in that environment. Gerry Fowler, head of equity and derivatives strategy at BNP Paribas, reckons the falloff in market volatility hinges on this macro view for all the micro stock-to-stock gyrations around. "Even fairly aggressive estimates suggest the U.S. output gap won't close until 2017 and the cycle might not end until 2018," he said. "Given that, offloading equity now in its entirety doesn't make a lot of sense in our view."   (Graphics by Vincent Flasseur. Additional reporting by Jamie McGeever and Carolyn Cohn. Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
As it does every time there's a big international sporting event, Goldman Sachs is out with a huge report, available to the public, analyzing the World Cup, both from a perspective of the actual games and from an economic perspective. Without wasting anyone's time, here's the firm's odds for each time winning it all. As you can see, Brazil is a massive favorite, with nearly 50% chance of being champions: Goldman Sachs Goldman also points out that it's giving Brazil much higher odds of victory than Ladbrokes, the betting shop, implying that you should probably bet on them. Goldman Sachs Goldman gives four reasons why Brazil is such a strong favorite: This chart breaks down why Goldman says Brazil has nearly a 50% shot. Goldman Check out the full report from Goldman here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Alexander Hassenstein/Getty Images There's an ugly number from Germany, the economic powerhouse of the Eurozone: Unemployment in April unexpectedly surged 23,937. Economists were expecting a drop of about 15,000. Not only was this a massive miss, the number was Germany's worst in 5 years. That being said, some people are blaming the weather. This is actually not the first sloppy data we've seen from Germany lately. Earlier this month we saw ugly German factory orders and exports. Anyway, this is all the more reason that the ECB is likely to cut rates at its next meeting. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi waits to deliver a speech at a conference for the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the European Monetary Institute, in Brussels February 12, 2014. Good morning. Markets are once again rather quiet and directionless There are two big datapoints out of the Eurozone this morning that people will be talking about. One is that M3 — a measure of money supply — grew just 0.8% in April, the slowest pace in 3 years. This will give the ECB more impetus to ease policy at its next meeting. Also, German unemployment unexpectedly jumped by over 20,000 in April, its worst reading in several years as well. So if there's one thread this morning, that's it: Weak numbers from the Eurozone that will likely spur action by the ECB. FREE AppDownload
