ShutterstockJapan is sliding. The Nikkei is down 1.44% in early going. This comes after a strong GDP report. Our colleagues at Business Insider Australia report: The results show Japan’s economy is slowly getting cracking again with the first quarter results beating market expectations of 1% to hit a seasonally adjusted annualised rate of 5.9%. ... One of the biggest drivers of the surge was consumer consumption leading up to the April 1 sales tax increase from 5% to 8%. Private consumption reached an annualised rate of 8.5% and helped mitigate the drag down effects of external demand – particularly from the US, one of Japan’s biggest export destinations. The strong number may damp any talk of further BOJ easing, which may be what is hitting the Nikkei.   FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg.comBillionaire David Tepper, who runs $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, gave some cautious comments at the SALT Conference in Las Vegas on Wednesday evening. Tepper is one of those closely followed fund managers. Following his comments, S&amp;P futures hit session lows and Treasuries hit session highs. Tepper has one of the best long-term performance track records in the hedge fund world. He has also been the highest paid fund manager the last two years. "I think if you had a million with David when he started Appaloosa, it would be worth more than $191 million," SkyBridge Capital's Anthony Scaramucci said during the introduction. Scaramucci's discussion with Tepper touched upon a variety of topics. He asked him about the stock market. Tepper doesn't sound bullish anymore. "I think we're OK. But, listen, there's times to make money and there's times not to lose money. This is probably you're supposed to think about preserving some of your money...I think you can still be long, but I think you're supposed to have some cash now." "It's funny people think we're always bullish." He said he's positioned low enough in exposure where he can bring it back up or down. "I am nervous. I think it's nervous time." He said the market is probably OK. "But it's getting dangerous." Scaramucci asked for any opportunities that are glaring. Nothing. "I'm not saying go short. Just don't go too friggin long." He pointed to the Central Banks. He has a new phase for Central Banks—"Coordinated complacency...the market's kind of dangerous in a way." "I think the ECB...they better ease in June. I don't know how far they are behind the curve...We are a fairly leveraged world...I'm not so keen about deflationary forces." "I'm more worried about deflation than inflation... First of all, I don't know how to feel it out. I've never lived through it." "If the ECB does this thing, the market's probably OK. If they don't do this thing, it's no OK." Scaramucci began the discussion going over Tepper's past. Tepper became the head trader in the junk bond department at Goldman Sachs at a young age. "They put the junk bond room by the women's room because they wanted to hide it." Scaramucci asked him about his investment philosophy for junk bonds. "I had a really good education background. The whole background from Republic Steel...was really great at understanding companies and when they're bullsh**ing you...Because I used to bulls*** on the phone," he said.  "You were a legend down there," Scaramucci, a Goldman alum, said of Tepper. "They didn't make me partner for the third time so I said screw that s***." Scaramucci then asked Tepper how he got the name Appaloosa. He wanted Pegasus, but that was taken. So he picked an "A" name because it would give him an edge when people faxed alphabetically. "Actually it's because I like to eat horse meat," he joked. "Nah, that's not true." Following Goldman, he set out to start a hedge fund. He had $4 million saved up to start his hedge fund. He invested $3.5 million of his own money and he doubled that money. He also raised money, but that wasn't easy. He didn't know anyone as a junk bond trader and a kid from an inner-city school in Pittsburgh. He was able to raise $50 million. Appaloosa has had really solid performance. Tepper said there's definitely been hiccups along the way. His fund has been down 20% three times. Once was in 1998 because of Russia, he said. Scaramucci asked him about his investment philosophy today. "We invest to make money. I don't do this to collect assets. I love the game. The game. I love winning the game...I think the business model that we have... is just trying to make the best return for our investors and giving back money." Tepper said he's given back double peoples initial investment. "I like most of my investors. I don't like them all. But when you give them back twice what they invest...It takes a burden off your shoulders...What are you going to say to me?" Tepper also discussed his philanthropy. He said even though he grew up with no money, his father made an effort to give to charity. FREE AppDownload
Elsa/Getty ImagesGood morning, and welcome to Thursday! Here’s what you need to know: Markets are down. Stocks fell from all-time highs in the US overnight, with the Dow off 0.61%, the S&amp;P 500 down 0.47% and the NASDAQ down 0.72%. Japan GDP. In the region the focus today will be on Q1 Japanese GDP which the market expects to lift to 1% from 0.2% the previous quarter, for an annualized 4.4%. The key driver is likely to be personal consumption ahead of the sales tax increase. Stocks were mixed in Asia yesterday, with the Asia Dow up 0.6%, both the Nikkei and Shanghai down 0.13% but Hong Kong up 1%. Here comes the ECB. The European Central Bank is preparing a series of measures to help with the fragile recovery in the Eurozone. The bank is considering a potential negative interest rate – where the ECB charges banks a fee on deposits – to encourage banks to get money out and borrowed in the market. There’s also a series of measures to help small business. Details are likely to come in June. Budget trouble. The Australian government has a problem with the budget. Some of the measures – the fuel levy increase and the new charge for seeing a doctor – are likely to be opposed in the Senate. Prime Minister Tony Abbott has raised the possibility of going to a double dissolution election if he can’t get the measures through. Levy loophole. The deficit levy hits people on over $180,000 with an extra tax of 2c in the dollar for three years, but it turns out a loophole means that people can avoid it for 12 whole months with the strategic use of salary packaging. One tax professional told Business Insider it should unleash a “salary packaging frenzy”. Here’s how it works. Rudd’s back. Kevin Rudd is before the insulation scheme Royal Commission this morning. Late yesterday a fascinating scenario developed at the commission with the former Prime Minister seeking to submit a prepared statement, but the government seeking to have only a redacted version released because it would breach Cabinet confidentiality. A fascinating legal argument ensued about the long-standing principle of the confidentiality of Cabinet discussions. The Australian reports the unredacted parts of the statement pins the blame for the scheme on the public servants who designed it. We’ll find out more today. Power-generating roads. A US couple have developed a solar cell prototype that could be used to turn the roads of the world into sources of power. The roads in the continental US alone, if coated with these hexagonal panels, would deliver three times America’s electricity requirements. Here’s what it might look like: Solar Roadways The price of celebrity fights. TMZ reportedly shelled out $US250,000 for footage of the scrap between rapper Jay Z and his wife Beyonce’s sister, Solange. Repeat: $US250,000. For dodgy mobile footage of a security cam scuffle in a lift. The $200,000 News Corp paid for beautiful hi-res images of two of Australia’s media heavyweights punching on in the street suddenly seems like smart money. Swearing is good for you. It helps you deal with stressful situations better. So drop an f-bomb today, and if someone pulls you up on it, tell them it’s f—ing science. Think better. Successful people think differently to everyone else. We’ve got nine examples of how they do it, including having agendas rather than schedules, and being willing to borrow from the best. Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
JoJo Whilden/AP/The Weinstein CompanyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Is A Silver-Lining To Rising Interest Rates For Bond Investors (Vanguard)  There is a fair amount of investor anxiety about rising interest rates. "When interest rates are rising, it means that bond prices are falling," said Brian Scott at Vanguard. "And that typically, unless you’re earning a lot of income in your portfolio, that’s going to generate losses in the short term for bond investors." "But the silver lining to rising interest rates is that if you’re continuing to make new purchases of bonds, in either a portfolio of bonds or a bond mutual fund, you’re going to realize higher levels of income going forward, and prospectively you could earn higher levels of returns going forward as well. So rising interest rates for the long-term investor is likely going to create a portfolio with more income and higher prospective returns." Traders' Bonuses To Fall And Asset Managers Bonus Pool To Rise (Bloomberg) Asset managers on Wall Street could see their bonus pool rise as much as 10% this year, reports Elizabeth Dexheimer at Bloomberg. But fixed-income traders could see their bonuses fall 15%, according to Johnson Associates Inc. "This is really a sea change," Alan Johnson, founder and managing director of the Johnson Associates told Dexheimer. "It’s been coming and coming and now it’s finally apparent that the largest paychecks don’t come from Wall Street banks." Declining fixed income trading activity hurt banks in the first quarter. Jeff Gundlach's Crazy Treasury Market Prediction Has Been Spot On (Business Insider) With the Federal Reserve tapering its asset purchase program and expected to tighten monetary policy, many are expecting the bull market to end. But earlier this year, when the 10-year was at about 3%, DoubleLine Capital's Jeff Gundlach said the 10-year yield could fall as low as 2.5% in the near-term, while others were expecting it to rise to 3.4%. The 10-year hit a seven-month low of 2.52% on Wednesday. Meanwhile, DoubleLine Funds continues to see inflows even as other bond funds like PIMCO see outflows.  Bloomberg.comMorgan Stanley Has New Head Of Private Wealth Management (Bloomberg)  Morgan Stanley has picked Eric Benedict to lead its wealth management unit that is focused on clients with over $20 million in investible assets. Benedict will take over from Doug Ketterer, who was named head of strategy and client management earlier this year. Nouriel Roubini Just Presented A New List Of Risks To The Global Economy (Business Insider)  Economist Nouriel Roubini presented six rising global risks at the SALT Las Vegas hedge fund conference on Wednesday. 1. A Chinese bumpy landing - "Some people believe in a hard landing... some people believe in a softer landing," said Roubini. "I worry about a bumpy, tougher landing." Roubini expects growth of 6% or less by 2016; 2. A Fed policy mistake — If the Fed exits QE too soon or sets the Fed Funds rate too high. 3. A "secular stagnation in advanced economies" - High debt and income inequality are weighing on consumption; 4. An expansionist Russia — "Putin is not just after Ukraine, he wants to create  a Eurasian union," said Roubini; 5. Rising tensions between Japan and China — "I was quite disturbed at the World Economic Forum... senior officials were talking about relations between China and Japan being like Britain and Germany before WWI." FREE AppDownload
A few months ago, while analyzing a company, I asked an executive of a Fortune 500 company what his company’s cost of capital was. The answer I got was, “Well, the beta of our stock is 0.6, and our cost of debt is 3.25 percent, so the cost of capital is 6.35 percent.” Warren Buffett was asked about Berkshire Hathaway’s cost of capital at his recent annual meeting. The Berkshire CEO’s answer was vague — “It is what can be produced by our second-best idea” — but it was right. I am often asked by students if I recommend studying for the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. In the past I always responded with an unequivocal yes. There were many reasons for that: The CFA charter is like getting a master’s degree in finance and investing at a fraction of the cost, and it is valued just as much. Employers like it because it is standardized, and they know what you had to learn. The CFA covers a lot of material, from ethics to financial derivatives. Lately, however, I have found myself qualifying my yes answer. If you are looking to do the CFA for self-education, I wouldn’t bother. The reason for that is simple: The CFA curriculum spends too much time on Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT). That is the nonsensical set of formulas used by the Fortune 500 executive to compute his company’s cost of capital. (I have to qualify this: I finished my CFA in 2000. Maybe the CFA curriculum has changed since then.) I’ve been in the investment industry for almost 20 years. I have had thousands of conversations with other investors about stocks, but I have yet to have one conversation in which beta or Modern Portfolio Theory was mentioned as part of the analytical framework — not even once. You hear MPT and beta in the same sentence with other words such as “useless,” “theoretical” and “garbage.” If you were to ask what the beta of any company in my portfolio is, I would have no answer for you; I have simply never looked. But ask me about the return on capital or debt of any stock in the portfolio, and I’ll be right in the ballpark. MPT — a Noble Prize–winning theory — has lots of flaws. Beta, a mostly random number, is sitting right in the middle of the calculation of MPT... This article originally appeared at Institutional Investor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
OneWireBillionaire investor Ken Langone gave a keynote this morning at the SALT Conference in Las Vegas. When we came into the room, he was talking about a man he disliked who has already passed away. "I'm sure I'm going to hell for talking about the dead in a not very nice way," he joked. He then segued into an opportunity rip Eliot Spitzer once again. Langone blasts him constantly when he gets the chance on financial television. "I don't like him now. But if I check in how I feel when he dies, I think I'd feel better than I do right now." The two certainly have a history. Langone, a former director of the NYSE and financial-backer of Home Depot, has had beef with the former New York State attorney general for years. Langone was a co-defendant when Spitzer prosecuted former NYSE CEO Dick Grasso in 2004 over pay packages.  The lawsuit was ultimately dismissed in 2008. The bad sentiment remains. FREE AppDownload
As a renter, it’s easy to feel pressure to buy. Owning a home means you can start building equity and cash in on tax breaks. But in some parts of the country, it can take quite awhile to break even on a home purchase, making it more financially advantageous to rent for a few years. Based on Zillow’s breakeven horizon — the number of years it takes before owning a home makes more financial sense than renting the same home — here are the top 15 cities where renting rules. Breakeven horizon: 2.5 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,664Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 5 percent If you have the option to rent or buy the same San Jose home, renting could be a smart option because it takes 2.5 years for buying to be more financially advantageous. The median home value is currently $671,800, up 16.2 percent year-over-year. Rents have also increased but not as much, making it a great time to snag a rental. Breakeven horizon: 2.5 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,043Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 7 percent It’s also a great time to rent in Seattle if you don’t plan on owning the same home for more than 2.5 years. While home values aren’t appreciating quite as fast as in San Jose, they’re still seeing double-digit growth with a 10.3 percent increase since this time last year. Seattle’s median home value is currently $441,500. Breakeven horizon: 2.6 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,648Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 8.3 percent With the Zillow Rent Index up 8.3 percent year-over-year, Denver can feel pricey for renters. But for a couple of years, sending in a rent check each month could beat the costs associated with buying a home in the Mile High City. It currently takes 2.6 years for buying to make more financial sense than renting the same Denver home. Breakeven horizon: 2.8 yearsZillow Rent Index: $3,602Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 4.4 percent The San Francisco real estate market has seen double-digit growth over the past year, with the median home value up 15.1 percent. If you don’t plan on staying put for about three years, however, you’re better off renting and investing some of the money you could spend on a home purchase to earn interest elsewhere. Breakeven horizon: 2.8 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,254Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 1.5 percent Colorado Springs is a good place to rent if you aren’t ready to settle down for more than three years. The housing market is strong there, with the median home value up 4.5 percent year-over-year to $195,300. However it still takes 2.8 years for buying to beat renting. Breakeven horizon: 2.8 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,089Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 2.3 percent The Phoenix for-sale market is also strong with the median home value up 10.9 percent since this time last year. If you might move in the next 2.8 years, though, it makes more financial sense to rent than buy. The good news is the median rent is currently $1,089 — the lowest of any city on this list. Phoenix is the most affordable of the top cities for renters. Starting at $1,081, a 2-bedroom apartment in this complex comes with access to several community amenities including a pool, arcade room and volleyball court. Breakeven horizon: 2.8 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,149Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 3.2 percent Mesa, AZ rounds out the four-way tie for cities where renting beats buying if you plan on moving in the next 2.8 years. The median Mesa rent is currently $1,149 per month, while the Zillow Home Value Index is $172,500. Breakeven horizon: 3 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,491Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 3 percent The median Minneapolis rent increased 3 percent over the past 12 months, while the median home value is up 6 percent year-over-year. It takes three years to break even on a home purchase, making renting a favorable option for many residents. A median home costs around $187,800 to buy or $1,491 per month to rent. Breakeven horizon: 3.1 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,181Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 2.3 percent The Albuquerque market not only leans toward renting, but it’s also affordable for renters. It currently costs $1,181 per month to rent a median-priced home. The median home value, meanwhile, is $182,300 and expected to increase 2.3 percent by next year. Breakeven horizon: 3.2 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,192Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 4.3 percent Perhaps unsurprisingly, it also takes more than three years to break even on an real estate purchase in New York. If you want to try living in different parts of the city during that time, renting is a good option. You can expect a median rent of $2,192 per month. While on the pricey side, current market conditions have made renting in Boston or San Francisco equal to or more expensive than renting in the Big Apple. Breakeven horizon: 3.3 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,458Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 3.3 percent It makes more financial sense to rent than buy in Boston, unless you plan to stay put for at least 3.3 years. Either way, Boston is a hot market: The median home value rose 8.4 percent, and the median rent rose 3.3 percent over the past 12 months. Breakeven horizon: 3.5 yearsZillow Rent Index: $1,534Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 0.8 percent The median rent in Virginia Beach increased by only 0.8 percent year-over-year, which is great news for renters. The breakeven horizon there is 3.5 years, so you may be better off renting a home than buying for that time period. Breakeven horizon: 3.5 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,453Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 0.3 percent Washington, D.C., ties for the third best city for renting unless you plan to own a home for 3.5 years. The median rent is currently $2,453, a 0.3 percent increase since last year. The median home value is also up 14.4 percent to $454,900. Breakeven horizon: 4.2 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,223Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: 4.3 percent San Diego may see a few more sun worshipers choosing to pay month-to-month. With a breakeven horizon of 4.2 years, renting beats buying in the near-term. Existing homeowners are also seeingstrong market growth with the median home value up 12.3 percent year-over-year. Breakeven horizon: 6.8 yearsZillow Rent Index: $2,276Annual change in Zillow Rent Index: -5.4 percent In tropical paradise, renters rule. It takes 6.8 years to break even on a home purchase in Honolulu, sofinding a place to rent at or below the median rent of $2,276 is a smart move. In fact, the median rentis down more than 5 percent year-over-year, so now is a great time to sign the lease on your dream beach rental. Related: Catherine Sherman, a real estate writer for Zillow Blog, covers real estate news, industry trends and home design. Read more of her work here. FREE AppDownload
Broad bond market strength in 2014 has left fixed income investors with slim pickings for investment opportunities. Low Treasury yields are not the only dilemma facing bond investors. The 2014 rally in corporate bond sectors, emerging market debt, high-yield bonds, and even municipal bonds has been impressive and has led to more expansive valuations. In many cases, Treasury price gains have failed to match the gains in these sectors. Broad-based strength, which has seen the broad Barclays Aggregate Bond Index rise nearly 3% year to date through Monday, May 12, 2014, has led to a dearth of opportunities. The average yield advantage, or spread, of a particular bond sector relative to Treasuries is the easiest way to evaluate a bond sector’s attractiveness. A wide yield spread is indicative of a more attractive valuation while a narrow yield spread indicates a more expensive valuation. Investors are likely aware that low yields and the prospect of future interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve (Fed) make Treasuries unappealing, but the lack of value has spread to other segments of the bond market. LPL Financial Average yield spreads of several fixed income sectors are at the narrowest levels of the past four years [Figure 1]. Investment-grade and high-yield corporate bond yield spreads are at post-recession lows. Preferred security yield spreads are not far off post-recession lows, while emerging market debt (EMD), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and high-yield municipals are in the bottom half of their respective ranges. MBS spreads narrowed dramatically in late 2012, following the announcement of expanded Fed bond purchases. Absent the 2012 spike lower, MBS spreads, which are at their lowest levels of the year, would be near a post-recession low as well. EMD spreads recently closed at 11-month lows and a full percentage point below the early 2014 peaks. We would argue that both sectors are expensive relative to recent history and contribute to the value dilemma facing bond investors. High-yield municipal valuations appear the least overvalued in the group and have not reached an extreme relative to taxable high-yield bonds. However, the inclusion of Puerto Rico debt, which is now over 20% of the municipal high-yield index, has skewed the average valuation, and yield spreads for the majority of the high-yield municipal bond market are much tighter. Not only are spreads narrow across the bond market but spreads are also compressed within sectors. The extra yield obtained by investing in the least creditworthy segment of the high-yield bond market has contracted considerably. Within the high-yield bond market, the yield differential between BB-rated bonds and bottom tier CCC-rated bonds has shrunk to the narrowest levels of the past 10 years [Figure 2]. Therefore, finding pockets of value is more difficult and investors are compensated less for taking on extra risk. LPL FinancialNarrow yield spreads by themselves do not imply a pending market correction. Spreads can stay narrow for a long time, and the typical credit cycle sees periods of narrow spreads that can last for years [Figure 3]. In the case of high-yield bonds, a low default environment and healthy corporate profitability suggest yield spreads may stay narrow for some time reflecting reduced risk. In the mid-1990s, a period of narrow yield spreads persisted for nearly six years, and in the mid-2000s, narrow yield spreads persisted for over three years. European debt fears led to periods of volatility in the high-yield market in recent years, but we estimate credit quality has been generally stable for two to three years now. LPL FinancialHigher valuations are not limited to the taxable bond market, as municipal bonds have also benefited from a narrower yield disparity with Treasuries [Figure 4]. Municipal bond prices have improved steadily from last year’s pullback and outpaced the gains in intermediate- and longer-term Treasuries, leading to lower municipal-to-Treasury yield ratios. The 10-year ratio in particular is near a three-year low and below the ratio prevalent at the start of May 2013 when the sell-off began. LPL FinancialTreasury yields remain low, but across the bond market yield differentials to Treasuries have narrowed dramatically leaving higher valuations and few opportunities. History suggests yield spreads can remain narrow for some time, but it does not eliminate limited opportunities. Higher valuations are likely to mean lower returns over the remainder of 2014 and beyond. The strength witnessed so far in 2014 is unlikely to be repeated and taking profits on bond market strength seems prudent. Even if bond prices do not weaken, now lower yields may likely translate into much lower returns. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Jason Merrit/GettyPizza Hut, the subsidiary of Yum! Brands , Domino's Pizza, and Papa John's International are among the largest restaurant chains in the world. These food giants, especially Domino's and Papa John's, have grown substantially in the last year or so. However, rising food prices in the U.S. could hamper these food chains' profits this year. Now, the question is will this rise in food inflation affect all of these pizza chains similarly? Quarterly earningsOn May 6, Papa John's released its first-quarter earnings. Same-store sales in North America jumped 9.6% while international comps rose by 6.4%. This was only the second time since 2011 when the company's North American comparable sales outpaced those at international locations. Revenue grew 12.9% to $401 million compared to $356 million in the year-ago period. The company earned $0.45 per share, 7% more than its year-ago earnings per share of $0.42. In the domestic market, the company's sales were largely driven by its Double Cheeseburger Pizza promotion, which included an ad featuring Peyton Manning and four-time winning Super Bowl quarterback Joe Montana. Though the Double Cheeseburger Pizza was rather expensive, it did really well, which shows that customers are willing to pay more for quality pizzas. As for the international division, Papa John's achieved system-wide sales growth of 22% and opened 17 net new restaurants. The company's focus remains on China with its growing consumer class and economy, which continues to grow at a more than 7% annual rate. Currently, the restaurant chain has only one restaurant for every 3 million people in the international market. Hence, it still has a lot of room to grow internationally. Going forward Lately, Papa John's launched a campaign with Indiana Pacers all-star forward Paul George to promote its new Sweet Chili Chicken Pizza. Given the fact that Peyton and Joe have proven to be great brand ambassadors for Papa John's, the company plans to use more athletes in its promotional activities. Bloomberg noticed that since December, the prices of mozzarella cheese and cheddar cheese have climbed 16% and 25%, respectively, in the U.S. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, or USDA, expects the consumer price index, or CPI, to rise by 2.5%-3.5% this year. The highest price hikes will be seen in beef, veal, and poultry -- 3%-4% year-over-year. Due to intense competition in the U.S. restaurant industry, restaurants can't transfer these price hikes to the end consumer by increasing their retail prices. Therefore, the restaurant industry's margins will remain low this year. Apart from selling pizzas, Papa John's also supplies restaurant equipment and ingredients like cheese, toppings, and dough to its franchises and company-owned stores. The supply chain business accounts for more than 40% of the company's total revenue. As commodity prices go up, the company's pizza business suffers but its supply chain business enjoys higher margins. On the whole, higher food prices will definitely have a negative effect on Papa John's but not a large effect, thanks to its supply chain operations. This is why the company is confident about achieving the lower end of its earnings guidance.  Domino's Pizza and Yum! BrandsLike Papa John's, Domino's also has supply chain operations that contribute almost 56% of the company's total revenue. As commodity prices rose in the first quarter, the company's supply chain margin rose by 12%. Domino's continued to grow in the international market with strong comparable-sales growth of 7.4%. As a result of this success, the restaurant chain is spending heavily in India, Africa, Australia, and Japan. Domino's has provided a year-over-year capital return of 43%. After facing poultry issues in China, Yum! Brands is finally showing signs of recovery. In the recent quarter, the company's comparable sales in the country rose 9%, which included comps growth of 11% at KFC and 8% at Pizza Hut Casual Dining. However, total Pizza Hut comps were down 2% due to lower pizza sales in the U.S. As food prices increase in the U.S., Pizza Hut's margins are bound to remain low this year. Yum! expects a lot from its recently launched breakfast menu in the U.S., which mainly includes waffle tacos. Having said this, the company will face severe competition from McDonald's breakfast as McDonald's has done a great job there for the last few years. Bottom lineIn contrast with most of the pizza restaurants, which aren't posting encouraging results in the U.S., Papa John's comps data for the country shows that its pizzas remain quite popular with customers. In addition, the company's international comps are also growing at a fast pace. Owing to its supply chain business, which will mint more profit due to higher commodity prices this year, the company's earnings will keep growing. While this food inflation will surely affect Papa John's retail margins, its supply chain will offset this drop in margins to a large extent. Although the company's overall margins will shrink, it won't suffer like other restaurant companies will, which makes it one of the top buys in the industry. Will this stock be your next multi-bagger? Give me five minutes and I'll show how you could own the best stock for 2014. Every year, The Motley Fool's chief investment officer hand-picks 1 stock with outstanding potential. But it's not just any run-of-the-mill company. It's a stock perfectly positioned to cash in on one of the upcoming year's most lucrative trends. Last year his pick skyrocketed 134%. And previous top picks have gained upwards of 908%, 1,252% and 1,303% over the subsequent years! Believe me, you don't want to miss what could be his biggest winner yet! Just clickhere to download your free copy of "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014" today. Waqar Saif has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of Papa John's International. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Cisco CEO John ChambersCisco just reported its quarterly earnings. It reported Q3 revenue of $11.5 billion and Q3 earnings per share of 51 cents non-GAAP, and 42 cents EPS GAAP. Analysts were expecting 48 cents EPS on revenue of about $11.4 billion. That represented a nearly 7% decline in revenue over the year-ago quarter.  So that's a beat. Investors are happy. The stock is up about over 6% in after-hours trading, to about $24.34. CEO John Chambers warned investors in February that sales for this quarter would come in 6-8% below the year-ago quarter. Chambers likes to warn of a worst-case and then beat that warning. Cisco's guidance for next quarter is revenue of $11.36 billion, non-GAAP EPS of 48 cents. Analysts were looking for guidance of 51 cents EPS on $11.7 billion for the next quarter or another 5% dip in revenue year-over-year, too. The full press release can be found here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeA trainer shows the crowd a killer whale during a show at the animal theme park SeaWorld in San Diego, California March 19, 2014.SeaWorld Entertainment just announced its Q1 financial results, and the numbers don't look good. The key problem is attendance which dropped 13.0%. This caused revenue to fall to 11% year-over-year to $212.3 million, which was worse than the $215.1 million expected. The company reported an adjust loss per share of $0.56 which was much wider than the $0.49 forecasted by analysts. SeaWorld has been struggling to repair its public image in the wake of "Blackfish," a CNN documentary that claims the amusement park's captive orca whales are under immense psychological pressure which is turning them into killers. Management didn't blame the documentary explicitly for its weak traffic. Rather it focused on a calendar shift. "Attendance in the first quarter was impacted by a shift in the timing of Easter into the second quarter of 2014, which caused a shift in the Spring Break holiday period for schools in many of the Company's key source markets," they said. "Attendance was also impacted by adverse weather, particularly above average precipitation in the Florida market as well as below average temperatures in the Texas market for the first quarter of 2014." As the company makes efforts to improve traffic, it continues to try to get more business out of the folks who do come to its parks. "Admission per capita, defined as admissions revenue divided by total attendance, increased by 3.6% from $43.56 in the first quarter of 2013 to $45.12 in the first quarter of 2014 primarily as a result of higher ticket pricing and the mix of ticket products sold," they said. "In-park per capita spending, calculated as food, merchandise and other revenue divided by total attendance, remained relatively flat at $24.60 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $24.63 in the prior year quarter." FREE AppDownload
Steve Jurvetson/flickrStocks slid. Scoreboard: Dow: 16,613.97, -0.61%S&amp;P 500: 1,888.52, -0.47%NASDAQ: 4,100.63, -0.72% And now the top stories: Don't Miss: We Could Be At The Start Of A Sea Change In American Migration Patterns » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusBillionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen was spotted at Christie's on Tuesday evening at a post-war contemporary art auction. A spy saw Cohen wearing a plain black jacket, slacks and thick sole lace-ups near the main entrance. Cohen was also seen fumbling for his tickets. Our spy thought Christie's should have just recognized him and let him in. "They were stalling him for tickets. Idiots, when someone pushes hundreds of millions worth of art business through their auctioneer block they should have an effing portrait of him in the 'Hall of Honor' and know him by a face," the spy tells us. Cohen, who now runs family-office hedge fundPoint72 (formerly known as SAC Capital until the fund pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and paid a huge fine), is an avid art collector. His personal collection includes pieces by Monet, Picasso, Jasper Johns, Jeff Koons, Damien Hirst, Willem de Kooning, Francis Bacon and Andy Warhol, according to a 2010 Vanity Fair profile. It's unclear if Cohen made any new purchases. A spokesman declined to comment.   At the auction, a Francis Bacon triptych entitled "Three Studies for a Portrait of John Edwards" sold for $80.8 million.  FREE AppDownload
Steve Jurvetson/flickrStocks slid. Scoreboard: Dow: 16,613.97, -0.61%S&amp;P 500: 1,888.52, -0.47%NASDAQ: 4,100.63, -0.72% And now the top stories: Don't Miss: We Could Be At The Start Of A Sea Change In American Migration Patterns » FREE AppDownload
Treasury yields have been tumbling for around 20 years in what's been an epic bull market for bonds. But with the Federal Reserve tapering its purchases of bonds and signaling that it could soon begin to tighten monetary policy, more and more experts have been declaring an end to the bull market. But in contrarian fashion, DoubleLine Capital's Jeff Gundlach has been arguing that the 10-year Treasury yield isn't destined to go up. During a public webcast on January 14 when the 10-year yield was at around 3.0% and when Wall Street said it would climb to 3.4%, Gundlach predicted that it could fall as low as 2.5% in the near-term. So far, he's been dead right. The 10-year yield touched a seven-month low of 2.52% earlier today, and many folks are just scratching their heads. Treasury yields are probably the most important and most closely-followed interest rates in the world. So, when an economist or bond fund manager makes an accurate forecast about Treasury yields, his or her clients are probably doing very well. The chart of the 10-year probably explains why DoubleLine Funds continue to see investment inflows. Bloomberg.com FREE AppDownload
Cubic Zirconia – better known as "CZ" – are lab grown diamond simulates cut to mimic the color and brilliance of diamonds. Brian Driscoll from the Gemological Institute of America explains how they are made and how to tell the difference between these artificial rocks and the real deal. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser.
Business InsiderBrandon Wilson, Director of JetluxWhen it comes to suiting, men's fashion is usually about subtle differences — a bright sock, a stellar cuff link, a pocket square. Sometimes, though, a trend takes over that's impossible to miss. And we're seeing a lot of one example of that at SALT Las Vegas, the biggest hedge fund conference of the year. Everywhere you look, guys are rocking plaid or checked jackets. Conference attendee and Jetlux Director Brandon Wilson (pictured) said he's digging it because it's "fresh for spring." We concur, and so does Judah Estreicher of JBD Clothiers. JBD makes custom suits and dresses clients like Super Bowl-winning former Baltimore Ravens coach Brian Billick and current Ravens wide receiver Torrey Smith. "Plaid for spring and summer should look like the season — light and sunny colors and subtle," said Estreicher. "Try plaid, windowpane and prince of wales patterns in neutral, sands, and stone colors. You can also add some pale greens, blues, and lavender to the season's mix." Got it? Now go get 'em.    FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockTokyo topped the ranking with impressive technology, economy, and an ability to attract talent from all over the world.With globalization, climate change, and social and economical challenges, today’s world cities need to adapt like never before. The IESE Business School in Spain is out with its annual Cities in Motion Index (ICIM), which ranks the world’s best ("smartest") cities — those that have the highest levels of innovation, sustainability, and quality of life. This year, Tokyo came in first with its impressive public management, technology, economy, and the ability to attract talent from all over the world. To establish the ranking, researchers studied 135 cities across 55 countries, and based their results on over 50 indicators along 10 different dimensions including governance, public management, urban planning, technology, environment, international outreach, social cohesion, mobility and transportation, human capital (ability to attract talent), and economy. (You can read more about the categories and methodology here.) Of the top 20 cities, 10 are European (London, Paris, Oslo, Stockholm, Copenhagen, Amsterdam, Eindhoven, Zürich, Basel, and Geneva), six are in the U.S. (New York, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Dallas, Chicago, Baltimore), three are in Asia (Tokyo, Seoul, and Osaka), and one is Oceanian (Sydney). Below is the full list of the top 20 cities: Out of all 135 cities researched, Barcelona is the metropolis that made the best progress overall, moving from 63rd to 51st place in only two years, according to IESE. Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic ranked last, mostly due to low ratings in transportation, technology, human capital, and economy.  After Santo Domingo, the bottom cities were mostly in Brazil, including Fortaleza (133), Recife (132), Brasilia (131), Belo Horizonte (129), Porto Alegre (128), and Salvador (127). Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, was ranked 134, La Paz, Bolivia, was ranked 130, and Caracas, Venezuela, was ranked 126 to round out the bottom 10 cities. You can also see an interactive map of the cities in each country by going to the IESE Cities In Motion Index 2014 website.IESE Cities in Motion Index (ICIM) FREE AppDownload
In financial circles, academic Nouriel Roubini is known as "Dr. Doom." On Wednesday morning at the SALT Las Vegas hedge fund conference, he tried to give a crowd full of journalists and financial professionals some sugar with their medicine. Roubini presented a list of six receding global risks, and six new rising global risks. Lets start with the good news. Here are the risks that are fading out of sight. So that's the good news, now for the bad news. Sweet dreams everyone. FREE AppDownload
The biggest hedge fund conference of the year, SALT Las Vegas, just kicked off Wednesday morning. On Tuesday, though,  everyone gets in, sees who's there, and finds out what clubs everyone's going to each night — it's Wall Street in Vegas so there are going to be parties. Lots of them. Tuesday is also a great opportunity to get some pool time in before the serious lectures start, and Business Insider ran into none other than Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino. He was wearing a fanny pack and chilling out nice and relaxing all cool in his wife beater. He said: "The fanny pack is the greatest invention since the umbrella." Verbatim. What else did you think he would wear? Business Insider   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Over the next five years, Millennials, those born between 1980 and 2000, will be the largest contributing cohort to consumer staples and discretionary spending, according to a new report from Goldman Sachs analysts led by Lindsay Drucker Mann. "With the purchasing power scales now tipping in millennials’ favor, we expect the disruptive impact of their ascent will be an important hallmark of the next 5 years," writes Mann. Drawing on Millennials' economic and behavioral characteristics, Mann has identified eight trades: Mann and her team expect Millennials' average annual spending growth ro rise 3-4% over the next five years, compared with baby boomers, who will see spending decline at a 2% pace. FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderKen Langone doing lungesWe're at the SkyBridge Alternatives (SALT) Conference in Las Vegas—one of the biggest hedge fund conferences of the year. Prior to this morning's panels and discussions, we hit the gym in The Bellagio at 6 a.m. It was packed with hedge funders. To our surprise, though, pretty much everyone was doing cardio. The weights were completely empty! "Most of them just do cardio and then bounce," a guy at the gym told us. Weight training is key, though. "Weight training burns more body fat than cardio because your body stays in a fat burning zone for up to three to four hours after working out," an NYC-based trainer, whose clients include models, celebrities and Wall Streeters told us afterwards. "Cardio is excellent, but your body goes back to normal in one hour."  Then, billionaire investor Ken Langone, who is a speaker at SALT, strolled in and hit the weights. He was killing it. He was doing squats with dumbbells and lunges. He also did cardio in between his sets. We also noticed that he had index cards with his workouts written out. That's really smart. It's crucial to have a plan every time you workout.  Now that's how it's done. FREE AppDownload
SALT Las Vegas is the biggest, baddest hedge fund blowout of the year. Thrown by Anthony Scaramucci's fund of funds Skybridge Capital, it attracts some of the biggest names on Wall Street. This year alone Kynikos Associates' Jim Chanos, Home Depot founder Ken Langone, Magic Johnson, General David Patreus, actor Kevin Spacey and more will all share the stage at the Bellagio. Some of it will be on the record, some of it will be off the record. Here's the full agenda. Whatever we can share, we'll share it here. And, of course, we'll be sending you snapshots of what the attendees are doing... wearing... drinking. But first off, check out the swag bag. This thing is key. Aside from your run-of-the-mill mints, chapstick, notepad, baseball hat etc., there are two massive directories of everyone at the conference and their companies. It's a journalists dream. It's all emptied out below. Business Insider   FREE AppDownload
APA European court issued a startling ruling yesterday. Citizens have a "right to be forgotten," the court said, and this right will now allow European citizens to order Google to remove links to information about the citizens that the citizens don't like. At first blush, this ruling sounds appealing: There is information on the Internet about all of us that we would like to be forgotten. And it is the rare individual who is pleased with everything that turns up when he or she does a Google search on him or herself. (I hate what comes up when I do a search on my name, for example. A lot of it is mortifying and humiliating to me. I've never tried to hide it, and won't, but if it suddenly disappeared, I wouldn't rush to complain.) Upon reflection, however, this ruling creates a whole host of potential problems, not least of which are harm to other people and a major administrative hassle for Google. Specifically, the ruling allows people to order Google to remove links to information that is "old" and "irrelevant." It doesn't take much imagination to see how much wiggle room there is here. Is a malpractice suit against a doctor from 7 years ago old and irrelevant? From the doctor's perspective, it might be. From the perspective of potential patient, however, it might be important. Is a drunk-driving charge from several years ago old and irrelevant? If the driver has long since stopped drinking and driving and recklessly endangering himself and others, then, yes, it might be irrelevant. But what if he hasn't stopped drinking and driving? And what if he killed someone when he was drunk and driving instead of just getting charged. Would that make it more relevant? Is an old child-molestation charge irrelevant? If it was an unfair charge that is still creating reputation problems for the accused individual many years later, then, yes, it might be considered irrelevant (and harmful). But what if the charge was justified and the accused child-molester moves into the house next door to your family? If there are public records or news stories out there that might put you on alert, wouldn't you want to be able to find them? Google's likely response to this new ruling, assuming it remains in effect, will be to just take down any links that people complain about. This is what the company (and other companies) do with many copyright claims—they don't evaluate the merits of the complaint, which would soak up even more administrative money and time. They just take them down. And this, in turn, will lead to the Google search results for people who complain being whitewashed of links to unflattering or embarrassing information — even if the information is true. Importantly, it might also lead to Google search results being purged of links to any news articles, reviews, or any other "coverage" that the subject of that coverage doesn't like. (A profile of me that you consider fair, I might view as a hatchet job.) Meanwhile, the search results of everyone else, who might not have the time, money, or inclination to complain, will still contain links to as much unflattering and embarrassing information as ever. Importantly, the "old and irrelevant" information itself will still remain posted online. We just won't be able to find it. The court's ruling only forces Google to take down search links — it does not force sites that host unflattering information to remove it. Do we really want that? Is that really better for society? Does everyone really have a "right to be forgotten" that exceeds the right of everyone else to remember (or at least find) information about them that they—the searchers—might want to know? The problem of the Internet forever preserving things that, a decade ago, would quickly have been forgotten is real, and it's something we're all having to get used to and deal with. But forcing Google to remove links to these things would likely be a step backwards, not forwards. (A better solution might be to allow people to post responses to the information they don't like, and have Google include links to the responses, too. That's the way many restaurants and other businesses and individuals deal with negative but real reviews these days, and it works. More information is generally better than less, as is more information from a wide variety of sources.) FREE AppDownload
FinVizTreasury securities are surging as reflected by tumbling rates. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to as low as 2.5320% minutes ago from 2.6179% earlier today. This is the lowest level in 7-months. This comes even as today's producer price index report suggested that inflation is a bit hotter than expected. Typically, yields climb when inflation expectation rise. So, what the heck is going on. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz just blasted an email with a few theories: Lutz noted that none of this really reflects a flight to safety. FREE AppDownload
APOne of the earliest and most popular provisions of the Affordable Care Act — the one that allows young people to stay on their parents' plans until age 26 — may have a more far-reaching effect than previously measured, according to a new study published in the Journal of Health Economics.  The study determined the provision offers young adults more flexibility making both educational and work choices earlier in their lives. This flexibility leads to better employment matches for new workers entering the labor force. It also leads to higher overall wages, according to the study.  To conduct the study, researchers looked at similar provisions in state-based laws that were in effect before the passage of the Affordable Care Act. Between 1995-2010, at least 35 states began requiring employers to allow their employees' children to stay on their coverage plans until various ages — from 24 to 30.  Based on the provision's effect in those states and the fact more employers will have to provide coverage nationally under the Affordable Care Act, the study estimates the provision will increase wages by an average of 3.5% to 4.6% for people who were 18 or younger when the health-care overhaul passed. The study identified a few ways Obamacare's dependent provision could influence labor-market decisions by young people. First, without the provision, people attending college at later ages — at colleges that often require them to have health insurance — will experience lower costs from staying on their parents' plan. It could also lead them to pursue more time in college or graduate school, rather than immediately needing to find a job that offers health insurance.  Having health insurance also reduces the phenomenon known as "job-lock," in which workers feel confined to a job because they cannot take their employer-sponsored health insurance with them. With job-lock lessened, the researchers said, people are free to move around — often ending up with better-matching and higher-paying jobs. "This would be particularly important early in people’s careers before people gain experience in careers that are not their best matches," the researchers wrote. Finally, the researchers cited a third possible effect — called the "compensating differential theory" — that suggests since having health insurance through an employer should lower ultimate wages, young workers could enter the labor force through jobs that offer higher wages but do not offer health insurance. Based on the state lawsstudied in the research, women experience wage gains of about 3.1% while they have access to their parents' health insurance, an increase that largely continues to be evident after they lose access to dependent coverage. Men, meanwhile, experience gains of about 1.6% after they no longer have access to dependent coverage. The extension of dependent coverage is one of the only universally popular provisions of Obamacare, which as a whole is still widely unpopular. According to a March poll conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 80% of respondents said they had a favorable view of the provision — including 76% of Republicans.  FREE AppDownload
Getting an interview at your dream company is no walk in the park. It takes dedication and persistence to make yourself known.  Produced by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
AccentureOne of the biggest complaints we hear from America's employers is the inability to find skilled workers. This is a big problem in an economy that's trying to grow. Not only does it hinder growth, it also puts a crimp on profit margins. Accenture and The Manufacturing Institute recently published the findings of a big study the conducted, which included a survey of over 300 manufacturing executives. Of those surveyed, 39% said they faced a severe shortage of qualified applicants and 60% said it was difficult to hire the skilled people they needed. Accenture ran the numbers to see what this meant in terms of costs: Respondents in our survey reported three primary areas of negative impact due to these roles going unfilled. The average company in our survey reported a 12 percent increase in overtime cost, which, for our median company, would increase overtime costs by $1 million annually. Our median company also matches the average survey respondent in that they report a 10 percent increase in downtime and an eight percent increase in cycle time. Based on those assumptions, the analysts found that a hypothetical 2,000-employee manufacturer with $500 million in annual revenue was losing around 11% of operating earnings, or $4.6 million per year. 11% of earnings is no small amount of money. Accenture said that over 50% of those surveyed had plans to increase US-based production by at least 5% in the next five years. Unemployment remains arguably high in the U.S. But it's becoming increasingly clear that there are jobs available for those with the right skills. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonA company that becomes very successful usually at some point falls victim to its own success. Such is currently the case with athletic apparel, footwear, and accessories manufacturer Under Armour. By all accounts, the company is firing on all cylinders: growing at robust rates, beating analysts' estimates, and constantly raising guidance. However, as the steep drop in its share price indicates, investors and analysts alike simply expect too much from Under Armour now. Earnings blowoutWhen the fantastic combination of a top- and bottom-line beat and raised guidance is not enough to lift shares, then it is usually a sign that sentiment is moving in the wrong direction. Under Armour's latest results were excellent. On a year-over-year basis, the company grew net revenue 36% to $642 million and diluted earnings per share 71% to $0.06 in the first quarter.  Growth was driven in large part by Under Armour's signature apparel segment, which increased sales 33% to $459 million. The company's footwear segment grew even better, increasing sales 41% to $114 million. Finally, the accessories segment, which generated revenue of $52 million, grew the fastest at 43%. Founder and CEO Kevin Plank explained: We are off to a great start in 2014 driven by broad-based strength across our Apparel, Footwear, and International growth drivers. Our formula for driving newness and innovation in Apparel continues to resonate with consumers and helped deliver over 30% growth for our largest product category. That same model is contributing to success in Footwear, where we accelerated growth in running and brought award-winning product to the marketplace with the SpeedForm Apollo. In the earnings release, management also updated the company's guidance for fiscal 2014. The company is now projected to grow revenue 24%-25% to $2.88 billion-$2.91 billion and operating income 25%-26% to $331 million-$334 million. Prior guidance from Under Armour management called for revenue growth of 22%-23% and operating income growth of 23%-24% in 2014. So, the company's new forecast represents a significant improvement. When compared to both larger and smaller competitors like Nike and lululemon athletica, Under Armour's growth is even more impressive.  Nike is preparing for a large windfall from its numerous product introductions designed to capitalize on 2014's FIFA World Cup in Brazil. It is set to grow revenue and EPS 8.5% and 13.9%, respectively, for the year ended in May 2015, according to analysts at Yahoo! Finance. Lululemon has only recently started to recover from a disastrous 2013 by reorganizing and diversifying the focus of its yoga-inspired apparel and accessories business. It is expected to grow revenue 13% and to experience an EPS decline of 1% in the year ended in January 2015, according to analysts at Yahoo! Finance. Not enough?However, the difficulty for Under Armour comes in the form of its stellar first-quarter success. Top-line growth of 36% is a very tough growth rate to maintain all year. This is precisely why the company's projections for revenue growth in the range of 24%-25%, although highly impressive, can also be seen as slightly disappointing. It means that the incredible sales momentum Under Armour is currently experiencing won't last all year and will in fact slow down quite a bit. Granted, the growth is still much better than that of Nike and Lululemon, but so is Under Armour's valuation. Even after Under Armour's 20% correction in share price, the company still sports an expensive forward P/E ratio of 40.5. Nike's forward P/E of 21.6 and Lululemon's forward P/E of 19.4 are significantly cheaper. Bottom line Under Armour's recent stellar performance is what makes it the best and most aggressive investment in the athletic-apparel space. However, the company's success also highlights the major risk facing investors at the moment: The company is already expected to wildly succeed and Under Armour's valuation reflects this. Will this stock be your next multi-bagger?Give me five minutes and I'll show how you could own the best stock for 2014. Every year, The Motley Fool's chief investment officer hand-picks 1 stock with outstanding potential. But it's not just any run-of-the-mill company. It's a stock perfectly positioned to cash in on one of the upcoming year's most lucrative trends. Last year his pick skyrocketed 134%. And previous top picks have gained upwards of 908%, 1,252% and 1,303% over the subsequent years! Believe me, you don't want to miss what could be his biggest winner yet! Just clickhere to download your free copy of "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014" today. Philip Saglimbeni owns shares of Under Armour. The Motley Fool recommends lululemon athletica, Nike, and Under Armour. The Motley Fool owns shares of Nike and Under Armour. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Charles Platiau/ReutersGerman Finance Minister Wolfgang SchaeubleIn his new book 'Stress Test' just released in the US, Timothy Geithner has revealed that in 2012 German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble had presented him with a plan to kick Greece out of the eurozone. This, he said, would appease German voters and terrify Europe. “Germany will stand by you and the Greek people in the struggle to contend with our shared challenges in Europe and the eurozone." So said German Chancellor Angela Merkel to interim Prime Minister Lucas Papademos in November 2011. However around the time the chancellor was pledging solidarity, her Finance Minister was drawing up plans to kick Greece out of the eurozone. That has been revealed by former US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner in his recently released book ‘Stress Test’. According to Geithner who, together with the rest of the Obama administration, had watched with alarm as the Europeans appeared unable to contain the sovereign debt crisis triggered by one of its smallest members, he met with Schaeuble on the island of Sylt in the North Sea in July 2012. Geithner states that during the meeting Schaeble presented him with a plan to kick Greece out of the eurozone. This, according to the German Finance Minister, would allow Germany to provide the financial support necessary to the Eurozone as the German people would no longer perceive the assistance as a bailout of the corrupt and profligate Greeks. Furthermore, according to Schauble’s logic, a Greek exit would scare the rest of Europe enough for them to commit to providing sufficient financial assistance in order prevent the system from collapsing. Schaeuble told his US counterpart that there were many in Europe who considered this reasonable and even a desirable strategy. For his part Geithner called the idea ‘frightening’ writing that he felt that it would create a crisis of confidence that would be difficult to contain regardless of how much money the Europeans subsequently pledged to shore up bankrupt states. He adds that he could not see why the Germans would feel better about bailing out Spain or Portugal than they would Greece. In the book Geithner also once again highlights the disagreement between the Americans and Europeans in how the debt crisis should be handled at its outset in 2010. While European lenders remained doggedly committed to austerity and ‘rhetoric of the Old Testament’ Geithner writes he felt that imposing aggressive austerity too soon in Greece would be counterproductive as it would depress the economy and tax revenue, ultimately increasing the deficit. However the Europeans were not willing to listen to the advice provided by the Americans whom they blamed for causing the crisis in the first place. FREE AppDownload
TwitterKristi CulpepperIf you're on "finance Twitter" — the informal group of frequently anonymous or pseudonymous folks who Tweet about daily market moves and news — you probably know @munilass, who identified herself as "Bond Girl" on Twitter. As Bloomberg's Michelle Kaske and Brian Chappatta report, we now know that "Bond Girl" is Kristi Culpepper, who turns out to be the head of the Kentucky School Facilities Construction Commission. “I changed my name on my account,” she told Bloomberg. "I felt like it.” She would not comment to them further, but on Twitter said she felt compelled to reveal herself after the Bond Buyer newspaper figured out who she was.  Culpepper's Tweets were a mix of market commentary and critiques of mainstream finance coverage. She's now deleted almost the entirety of her 23,000+ Tweets. Check out the full Bloomberg story here » FREE AppDownload
John Burns Real Estate ConsultingWhat's driving demand? From 2005 to 2012, single-family rental homes grew 1.7% per year, primarily due to: Two misconceptions A common misunderstanding is the magnitude of institutional investor purchases. Institutional investors comprise less than 1% of the industry. Today, this market remains highly fragmented and largely dominated by local mom-and-pop operators who have boots-on-the-ground knowledge and will continue to be the ones collecting monthly rent checks. Another misconception is the fear of local real estate markets suffering large price declines when investors decide to liquidate their investments. While we acknowledge that the next downturn is likely to be exacerbated by investor selling, consider the following: Looking forward Investors both large and small have taken a significant ownership position in the housing stock of this country. We anticipate further consolidation in the single-family housing market as smaller regional operators with local knowledge are acquired by larger national operators. The economies of scale gained from these acquisitions will begin to evolve, and cost savings in the form of lower operating expenses and competitive rents will benefit both landlord and renters, creating a sustainable asset class for years to come. FREE AppDownload
His colleagues often used the term ‘hotshot’ to describe him, as his sales technique was characterized by enthusiasm, spontaneity and sporadic impetuosity tempered by his undoubted charisma. He did not beat about the bush, he unapologetically charmed his would-be client and was generally successful in rapidly closing the sale. He was so successful that AIG transferred him to Tokyo where there was a lot of potential business among quickly expanding Japanese companies. During his first 6 weeks in Tokyo, Simpson did not close a single sale. His American supervisor concluded that his charismatic style — so successful in New York and Los Angeles — was ineffective when dealing with calm, reserved Japanese insurance managers. He resolved to give Simpson a month’s training (which he should have had in the first place) to allow him to become acculturated to the Japanese mentality. He therefore assigned him to Ichiro Harada, AIG’s top Japanese salesman, who took Simpson with him as he made sales calls. Language was no problem, as Harada spoke excellent English and interpreters were always available when required. One morning, with a humbled Simpson in tow, Harada went for his appointment with Akio Watanabe, the CEO of a sizeable Japanese domestic appliances manufacturer that was doing very well exporting their products to a dozen foreign countries, including the United States. It was not a cold call. AIG had secured the account three years earlier, but knew that some Japanese insurance companies were after the business and sensibly visited Mr Watanabe regularly to maintain good relations. Ichiro Harada, as AIG’s star sales executive, had been given the responsibility of safeguarding the account. Simpson was eager to see how he did it. Watanabe greeted Harada rather affably and seemed pleasantly disposed towards Simpson, who had been introduced as a trainee. Watanabe and Simpson exchanged visiting cards in the Japanese manner and everyone took a seat. Watanabe offered green tea all round and he and Harada began to chat in Japanese. Their tone was very courteous as usual, also visibly relaxed. Simpson, who had taken a 6-week Japanese course before coming to Tokyo, was able to follow the gist of the conversation, though understanding very little. What he was able to perceive, however, was that the two men were not talking about insurance. He gleaned certain references to baseball, a festival in Kyoto and of course golf. The weather was also mentioned, but as the conversation progressed, over a period of almost half an hour, Simpson’s understanding decreased as the two Japanese seemed to speak more rapidly, possibly more idiomatically. Certainly they appeared more and more jovial. Just when Simpson was beginning to wonder when Harada would get down to business (or at least mention insurance) Watanabe stood up, put his hand in the drawer of his desk and handed Harada a set of keys. Simpson knew the rule about meetings being concluded in Japan by the host getting to his feet, so he dutifully followed Harada out of the office of the CEO, who gave both Harada and himself a cheery good-bye for now. Harada took the bewildered Simpson into a nearby coffee shop to give the American an immediate post-mortem on the sales call. Simpson’s questions were both to the point: Why had Harada not even mentioned the account and why had Watanabe given him a set of keys? Harada smiled indulgently as he explained, “There was no need to mention business, as the account remains secure, as long as I say nothing than displeases President Watanabe. As he likes baseball and is a keen golfer, these subjects, as well as some others, are safe ground for discussion. I support the same baseball team and my golf handicap is inferior to his. I never talk about anything that might be controversial. A half hour’s chat like this one, once a month, gives him occasions for relaxation. Normally he has to work 10-12 hour days and he welcomes this type of break. He cannot be bothered by strangers coming into his office trying to sell him insurance”. “But what were the keys?” “They are his car keys.” “What will you do with them?” “I will take his wife shopping.” Simpson gaped. “Shopping?” “Yes, to the Takashimaya Department Store, which has some dresses she is interested in.” “And when will you do this?” “In half an hour’s time when I go to his house. I am sorry I have to leave you this morning but I hope you can find your way back to the office.” “Yes, but can you explain a little more?” Harada smiled patiently. “Mr. Watanabe is a rich man. He has a lovely wife, two fine children, a big house, a luxury car and of course a good job. One thing he has not got is time. Japanese wives, as you probably know, tend to stay home during the day. Mrs. Watanabe would not like to make a one-hour journey on the underground alone. She does not drive. Mr Watanabe drives into work — I shall pick up his car in the company garage in a few minutes. Of course he could take his wife shopping on Sundays, but the department stores are hopelessly overcrowded at weekends and shopping can be exhausting and unpleasant. The best time to go shopping is on the morning of a weekday, that is NOW.” “And you will drive her?” “Of course. And at 3 or 4 in the afternoon I will drive her back home and then return the car, with keys, to Mr. Watanabe’s garage between 5 and 6.” “A full day’s work.” “That is correct.” “But no mention of business.” “It’s the last thing he wants to talk about.” Simpson swallowed hard. But he was not quite satisfied with what he had learnt. “Mr. Harada, I see that your argument is fool-proof. But one more thing: how did you get the account in the first place?” Harada smiled again. “That is another story”. He told Simpson the following: “I happen to live a quarter of a mile away from Mr. Watanabe’s house. He drives to work every day, leaving his home at 7.30am. He always takes the same route, which means that he passes a bus stop very near where we both live. The bus concerned takes me to Ohte-machi (central Tokyo) and stops near my office. I made it my business to stand at this particular bus stop every morning at 7.25. "Every day Mr. Watanabe drove past me at a distance of 5 metres. Of course he did not know me, but when he had passed me 20-30 mornings, he became aware of my presence. You could say that after 2-3 months I became a familiar figure. Whenever he looked at me en passant, I would smile at him and bow slightly. This is not unusual in Japan when we see a stranger regularly. We are very polite people and actually quite sociable inside, though foreigners are not always aware of this. "In summer months, especially June and July, it can rain very heavily in Tokyo. You can get very wet queueing for a bus. In a particularly wet period in June about 3 years ago, Mr. Watanabe drove past me as usual on his way to work. Some mornings I deliberately ‘forgot’ my umbrella and he would have noticed that I was soaked to the skin. I must have presented a pathetic figure with my drenched raincoat and humble briefcase. I never failed to nod to Mr. Watanabe as he passed. One morning, in a real downpour, his car pulled in to the bus stop and he picked me up. "Of course we chatted on the one-hour drive into town. He informed me about his business and I told him about my lowly position as an insurance agent. The next morning he picked me up again in another downpour. The third morning it was dry but he picked me up anyway. "After that he gave me a lift every day, though I purposely used another bus stop now and again. I did not wish to over-do things. Over time, we got to know each other quite well. We compared hobbies and part-time pursuits. He told me about his wife’s problems with shopping. Of course I humbly offered to help. We never discussed insurance, until one day he said he would like AIG to put in a quote. The rest, as you can see, is history.” “But Mr. Harada, you must admit you were fortunate in that Mr. Watanabe was soft-hearted enough to pick you up in the rain.” Harada shrugged. “Not really. It was only natural. I would have done the same for him.” This anecdote was provided by linguist and cross-culture studies expert Richard Lewis. Read his work in detail in "When Cultures Collide" and check out his services for businesses and individuals at Richard Lewis Communications. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Bloch FoundationHenry Bloch assessing the growth of the H&R Block franchise.The company that would become H&amp;R Block, the world's biggest tax preparation business, started with two brothers going door to door on Prospect Blvd. in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1947, Henry and Leon Bloch were asking residents if they were in need of any of 50 services, from bookkeeping to office decorating. Ironically, the business wouldn't have succeeded if they'd gotten the funding they wanted, 91-year-old Henry Bloch said at a panel in San Francisco today for National Small Business Week. Being denied a big loan forced them to become more efficient and hone in on the most important parts of the business. After getting a graduate education at Harvard Business School through the Air Force, Bloch decided to move back to his hometown of Kansas City, inspired to start a company that would help small businesses. Full of optimism, Bloch wrote to his wealthy aunt in New York City, boldly requesting $50,000 to get a nice office in downtown Kansas City and fill it with experts. The aunt refused the initial request, but said she would loan him $5,000 if his father co-signed it. "She really made us what we were," Bloch said at the panel, alongside his son Tom, former CEO of H&amp;R Block. He said that his aunt's wise denial of his wish forced him to struggle through financial hardship, adjust his ambitions to customer demand, and really figure out what his company was going to be. He's convinced that he wouldn't have become so successful if she let him grow his company before he was ready. "That business would have failed so bad," he said. His original partner, his older brother Leon, left to go to law school after only four months, and was soon replaced by his other brother, Richard. The two young men scraped by with their aunt's $5,000 loan and Bloch's $50 monthly GI Bill check. After seeing most of the 50 original services they offered go unused, they first narrowed down their business to five services and then narrowed it again to just bookkeeping, with some tax preparation on the side. Word got around that the brothers who charged small business owners $15 a month for bookkeeping were also good at doing taxes, and in 1954 the brothers started charging $5 for that service. The business took off, and Henry and Richard decided to shift their focus to this profitable venture. They renamed the company H&amp;R Block using their initials and a phonetic spelling of their last name in 1955, and a year later decided to sell rights to a New York office to two accountants, starting a franchise "before 'franchise' was even a word," as Tom said. The company quickly branched out across the U.S. and eventually to other countries. Bloch's aunt could have afforded giving him the $50,000 back in 1947, but he likely would have spent it developing services customers didn't actually want and growing beyond what he could realistically afford. Bloch figures such a company would have crumbled under its weight in a short time. He had the passion every successful entrepreneur needs to start a business, but he wasn't quite ready to handle a big office with a large team of employees. That initial lack of finances is what forced him to listen to customers, focus on what his company was good at, and develop a company that went on to become incredibly successful. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/TophercThe SV Angel team, with Topher Conway on the far left and his dad in the center next to Snoop DogWhen you're a venture capitalist investing in startups, it takes about seven years to know if you're doing a good job or not. That's how long it generally takes for a startup to exit and for you to know if you made a great investment or put money into a major flop. There are a bunch of 20-somethings in Silicon Valley who are helping source deals for their firms. They're taking board seats and being handed millions of dollars to find the best new companies around. A few 20-somethings have left traditional firms and raised tens of millions of dollars for their own funds. We rounded up a list of people who have already accomplished a lot in the Silicon Valley startup scene. If they keep at it, they could become the next Ron Conways, Fred Wilsons, and Bill Gurleys. Who'd we miss? Leave names in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Producer prices climbed the most in two years, according to government numbers. Expectations were for things to have slowed significantly in April. That didn't happen: Capital Economics' Paul Dales says this could be the real thing: expansion. ...while March's rise was a rebound from the 0.3% m/m fall in February triggered by the bad weather, April's gain seems to be more genuine. Two-thirds of it was due to an increase in the margins of wholesalers of machinery and equipment, which may be a result of a cyclical pick-up in demand for capital goods. At face value, the increase in core total finished goods PPI inflation to 2.0%, from 1.6% in March, suggests that core CPI inflation will rise from 1.7% in March to around 2.0% within a matter of month. Although we don't expect this rise to happen so soon, we are expecting the stronger economic recovery and rising wage growth to push core CPI inflation above 2% next year. Food prices surged the most since 2011, but Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson argues the jump in should be ignored, and we should instead be focusing on services profit margins: One jump in the core PPI can be dismissed; two are interesting.  The story here is all about the services sector, where prices rose 0.6%, after a 0.7% March gain. The damage is in the final demand trade services component, which is a measure of retail and wholesale profit margins. Both March and April saw hefty 1.4% increases, but the numbers are volatile - they fell by a total of 2.4% over the previous three months - so we can't yet say an upward trend is emerging. PPI margins are quite closely correlated with the NFIB selling price expectations index, which has risen sharply; we expected big PPI gains today on the back of the NFIB. Further sustained gains would spell trouble ahead. Core goods prices, meanwhile, are no threat. Full table: BLS FREE AppDownload

Comparable store sales unexpectedly fell by 1.6%. Analysts were looking for a 1.3% gain. Earnings climbed to $0.60 per share, which was right in line with analysts' estimates. This was up from $0.55 a year ago. Shares initially dropped in premarket trading, but have since recovered losses. "Overall, business trends were soft in January through March, with the exception of the Valentine’s Day shopping period," said CEO Terry Lundgren. "The trend improved in April when the weather began to turn in northern climate zones. We see this as a good sign moving forward into the second quarter." Management reiterated its expectation for 2.5% to 3% comparable store sales growth for the full year. It's also sticking to its full year earnings guidance of $4.40 to $4.50 per share. The board also approved a 25% boost in the company's quarterly cash dividend, which has been raised to $0.3125 from $0.25. The share buyback authorization has been increased by $1.5 billion, which brings the current total remaining authorization to around $2.5 billion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTrader Benedict Willis (L) talks with floor supervisor Yevette Arrington on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 21, 2014. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top stories that traders are talking about today: Good Morning!   US futures are starting slightly weaker, marked off 10bp and near lows of the overnight – Focus will remain in Smallcaps/Momentum, after the Russell’s sharp underperformance yesterday.  Tencent (#1 Weight in SOCL) said Q1 net profit jumped 60% after the Hong Kong close – but TWTR and FB are both in the red, and the IWM is offered lower this AM.   In Europe, EU stocks holding near 6Y highs as we get more dovish language surrounding the June meeting from ECB officials.   Ukraine Stress is muted overnight, with the Micex losing small after it’s longest winning streak of 2014.  In Asia, while China was quiet - Chatter that Beijing was encouraging lenders to accelerate the processing of mortgages helped Hong Kong jump 1%.   Sony’s loss weighed on the Nikkei, and futures are marked 50bp lower post-close.   India continues it’s upward trajectory into the election results, running 7% in the last week.   Flaring Tensions in the South China Sea didn’t weigh on Philippine or Vietnam markets overnight – Aussie lost small, weighed down by Healthcare on a rollout of a “GP tax” – a A$7 charge for visiting doctors. The Bundesbank comments continue to move people towards Sovereign Debt – Germany 10YY is off 3bp and making new 10+month lows, and US 10YY made a fresh 2014 low overnight.   Euro is mixed – caught between stronger German inflation and weaker EU IP – and the Yen is jumping on hawkish comments from a ex-BoJ official, propelling the DXY back over the 80 level – a headwind for commodities.  That said, Gold is up 70bp, and back over the 200dma – while Silver is jumping 1.3% as London ends the Silver Fixing.  The energy complex is higher, with WTI popping on a Cushing inventory draw overnight.   We have a handful of Catalysts today – with US CPI at 8:30, we get DOE data for Crude and ECB's Weidmann Speaks at 10:30, and the Month’s smallest POMO at 11.   Watch the Homebuilders – the Watt speech yesterday ignited the ITB back over the 200dma, Most of the major players will be speaking at the JPM Homebuilder conference today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Osman OrsalThe body of a miner is carried to an ambulance in Soma, a district in Turkey's western province of Manisa May 14, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Coal Mine Disaster In Turkey. At least 205 miners were killed after a transformer exploded and ignited a fire in a coal mine in western Turkey, reported the AP's Desmond Butler and Suzan Fraser. At least 200 more workers are reportedly trapped. "Regarding the rescue operation, I can say that our hopes are diminishing," said Energy Minister Taner Yildiz. From AP: "In Istanbul, hundreds of demonstrators gathered outside the headquarters of the company which owns the mine, Soma Holding... The country's main opposition party said that Erdogan's ruling party had recently voted down a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry into a series of small scale accidents at mines around Soma." British Recovery. The U.K. unemployment rate fell to a five-year low of 6.8% in March. This was down from 6.9% in February. This is just the latest in a series of reports confirming improving economic activity in the region. BoE's Carney Chimes In. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney discussed the prospect of tighter monetary policy when he released the bank's May Inflation Report. "The exact timing will inevitably be the subject of considerable speculation and interest," he said. "The ultimate answer will depend on the evolution of the economy, particularly the degree of slack, the prospects for its absorption, and the broader inflation outlook." In its report, the BoE forecasted that inflation would be 1.8% in 2014 and 2015, and 1.9% in 2016. It also forecasted that GDP would grow 3.4% in 2014 and 2.9% in 2015. More On The British Boom. All of the data puts increasing amounts of pressure on the Bank of England to begin reigning in easy monetary policy. From SocGen's Kit Juckes. "The UK interest rate market now considers a 2014 rate hike a distinct possibility - 15bp of hikes are priced in by December. That is twice the tightening that is priced into the US futures market. 3-month futures contracts meanwhile, now price the UK/US rate spread widening from 30bp now to 80bp by the middle of next year. That looks excessive. But, and here it really is time for a ‘Mea Culpa', UK economic data have been and continue to be strong enough for these trends to go further. Sterling is powered by the way strong data impact rate expectations..." Euro Zone Industrial Production Whiffs. Industrial production in the euro zone unexpectedly fell by 0.1% in March. This was much worse than the 0.9% increase expected by economists. "The timing of Easter could be playing a role, but the series is working day adjusted so most of this bias should be neutralized," noted Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "[T]oday’s poor number has not made a lethal mark on the uptrend in industrial production growth, but a similar figure next month would, and these data need to be watched." Markets Aren't Doing Much. Asian markets closed mixed overnight, with Japan's Nikkei down 0.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 1.0%. European markets are trading modestly lower with Britain's FTSE, France's CAC, and Germany's DAX each down by around 0.1%.  US futures are down a hair with Dow futures down 7 points. Inflation. The producer price index jumped by 0.6% month-over-month in April and 2.1% year-over-year. This was much hotter than the 0.2% and 1.7%, respectively, expected as food prices jumped at their fastest pace since 2011. Excluding food and energy, core PPI climbed by 0.5% (0.2% estimated) month-over-month and 1.9% (1.4% estimated) year-over-year. Retail Pulse Check. America's retailers will be announcing their latest quarterly earnings over the next few days and weeks. This comes after yesterday's disappointing retail sales report that showed sales excluding autos and gas unexpectedly fell by 0.1%; economists were looking for a 0.5% gain. PIMCO's Parent Takes A Hit. The widely publicized investment outflows at bond fund giant PIMCO are having a material impact on the earnings of parent company Allianz. "Operating profit in asset management fell to 646 million euros from 900 million in a strong year-earlier quarter, with performance fees at Pimco falling by 96 percent," reported Reuters' Jonathan Gould. Sears Considering Options For Canada. Beleaguered department store chain Sears Holdings is considering its options regarding its Canadian business. In a press release, management "announced today that it is exploring strategic alternatives for its 51% interest in Sears Canada, including a potential sale of Sears Holdings' interest or Sears Canada as a whole. In connection with those efforts, Sears Holdings intends to engage an investment banking firm." FREE AppDownload
Kevin Lamarque/ReutersTim GeithnerWhen I heard that Timothy Geithner was putting out his memoir “Stress Test,” I couldn’t help but to think back to the first time I interacted with him. It happened on the 14th floor basketball court of the Federal Reserve’s New York branch (the “New York Fed”). Back in 2003, I was a relatively green Fed lawyer—two years out from completing a J.D./M.B.A. at Columbia University. Mr. Geithner was a relatively green CEO—only several months into his first major executive role as New York Fed President. In our pick-up games, Geithner proved to be a fantastic player, routinely flashing the best shooting touch. Despite this prowess, however, Geithner invariably shied away from taking the big shots. At the moment of truth, his gaze often became curiously unsteady, his hands seemingly shaky. Little could I have realized then that the inherent risk aversion I was witnessing would come to shape the course of U.S. history. I worked for a total of nine years at the New York Fed—over two different stints.  In the aftermath of Lehman Brothers’ 2008 collapse, I returned there to manage the centerpiece program of the experimental stimulus program known as “Quantitative Easing” or "QE"  Several months ago, I apologized publicly for my role in QE, suggesting that it had become the greatest backdoor Wall Street bailout of all time. But I've never spoken openly about why I left the Fed in the first place. It was mainly because of Mr. Geithner. Inside the New York Fed, I wouldn’t actually realize how cautious a leader Mr. Geithner was until 2006 when I transferred to a mid-level management position in its “Bank Supervision” department—arguably, the Fed’s most important regulatory division.  The department I now joined was in complete disarray. Rife with politics, the only thing it seemed to excel at was demoralizing the bright, idealistic minds it was recruiting from the nation’s finest graduate schools (staggeringly, up to a quarter of the 600-plus person department was leaving each year). Even more tellingly, in the period directly preceding the largest U.S. banking crisis since the Great Depression, the New York Fed’s bank regulators were obsessively focusing on the systemic risk from hedge funds—not banks.  Mr. Geithner’s response? He seemed to float above the action. Far too often, in the senior-level regulatory strategy sessions I attended, Geithner simply peppered the room with questions, rather than providing any concrete direction. And, instead of making any serious attempt to straighten out a chronically underperforming bank regulatory division, Geithner had instead begun filling various, key New York Fed positions outside of the regulatory function with trusted advisors from Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan and American Express. In early 2008, after a few too many months of waiting for more forceful leadership from Mr. Geithner, I finally opted to become just one more demoralized ex-Fed bank regulator, accepting a job on Wall Street. For as poorly as his New York Fed was regulating its banks, though, it would be unfair to suggest that Timothy Geithner (or any other U.S. bank regulator) was primarily responsible for what metastasized shortly thereafter: the 2008 financial crisis. Fueled by a potent mix of greed and mismanagement, the U.S. banking sector did a bang up job of blowing up itself—and the American economy along with it.   It would be equally unfair not to give Geithner immense credit for the U.S. government’s response. By almost all accounts from inside and outside the Fed, he finally stepped up to take the shot. As head of the New York Fed (by his own description, the “fire station of the financial crisis”), Geithner guided the U.S. Central bank’s operational attack and tirelessly helped stabilize Wall Street—a role that would end up netting him the job of U.S. Treasury Secretary as of early 2009. But, however heroic, Mr. Geithner’s boldness proved to be short-lived and eventually appeared to have been a reflexive reaction to unprecedented contagion. In the aftermath of the U.S. financial crisis’ most acute phase—at what would have been the right moment to pursue the type of resolute, strategic moves that might prevent such a catastrophe from ever happening again—Treasury Secretary Geithner seemed to revert to his previous form.  Fighting for a return to bright-line (Glass Steagall-like) regulation that would have effectively broken up the big banks?  Fat chance. Geithner shepherded through Congress a convoluted Dodd-Frank bank reform that continues to be only roughly 50% implemented. Those celebrated stress tests that have supposedly served to validate the U.S. banking system’s resiliency? As we saw only two weeks ago with Bank of America’s admission of misreporting capital levels, the results still fundamentally rely on opaque internal bank modeling. In response to such observations, Mr. Geithner might cite the barrier of Congressional intransigence and throw up his hands, but, I’d ask, did he ever really try to take the ball strong to the hoop? Now, looking out at the U.S. economy little more than five years after Mr. Geithner’s becoming U.S. Treasury Secretary, what do we see? The more things are said to have changed, the more they’ve stayed the same. Nursed back to health by massive government support, the U.S. financial sector is once again America’s largest enterprise, accounting for over 30% of the nation’s corporate profits. Moreover, Wall Street’s six biggest banks—the so-called “too big to fail” ones—have gotten 37% bigger.  There are those who impugn Timothy Geithner’s character, but, in my seven years of interacting regularly with him at the Fed, he couldn’t have come across as more gracious and professional. There are those who point to his recent move to private equity and retroactively question his motivation while in government, but the implication seems unfair when you consider that he spent 23 straight years in public service. No, I’d argue Mr. Geithner's story is ultimately one about missed opportunity. For all the justifications he surely provides in his new book, Mr. Geithner should be seen as occupying a particularly sad place in the evolution of the U.S. economy. More than any other American, he personifies the era when we lost our nerve when it came to reining in the size and concentration of Wall Street’s banks. Andrew Huszar is a Senior Fellow at Rutgers University Business School and a former Managing Director at Morgan Stanley.  From 2009 until 2010, he was program manager of the $1.25 Trillion Agency MBS Purchase Program (the centerpiece of "QE1") for the Federal Reserve.  He has written about this experience in the Wall Street Journal and provided analysis about the Fed on CNBC, Bloomberg TV and CNN, among other media outlets.  You can follow him on Twitter at @andrewhuszar. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Treasury Secretary Geithner speaks at the Institute of International Finance's annual meeting in Tokyo(Reuters) - A federal judge ruled that former U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner must hand over documents to Standard and Poor's relating to the ratings agency's claim that the United States sued it in retaliation for downgrading government debt. The U.S. Department of Justice brought a civil fraud lawsuit against S&amp;P in 2013, accusing it of inflating ratings to win more fees from issuers, and then failing to downgrade debt backed by deteriorating mortgage-backed securities fast enough. S&amp;P, a unit of McGraw Hill Financial Inc &lt;MHFI.N&gt;, has claimed the lawsuit was filed in retaliation for the downgrade, and should be dismissed. Its main rating agency rivals, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, were not sued. U.S. District Judge David Carter denied both Geithner's request to set aside S&amp;P's subpoena and a similar request made by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Terrence Checki, the bank's executive vice president. "This incremental approach has the virtues of affording S&amp;P an opportunity to gather the information that it needs to defend itself, while according due respect to the time and autonomy of high-ranking executive officials," Judge Carter wrote in an order on Tuesday. Geithner is the highest former government official S&amp;P has pursued for information to support its allegations. "As for any future depositions of Secretary Geithner or Mr Checki, the court will cross that bridge when it comes to it," the court filing stated. Jenni LeCompte, a spokeswoman for Geithner, did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. Representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York were not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Last month, Carter gave S&amp;P access to Department of Justice documents it had sought for its claim that the lawsuit may have been in retaliation for its August 2011 decision to remove the United States' "triple-A" credit rating. He stopped short of giving S&amp;P access to White House records from that time, but said he would consider such a request later. S&amp;P has said Geithner angrily told McGraw Hill Chairman Harold "Terry" McGraw in an August 8, 2011 phone call that he was "accountable" for an alleged $2 trillion math error, and that S&amp;P's conduct would be "looked at very carefully. The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos et al, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 13-00779. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA BlackRock building is seen in New YorkWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. government officials recently proposed creating scorecards to measure the potential threat posed by firms that offer risk models, amid concerns that large financial institutions may be too dependent on the same products, according to documents reviewed by Reuters. The review marks another area of scrutiny for the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of regulators that has already imposed tougher rules for companies including insurers, banks and market utilities such as derivatives clearinghouses. The council is also generally responsible for identifying emerging risks to the larger financial system. In a closed-door meeting on March 25, FSOC staffers delivered a presentation about a niche group of third-party firms that sell asset valuation, investment advice and risk measurements to pension funds, asset managers, insurance agencies and banks, according to the documents. The documents lay out the government's concern that financial firms may rely too heavily on the same outside risk models and valuations, and that any flaws in these services could result in a wide misunderstanding of the true risk of firms' investments and other assets. A Treasury spokeswoman told Reuters that the proposed scorecard approach is consistent with the council's mandate to look at issues across the financial system. She added that no decisions have been made on the approach, that it is not designed for any particular company or industry, and should not be read into. Among the service providers mentioned were BlackRock Solutions, a unit of giant fund manager BlackRock, Bloomberg LP's Bloomberg Asset and Investment Manager (AIM), MSCI's RiskMetrics and BarraOne, Citigroup's Yield Book, Barclays' POINT, BNY Mellon's HedgeMark, FactSet, IBM's Algorithmics and Charles River's Charles River Investment Management Solution. Though the documents viewed by Reuters list 10 examples of third-party service providers that help institutional investors evaluate risk, the presentation highlights one company - BlackRock Solutions. The documents say that BlackRock offers what are known as "end-to-end" services, meaning it helps clients throughout the entire investment process. They also contain a "draft scorecard" for BlackRock Solutions, focusing on risk factors such as user reliance on its investment decision and valuation services, and the amount of assets and liabilities. The document did not describe why staffers chose to highlight BlackRock Solutions, a unit that provides investment management technology systems, risk management services and advisory services for a fee. The FSOC has already been exploring whether parent company BlackRock, with $4.3 trillion in assets under management, should be designated as a "systemically important financial institution." The group can dub large financial firms as "systemic" - a tag that imposes additional oversight by the Fed. BlackRock and its competitors have resisted the designation, saying asset managers are already highly regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and pose no systemic risks. The documents from FSOC highlight several products offered by BlackRock, including Aladdin - a proprietary system that provides data to help clients manage their portfolio. As of December 2013, the platform processed $13.7 trillion in assets, according to the FSOC documents. The unit's revenue rose 11 percent to a record $577 million, according to BlackRock's 2013 annual report. "BlackRock Solutions configures a unique instance of Aladdin for each client," said Tara McDonnell, a BlackRock spokeswoman. "The system is highly flexible and aggregates third-party data from a variety of sources, as determined by the client, and clients can use Aladdin or other models to conduct analysis in support of their objectives. Aladdin does not make investment decisions or replace a company's risk management function. It simply aids a company's risk managers, portfolio managers, traders and operations professionals in managing their workflows." Spokesmen for Citigroup, Barclays, FactSet and BNY Mellon declined to comment. Spokespeople for MSCI, Bloomberg and IBM had no immediate comment. A spokesperson for Charles River could not be immediately reached. Concern surrounding the sharing of pricing, custodial and analytical services by asset managers is expected to be discussed on Monday when the FSOC hosts a conference on the asset management industry, according to a person familiar with the council's thinking. At the heart of the council's discussions is whether asset managers, pension funds and insurers may be relying too heavily on such third-party service providers to value their assets, manage their risks and make investment decisions. For instance, some consulting firms help other asset managers price less liquid bonds and determine how much margin should be required to manage the risks of trading them. If too many money managers all rely on the same models, it could reduce the amount of independent analysis and "expose the financial system to significant risk that may result from asset mispricing, faulty risk reporting or related outputs from such products or services," according to the documents, which are not public. Flawed risk models played a major role in the 2007-2009 financial crisis. Financial firms' internal modeling and assessments from credit rating agencies did not anticipate the systemic effect that a significant drop in housing prices could have on global markets. The issue grabbed the spotlight again in 2012 when JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's risk models failed to capture the dangers of its "London Whale" trades that led to a $6.2 billion loss. Firms that provide risk-modeling services are not strictly regulated. The FSOC's staff review of these services is at an early stage, and any eventual policy response is unclear. The FSOC is a council of regulators created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law to help monitor the market for emerging risks. It is chaired by the Treasury Secretary and comprised of the leaders of every major U.S. financial regulator, including the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The in-house group focused on model risk from third-party service providers is called the Systemic Risk Committee. That committee is tasked with scouring the marketplace for emerging risks, and it is not involved in the designation process. According to the documents, the committee started holding preliminary discussions about the consulting services on January 28 and has also held several conference calls with companies in the sector. At the late March meeting, a group of staffers presented a draft "scorecard" that it said could be used as a tool to quantify the potential risks of each service provider. The documents propose completing the score card and distributing it to the various FSOC member regulators. "Although imperfect, a survey may be the best approach to narrow down the field of providers that may require additional review/analysis," the documents say. It was unclear what kind of regulatory action the committee may consider, or whether the findings could affect the FSOC's decision to designate some firms as systemic. Last year, the FSOC's research arm issued a report which found that certain activities by large fund managers could pose broader systemic risks. One such concern cited was "herding" behavior, in which funds all crowd into the same assets at once. In the documents from the March meeting, the council's Systemic Risk Committee suggests that reducing reliance on third-party service providers could help reduce herding risks in the market. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch, with additional reporting by Emily Stephenson; Editing by Karey Van Hall and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Yahoo Inc has bought Blink, a mobile messaging startup that lets users send messages that self-destruct and control who sees their messages and for how long. The deal comes just days after rival messaging startup Snapchat settled charges with U.S. regulators that accused it of deceiving consumers by promising that photos sent on its service disappeared forever after a certain period of time. Blink will be shutting down its app for both the iOS and Android platforms in the coming weeks, the company said in a post on its website on Tuesday. The terms of the transaction were not disclosed. Yahoo was not immediately available for comment outside regular U.S. business hours. Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer has been stepping up the company's efforts to build online services for the smartphones and tablets that consumers increasingly use to access the Web. Yahoo has acquired several small, mobile start-ups since Mayer took over. The company now counts 430 million monthly users of its mobile products, while the number of online video streams consumers watched increased 30 percent from the fourth quarter. Mobile messaging apps have drawn attention in the last year as they seek to capitalize on the appeal of their free services, especially in emerging markets. Snapchat received a $3 billion buyout offer from Facebook Inc late last year, which the startup rejected. Facebook eventually acquired Whatsapp for $19 billion, its largest acquisition ever. In February, Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten Inc bought Viber, a mobile app enabling free calls and messages, for $900 million. (Reporting by Ankush Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Sunil Nair) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report PIMCO/GROSSFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German insurer Allianz saw operating profit in its asset management arm slump by more than one fourth in the first quarter as its California-based Pimco unit suffered 21.7 billion euros ($29.7 billion) in investment outflows. Performance at Pimco, which has been an Allianz cash cow for years and runs the world's biggest bond fund, has become an increasing concern following the departure of its Co-Chief Investment Officer Mohamed El-Erian earlier this year after a clash with Pimco founder Bill Gross. Allianz on Wednesday said institutional clients had joined retail investors in withdrawing funds at Pimco, whereas last year it said withdrawals stemmed mainly from the retail side. However, Pimco's outflows of 6 percent in the latest quarter were significantly lower than outflows of 25 percent and 39 percent in the third and fourth quarters of last year, respectively. "We are on a good path toward consolidation," Allianz Chief Financial Officer Dieter Wemmer said of the decline in outflows, in a call with journalists. DZ Bank analyst Thorsten Wenzel also noted the change. "Asset Management net outflows are still on a high level but at least not as high as in Q4 2014," he said in a research note. Allianz already reported preliminary earnings for the first quarter last week, saying it was on track to achieve its full-year group operating profit target of 10 billion euros. Operating profit in asset management fell to 646 million euros from 900 million in a strong year-earlier quarter, with performance fees at Pimco falling by 96 percent. "Asset management operating profit was a tick worse than we had expected on the basis of preliminary data," said LBBW analyst Werner Schirmer in a note to clients. Allianz's share rose 0.4 percent to 122.40 euros by 0750 GMT, outpacing a flat STOXX Europe 600 insurance index. "As expected, the results in Asset Management came in lower, but the business is in line with our target for the year," Wemmer said. Allianz is one of the world's biggest fund managers, with 1.3 trillion euros in third-party assets under management at the end of the first quarter. Pimco represents the lion's share of those assets, at 1.1 trillion euros. ($1 = 0.7296 Euros) (Reporting by Jonathan Gould; editing by Thomas Atkins and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
LinkedinBarely over a year ago it looked like the UK was a sick economy with few good prospects. There was no industry to drive it forward. Its neighbors were weak. Its monetary policy was ineffectual. Its government was obsessed with cutting spending. It had a preposterous amount of debt and deleveraging it had to do. Now the entire story has changed. The UK continues to post great economic numbers, the latest being its unemployment rate falling to 6.8%, a 5-year low. In his note to clients this morning, SocGen's Kit Juckes writes about the turnaround, and how markets are beginning to price in UK rate hikes before too long. Note that his comments came out a bit earlier, before we got the UK jobs data: The UK interest rate market now considers a 2014 rate hike a distinct possibility - 15bp of hikes are priced in by December. That is twice the tightening that is priced into the US futures market. 3-month futures contracts meanwhile, now price the UK/US rate spread widening from 30bp now to 80bp by the middle of next year. That looks excessive. But, and here it really is time for a ‘Mea Culpa', UK economic data have been and continue to be strong enough for these trends to go further. Sterling is powered by the way strong data impact rate expectations. This morning's likely combination of falling unemployment and a base-effect-biased uptick in headline average earnings growth, along with the release of the Inflation Report, will probably increase the volume of those calling for the MPC to act soon. Quite an impressive turnaround. FREE AppDownload
The UK boom continues. The unemployment rate jut fell to 6.8%, which is a 5-year low. Here are some details from the the UK's Office of National Statistics: The UK has been on quite a run lately, and the ongoing drop in unemployment and the rise in wages is nice to see. FREE AppDownload
Solar RoadwaysJulie and Scott Brusaw. There are about 31,251 square miles of roads, parking lots, driveways, playgrounds, bike paths, and sidewalks in the lower 48 states. If Julie and Scott Brusaw have their way, they will all someday be replaced with solar panels. For the better part of a decade, the Idaho couple has been working on prototyping an industrial-strength panel that could withstand the weight of even the largest trucks. They now appear to have cracked the formula, developing a specially textured glass coating for the panels that can not only bear tremendous loads but also support standard tire traction.  By their reckoning, at peak installation their panelized roads could produce more than three times the electricity consumed in the U.S. The material could power electric vehicles through a receiver plate mounted beneath the vehicle and a transmitter plate is installed in the road. Solar Roadways  The project has already received two phases of funding from the U.S. Federal Highway Administration, and last year featured in Google's Moonshot series. They're now incorporated as Solar Roadways. Right now, they're looking to raise $1 million on IndieGogo to move beyond the prototype and into production. Since announcing the campaign three weeks ago, they've received $112,000. If you're wondering why they're choosing crowdfunding given the potentially large interest from investors, so have many others. Their reason for doing so is rather noble. As they explain on their website (via John Aziz): The idea to launch a crowdfunding campaign came to us from so many supporters that we looked into it. We have always been concerned about protecting our vision to implement this in the way that we think will have the most benefit: creating American jobs rather than outsourcing and then adding manufacturing facilities in other countries. That way we could help the economies everywhere providing many thousands of jobs. We have a vision for the way our facilities will be - campus like - with a positive atmosphere. We want to use as many recycled materials as we can and keep our manufacturing process as green as possible. We could go on, but you get the picture. If we can raise enough funds here, we won't have to take on an investor and we won't have to worry about losing our focus. If you like our vision and want to help, we'd be honored to have you in our corner.  Here is an artist's rendering of what it someday could look like: Solar Roadways It could also be used in parking lots: Solar Roadways Definitely something you wish you'd thought of first.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr via nanoprobe67Good morning! It's another very quiet day in the markets. Around the world, there's almost no movement anywhere. Japanese stocks fell 0.14%. Germany is down 0.04%. US futures are basically flat. After some volatility last month, this has basically been the story, no real action anywhere. In the US, it's likely to be a quiet day, although the Producer Price Index comes out at 8:30, so those obsessed with the question of whether there's any inflation in the system should be watching that. It's unlikely to be a big market move, however. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn illustration picture shows Euro coinsFRANKFURT (Reuters) - The European Central Bank is preparing a package of policy options for its June meeting, including cuts in all its interest rates and targeted measures aimed at boosting lending to small- and mid-sized firms (SMEs). Five people familiar with the measures being prepared detailed plans involving a potential rate cut, including the ECB's deposit rate going negative for the first time, along with the targeted measures aimed at boosting lending to SMEs. The package offers some stimulus for the euro zone economy but falls short of the large-scale effect the ECB could unleash with a major program of quantitative easing (QE) - money printing to buy assets. Such a QE plan is still some way off. A June rate cut is "more or less a done deal", said one of the five sources who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity. A second source echoed that sentiment, and added: "This will be the first major central bank to move to a negative deposit rate. That would move the exchange rate." The two spoke of a cut of 10-20 basis points, probably in all three ECB rates. The main refinancing rate is currently at 0.25 percent. Both sources expected the move to bring down the currency exchange rate but said the ECB had made no calculation of how much it was likely to fall by, and had no target for the euro. The ECB declined to comment when asked about the plans. ECB President Mario Draghi said last week the Governing Council was "comfortable with acting next time" - its June 5 policy meeting - but wanted to see updated economic projections from the bank's staff first. The ECB's deposit rate already stands at zero and a cut into negative territory would see it essentially charge banks for holding their money overnight - a move that could spur more lending, though analysts are unsure how banks would react. The ECB is concerned by the euro's strength and low inflation, which Draghi is worried could get stuck in what he calls a "danger zone" below 1 percent. At 0.7 percent, inflation is running well below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent. The bank is also concerned about weak lending to SMEs. Another source was less sure the new staff forecasts would merit policy action but confirmed a package was under discussion should the Council decide to act. Some analysts believe a small cut in the ECB's interest rates would have little impact. In February, ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure told Reuters the idea of cutting the deposit rate into negative territory was "a very possible option", before adding: "But you should not expect too much of it. BOOSTING LENDING Should it decide to cut rates, the ECB is looking at also deploying either a targeted long-term loan operation, or LTRO, or else announcing a purchasing program to buy asset-backed securities (ABS) comprised of bundled SME loans. The targeted LTRO, which ECB staff have been working on for weeks, would come with conditions attached on achieving a measurable increase of banks' lending to SMEs. The operation could be even longer than 3-year LTROs the ECB deployed in late 2011 and early 2012 to head off a funding crunch. "Three years has to be the minimum if we want to have an impact on boosting lending to small business," one of the sources said. "It may be for longer as well." As an alternative to the targeted LTRO, the ABS purchase plan would see the ECB buy bundled packages of SME loans. This could be announced in June with a view to coming into operation late this year, two sources said. The idea behind this second option is to build the market in Europe for SME loans bundled as ABS, with a view to making it larger and more liquid to aid the flow of credit to the smaller firms that form the backbone of the euro zone economy. While developing this purchase plan, the ECB is also lobbying banking regulators in Basel to loosen the capital requirements on banks holding high-grade ABS. One of the five sources said the ABS purchase idea was on the table but, because it would take time to make it operational, the measure might not be announced in June. Another said the ABS purchase plan for securitized SME loans was premature and not ripe for decision or announcement in June, adding: "What you should expect is an LTRO that could be even more than 3 years at a fixed rate." That would lend teeth to the ECB's forward guidance on rates. Asked how conditionality of banks increasing lending to SMEs could be enforced, he said that there could be for example a 4-year LTRO at a fixed rate of 25 basis points with an interest rate penalty if a bank did not meet the conditions. NO QE The tools being prepared are consistent with measures Draghi identified in an April 24 speech in which he explained how the ECB would respond to three broad scenarios. To respond to a de facto tightening of monetary policy caused by market moves like further euro gains, Draghi indicated the ECB could cut rates. To deal with problems transmitting its policy to all parts of the euro zone, he said the bank could deploy an LTRO targeted at encouraging bank lending or an ABS purchase program. Under a third scenario of a deterioration in the medium-term inflation outlook, Draghi said on April 24 the ECB could respond with a "broad-based asset purchase program" - potentially QE. However, just a few days later - at a meeting with German lawmakers - Draghi played down the prospect of QE any time soon. "He mentioned quantitative easing in this context but made clear that we're still some way off QE," a source who attended the meeting with German lawmakers said. One of the sources who spoke to Reuters for this story also said QE was some way off but another said he could imagine further measures potentially being examined later this year. "It's not QE yet," the source said of the package being prepared for June. "This is now, and autumn is later. You could think about some more things then if it is well prepared." (Writing by Paul Carrel Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
