Argentine President Cristina Fernandez said her country won't honor its debt to various hedge funds — even after the Supreme Court's refusal to hear the case Monday.   BREAKING: Argentine leader says she won't honor $1.3 billion debt ruling despite US Supreme Court loss At issue is whether Argentina is compelled to pay the full face value of bonds to bondholders who refused to participate in a debt restructuring. While Fernandez said Argentina remains open to negotiations, she also admitted the country simply can't pay off the disputed bonds in full, calling the situation "extortion," according to the Associated Press. "What I cannot do as president is submit the country to such extortion," she said in a national address Monday night. Until the uncertainty clears up, the situation remains chaotic, as Business Insider's Linette Lopez noted Monday afternoon. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcus R. DonnerVirgin Chairman Sir Richard Branson poses with cheerleaders during a ceremony to mark the delivery of the first Boeing 777-300ER for his new airline V Australia, in Seattle, Washington, February 6, 2009. Good morning, and welcome to Tuesday. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Signs the US economy is gathering steam are mounting, with industrial production data beating expectations overnight. Chris Rupkey at Mitsubishi Financial wrote, in an email to clients titled “Bam! Factory run rate at all-time record highs; Fed rate hikes on the radar”, that the data was not just pointing to a recovery, but “a full-on economic expansion”. “Consumer goods up 3.1% the last year, business equipment production up 5.3%, construction up 4.4%, materials up 5.1%,” he wrote. This might be a bit giddy. The FOMC meets tomorrow; few are expecting any material change to the Fed’s guidance on the path for interest rates. 2. On the markets it was a now-familiar flat session in the US overnight. Iron ore prices continue to fall, with the September futures contract now below $90, which could see the resources companies on the ASX come under pressure again today. The Nikkei back below 15,000 yesterday, closing at 14,933 after a loss of 1.09%. In China, the Shanghai composite rose 0.74%. Today there’s new car sales and the RBA minutes in Australia; regionally, the market will keep an eye on the Chinese FDI data. 3. Staggering China stat. There are many numbers thrown around to illustrate the vast scale of the growth in the Chinese economy in recent years. But this has got to be the winner. Bill Gates noted in a recent blog post that in the last three years, China has used more cement than the US used in the entire 20th century. 4. That growth has come at many costs – but none more visible than the choking, brown sludgey smog that now regularly envelops Beijing. (It sometimes even forms droplets and starts raining smog.) Bizarrely, the growing unrest in China about air quality might be something that will help the Australian coal industry. As Alex Heber reports, environmental policies are likely to increase Chinese demand for better-quality coal, which Australia has lots of. And with one in three operations in Australia running at a loss, forcing closures and layoffs, the lift would be welcome. 5. Back to Iraq. Australian special forces solders are on standby in case they are needed to help rescue diplomats from Baghdad, as militants from Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) continue their march through the country. Barack Obama has also announced that 275 US troops are being deployed to Baghdad to secure American facilities and protect diplomatic staff in the Iraqi capital. 6. World Cup update. Germany thrashed Portugal 4-0 in a surprisingly dominant performance featuring a hat-trick from Thomas Mueller. This is a very good result for team USA who are in the same group. Portugal’s Pepe was red-carded and will miss the next game, and in a match underway at time of writing, the Americans were leading 1-0 after scoring 31 seconds following kick-off. 7. The best way to watch it. A soccer stadium full of couches sounds like a dream. But it’s real – look: It’s in Berlin, where 12,000 Germans fans watch in comfort from 850 sofas as their team tackles the World Cup in a gigantic living room. Some have even brought tables, lamps and flowers to make it feel more like home. And if it rains, organisers have provided 850 waterproof covers for their couches. Brilliant. 8. Help ensure your email gets read by giving it a subject line between six and 10 words. Research has found emails with subject lines of that length have an “open rate” of 21%, whereas shorter or longer ones don’t get opened as much. 9. Double tornado. It sounds like a nightmare – unfortunately, it’s real. Twitter is flooding with reports of one touching down in Nebraska, in a phenomenon that reporters say meteorologists would study for decades to come. Check out the first pics. 10. The world’s best airlines. Business Insider’s often-controversial annual list of the world’s 20 best airlines is out, and Virgin Australia is at No.18. There’s no Qantas. And Garuda beat them both, tying at 15th spot with others. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyI recently took a tour of my uncle's industrial valve company in South Korea. The visit included a presentation given by one of his employees, who emphasized the company's commitment research and development (R&amp;D). Their principal concern is that anything on the market will eventually be manufactured in China at lower costs. In order to stay ahead, they have to keep improving their products. R&amp;D is one of those controversial line items that companies love to tout. But investors worry about it because it eats into profit margins in the near term. My uncle takes pride in not having to deal with this particular investor grievance because he owns 100% of the company. His company is just one of the many that have made Korea one of the beacons of R&amp;D in the developed world. "Korea’s emphasis on R&amp;D is the main driver that has been bolstering its global competitiveness," wrote Morgan Stanley's Sharon Lam and Jason Liu. "Korea has seen the fastest growth in R&amp;D expenditures among OECD countries over the last decade. It now ranks first in OECD in terms of R&amp;D intensity (expressed as R&amp;D spending as % of GDP), which replaced a long-standing position held by Israel before 2012. We believe R&amp;D will continue to see increasing share of GDP growth contribution in Korea in the years to come." Morgan StanleyAnd Korea isn't just throwing away that money. The benefits of the R&amp;D spending have been very clear in recent years. "Apart from the direct contribution, R&amp;D spending is, in fact, an intangible asset that is boosting other growth elements as well, most notably exports," said Lam and Liu. "The much-enhanced technology and design are the keys to help Korean exporters to compete on quality rather than on price, in our view. As a result, Korea’s exports have seen little to almost no impact from the substantial JPY depreciation over the last 18 months." Also known as Abenomics, Japan's ambitious economic stimulus plan has involved loose monetary policy that has led to the substantial devaluation of the yen relative to other currencies. The Japanese yen is down almost 20% on the Korean won since the beginning of 2013 (see below). This was once considered a risk to neighboring South Korea, which competes in many of the same export categories. The relative weakness of the yen to the won effectively put all of Japan's exported goods up for sale at a steep discount. But it appears that no amount of cheapness will offset the demand for technologically superior goods. Rather than struggling to maintain growth, growth is actually accelerating in Korea. "We are increasing our Korea GDP forecasts to 3.6% and 4.1%, respectively, for 2014 and 2015, from 3.5% and 3.7%," said Lam and Liu in their note. All this is a lesson for any economy or company competing at the global level. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Today, BP released its statistical energy review for 2014.  Among the highlights: But our favorite chart is here: It shows the price of oil every year since Abraham Lincoln became president. It's annotated with major oil shock events — though the first major event cited, the oil gusher in Titusville, Pennsylvania is slightly misleading. That in itself did not cause markets to surge, but rather a host of factors including the Civil War and the changing face of transport in America.  Check it out: BP
Morgan StanleyThe bulk of America's minimum wage earners work in the food services industry, reports Morgan Stanley's John Glass. Nearly 45% of those earning minimum wage are involved in either the preparation or the service of food.  The federal minimum wage has bee $7.25 since 2009. Following food services is retail services, capturing 11% of the minimum wage earners. Other major minimum wage industries include personal care, transportation, cleaning, and office work - all of which capture about 7% of the group. Finally, 18% of minimum wage workers earn their livings with “other” jobs. It's important to note that tipped workers, mostly found in restaurants and food service industries, are not included in this statistic. Why? Because they are generally paid less than the minimum hourly wage. Employers operate on the assumption that the combination of their hourly wages and tips will either equal or surpass the standard hourly minimum wage. As such, they are exempted from the Federal minimum wage.* Theoretically, this makes sense. In an ideal world, this sort of commission based wage-earning should not cause significant financial changes for the employee. However, by placing the fiscal power in the customer’s hands, the employee may suffer - especially on days when service is slow. Currently, in the recovering economy where income inequality is growing, a Federal minimum wage increase is being considered. Democrats traditionally campaign for minimum wage increase proposal, but now even Republicans like Mitt Romney are advocating for an increased federal minimum wage. Even during economic recoveries, service-based industries will experience up and downs. As a result, there is a Federal proposal for federal tipped minimum wage to be raised to help workers in these industries. Currently, that wage is set at $2.13 - and has not been changed since 1991 - and the proposal advocates raising it to $4.68 by 2017. By 2020, this proposal aims for tipped minimum wage to be 70% of the federal minimum wage. Federal proposals to increase minimum wages will not only help the minimum wage workers to combat the growing inequality. They might also help tipped workers, whose significantly lower salaries could also be raised.   * From the Tips Work Coalition: "By law, all workers, tipped or not, are guaranteed the minimum wage. Most restaurant servers make well over the minimum wage ($16-22 hourly is the average) but if on a rare occasion they do not, their employer is required by law to make up the difference to the minimum wage." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Funds Can Diversify By Hiring Multiple Investment Managers (Vanguard) A multi-manager approach is a good way to diversify a fund, according to Vanguard. "When we decide to add another manager to a fund, we like a complementary manager who will also invest with conviction, independent of the first manager," said Dan Newhall, a principal in Vanguard Portfolio Review Department. "The combination of managers can help to diversify the fund, while still following the primary investment strategy." This approach reduces volatility and risk that could occur with a single manager. "We prefer limited overlap and find that there's often very little correlation of excess returns among the two or more distinctive managers that you might hire," Newhall said. Advisors Need To Remind Their Clients Of Three Key Things When It Comes To International Investments (The Wall Street Journal) International investments can offer good diversification opportunities for investors. But there are few key things that advisors need to explain to their clients, writes Matt Johnson at Brandes Investment Partners in a WSJ column: 1. "One general misperception about foreign investments is that they help protect against short-term volatility in domestic markets," he writes. "…The problem, of course, is that foreign markets are very sensitive to extreme market movements here in the U.S--day-to-day movements between the two are very closely correlated." Instead he points out that international investments have long-term diversification benefits.  2. Advisors need to remind clients to think of all foreign markets as emerging markets.3. Finally, "when it comes to international investing, it is far more important to focus on companies than it is on countries," he writes. It's Ironic That Investors Are Looking For Yield In Emerging Market Debt But Are Ignoring Higher Yielding Debt In The US (Richard Bernstein Advisors)  At time when central banks have kept monetary policy loose and interest rates low, investors are taking on bigger risks in their quest for yield. One look at emerging market debt and you can see the gap "between perception and reality," writes Richard Bernstein at Richard Bernstein Advisors. "Investors have been lured to these securities by their higher yields, yet the underlying economic and currency fundamentals are deteriorating without commensurate widening of spreads." "The ongoing deflation of the global credit bubble will likely prove to be a significant and secular hindrance to emerging market growth, and investors still appear to be underpricing the risks associated with emerging market assets," writes Bernstein. He thinks it's ironic "ironic that investors are stretching for yield in risky emerging market debt despite the growing warning signs, but they won’t invest in higher yielding securities within the US even though fundamentals are improving." The Bull Market Won't Top Out Until Masses Are Buying Every Dip (Investment News)  "The bull market of 2009-2014 has to be one of the most disavowed, unloved bull markets of all time," writes Paul Schatz, president of Heritage Capital in Investment News. "Each and every time it sees even routine weakness, bears come out of the woodwork with calls of 1929, 1987 and 2007 all over again. And then stocks stop declining and continue on their merry way higher. This is exactly how long-term bull markets survive, thrive and work higher." Schatz argues that the bull market will only begin to top out when the masses start buying every dip. Citi Raises Its 2014 Target And Unveils Its 2015 Target For The S&amp;P 500 (Business Insider)  Citi's Tobias Levkovich has revised up his S&amp;P 500 year-end target to 2,000, from his earlier target of 1,975. "Large cap US equities are approaching year-end targets more rapidly than had been anticipated, supported by respectable earnings," wrote Levkovich. "With the S&amp;P 500 up 4.4% year-to-date and our late 2013 expectation for a 2014 full-year gain of about 7.0%, it seems appropriate to reconsider the market outlook especially in the face of better-than-expected profits." 12 months from now Levkovich sees the S&amp;P 500 in the 2,040-2,060 range. FREE AppDownload
Brian Snyder/Reuters Standard &amp; Poor's has further cut its corporate credit rating on RadioShack to 'CCC' from 'CCC+' and at the same time assigned the company's debt a negative outlook.  S&amp;P's Charles Pinson-Rose said the latest downgrade, "reflects the company's very weak operating trends, which have led to significant liquidity usage. Even if performance trends moderate, we expect the company to be using cash over the near term." Last week, RadioShack reported a quarterly loss of $98.3 million, on sales that fell 13% from the prior year. After the report, shares of the company fell more than 10%. Following RadioShack's disappointing report, Scott Tilghman, an analyst at B. Riley &amp; Co., cut his price target on shares of RadioShack to $0. Tilghman said the chances the company files for bankruptcy are now greater than 50%. S&amp;P said that its negative outlook on RadioShack reflects its view that the company will have weak operating results over the near term. In its release, S&amp;P outlines a "Downside" and an "Upside" scenario for RadioShack. Neither appear all that encouraging (emphasis ours): "Downside Scenario We would likely lower the ratings if we viewed a default as inevitable within six months. We may do so if the company’s operating trajectory stayed the same or worsened and its available liquidity sources were below $200 million. Upside scenario  A specific upside scenario is not contemplated, but it would likely mean that the company materially improves operating trends such that cash usage was not material or manageable for an extended period of time. For this to occur, we would expect EBITDA to be at least near zero or slightly positive." FREE AppDownload
Library of CongressEast Hampton may be known for its over-the-top real estate, but the homes of today don't hold a candle to the estates of last century. The Library of Congress recently released hundreds of lantern slides (hand-colored glass transparencies) of old gardens, including some images of gardens in East Hampton 100 years in the past. We combed through the pictures and, where possible, figured out what happened to the properties. FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderAt least three Bitcoin wallet apps are now operating out of Apple's iOS app store, apparently confirming that recent changes to the tech giant's user agreement signaled it was ready to re-open the door for the cryptocurrency. Earlier this year, the firm removed all remaining Bitcoin wallet apps from the iOS app store. Though it never stated why, analysts speculated it was due to continuing regulatory uncertainty. Given the penalties authorities were tolling against Bitcoin processors at the time, the risk was too great that Apple itself could get touched.   Last night, Coindesk's Jon Southurst reported a firm called Coin Pocket had successfully uploaded a basic wallet app. Then this morning, word got around that another firm, Bread Wallet, was offering a similar product. And TechNode reports a Hong Kong-based firm has uploaded its own wallet app. Mike Enriquez, the developer behind Coin Pocket, told BI in an email he'd been expecting to get rejected outright, so was thrilled to learn his app had gone into review instead. "I uploaded on June 3 and it went into review on June 9," he said. "From previous apps I have submitted to Apple, this step usually takes a few hours before getting into the store. This time it took a few days as it got accepted the night of June 13." We reported last week on how the Bitcoin community was doing just fine without Apple, having experienced no such problems on Google's Android. One of the world's largest Bitcoin companies, Blockchain, was about to launch its latest Android wallet next month. Now it seems whatever danger Apple may have sensed has passed.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoNigeria's Emmanuel Emenike lays on the floor in pain during the 2014 World Cup Group F soccer match between Iran and Nigeria at the Baixada arena in Curitiba June 16, 2014. Stocks closed a bit higher following a lackluster day in which the market spent time in both positive and negative territory before closing little changed. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: WALL STREET'S SUMMER OF DOOM: Why Everyone Is Bored And Bleeding Money » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesGreenpeace International said that one of its employees lost 3.8 million euros ($5,156,000) on rogue forex trades.  The non-governmental environmental organization said the losses were "a result of a serious error of judgment" by one of its employees in the International Finance Unit in Amsterdam. "Greenpeace International entered into contracts to buy foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate while the euro was gaining in strength," the press release said. "This resulted in a loss of 3.8 million euros against a range of other currencies." The employee, who has not been identified, has been fired. He wasn't a trader, though.  "This is not a 'Wolf of Wall Street' scenario with young guns with ten computer screens," Mike Townsley, the international director of communication for Greenpeace, told Business Insider in a telephone interview. "This is a mature, sober finance professional who unfortunately...whose judgment ended up being faulty and bypassed our control systems." He said it was a third-party contract that turned out unfavorably. The responsibility lay with the individual, who was terminated in March of this year.  One of the responsibilities of Greenpeace International's finance unit is to manage funds, Townsley explained. Greenpeace is a global organization in 40 countries, so money comes into the international unit and money goes out in the form of various currencies to support Greenpeace operations around the world. The individual entered into euro futures contracts for a basket of currencies sometime last year with a third party. The third party matches with someone who wants to buy and sell, Townsley explained.  "We transfer the currency. So again, it's not like we are trading on the stock market."  This particular individual didn't have permission or authorization to enter this contract.  "Given the scale of some of these transfers, he would under our rules need to get approval—that didn't happen. It should have, but it didn't. The consequence— We terminated his employment. We've strengthened our internal controls."  FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan / Getty General Motors said it is recalling 3.16 million cars with model years 2000-2014 to rework or replace ignition keys. The company will also take a charge of up to $700 million in the second quarter, including a previously disclosed $400 million charge.  This latest recall brings the company's total vehicles recalled in the U.S. to 17.73 million, with total North American recalls now totaling 20,042,649 vehicles, since the company's first recall in January. According to its latest monthly sales report, General Motors' seasonally adjusted May sales was an estimated 16.5 million units. In May, GM's sales were up 13% to 284,694 vehicles, with retail sales that were up 10%.  The only model being recalled that is still in production is the previous generation Chevy Impala, sold to rental fleets as the Impala Limited.  GM said it is aware of eight crashes and six injuries related to this recall, which is the result of a review of ignition issues following the February recall of 2.6 million Chevy Cobalts. Here's the full release from GM: DETROIT – General Motors will rework or replace the ignition keys on about 3.16 million 2000 to 2014 model year cars in the U.S. because the ignition switch may inadvertently move out of the “run” position if the key is carrying extra weight and experiences some jarring event. The use of a key with a hole, rather than a slotted key, addresses the concern of unintended key rotation due to a jarring road event, such as striking a pothole or crossing railroad tracks. Only one of the models included in the U.S. recall of 3,160,725 cars is still in production – the previous generation Chevrolet Impala, which is sold to daily rental fleets as the Impala Limited. The total North America population – U.S., Canada, Mexico and exports – is 3,360,555. The safety recall follows a review of ignition issues following the recall in February of 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalts and other small cars. GM is aware of eight crashes and six injuries related to this recall. If the ignition switch moves out of the “run” position, there is an effect on power steering and power braking. In addition, the timing of the key movement out of the “run” position, relative to the activation of the sensing algorithm of the crash event, may result in the air bags not deploying. The cars being recalled are the: Buick Lacrosse MY 2005-2009 Chevrolet Impala MY 2006-2014 Cadillac Deville MY 2000–2005 Cadillac DTS MY 2004–2011 Buick Lucerne MY 2006–2011 Buick Regal LS &amp; GS MY 2004–2005 Chevy Monte Carlo MY 2006–2008 In these vehicles, the ignition switch may be unable to handle extra weight hanging on a slotted key. GM will add an insert to the ignition keys of the recalled vehicles to close the slot and leave a 4x6-millimeter hole through which the key ring could be attached. In vehicles where the key cover has been worn, new keys with holes instead of slots will be provided free of charge. Rework of the keys – adding key inserts – at GM dealerships is expected to begin in the next few weeks. Until the rework or replacement is completed, owners of the recalled cars are urged to remove additional weight from their key chains and drive with only the ignition key. In addition to the ignition key recall, GM also announced U.S. recalls for 165,770 vehicles in these five actions: GM expects to take a charge of up to approximately $700 million in the second quarter for the cost of recall-related repairs announced in the quarter. This amount includes a previously disclosed $400 million charge for recalls announced May 15 and May 20. And this graphic from GM shows the full list of vehicles it has recalled since January. General Motors FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen waves to the crowd after receiving her honorary doctorate degree from New York University (NYU) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx borough of New York, May 21, 2014.The Financial Times reports the Federal Reserve is considering charging fees to investors seeking to exit bond funds. "Officials are concerned that bond-fund investors, as with bank depositors, can withdraw their money on demand even though the assets held by their funds are long-term debt and can be hard to sell in a crisis," the paper says. The fee would require a rule change from the SEC. There's been a surge in demand for bonds since 2009 as the Fed kept rates low following the financial crisis. If rates suddenly come up, there could be a flood out of fixed income funds.  Some on "Bond Twitter" responded with shock: This is rather sick... Fed looks at exit fees on bond funds: http://t.co/QfDJ5Sa7DR #FT How to start a run....*U.S. FED SAID TO MULL BOND-FUND EXIT FEES TO CURB RUNS: FT Though others were more sanguine: When you think about it, lots of hedge funds have exit fees and gates. Why not the FED? Click here to read the full story at FT.com » More to come ... FREE AppDownload
There have been a lot of mergers this year. The first quarter of 2014 was the busiest first quarter for U.S. M&amp;A activity since the first quarter of 2007, according to MergerMarket.  MergerMarket The first quarter also saw the largest aggregate deal value since 2007 and the largest average deal size since 2009. MergerMarket And in the second quarter, there have been three U.S. merger proposals worth at least $40 billion. On April 22, Valeant made its first offer for Allergan, which was worth about $46 billion, and has twice increased its offer for the Botox-maker. Valeant's deal raises a number of issues for the pharmaceutical industry, which we discussed at length last week. On May 18, AT&amp;T reached an agreement to acquire DirecTV for $95 per share. The offer represented a total transaction value of $67.1 billion.  And just yesterday, medical device-maker Medtronic agreed to acquire Covidien in a deal worth $42.9 billion that also involves a controversial "tax inversion" plan. The Medtronic-Covidien mega merger also comes amid at least three deal announcements this morning worth more than $1 billion. And today's deals also follow last Friday's announcement that Priceline would buy OpenTable for $2.6 billion. Recent reports have also said that Sprint is getting close to buying T-Mobile for more than $30 billion.  And let's not forget about Comcast's $45 billion deal to buy Time Warner announced in February, which proposed to create the nation's largest cable company, which customers probably won't be crazy about. And neither are some U.S. lawmakers. This chart from FactSet shows the number of deals and the aggregate deal value over the last 15 months. As you can see in this chart from FactSet, volume and value have both been elevated in 2014 compared to last year. FactSet But it's the mega deals that really get people's attention. In today's Wall Street Journal, two separate articles discuss the possibility of further consolidation in the cable and media space. Miriam Gottfried's Heard on the Street column said it could be the right time for CBS and Viacom, which split in 2006, to get back together. Meanwhile Amol Sharma and Keach Hagey report that smaller TV channel owners like AMC Networks and Scripps Networks could benefit from being acquired by a larger company. But this increase in deal activity does not come as a complete surprise. Reports from financial advisory firms American Appraisal and KPMG said that M&amp;A activity in 2014 was expected to be strong.  American Appraisal said it expected consolidation across industries to increase deal volumes in 2014. KPMG said 63% of the more than 1,000 M&amp;A professionals surveyed expected their company or their clients to initiate at least one acquisition in 2014. With the stock market near record highs, companies are also using their stock prices to finance deals, a la Facebook's $19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp, which was comprised of 75% stock  and 25% cash.  Interest rates and overall market volatility also remain low, making it easy for companies to borrow money to finance large acquisitions. Don't be surprised to see even more merger activity this year. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ted S. WarrenWorking at Starbucks has more perks than the average hourly job.  The company just announced it will cover college tuition costs through an online program at Arizona State University. Starbucks also offers health benefits to employees who work more than 20 hours a week.  But getting a job at Starbucks is staggeringly difficult.  "Last fiscal year we had 4 million applications and hired 50,000 people in the U.S. for hourly retail positions," a spokesman told Business Insider. That means Starbucks accepts just over 1% of its applicants. Starbucks might receive even more applications following the announcement it will pay for college tuition, Starbucks book author and blogger Melody Overton said.  "The typical age of a barista seems to be about 19 to 24, and that is the age where people are thinking heavily about their education," she said. Once people get hired at Starbucks they tend to keep the job, she said.  "From what I can see, turnover is lower than any other similarly situated industries," Overton said.  FREE AppDownload
In a new report, Richard Bernstein at Richard Bernstein Advisors points out that investors are taking pretty big risks in their quests for higher yield. Central banks around the world have kept monetary policy loose and interest rates low in their efforts to boost economic growth. This has caused conservative investors seek bonds in higher risk countries like those in the emerging markets.  One look at emerging market debt and you can see the gap "between perception and reality," writes Bernstein. "Investors have been lured to these securities by their higher yields, yet the underlying economic and currency fundamentals are deteriorating without commensurate widening of spreads." Bernstein also points out that in the U.S. the current M2 (broad measure of money supply) growth rate stands at 6.2%, while the inflation rate is below 2%. "It is hard for us to envision abnormal rates of US inflation with the supply of money growing below average," writes Bernstein. Meanwhile, in a large chunk of emerging markets, including the BRIC nations, have money supply growth rates and inflation rates that are much higher than the U.S. Higher inflation rates are bad news for bond investors whose income levels are fixed. "Investors’ certainty regarding an inevitable increase in US inflation is somewhat puzzling because the US data has been remarkably benign," writes Bernstein. Inflation is just one of the many risks he sees in the emerging markets. "The ongoing deflation of the global credit bubble will likely prove to be a significant and secular hindrance to emerging market growth, and investors still appear to be underpricing the risks associated with emerging market assets," writes Bernstein. Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
APMarion Barry in 1990 Former Washington D.C. Mayor Marion Barry is releasing a new memoir, "Mayor for Life: The Incredible Story of Marion Barry, Jr." on Tuesday. The Washington Post published several excerpts of the book Monday and they contained somewhat detailed descriptions of Barry's past cocaine use and his first time using the drug.  Barry said he first tried cocaine during the 1980's when he met a woman who appeared interested in him and was high on the drug.  "I was curious," wrote Barry. "If cocaine made this woman feel this hot, I wondered how it would make me feel." According to Barry, he initially blew the cocaine off of a business card before he was able to snort it. Once he managed to consume the drug, Barry wrote that he "felt like I had ejaculated." "The cocaine was a powerful stimulant that went straight to my penis. I could see what this young woman was talking about," Barry recounted, later adding, "What happened next? ... I had sex with her." In one of the excerpts published by the Post, Barry described cocaine use as "part of the times in the ’80s." He also gave his version of the events that led to the 1990 scandal when he became infamous after being filmed smoking crack cocaine in a hotel and subsequently arrested on drug charges. According to Barry, his arrest and trial were the "the highest form of entrapment" due to his advocacy for African-Americans in Washington. He said he had a turbulent relationship with the woman who he was filmed using crack with and only went to meet her at the hotel because she told him there was a "life-and-death situation." "I had my security detail with me, and I was not planning on going up to her room," Barry wrote. It was apparently food that changed Barry's mind. He said he decided to go up to the hotel room when the woman told him she ordered some soup from room service. "I should have stayed in the lobby and let [her] eat her bowl of soup and come down when she was ready," Barry explained. "None of this story would have happened." Despite these details, the Washington Post described Barry's new memoir as a "tell-enough" rather than a tell-all. According to the paper, Barry gave denials or "brief shrift" to more current drug use allegations. He also dismissed his repeated failure to pay income taxes since ending his time as mayor.  "I didn’t refuse to file my taxes by intent or maliciously; I just didn’t do them," wrote Barry.  Barry did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerElon Musk, CEO of Tesla Motors, waves during a news conference to mark the company's delivery of the first batch of electric cars to Chinese customers in Beijing, April 22, 2014.  It's been a huge day for Elon Musk. Tesla's electric vehicle rivals Nissan and BMW are "keen" on talks with the company to collaborate on charging networks, reports The Financial Times' Henry Foy. In addition to seeking talks with Tesla on charging networks, Foy's report, citing sources, said Nissan, BMW, and Tesla "are keen to collaborate on creating possible global vehicle-charging standards." Following the report, shares of Tesla are up more than 5%. SolarCity, of which Tesla CEO Elon Musk is chairman, is also up 2.5%. Tesla has announced plans to build a gigafactory, which would allow Tesla to make lithium-ion batteries for its cars, and will choose a site by the end of the year. These lithium-ion batteries would also be used as power storage units sold by SolarCity.  In a feature on Tesla's efforts to build a gigafactory, BI's Rob Wile noted that the gigafactory is Musk's biggest bet of his career. The success of Tesla may hinge on the success of the gigafactory. Musk told The Wall Street Journal's Cassandra Sweet that outside of building a gigafactory, Tesla "can't figure out any other way to scale."  That Tesla is in talks with Nissan or BMW shouldn't come as a complete shock, as Musk last week made the unprecedented decision to make the company's patents available for anybody to use.  In making the company's patents available, Musk argued in a blog post that the company doesn't need them because the company's real competition isn't other electric carmakers but cars that run on gasoline.  In his post Musk said, "We believe that Tesla, other companies making electric cars, and the world would all benefit from a common, rapidly evolving technology platform." On a conference call accompanying Musk's announcement, which was made in a company blog post, he said he spoke to BMW the previous day about ditching their patent protections.  Foy's report quotes an unnamed execute as saying, "It is obviously clear that everyone would benefit if there was a far more simply way for everyone to charge their cars." Musk would certainly agree.  FREE AppDownload
For decades, there's been a widespread misunderstanding of monosodium glutamate — aka, MSG. We debunk the long-running myth that MSG is bad for you. Sources: York University, FDA, Smithsonian Mag, Georgetown University Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The Huffington PostEveryone's been talking about rising inequality in the U.S., spurred on by the massive popularity of French economist Thomas Piketty's book "Capital in the 21st Century." As much attention as it's received, it's also come in for some criticism.  The core fact of income inequality doesn't seem to be in doubt. Indeed, the FT, which found flaws in Piketty's use of some data, never questioned this element specifically. But Piketty's assertions on wealth, and his conclusions about the nature of capitalism, continue to be called into question. Now, Michigan professor and New York Times contributor Justin Wolfers has laid out the state of the rest of the Piketty debate in a wonderful presentation posted to the NBER. With his permission, we republish it here. 
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTobias Levkovich, CitiCiti's Tobias Levkovich has raised his year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 to 2,000, from his earlier target of 1,975. "Large cap US equities are approaching year-end targets more rapidly than had been anticipated, supported by respectable earnings," wrote Levkovich. "With the S&amp;P 500 up 4.4% year-to-date and our late 2013 expectation for a 2014 full-year gain of about 7.0%, it seems appropriate to reconsider the market outlook especially in the face of better-than-expected profits." The S&amp;P is at around 1,935 right now. Here's Levkovich's expectations for S&amp;P 500 earnings: He sees the index rallying to the "2,040-2,060 range (or a single point figure of 2,050)" twelve months from now. "The bigger challenges facing investors in 2015 might involve a significant change from the Fed and Chinese economic trends," he said. "It is reasonable to wonder about a forthcoming tightening in monetary policy once tapering is done with and the focus shifts to rate hikes. The timing and intensity of such moves will be somewhat dependent on inflation pressures and there is also concern about the impact of any rate hikes on emerging economies." Levkovich does not expect this to be a smooth ride up. According to the Panic/Euphoria model, Citi's proprietary measure of market sentiment, there's an 80% chance the market will be down during this period. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Murad SezerFrance's Mathieu Debuchy fights with Roger Espinoza of Honduras for the ball during their 2014 World Cup Group E soccer match at the Beira-Rio stadium in Porto Alegre June 14, 2014. Stocks have turned red. The Dow is down 42 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 3 points, and the Nasdaq is down 9 points. Futures were lower overnight, as the destabilizing situation in Iraq and renewed tensions in Ukraine spooked investors. However, after solid economic data earlier this morning stocks reversed higher, but have since forfeited these gains and fallen to their lows. Following the Supreme Court's decision not to hear Argentina's case against hedge fund creditors, Argentina's stock market is crashing.  On the economic data front, the New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Survey came in at 19.28, topping expectations for a 15.0.  The Federal Reserve's industrial production report said production climbed 0.6% in May. Economists were expected growth of 0.5%. And a reminder: its also a Fed week. The Fed's June meeting starting tomorrow and its latest monetary policy announcement expected at 2:00 pm ET on Wednesday, followed by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen at 2:30. In corporate news, its another Merger Monday, headlined by medical device maker Medtronic buying Ireland-based Covidien in a $43 billion mega deal. As part of the acquisition, Medtronic will move its headquarters to Ireland in a "tax inversion," a controversial corporate tactic that U.S. lawmakers have been seeking to stop.  Shares of Covidien are up 22% following the announcement while Medtronic shares are lower by about 1%. Internet networking companies Level 3 Communications and tw telecom announced a deal to merge, with Level 3 acquiring tw telecom in a deal that values tw at about $40.86 per share. Following the announcement, tw telecom is up more than 7%, while Level 3 is down more than 4%. Hard drive maker SanDisk announced an agreement to acquire Fusion-io for $11.25 per share, or about $1.1 billion. Fusion-io is up more than 22% following the announcement, and shares of SanDisk are up nearly 3%.  Williams Companies announced plans to merge with Access Midstream Partners in a deal worth about $6 billion. Shares of Williams are up 19% following the announcement, while Access Midstream shares are down 1.1%.  A Bloomberg report said Siemens is preparing a roughly $5.4 billion bid for France-based Alstom's gas turbines unit.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael Dalder (Updated at 5:10 pm ET) The Supreme Court said today it would not hear Argentina's case against hedge fund creditors, and Argentina's stock market got killed on the news. Argentina's Merval Index, a price-weighted index designed to reflect the performance of Argentine listed companies, fell 12%. Google Finance The Supreme Court's decision is a major blow to Argentina, as it will now be forced to default on its debts or negotiate with creditors, which include Paul Singer's Elliott Management. It all stems from the country's default early last decade. Argentina restructured its debt, but some hedge funds like Elliott Management refused to take part in the restructuring and demanded full payment. The two sides have been battling in court for years about whether Argentina has to pay the holdout hedge funds the full amount. A lower court had ruled that Argentina is on the hook, and the Supreme Court declined to hear the case (and therefore can't reverse it). Argentina's government had previously called the creditors "vultures." BI's Linette Lopez notes that this ruling was unexpected.  BNP Paribas said: "This is the most negative scenario." All in all, not a good day for Argentina, who will now be forced to win back the confidence of investors and now risks defaulting. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThere's plenty to dislike about New York City summers — hot subways, not-so-sweet smells, and hordes of sweaty people, to name a few. But all those folks who skip off to the Hamptons each weekend are missing out. There are tons of fantastic things to do in NYC during the summer, like picnics in the park, outdoor concerts, and cool cocktails on rooftops. We came up with a list of 33 activities that will make staying in the city during summer 2014 not only tolerable, but positively enjoyable. Did we miss one of your favorite things to do in NYC in the summer? Add it in the comments!
This email subject certainly stood out when it in our inbox a little while ago: Bam! Factory run rate at all-time record highs; Fed rate hikes on the radar That's from economist Chris Rupkey at Mitsubishi Financial responding to this morning's industrial production data. May Industrial Production jumped 0.6% (vs. expectations of 0.5%) and there were nice upward revisions to previous months. According Rupkey, the US is now officially firing on all cylinders: "Slack, what slack? This isn’t a recovery anymore, it is a full-on economic expansion. The old peak before the recession in this timely monthly measure of factory output was 100.8 in November 2007, now today it is up 0.6% in May to 103.7." And if you think the economy is still generally weak, you don't know what you're talking about says Rupkey, "You think the economy is running at a sluggish 2% pace? Think again. Consumer goods up 3.1% the last year, business equipment production up 5.3%, construction up 4.4%, materials up 5.1%." The upshot is that with no, to little, slack in the economy, it's only a matter of time before the Fed feels compelled to act to hike interest rates and cool things down. "Fed policy is behind the curve if industrial production was the one desert-island statistic on the Fed’s dashboard guiding monetary policy," Rupkey writes. That the economy is starting to hum, and that it's only a matter of time before the Fed taps on the breaks is a growing meme on Wall Street. As we pointed out earlier, using charts from economist Tim Duy, the Fed is close to achieving its goals both from an employment standpoint and an inflation standpoint. Tim Duy Tim Duy Last week, Goldman's top economist Jan Hatzius said the economy is finally growing at an above-trend pace. And last Friday, BoE chief Mark Carney warned that rate hikes in England could come sooner than the market expects. And many started wondering whether what happens in England is a preview of what happens in the US. Some observers, like Jan Hatzius, would like to see a little more data to feel confident that the breakout is here (and some observers, like Tim Duy aren't really buying it at all). But the story that the economy is hot and the Fed will soon eye the exits is a hot one that people are passing around. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri MaltsevU.S. strongman Andy Vincent strains as he lifts a weight during the Pacific Strong competition in Russia's far eastern port of Vladivostok August 14, 2011. Vincent and teammate Travis Ortmayer took on and beat a Russian team in various tests of strength. This year's list of top-performing banks is in, and one thing's clear – Asia is definitely winning. The list comes from Bloomberg Markets Magazine, which ranked 97 banks around the world with at least $100 billion in assets. Eight out of the 21 top banks are Asian, including the number one spot. Within regions, four out of the five top banks in North America are Canadian. Only one U.S. bank made the top 21. The 2014 rankings saw some new names, since Bloomberg decided to throw private banks into the mix this year, two of which tied for second. Rankings were determined by five criteria, in order of importance: 1. Ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets2. Ratio of nonperforming assets to total assets3. Ratio of reserves for loan losses to nonperforming assets4. Ratio of deposits to funding5. Ratio of costs to revenues   FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe Supreme Court has responded to Argentina's request to have its case against hedge-fund creditors heard with a resounding, unquestionable no. "This is the end of the line for Argentina in the judicial appeal process. It has nowhere else to turn," said Richard A. Samp, chief counsel of the Washington Legal Foundation. "It is true that Argentina is entitled any time in the next 25 days to ask the Supreme Court to rehear its petition. But because the Supreme Court never grants rehearing petitions, there is no reason to think that the Second Circuit will wait to lift its stay until after the futile rehearing procedure has been exercised and resolved." Argentina was asking the court for two things that came from one specific disaster: its 2001-2002 default. At that time, a bunch of hedge funds bought Argentine debt, and a group of them, led by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, refused to take a haircut on that debt when Argentina refinanced in 2005 and 2010. Argentina refused to pay, so the holdouts chased the country's money around the world, even commandeering an Argentina war vessel in Ghana. Argentina was asking the Supreme Court to reverse a decision made by a lower court that it pay every single cent it owes. It was also asking the court to stop the holdouts from discovering its money all over the world, arguing that the chase was a violation of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act. But no. Denied and denied. “America’s highest Court has spoken," said a spokesman for the holdouts, NML. "Now it is time for Argentina to honor its commitments to its creditors, which would benefit both Argentina’s economy and its international standing.” This was unexpected. Most analysts thought that the court would hand Argentina more time by asking for the White House's opinion through the solicitor general. This flat-out denial means that Argentina must default on its debt to creditors or negotiate with the "vultures." In the meantime, the lower court that mandated Argentina pay will likely lift its stay on payment in the next few days. That's when things could get ugly, unless Argentina makes it clear that it's willing to negotiate and does so before its next payment would need to be made. And it can negotiate now, because according to its bond prospectus, it simply could not voluntarily negotiate with the holdouts until 2015. Basically, it had to have no other option. "There has been considerable speculation that Argentina will respond to a denial of its certiorari petition by defaulting on all existing bond obligations. A decision to default would serve no one's interests and is certainly not a decision that Argentina is "forced" to make, as it sometimes has asserted when speculating about what it would do when this day of reckoning was reached," said Samp. While default may not be coming, nothing has been resolved yet, and that means chaos. Major Argentine stocks Edenor and YPF fell 13% and 17%, respectively. Argentine bond yield spread over U.S. Treasurys +60bps to 7.97pps, showing that investors see the assets as more risky. "I think negotiations will start," says Federico Zaldua an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk.Last week he told Business Insider that he would be buying Argentine bonds during this chaotic period. Right now prices will dip, but as the situation stabilizes so will the bonds. Then again — and this would be totally nuts — Argentina could refuse to negotiate. As Zaldua said last week: "the disaster window is always open in Argentina." FREE AppDownload
Flickr.comMoise Safra, the Brazilian billionaire who was part of the wealthy Safra banking family, died on Saturday from complications of Parkinson's disease, Bloomberg News reports. He was 79. Safra had an estimated net worth of $2.2 billion, according to Forbes. He sold his half of Banco Safra to his brother Joseph in 2006.  After selling his stake in the family banking business, Safra began investing in real estate. According to Forbes, Safra spent $810 million on an office building in London, and partnered with Chinese real estate billionaire Zhang Xin to buy a 40 percent stake in the General Motors building in Manhattan. Safra also has named after him a Manhattan community center, currently under construction, and an auditorium in the Albert Einstein Iraelite Hospital in Sao Paulo. The Safra banking legacy started with Moise's great-great-grandfather in the Ottoman Empire. At the beginning of the twentieth century, Moise's father Jacob opened the Jacob E. Safra Bank in Beirut, and the family's business grew to include Safra SA (now Banco Safra de Investimento), the Trade Development Bank in Geneva, and the Republic National Bank of New York. Moise Safra's siblings are well-known for their banking experience and wealth. His brother Joseph Safra is the richest banker on the planet with an estimated $16.5 billion net worth today. Moise Safra's other brother, Edmond, entered the family banking business at age 16, helped build the Safra empire, and died mysteriously in 1999 from arson. Edmond's widow and wealthy Brazilian heiress, Lily Safra, is also on the Forbes billionaire list with a net worth of $1.3 billion. Safra is survived by his wife, Chella Cohen Safra, and his five children. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund cut its growth forecast for the United States on Monday and said the economy would not reach full employment until the end of 2017, allowing the Federal Reserve to bide its time before raising interest rates. In its annual health check of the U.S. economy, the IMF also urged the United States to boost the minimum wage, which is below most international standards, to fight poverty, which lingers above 15 percent. The IMF forecast economic growth of 2 percent this year, below the 2.8 percent rate it predicted in April, due to a weak first quarter. It kept its 2015 forecast unchanged at 3 percent. "Recent data ... suggest a meaningful rebound in activity is now underway and growth for the remainder of this year and 2015 should well exceed potential," the IMF said. Yet the country's potential growth should only be around 2 percent going forward, below historical averages, as the population ages and productivity growth slows, it added "Given the substantial economic slack in the economy, there is a strong case to provide continued policy support," the IMF said. It said its forecasts show the U.S. economy would only return to full employment by the end of 2017, with inflation remaining low, suggesting the Fed could keep rates at zero for longer than the middle of 2015. The IMF urged the United States to increase spending on infrastructure and education and change parts of its tax system, including boosting the federal gasoline tax and reinstating the tax credit for research and development, to help spur growth. In the future, the United States should also reform corporate taxes, introduce a carbon tax and move toward a federal value-added tax, the IMF said. A greater reliance on growth-enhancing fiscal policies could allow the Fed to retreat more quickly from its extraordinary monetary stimulus, it added. "This would be the best policy mix from an economic perspective but, regrettably, political agreement on such an approach remains elusive," the IMF said. The IMF warned that financial markets could be too complacent about possible volatility surrounding a future rate hike. Markets predict a narrow range of future policy rates, despite uncertainty about the amount of slack in the U.S. labor market and the potential for wage and price inflation. "This sets up the risk, even with a successful and well-communicated increase in interest rates, for significant swings in market flows and prices in the months ahead," the IMF said. It said the Fed should consider further changes to its communication to better guide markets, including holding a news conference after each meeting of its policy-setting committee and publishing quarterly reports on monetary policy. "Finally, the (Fed's policy-setting panel) could provide greater clarity about how financial stability considerations figure into its monetary policy calculus," the IMF said. Fed policymakers meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to consider their monetary policy stance. As in previous reports, the IMF warned a prolonged period of ultra-low U.S. interest rates raises financial stability concerns, pointing especially to fragmented oversight of the U.S. insurance sector. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley, an adviser to Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc in its $53 billion hostile bid for Allergan Inc, initially tried to get hired by Allergan and in its pitch called the unsolicited bidder a "house of cards", according to Allergan. The Botox maker released email exchanges with Morgan Stanley bankers on Monday, which reveal the bankers were pitching for a defense assignment from Allergan, offering advice as to how the company could successfully defend the unwanted suitor. "Executives from Morgan Stanley, the investment bank understood to have recently been retained by Valeant, have sent emails directly to Allergan’s management team that suggest they share the concerns of Allergan...," the company said in a statement. In a May 13 email to Allergan Chief Executive David Pyott and Chief Financial Officer Jeff Edwards, Morgan Stanley's global head of M&amp;A Robert Kindler said the company could be more aggressive in going after Valeant's business model and the value of its stock. David Horn, a managing director at Morgan Stanley's healthcare group, followed up with an email to Edwards on May 18. "Part of what Rob (Kindler) is suggesting (to Allergan) is to allow him to use his significant relationships with media and analysts to provide a clear and detailed articulation of why Valeant is a house of cards and your investors should not want to take their stock," Horn said. Representatives of Morgan Stanley did not immediately respond to requests for comment, while Allergan declined to comment. Valeant could not be immediately reached for comment. Valeant and its ally Pershing Square Capital Management - Allergan's biggest shareholder - have offered to buy Allergan for $53 billion in cash and shares. Allergan has rejected the offer and refused to negotiate, leading Pershing to move toward replacing most of Allergan's board at a special meeting. However, Valeant's Toronto-listed stock has fallen in recent weeks, with Allergan stepping up its attack on the rival's business model. Shares of Valeant have fallen nearly 7 percent in the last five days, while the S&amp;P 500 has remained flat. Allergan has argued that Valeant shuns research and development and relies solely on acquisitions to drive growth, a model which it calls unsustainable. Allergan has compared Valeant to Tyco, the scandal-plagued company which built itself up through acquisitions and then collapsed. Valeant has defended itself, with Ackman arguing that the company's business model is more similar to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc than to Tyco. Allergan is working with Goldman Sachs Group and Bank of America Merrill Lynch and legal advisers Latham &amp; Watkins, Richards, Layton &amp; Finger and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz. Valeant, which has been working with Barclays Plc and RBC Capital Markets for the past few months, has recently added Morgan Stanley as a financial adviser, people familiar with the matter said.  (Editing by Sofina Mirza-Reid) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Alex BrandonThe NAHB housing market index (HMI), a gauge for homebuilder confidence, climbed to 49 in June, from 45 in May. This beat expectations for a rise to 47. But is far below the peak of 58 in August 2013. A reading over 50 shows that more builders view conditions as good than poor. "After several months of little fluctuation, a four-point uptick in builder sentiment is a welcome sign and shows some renewed confidence in the industry," NAHB chairman Kevin Kelly, said in a press release. "However, builders are facing strong headwinds, including the limited availability of labor." Homebuilders have attributed the difficulty to find workers to the fact that many either left the labor force or joined another industry during the housing bust. Other homebuilders we spoke to earlier this year said many were now employed in oil and gas states. "Consumers are still hesitant, and are waiting for clear signals of full-fledged economic recovery before making a home purchase," NAHB chief economist David Crowe said in a press release. "Builders are reacting accordingly, and are moving cautiously in adding inventory." All three components of the HMI moved up in June (here they are verbatim): "With affordability still hugely impaired compared to last year, we don't expect a sustained revival in demand anytime soon," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in an email to clients. "And  if mortgage rates rise over the summer, as we expect, housing will take another turn for the worse." This chart from Shepherdson shows the trajectory of homebuilder sentiment and new home sales: Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockIn recent weeks, much has been made of how boring it's been for traders on Wall Street.  Multiple banks have cautioned that their trading revenues for this quarter are tumbling. And everyone wants to talk about the collapse of the VIX, or volatility index. Low volatility "discourages hedging and delays opportunistic investing," said Goldman Sachs' Gary Cohn in a recent presentation. This means less activity for trading desks. We've put together the following charts that show how and why things are so slow. The VIX, which indicates how much traders expect the market to move in the short term, has fallen along with the average daily trading volume. Both volatility and volume are drastically lower than they have been in recent years. And as you see, volatility and volume undulate in tandem. Goldman Sachs There Are Fewer Stocks To Trade As the stock market has rallied to record highs since the financial crisis, the number of companies listed in the public market has cratered, as this chart from Goldman Sachs shows: Goldman Sachs There Are Fewer People Trading This table from Goldman shows how the bond and foreign-exchange markets, which are both nominally larger than the stock market, have seen volumes and volatility fall significantly. Goldman Sachs And last month U.S. Treasurys traded in their tightest range in basically a generation: Goldman SachsAnd this chart of the CBOE Volatility Index for 10-year U.S. Treasurys shows how volatility in these notes has dried up in the last year. Google FinanceCBOE Volatility Index for 10-year U.S. Treasurys. This chart from Goldman show how trading in the euro versus the U.S. dollar has consolidated in the last few months. Goldman Sachs This chart of the CBOE Euro Volatility Index shows how volatility in that currency has tumbled since the peak of the 2011 eurozone crisis. Google FinanceCBOE Euro Volatility Index. As Wall Street banks look to find other ways to make money in the absence of trading, they have turned to investment-banking services like advising on mergers and acquisitions or underwriting debt offerings, as seen in this table from Goldman. Goldman Sachs The VIX is a gauge of how much the market is expected to move over the next month. A lower reading means smaller expected market moves. The VIX has been talked about so much recently because it is at historically low levels. This chart from Goldman shows how far below historical averages the VIX has been. Goldman Sachs The stock market looks vastly different today than it did before the financial crisis. There are fewer participants, and there is less trading.  This chart shows the number of shares traded per month on the NYSE in the last 10 years. Business Insider, data via NYSE This chart shows how many trades were executed each month on the NYSE. Business Insider, data via NYSE And here we see how many shares have been traded per month on the Nasdaq in the last decade. Business Insider, data via NYSE And how many trades have been executed each month on the Nasdaq. Business Insider, data via NYSE When you look at the last year of trading in the major U.S. stock indexes — the Dow, the S&amp;P 500, and the Nasdaq — you can see how much trading ranges have consolidated in the last few months. Here's a chart of the last year of trading in the Dow. Note how tight the trading range has been since its February lows.  FinViz Same with the S&amp;P 500. FinViz And the Nasdaq. FinViz This chart from RBC Capital shows the last 20 years of trading in the VIX. The two red circles indicate the lowest ever readings for the index, and you can see how close we are to those levels. Through the summer, this is the chart to watch. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanPeople leave BNP Paribas Fortis headquarters in Brussels September 18, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - French bank BNP Paribas &lt;BNPP.PA&gt;, which is facing a potential $10 billion fine for breaking U.S. sanctions, has handed over to U.S. investigators files covering many years of its dealings with leading companies in the oil market. A dozen former BNP insiders and senior trading executives said it had in recent months handed over a host of documents relating to its oil dealings with Sudan and Iran, including details on trading houses' and oil majors' involvement in the trades. Before now, all that had been known about the probe was that U.S. authorities were investigating whether BNP evaded sanctions relating to Sudan, Iran and Cuba and if it stripped identifying information from related dollar wire transfers to be cleared by the U.S. financial system. BNP declined to comment. It has said publicly only that it is in discussions with U.S. authorities about "certain U.S. dollar payments involving countries, persons and entities that could have been subject to economic sanctions". The sources told Reuters that the probe has so far mostly focused on the bank's dollar financing of oil trade out of Sudan - a much smaller producer than Iran - between 2002 and 2009, long after Washington imposed sanctions against the government in Khartoum in 1997 over human rights violations. It extended the sanctions in 2007. They said BNP provided the lion's share of trade financing to Chinese companies including Sinopec &lt;600028.SS&gt; and CNPC, which were the main importers of Sudanese crude during the period. The Chinese companies declined to comment. Sudan's oil production rose from around 200,000 barrels per day (bpd) in 2000 to a peak of almost 500,000 bpd in 2010, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data. Although China was and remains the main importer of crude from Sudan, BNP also provided trade finance to major global trading houses such as Trafigura and Vitol, which were also involved in trading Sudanese oil at the time. The trading houses declined to comment. Several of the sources said they believed the files did not contain compromising information against the trading houses and oil companies. It was not clear if BNP provided the materials voluntarily. The U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) and the Manhattan District Attorney declined to comment. "BNP has given all its files to the U.S. authorities. The full Monty," a former BNP Paribas insider said. "The information that it has provided certainly includes all counterparties," a senior trading source said. According to people familiar with the matter, U.S. authorities at one point suggested that BNP pay a penalty as high as $16 billion, though more recently they have been discussing $10 billion, which would still almost wipe out BNP's entire 2013 pretax income. France's finance minister said on Sunday that talks about the fine between the bank and U.S. authorities had progressed towards a "more equitable" level. The bank also faces the risk of being temporarily blocked from clearing U.S. dollar transactions. BNP and other non-U.S.-listed banks continued to finance oil trades in U.S. dollars out of Sudan following the imposition of U.S. sanctions in 1997, in the belief they were not violating those restrictions. "Few people really believed that the mere fact that you were touching a U.S. dollar when you are not a U.S. bank when you are not doing it out of the U.S. was really breaching U.S. law," a former senior BNP employee involved in the financing said. BNP financed around 30 percent of oil exports from Sudan, but it halted trade with Sudan in July 2007, a month after the U.S. imposed new sanctions and two months after Nicolas Sarkozy was sworn in as French president with a promise to improve ties with Washington, the former senior BNP source said. China's national oil companies, which buy up most of the heavy-grade oil produced in Sudan to process in refineries, were enraged by the decision, according to one former executive. Trading entities were then set up in Hong Kong, Singapore and Switzerland in order to continue the oil trade out of Sudan, several sources said. It was not clear whether some of those entities were financed by BNP, an issue being investigated by the DoJ, according to the sources. It was the world's top financier of commodity trading throughout the 1990s and 2000s but has drastically reduced staffing in its Geneva and Paris offices in the past two years as it cut some of its riskier business and analyzed the implications of the ongoing U.S. investigation. If that history left it exposed in Sudan, its business in Iran, OPEC's second-largest oil producer after Saudi Arabia, could have wider implications, as the scale of its operations and the number of parties involved dwarf those in Sudan. Iran was the target of a U.S. embargo after the 1979 Islamic revolution, but its oil became subject to an EU embargo only in 2012 as part of Western efforts to persuade Tehran to abandon its nuclear program. (Additional reporting by Maya Nikolaeva, Aruna Viswanatha and Karen Freifeld; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThere are a lot of companies going public this week. According to Renaissance Capital's weekly IPO calendar, 21 companies are scheduled to go public this week. Among the notable companies expected to debut is portable camera company GoPro, which filed its IPO last month, with its filing showing that it turned a $61 million profit in 2013.  Earlier this year, people talked a lot about the elevated activity in the IPO market, especially when Candy Crush maker King Digital and online food ordering platform GrubHub, went public, leading some to wonder whether we were in another bubble. (Answer: no.) The IPO  market is used by many as an indicator of how much risk investors are willing to take. With the recent developments in Iraq and Ukraine creating geopolitical risks for markets, along with a Fed meeting on Wednesday, this week's offerings will be closely watched to gauge investor sentiment. Here's a table showing the full list of expected offerings, via Renaissance Capital: Renaissance Capital FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThe U.S. Supreme Court has declined to hear Argentina's appeal that it shouldn't have to pay a group of hedge funds billions the group says it is owed. Argentina now risks defaulting. The appeal was Argentina's last official means of avoiding paying back investors who'd purchased Argentine debt more than a decade ago, but who had refused to participate in a haircut settlement agreed to by other investors who'd subscribed to the bond issue.  The country had warned it risked default if it was forced to pay the amount in full. The country is also grappling with an unrelated $24 billion payment due at the end of the month. "This is the most negative scenario," BNP Paribas said. @Pawelmorski Tweeted the country's discount bonds immediately dropped eight points.  Argentina may now seek to settle with the hedge fund group, something it had sought to avoid.  The court order was issued without comment. BI's Linette Lopez has all the details about what might happen next » FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesEspen BaardsenDuring the World Cup, some trading floors on Wall Street might change the channel from stock market news to watch soccer (or football).  It turns out there are many former professional soccer players working in finance. We've included a round up of them in the slides that follow. Please note, this list is not a ranking.  ** If you know of other top players working in finance, please email their name/photo to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris KeaneA worker uses an electronic screwdriver to install the motherboard on the reverse side of a 32-inch TV at Element Electronics in Winnsboro, South Carolina May 29, 2014. The Fed said industrial production climbed 0.6% in May.  Consensus was for growth of 0.5%, up from a revised -0.3% rate in April. Capacity utilization ticked 79.1%, beating expectations for 78.9%, which was also April's revised figure. Automotive products saw the biggest jump at 1.5%. "The winter hit is now history, and output is rising strongly," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said. He added: "This is a solid report, especially when the upward revisions to April manufacturing - to -0.1% from -0.4% - are taken into account. May's 0.6% manuf number was helped by a 1.5% jump in the volatile auto sector, but output ex-autos rose 0.5% on the month — with a hefty 0.8% jump in capital equipment - and climbed at a 6.0% annualized rate in the three months to May, compared to the previous three months."  Table: Federal Reserve Chart:  Federal Reserve It's the second-consecutive datapoint beat: We just got Empire Fed data that came in ahead of expectations. FREE AppDownload
Flickr user Charles 16eThe New York Fed says its Empire Fed survey came in at 19.28. Consensus was for a reading of 15.00, against 19.01 prior. The new orders index climbed eight points to 18.4, its highest level in four years. The workweek index ticked up, while the number-of-employees index ticked down.  Price indices slowed for the second consecutive month.  Indices for the six-month outlook remained highly optimistic, with the future new orders and shipments surveys up five and nine points, respectively. The index for future general business conditions fell four points, but remained high at 39.8. Here's the chart: New York Fed Full release »  It's the first of the last six data points in the run-up to Wednesday's FOMC meeting. FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesShanghai has risen from the ground in just 20 years.Bill Gates has been looking at the new book by his "favourite author," historian Vaclav Smil, titled "Making the Modern World: Materials and Dematerialization," on his blog. There’s one figure that caught both Smil’s and the Microsoft founder’s attention. As Gates writes on his blog: [Smil] argues that the most important man-made material is concrete, both in terms of the amount we produce each year and the total mass we’ve laid down. Concrete is the foundation (literally) for the massive expansion of urban areas of the past several decades, which has been a big factor in cutting the rate of extreme poverty in half since 1990. In 1950, the world made roughly as much steel as cement (a key ingredient in concrete); by 2010, steel production had grown by a factor of 8, but cement had gone up by a factor of 25. Then Gates reveals the detail that shocked both him and Smil. In just three years, China has used more concrete than the U.S. used in the previous century — 50% more, in fact. He tweeted it too. The most staggering statistic in @VaclavSmil’s new book: http://t.co/2N6cpXQsJ5 pic.twitter.com/QPcBscSLXj Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
screenshotThe boss of Blackstone’s hedge fund business, who was supposedly the inspiration for Gordon Gekko in the iconic film Wall Street, has become a billionaire on the back of a surge in the private equity group’s share price. James Tomilson Hill, known as Tom, owns 17.4m shares in Blackstone, according to a recent regulatory filing, which are now valued at around $580m. The group’s shares have jumped almost 60pc in 12 months on the back of soaring profits in its private equity, property and hedge fund businesses. The New York-based Mr Hill, who shot to fame as an advisor on some of the biggest takeovers in the 1980s, has also benefited from a steep rise in the value of his extensive art collection. The collection, which includes paintings by Rubens, Francis Bacon and Andy Warhol as well as a raft of Renaissance bronzes, is thought to be worth around $500m, according to analysis by Bloomberg. Mr Hill, 66, who is mentioned in Barbarians at the Gate for his role on the leveraged buy-out of RJR Nabisco, now heads Blackstone Alternative Asset Management which finances and invests in hedge funds. His division’s hedge fund assets have more than doubled since 2008 to $58bn. The firm listed in New York in 2007. The former banker is the fifth Blackstone boss to join the ranks of global billionaires, including Steve Schwarzman and Peter Peterson who founded the firm in 1985. Tony James, president of Blackstone, has a $1.1bn stake in the company while Jonathan Gray, head of real estate, became a billionaire last year. Mr Hill owns four Bacon paintings, thought to be worth $140m, according to Bloomberg. The financier also owns Warhol’s1962 Campbells Soup Can which he bought for $340,000 in 1996. In 2010 a similar sized painting from Warhol’s soup can series sold for $9m. His collection of bronzes have included Hubert Le Sueur’s “Venus” which belonged to Louis XIV. “I am ferociously competitive as a collector, just like I am in my business,” Hill once said. screenshot FREE AppDownload
It's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) week. On Wednesday, the Fed will give its next policy update. It's widely expected to continue its "tapering" of monthly asset purchases by $10 billion, as it winds down the quantitative easing policy that was instituted in the depth of the economic crisis. The best preview of the week comes from economist Tim Duy, whose post you should read here. But we wanted to pull out two of Tim's charts, because they're particularly important in showing how the Fed thinks about policy. The first shows the trajectory of the unemployment rate versus what economists estimate as the "natural" rate of unemployment, if the economy were operating at full capacity. As the unemployment rate comes closer to the natural level, the Fed is less inclined toward promoting easy policy, because when employment is full employees have greater wage bargaining power and inflation can rise. Tim Duy The next chart shows inflation against the Fed's stated goals. Once again, you see that the Fed is getting close to its inflation goals, which means the Fed will have less need for easy monetary policy. Tim Duy Both of those charts say the same thing, which is that the Fed isn't that far from hitting its goals for inflation and unemployment levels. You might think the economy is weak and that accommodative policy is warranted. But from the Fed's standpoint, it's not that far from where it wants to be. This should make the bulls uncomfortable. One of the most bullish forces in the market has been the accommodative stance from the Fed. As the Fed nears its goals, the Fed will have less reason to bullish. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zainal Abd HalimMohamed El-ErianAt this week’s Fed meeting, six items are likely to be discussed at some length by officials who continue to carry the bulk of America’s policymaking responsibilities. Some will make it to the policy statement that will be issued on Wednesday; some will come up during that day’s press conference by Chair Janet Yellen; and the rest will not be made public until the minutes and transcripts of the meeting are released later. Yet all are relevant for markets influenced by Fed policy. So here they are, arranged in increasing potential importance. The dots: They represent the summary expectations of Fed officials going into this week’s meeting. As noted by Chair Yellen a few weeks ago, their ultimate influence on policy outcomes is limited. Yet markets love them. This time around, the dots are likely to point to some slippage in the timetable for rate hikes on account of tame inflation and unchanged to somewhat softer growth expectations. QE: There have been no major developments since the last FOMC to disrupt what, by now, is a well-telegraphed QE exit. As such, look for the Fed to maintain its gradual pace of “tapering” with a view to a complete stop of its securities purchase program by the end of this year. Growth and unemployment: The statements’ summary of the collective view of the FOMC – as opposed to the individual “dots” – is likely to reflect some softening in the shorter term growth projections but no material change to longer-term expectations. The Fed has not bought into the “secular stagnation” hypothesis; and it is unlikely to do so at this meeting. Instead, it will maintain its focus on the potential for a cyclical growth pick up and a further reduction in labor market slack. It will also note the importance of removing the slack given its more holistic assessment of the labor market (which includes part time activities, long-term joblessness, and wage growth). Financial instability: In the last few weeks, three Fed officials have raised the possibility that the current policy approach involves a trade-off between economic immediate stimulus and possible financial instability down the road. This is a topic that will attract more attention in the weeks and months ahead. In the meantime, it is more likely to appear in the minutes and transcripts than in the statement. Inflation: This has migrated up in the list of indicators that are particularly relevant for the calibration of monetary policy. The FOMC is likely to note the lack of both an imminent inflation threat and an immediate deflation risk. Forward policy guidance: Don’t expect any major changes to the Fed’s current interest rate guidance; but do look for it to continue to evolve the overall communication framework as the FOMC integrate the new Fed governors. Putting all this together points to an FOMC meeting that is unlikely to have a material and durable impact on markets. Instead, look for officials to signal a “steady as she goes” approach with the one potential disruptor – namely, concerns about future financial instability should the current phase of asset price inflation not translate strongly enough into higher growth and lower unemployment – being rather small on its radar screen for now.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesArgentina's Lionel Messi (C) shoots to score a goal against Bosnia during their 2014 World Cup Group F soccer match at the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro June 15, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Crude Oil Is Moving. Crude oil futures prices are higher once again. Turmoil in Iraq continues in the wake of last week's fall of Mosul to ISIS, the Sunni jihadi movement. "The longer the insurgency lasts and the more divisive it becomes, the more difficult it will be for Iraq to even approach its potential to sustain production at 6-m b/d or more, with radical implications for oil markets at a time of growing lost production worldwide due to intensifying disorder in a growing number of petroleum-producing countries," writes Citi's Ed Morse. Natural Gas Is Moving. Natural gas futures are higher. Overnight, Russia and Ukraine failedto reach a deal regarding gas payments pricing. "Ukraine's energy minister said Russia had cut off all gas supplies to Kiev on Monday but he guaranteed reliable gas flows would continue to Russia's European clients who get imports through pipelines via Ukraine," reported Reuters' Michael Shields and Angelika Gruber. Medtronic Is Moving. Medical device-maker Medtronic has agreed to acquire peer Covidienfor $42.9 billion in cash and stock. The only thing bigger than the price tag is the fact that Medtronic is set to take advantage of lower overseas tax rates in a maneuver called tax inversion. "After the completion of the transaction, the businesses of Medtronic and Covidien will be combined under a new entity to be called Medtronic plc," said Medtronic management in its statement. "It will have its principal executive offices in Ireland, where Covidien's current headquarters resides and where both companies have a longstanding presence." Markets Are Red. Stock markets are lower around the world. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.5%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.0% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.1%. In the U.S., Dow futures are down 37 points and S&amp;P futures are down 4.6 points. Challengingly Boring. Low volatility continues to be the big story in the markets. "'Challengingly boring' is the way most clients describe the current investing environment," said Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in a new research note. "The S&amp;P 500 has quietly returned 5% this year, but fund managers are struggling to generate alpha. Stock return dispersion is at record lows (see page 18) and the distribution of stock valuations and economic outlooks is also historically tight. Averaging 12, VIX in June ranks in the 4th historical percentile since 1990. Realized 1-month volatility at 8% is similarly in the 13th percentile since 1929. 72% of mutual funds are lagging the market and equity long/short hedge funds have returned just 1% YTD." New York Area Manufacturing. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the June Empire manufacturing report. Economists estimate this regional activity index fell to 15.0 in June from 19.01 in May. "All of the notable sub-indices showed strength on the month, with the shipments and employment indices both hitting multi-year highs," said Barclays economists who forecast a 19.0 print. "Although the new orders index was not quite as strong, rising to just 10.4 in May, it still bodes well for a pick-up in manufacturing activity in the second quarter." Industrial Production. At 9:15 a.m., we'll get the May industrial production report. Economists estimate production climbed 0.5% in May with capacity utilization increasing to 78.9%. "Manufacturing hours worked jumped 0.6% in the employment report, as the average factory workweek rose to the highest level since 1945," noted Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Industry figures point to a small pullback in motor vehicle assemblies ahead of a sharp planned ramp up in June and July after the surge in May auto sales, and a bit of further normalization in utility output may be a slight drag on the headline, but overall IP and the key manufacturing gauge should both be up substantially." Homebuilder Sentiment. At 10:00 a.m., we'll get the June NAHB housing market index. Economists estimate this homebuilder sentiment index increased to 47 in June from 45 in May. "The rise in mortgage applications for home purchases thus far in June and consistent increases in construction employment in recent months provide support for the index," said Nomura economists. Starbucks U. On Sunday, coffee chain Starbucks announced it is partnering with Arizona State University to allow employees to get degrees through the university's highly-acclaimed online degree program. From Starbucks: "Partners admitted as a junior or senior, according to ASU’s admission requirements, will earn full tuition reimbursement for each year of coursework they complete toward a bachelor’s degree. Freshmen and sophomores will receive a partial scholarship and need-based financial aid toward the foundational work of completing their degree." China Inc Borrows $14 Trillion. "Chinese corporate borrowers owed $14.2 trillion at the end of 2013 versus $13.1 trillion owed by U.S. corporations with the switch in rankings taking place a year earlier than it had expected, S&amp;P said on Monday," reported Reuters' Umesh Desai. FREE AppDownload
AFPAerospace giant Airbus Group and French engine maker Safran announced a joint venture Monday on space launchers, as Europe looks to compete with rising US rival SpaceX. The two companies said in a statement they would team up on production of Ariane rockets for Arianespace, which is facing intense competition from low-cost SpaceX in sending up communications satellites. The companies announced the plan after talks in Paris with President Francois Hollande, who hailed the deal as "a major step toward the consolidation of the European space programme." The companies said the deal was aimed at "further strengthening their relationship to propose a new family of competitive, versatile and efficient space launchers, to serve both commercial and institutional needs." It said the 50-50 joint venture would bring together "expertise in the launcher systems from Airbus Group as well as propulsion systems from Safran." "It's all about enhancing the competitiveness of our space launcher business going forward," Airbus Group CEO Tom Enders said in the statement. "The Ariane programme has been hugely successful during the last 30 years, but in order to remain relevant and competitive for the future we need a much more efficient industrial structure." Arianespace has dominated the commercial space launch business with its line of Ariane rockets, but newcomer private Space X has begun to shake up the industry with cheaper rockets. Owned by US billionaire Elon Musk who was behind online payments system PayPal and Tesla electric cars has quickly brought the Falcon rockets that can lift satellites into orbit for $60 million, half the cost of Ariane rockets. Arianespace's mainstay launcher is the Ariane 5, a heavy rocket that is highly reliable but it has to carry two large satellites to be profitable, and this can cause delays. France and Germany, the major shareholders in Arianespace, have not been able to agree on strategy for the development of future rockets. Many analysts say the satellite market is evolving fast towards smaller rockets with single payloads, such as SpaceX's Falcon. France has supported developing by 2021 the Ariane 6, sketched as a low-cost flexible successor able to place a single payload of three to 6.5 tonnes into a geostationary slot. ESA also plans to tweak the Ariane 5 with an ME version -- for Midlife Evolution -- that would be ready by 2017 and yield operational savings over the existing ECA and ES models. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/ Getty ImagesStarbucks will give free college tuition to thousands of employees. The coffee chain is partnering with Arizona State University to allow Starbucks employees to get degrees through the university's highly-acclaimed online degree program.  Tuition will be completely free for juniors and seniors. For freshmen and sophomores, tuition will be discounted. The programs typically cost about $10,000 per year. There are a lot of questions that we won't know the answer to for awhile, such as, how many people are really equipped to work and get a degree at the same time. And how useful will the program actually be? Perhaps only a small number of students will actually get something out of it. But this is a brilliant experiment from Starbucks. Starbucks has always been ahead of the curve, when it comes to retail, when it comes to benefits. The fact that Starbucks made healthcare available has always been one reason why people sought out Starbucks jobs. Except now, in the age of Obamacare, with healthcare more readily available to individuals, that isn't as much of a draw. Not only is it less of a draw, it's less of a hook to keep current employees employed. Turnover is constantly going to be an issue for retailers. This should help. Employees who are working towards a degree will be less inclined to leave if it means losing subsidized access. The benefit should also help Starbucks maintain a high quality of applicant. It sounds perverse in an era where unemployment is still high, but companies constantly complain about having a hard time finding reliable people. An applicant interested in getting a degree is probably the kind of employee you want, even if they're just there for a couple years. Again, it's easy to imagine this being of limited benefit to a small number of employees. Online education is still relatively unproven. Maybe the degree won't go very far. But from Starbucks' perspective — which desires to reduce turnover and attract a high quality applicant — there are some good reasons to introduce this benefit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelParticipants run in high-heels during the warm-up of the Stiletto Run in Bucharest June 14, 2014.The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss and decide the path of monetary policy. This comes in the wake of improving economic data. "The committee is likely to make some upgrades to its description of the economic outlook in the post-meeting statement and its economic projections," said Goldman Sachs' Jari Stehn. "Although the committee will need to reduce its 2014 real GDP growth forecast to take into account the Q1 disappointment, we would expect the committee to reduce its unemployment rate forecast and lift its inflation forecast slightly." Meanwhile, traders have escalating turmoil in Iraq to contend with. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary The VIX, or the CBOE volatility index, is the center of lots of debate and confusion. Even with the recent turmoil in Iraq, the VIX remains at depressed levels, which some interpret to be a sign of investor complacency. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco believes that market watchers should consider the VIX relative to valuation ratios like price-earnings (PE). From Bianco: "We define 5 categories of market emotion gauged by PE/VIX: 1) Crash - very high VIX and low PE, 2) Skeptical/Denial - VIX elevated and PE still low, 3) Realistic/Disciplined – Both PE and VIX within normal ranges, 4) Complacency – low VIX or high PE or both, 5) Mania – very high PE and low VIX. PE/VIX is 1.3 and suggests market complacency. It has entered the 2004-2007 range. On Jun 10, PE/VIX reaches 1.6 with trailing PE of 17.5 and a very low VIX of 11." Deutsche Bank For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thaier Al-Sudani A volunteer, who has joined the Iraqi Army to fight against predominantly Sunni militants from the radical Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), holds a weapon during a parade in the streets in Al-Fdhiliya district, eastern Baghdad June 15, 2014.A civil war is brewing in Iraq as extremist Sunni militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-Sham (ISIS) execute Shi'ite soldiers as they advance south toward the capital.  ISIS began its offensive early last week and have captured Iraq's second-largest city of Mosul, the country's rivers, and various energy facilities.  Kenneth M. Pollack, a Middle East expert at the Brookings Institution, wrote an overview of the military situation in Iraq for non-experts — and it's grim. He prefaces the assessment by saying that it is "exceptionally difficult to understand the dynamics of ongoing military operations. " Nevertheless, he sees a general trend toward increased sectarian hostilities and eventually civil war. He states that the most likely scenario is that the rapid ISIS offensive will be stalemated at or north of the Shia-dominated capital of Baghdad, splitting the country "basically along Iraq’s ethno-sectarian divide." And then he makes a very sobering prediction:   "If military developments in Iraq conform to this most likely scenario, they could lead to a protracted, bloody stalemate along those lines," Pollack, who served as one of the CIA’s Persian Gulf military analysts during the 1990-91 Gulf War, writes. "In that case, one side or the other would have to receive disproportionately greater military assistance from an outside backer than its adversary to make meaningful territorial gains. Absent that, the fighting will probably continue for years and hundreds of thousands will die." Given that the civil war in neighboring Syria is in its fourth year and the border between the two countries has effectively vanished, the idea that Iraq will also be engulfed in a sectarian civil war is daunting. And there are signs that is has already begun: Shi'ite volunteers have answered a call to arms by the country's top cleric and ISIS is running a recruitment drive in Saudi Arabia. This map from June 12 shows the sectarian boundaries int he country (as well as the expanding Kurdish territory): Michael Izady/REUTERS h/t Andrew Exum FREE AppDownload
Whether you're on a date or meeting a client for the first time, you want to make a good first impression. It can make our break the relationship, and there's proven techniques to do it well. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/China Daily A clerk counts Chinese 100 yuan banknotes at a branch of China Construction Bank in Hai'an, Jiangsu province June 10, 2014.HONG KONG (Reuters) - The Chinese corporate bond market has overtaken the United States as the world's biggest and is set to soak up a third of global company debt needs over the next five years, according to rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's, underscoring the growing risk China's debt market is imposing on the global financial system. Chinese corporate borrowers owed $14.2 trillion at the end of 2013 versus $13.1 trillion owed by U.S. corporations with the switch in rankings taking place a year earlier than it had expected, S&amp;P said on Monday. The Asia-Pacific region, led by China, is seen accounting for half of global corporate debt financing needs of $60 trillion over the five-year period to 2018 when the region will account for more than half the projected total debt outstanding of $72 trillion. China, the world's second-largest economy is currently financing a quarter to a third of its corporate debt through its shadow banking sector and this had global implications, S&amp;P said. "This means that as much as 10 percent of global corporate debt is exposed to the risk of a contraction in China's informal banking sector," the agency said, estimating this at $4 trillion to $5 trillion. "With China's economy likely to grow at a nominal 10 percent per year over the next five years, this amount can only increase." Cash flows and leverage at Chinese corporations are the worst among global peers, having deteriorated from being the best in 2009, according to a corporate financial risk trend measure used by Standard &amp; Poor's. "China's property and steel sectors remain of particular concern," it said, adding that higher land bank and property inventory had led to the sluggish trend in property prices contributing to the decline in steel demand. Growth in average new home prices in China slowed to a near one-year low in April, a month in which new home prices fell in eight of 70 cities, up from four cities in March. S&amp;P expects more defaults in the steel sector, with strains already manifesting in falling iron ore prices this year. The benchmark iron ore price dropped to a 21-month low of $91.50 a metric ton late last week as a supply glut smothered a market faced with slower steel demand. The price has plunged a third so far this year. "China's large and still-expanding contribution to global corporate debt, the higher financial risk is causing overall corporate risk to increase globally," the agency said. "As the world's second-largest national economy, any significant reverse for China's corporate sector could quickly spread to other countries." Reflecting growing investor jitters over credit risks, some Chinese companies in the stretched sectors have recently dropped plans to issue bonds in the onshore market as investors have demanded higher interest rates for the declining margins and refinancing risks. Earlier this month, online gaming company Shenzhen Zqgame scrapped plans for a bond offering saying it would not help in reducing financing costs. Bond yields on weaker credits have risen faster than those rated AAA. In the past year the Thomson Reuters onshore benchmark for AA-rated companies for onshore China debt has risen 120 basis points to 6.70 percent. The AAA-rated curve has moved up 80 basis points to 5.50 percent in the same period.   (Reporting by Umesh Desai; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidFinally, we're getting some economic data again. Today we get three economic datapoints. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET: NY Fed Empire State Manufacturing Survey for June. The consensus is for a reading of 15.0, down from 19.0 in May (above zero is expansion).• At 9:15 AM, the Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for May. The consensus is for a 0.5% increase in Industrial Production, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 78.9%.• At 10:00 AM, the June NAHB homebuilder survey. The consensus is for a reading of 47, up from 45 in May. Any number below 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as poor than good. We'll be covering all three, LIVE. FREE AppDownload
KIEV/GORKI Russia (Reuters) - Russia cut off gas to Ukraine on Monday in a dispute over unpaid bills that could disrupt supplies to the rest of Europe and set back hopes for peace in the former Soviet republic. After weekend violence that included the loss of 49 troops in the downing of a Ukrainian plane, Russia said Kiev missed a deadline for a $1.95 billion debt payment and it would now only get gas paid for in advance. It insisted that Ukraine must also ensure that it lets Russian gas flow through its international pipelines to Moscow's clients in the European Union. Kiev and Moscow blamed each other for the failure to agree overnight on the price of future gas deliveries and refused to abandon well established positions: Russia offering a discount and Ukraine rejecting that as a tool for political manipulation. The talks are bound up with the worst crisis between Russia and Ukraine since the Soviet Union collapsed and rising tensions over Saturday's shooting down of the aircraft by pro-Russian separatists in the east, an attack on the Russian embassy in Kiev and Western charges that Russia is arming the rebels. "Thanks to the unconstructive position of the Ukrainian government, today a prepayment system was introduced,"Alexei Miller, the chief executive of Russian state exporter Gazprom, told Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev during a somber meeting at a government residence at Gorki, outside Moscow. He said Ukraine had "adopted a position that can only be called blackmail", adding: "They wanted an ultra-low price." Gazprom had asked Kiev to pay almost half of a total debt which Moscow puts at more than $4 billion by Monday morning or face supply cuts and the prospect of paying up front. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk accused Russia of deliberately blocking a deal to cause Kiev supply problems next winter, when temperatures plunge and heating needs increase. "But it is not about gas. It is a general Russian plan to destroy Ukraine," Yatseniuk told a news conference in Kiev. "It is yet another step against the Ukrainian state and against Ukrainian independence." A source at Gazprom said supplies to Ukraine had been reduced as soon as the deadline passed and Ukrainian Energy Minister Yuri Prodan said the country was receiving no gas. Ukraine has almost 14 billion cubic meters of gas in underground storage, enough to meet its needs until December, the chief executive of state gas company Naftogaz said. A long-term reduction of supply could hit EU consumers, which get about a third of their gas needs from Russia, around half of it through pipelines that cross Ukraine. Earlier price disputes led to the 'gas wars' in 2006 and 2009, and Russian accusations Ukraine stole gas destined for the rest of Europe. "The gas for European consumers is being delivered at full volume and Naftogaz Ukraine is required to transit it," Gazprom spokesman Sergei Kupriyanov told reporters. EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger, who brokered the failed talks overnight, said in Vienna that the European Union might have a problem and urged Russia to reconsider a compromise. He said he was confident of gas supplies and also held out the prospect of further talks to solve the row. But with both sides filing lawsuits at the Stockholm international commercial arbitration court to try to recover billions each says they are owed, any quick agreement seems a way off. Russian premier Medvedev said talks could start only when Naftogaz had paid its debt in full. REUTERSMap of Europe showing how heavily EU countries rely on Russian gas imports.  Russian shares fell on the talks' collapse, which is likely to increase tensions between Moscow and the West and could make it harder to arrange a truce in east Ukraine, where Ukrainian troops are fighting pro-Russian rebels, some of whom want the region to be absorbed by Russia, as Crimea was in March. At 05.50 a.m. EDT, the dollar-denominated RTS index had pared some of its losses and was down 1.2 percent at 1,358 points, while the rouble-based MICEX was down 0.5 percent at 1,493 points. Western countries saw the talks as a gauge of Russian President Vladimir Putin's willingness to compromise and had been looking for signs that he was trying to avert the threat of the West adding to sanctions imposed after Russia seized Crimea. That move came after Moscow-leaning Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovich was ousted by street protests in February and pro-Western leaders took over power in Kiev. Russia denounced that as a Western-backed fascist coup. Tensions rose further at the weekend. Protesters ripped up Russia's flag outside Moscow's Kiev embassy after the loss of the military plane in the east. NATO released satellite pictures that it said raised suspicions about Russia's role in moving military equipment into eastern Ukraine. The gas talks broke down in Kiev in the early hours of Monday, with the sides unable to reach agreement on price and on changes to a 2009 contract that locked Ukraine into paying the highest price in Europe. Kiev wants to pay $268.50 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas - the price it had been offered when Yanukovich was in power. But, in a compromise last week, it said it would agree to pay $326 for an interim period until a lasting deal was reached. Moscow had sought to keep the price at the 2009 contract level of $485 per 1,000 cubic meters, but had offered to waive an export duty, bringing down prices by about a fifth to $385, broadly in line with what Russia charges other European states. Kiev says that waiving the duty rather than agreeing a new contract price means Moscow could use the threat of cancelling the waiver to keep Ukraine under its thumb. Oettinger said Moscow had declined a compromise proposal under which Kiev would pay $1 billion immediately and then make monthly debt payments to Gazprom. Ukraine would also pay $385 per 1,000 cubic meters in winter and around $300 in the summer months. (Additional reporting by Maria Kiselova and Denis Pinchuk in Moscow and Michael Shields in Vienna; Writing by Elizabeth Piper; Editing by Alastair Macdonald) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA new Samsung Galaxy S5 smartphone is displayed at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona SEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is emerging as a major player in its local debt market, buying more South Korean-issued bonds as it juggles a $60 billion cash pile. Samsung's push into private bank debt and government bonds underscores the challenges faced by the electronics giant in managing its massive cash holdings, with local banks reluctant to overload on short-term deposits from Samsung. The world's biggest smartphone maker bought more than two-thirds of a 300 billion won ($294.75 million) 2-year debt issue on Friday by Kookmin Bank [KOOKM.UL], a unit of KB Financial Group Inc, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said. Dealers also said the company bought nearly 300 billion won worth of three-year treasury bonds late last month. While it is not unusual for Samsung to buy local bonds, dealers said it has typically bought paper issued by highly rated government-backed financial firms like Korea Development Bank [KDB.UL] and Korea Finance Corp [KOFC.UL]. "I think Samsung is diversifying their holdings and spreading out their maturities," said Hanwha Securities fixed-income analyst Kong Dong-rak. "Samsung has to manage the cash in some way and they can't always get the right yields and duration from the banks, so it looks like they went to the bond market to find new avenues." Samsung generally stays away from large acquisitions and has been reluctant to make big shareholder payouts through dividends or share buybacks, adding to its cash glut. By comparison, rival Apple Inc, under pressure form shareholders, has been returning cash through dividends and buybacks. Apple's dividend yield is just over 2 percent, about double that of Samsung, which increased dividends last year and promised to pay even more in 2014. Samsung's dividend payout ratio - or how much of its earnings it pays out in dividends - is 7.11 percent for the past 12 months, according to Thomson Reuters data, while Apple's is 29.03 percent. A Samsung spokeswoman said there has been no change to its stance on ensuring stable cash management and declined to comment further. The company does not give a breakdown of its investments. One official in charge of debt issuance at a private Korean bank said Samsung's moves to broaden its portfolio stem in part from banks' reluctance to take on too much of the electronics giant's cash as deposits, which tend to be relatively short-term and could pose liability management issues if the cash is withdrawn at maturity. "From the local banks' perspective, it is risky to take on too much in deposits from a single company," the official said, declining to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter. Added an asset manager at a South Korean financial firm, "Samsung typically put their cash in deposit products and rolled them over on maturity, but banks started offering absurdly low yields starting in the second half of last year, rates at which they were basically saying that they won't take the deposits." Samsung's growing appetite for domestic bonds has provided support to shorter-dated local debt, dealers said, especially for two- and three-year bonds. "There had been concerns about whether the market can digest the supply of bonds issued by local banks, which has picked up recently due to a series of debt maturities in May," another local bank official overseeing bond issuance said. "But those worries have dissipated as Samsung has taken big chunks." ($1 = 1017.8000 South Korean Won)   (Editing by Tony Munroe and Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Honda new car lot shows vehicles available for 0.9 per cent financing in Rockville, MarylandNEW YORK/DETROIT (Reuters) - U.S. banks looking to get in on a booming market for financing new-car sales have run into a formidable competitor: the auto manufacturers themselves. Financing arms of car companies, including Toyota Motor Corp, Honda Motor Co and Ford Motor Co, made half of all new U.S. car loans in the first quarter, up from 37 percent a year earlier and the largest percentage of the market in four years, according to credit data firm Experian. These companies also write the vast majority of leases, which contributed a record 26 percent of new car sales in the quarter, up from 23 percent last year and 20 percent in 2012. The financing arms are providing subsidies from the manufacturers, lowering monthly payments and extending loan terms to make it easier for buyers to drive away in a shiny, new vehicle. As a result, major banks are increasingly moving into riskier parts of the market to make loans. US Bancorp, for example, for the first time ever decided to start financing used cars, an area of the market that the automakers' finance companies have little interest in. It also started offering loans to less creditworthy borrowers. And Wells Fargo &amp; Co has been leveraging off a nationwide deal with General Motors Co to provide loans subsidized by the No. 1 U.S. automaker. Wells sees this as a way to gain more of the used car loan business at GM dealerships. The aggressive push by car companies is beginning to raise questions among industry analysts and consultants about whether it is sustainable. If interest rates rise, the automakers could find the incentives too costly unless they are prepared to take a hit to profits - with any pullback in the deals being offered customers running the risk of hurting demand. And, if used car prices weaken, the financing units could be hit with losses on vehicles coming back from leases and repossessions. The automakers’ financing companies are doing substantially more than they were just a year or two ago, said April Ancira, vice president in the San Antonio office of Ancira Motor Co, a Texas-based group with 11 dealerships selling GM, Nissan, Fiat, Chrysler, VW and Ford cars. "They're being very aggressive with incentives," Ancira said. Pete Carey, vice president for sales at Toyota Financial Services, said incentives are playing a bigger role as automakers look to stand out in a crowded market where the basic quality of cars is uniformly good. "We're at a point in the industry that we're spending as much as we've ever spent," Carey said. The strategy is currently paying off in spades for automakers. All the major automakers posted healthy profits in the first quarter. U.S. car sales rebounded in May to an annualized rate of 16.8 million vehicles, against 15.6 million for all of last year. Sales were only 10.4 million in 2009 as the recession crushed demand. Outstanding U.S. loans on new cars totaled $811 billion at the end of March, up 11.6 percent from a year earlier, according to Experian. The automakers are in a position to offer the deals because their cost of borrowing has gone down as their balance sheets have improved and as bond investors have lined up to buy securities backed by loans and leases. But they risk sweetening the deals so much that it starts to cut into their profit margins. In a few years time, as the leased vehicles are returned, the strategy could lead to a glut in the used-car market. If a car turns out to be worth less at the end of a lease than projected, the finance company will take a loss on the lease, said Jim Ziegler, a consultant to car dealers. "It appears as a profit until they get the car back,” Ziegler said. Analysts at Moody’s Investors Service said car resale values at the end of leases have so far tended to be higher than assumed, resulting in double-digit gains for finance companies and lease investors. But the gains have started to decelerate to single-digits now and they expect to see that downward pressure continue this year. "There is still room for used car prices to decline before we see any losses," said Aron Bergman, of Moody's. But, he added, “the gains are going down." The average monthly lease payment for the most-leased car in America, the Honda Civic, was $251 in the first quarter, according to Experian. But when Jonathan Stierwald, a Minnesota resident, wanted to lease a car for his nephew, he found Mike Piazza Honda in Pennsylvania willing to lease him the car for three years for just $80 a month. He flew there to get the deal. The lease was financed by Honda's finance arm. The details of the deal could not be determined. A salesman at the Langhorne, Pennsylvania dealership, which is owned by Piazza, the former All-Star baseball catcher, said factors such as a high credit score and higher down-payment may have helped. Honda representative Steve Kinkade said the dealership could have added its own incentives on top of the company's promotions. Honda, which was fifth in U.S. auto sales in the first five months of the year, increased its average subsidy per leased car by 26 percent to $1,476 in that period from a year earlier, according to Edmunds.com. Kinkade said the company is pleased with how its finance unit has paced its leasing to drive sales without too many of the cars later coming onto the used car market and depressing prices. Others are liberally using subsidies, too. Toyota subsidized 92 percent of its U.S. leases in its fiscal year ending in March, up from 82 percent the year before. "We can get fairly aggressive with pricing or payments, depending on what we anticipate the used market to look like," Toyota's Carey said. Auto industry analysts and consultants said they did not think the situation was getting out of hand just yet. The average incentive per car sold so far this year was $2,918, up slightly from $2,825 a year earlier and just under 10 percent of the average transaction price, according to JD Power &amp; Associates data. Automaker finance arms are also offering loans at interest rates as low as zero percent. And, they are taking on more loans to borrowers with subprime credit ratings, according to data from Experian. The length of loans is also increasing. Lenders granted one-in-four new car buyers more than six years to repay in the first quarter, up from one-in-five a year earlier, the figures show. The average monthly payment on new car loans was $474 in the first quarter, only $15 more than a year earlier, even as the average amount financed rose by $964 to a record $27,612. Unable to compete, some banks are in retreat. Ally Financial Inc, which was once GM's financing arm but is now on its own, increased its financing of used car purchases by 14 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, but its new car lending declined so much that it made 6 percent fewer auto loans in total. US Bancorp estimated that used cars will eventually make up 40 percent of its auto loans after doing none in the past. Consumers with "nonprime" credit scores, defined as below 675, will account for 15 percent of US Bancorp’s portfolio, compared with none previously. Not that the opportunity in the used car market isn't also large - in terms of numbers of vehicles sold the used car market is more than twice the size of the new-car market. Tom Wolfe, executive vice president of consumer credit solutions at Wells Fargo, said its partnership with GM improves its ties with dealers and that for every subsidized new car loan it makes for GM at a dealer it will pick up three used-car loans. Wells Fargo is the largest U.S. used-car lender with a 7.1 percent market share, according to Experian. Wolfe said customers who borrow to buy a used car so that they can get to and from work are good credit risks. (Reporting by Bernie Woodall in Detroit, David Henry and Peter Rudegeair in New York. Additional reporting by Nick Carey in Chicago. Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Here's map you're going to want to save. It's from Citi, and it shows the location of Iraq's energy infrastructure. On the map are oil pipelines, oil fields, and gas pipelines.  The deterioration of the situation in Iraq broke through into the media with the fall of Mosul, the city in the north. As you can see, that's a city quite nicely situation near the heart of Iraq's oil assets. Citi FREE AppDownload
'Challengingly boring.' That's the best phrase we've heard yet to describe this market, and it comes from Goldman's latest weekly Kickstart note. Here's the full context: ”Challengingly boring” is the way most clients describe the current investing environment. The S&amp;P 500 has quietly returned 5% this year, but fund managers are struggling to generate alpha. Stock return dispersion is at record lows (see page 18) and the distribution of stock valuations and economic outlooks is also historically tight. Averaging 12, VIX in June ranks in the 4th historical percentile since 1990. Realized 1-month volatility at 8% is similarly in the 13th percentile since 1929. 72% of mutual funds are lagging the market and equity long/short hedge funds have returned just 1% YTD. There you have Wall Street right now in a nutshell. Very quiet. And a very difficult place to do well. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! Markets are slipping again. It's nothing too dramatic. US futures are down over 0.15%. Germany is off 0.29%. UK is off small. Markets were saggy all last week, and that's how they're looking now. Of course, there are suddenly a lot of stories in the world for investors to digest. Iraq is unraveling. Ukraine has gotten worse. Oil is at its highest level in many months. The head of the Bank of England has hinted that rate rises may come sooner than expected. So you can't blame the markets for doing something other than purely going up.  This week of course we get a Fed meeting (at a press conference from Janet Yellen) that will be the highlight of the action. FREE AppDownload
