Justin Sullivan/Getty Images, Bing MapsWith an estimated net worth of $18.6 billion, Michael Dell is one of the wealthiest people in the world. Dell dropped out of school at the University of Texas at Austin to found Dell Computer Corp., which soon became one of the fastest growing companies in the country. He was only 23 when his company had its IPO in 1988, and soon, he was a billionaire.  Dell lives the extravagant life of a successful businessman as well, complete with all of the private planes, summer homes, and sweet rides you'd expect from a billionaire.  FREE AppDownload
Crazy. Not sure what to make of this, but Japan just posted a nearly 20% drop in private sector machine tools. According to Zerohedge, it was the biggest drop in history. Expectations were for a gain of 1.1%. Anyway, the Nikkei is barely moving, so the market isn't freaked out. Still, crazy number. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesArgentina's goalkeeper Sergio Romero celebrates after saving a shot by Wesley Sneijder of the Netherlands during a penalty shootout in their 2014 World Cup semi-finals at the Corinthians arena in Sao Paulo July 9, 2014. It’s jobs day in Australia! Here’s what you need to know. 1. The market’s expecting 12,000 jobs added in the Australian economy in June. It’s a fragile time: there has been some encouraging news this week with the Performance of Construction Index surging, and business and consumer confidence rising following a worrying period that surrounded the federal budget in May, and an attendant drop in retail sales. Today, the rubber hits the road. Politicians love to reduce their arguments to job creation. So stand up, Treasurer Joe Hockey, at 11.30am AEST. We’ve be covering it live. 2. Stocks recovered after a panicky day on the Australian share market yesterday, when stocks fell a little more than 1%, further than the Wall St lead. Stocks in Hong Kong and Shanghai were also down more than 1% in yesterday’s session. But with the main US bourses rising 0.5% (Dow and S&amp;P 500) and 0.6% (Nasdaq) on confirmation the Fed is likely to exit QE in October, it looks like there’s a little bit more risk on the table. One way to look at it is this: the Fed ending the uncertainty lifted the market. 3. It’s Argentina v Germany in the World Cup final this weekend. After yesterday’s emotional, heart-rending German thrashing of Brazil at home, Argentina and the Dutch played out a dour fixture that finished on penalties with Argentina going through. Kick-off is 5am Monday morning AEST. 4. July blackout. The financial year is done, and reporting season is just weeks away, so executive directors and CEOs all around town are making themselves scarce in the banks and major listed companies that have offices in Melbourne and Sydney. This means some senior people are just below exec level are at a bit more of a loose end over the coming three weeks. If you’ve been looking for a meeting, it’s a good time to ask. 5. Elementary. Here, with a psychologist’s decoding, are 9 ways to think like Sherlock Holmes. 6. A “social networking” stock is up 25,000% in a few days, and it’s not even clear if the company exists. Myles Udland has the details. 7. Early indications from Indonesia are that Joko Widodo, or “Jokowi” as he’s known, is on track to win the Presidency in the world’s largest Muslim country. The standing president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, has cautioned both Jokowi and his opponent, former military general Prabowo Subianto, against claiming victory or celebrating in any way. From an investor’s perspective, Jokowi is seen as a preferred candidate and if he doesn’t win a lot of money could be pulled out of the country. It may take days or even weeks before the result is certain. 8. How to win a modelling contract. 1) Be pretty. 2) Go viral by being snapped in your national team’s colours at the World Cup. 3) Set up your own fan page and wait for L’Oreal to call. It worked for 17-year-old Axelle Despiegelaere, who’s now shot a promotional video for the cosmetics giant before the Cup has even been won. Oh, and 4) Best delete those pics of you hunting wild animals in Africa. 9. Oh look, the Queenslanders ran out of jokes. (Skip this item if you’re not from NSW or Queensland.) I’ve written in depth about how State of Origin makes normally civilised people lose their minds, sense of humour, personality, taste, and talent. Exhibit Z, your honor: Today’s Courier Mail front page. @wrongdorey 10. Media jokes are now banned from this column. That is all. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Lucy Nicholson/ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. A 4% Withdrawal Rate Could Disrupt Your Retirement Planning (Morningstar) Michael Falk from Focus Consulting explained the reasoning behind using a 3% or 4% withdrawal rate with Morningstar. Falk said 4% rate is not necessarily wrong, but can increase risks based on your planned expenses. "So what I advocate is maybe start little bit more simply, maybe start with looking at how the total spending plan splits into both the budget for fixed expenses and in the balance of the spending plan for all those discretionary things that you love to do," Falk said. "Then once you get to a point of covering your fixed expenses, and if you go into retirement with little debt--the house is paid off and maybe you go down to one car that is paid for--you make that so much more manageable. Now you can roll with the markets punches so much more easily. It also means that there is no preset amount of equities that you should or shouldn't own. It also means there is not a preset amount of liquidation 3%, 4% that you should take every month." Two Portfolio Tweaks To Prepare For A Stronger Economy (BlackRock) In the midst of signals that the economy is on the upturn, BlackRock's Russ Koesterich recommends making a couple changes to your portfolio. This is to account for the change in the investment climate following recent optimism. One tweak is to add cyclical stocks that are especially sensitive to economic growth, in energy, financials and some tech. Another is to avoid short term bonds.  "The outlook for bonds largely depends on the length of their maturity. Last week’s data, combined with other recent employment indicators and some signs of higher inflation, may lead the Federal Reserve (Fed) to begin raising short-term interest rates. To the extent this occurs earlier than investors expect, shorter-term bonds –those with maturities between two and five years – are likely to be the most vulnerable, and could see their value fall," Koesterich wrote. Advisory Firms That Use More Technology Earn Higher Profits (InvestmentNews) A technology study from InvestmentNews showed that advisory firms who use more technology actually earn a higher profit. However, that doesn't mean these firms spent more on technology. Both "Innovator" firms and other firms spent about three percent of revenues toward technology expenses. "Investments in technology allow the advisers and business development professionals at Innovators to have more shared and centralized intelligence, more efficient access to firm technology — which is enabled by remote, cloud-based and mobile technologies — and ultimately a greater capacity to grow their firms' revenues without increasing headcount," InvestmentNews research said. "This suggests that not only have the firms that are most deeply committed to technology already experienced superior financial performance as a result, they are likely continue to benefit and build their businesses at steadier rates than other advisory firms in the near future as well." Why You Should Use A Rules-Based Approach To Investing (Wall Street Journal) Cokie Berenyi, CEO of Alphavest, recommends using a rules-based approach to investing, and tells investors to avoid an emotional or passive approach. "The basis for this rule-based approach is ranking the performance of the six most commonly used asset classes: domestic and international stocks, bonds/fixed income, currency, cash, and commodities," she writes. One rule is to overweight the top two classes for clients, the other is to avoid or short the sixth asset class.  "They liked the fact that this strategy isn't about hanging their hat on my ability to shift assets from one asset class to another or in and out of the market. I'm purely using data," Berenyi said. "The rules-based approach also advocates for advisers to avoid the "noise" from wholesalers. There's so much static out there in the media and the marketplace. My rules help me tune out wholesalers who stop by my office pushing the investment du jour. If it doesn't filter through the rule book, just don't look at it." The Pros And Cons Of Using Target-Date Funds For Your Retirement (Barron's) Target-date funds are a mix of stocks and bonds, combined in a mutual fund that becomes more conservative as you get closer to retirement. Andrew Bary from Barron's said these funds, which are taking over the 401(k) market, are beneficial because they basically manage themselves for a low fee. However, Bary said that equity allocation from these funds can go as high as 90%. "Especially with inflation right now, if you're in a money market fund or even a stable value fund, you're going to not keep up with inflation, or barely keep up with inflation. This offers you a fighting chance to have a reasonable amount of money for retirement," he said. "Within five years, it could be the predominant investment for most people and their 401(k) plans." FREE AppDownload
This is a chart showing trading in a company called CYNK Technology since June 17. The stock is up nearly 25,000%. That's not a typo. Google Finance The company's stock, which the folks at ZeroHedge first alerted us to, has gone from $0.10 on June 17 to $14.71 as of Wednesday's close. At its current stock price, the company's market cap is $4.29 billion. This is a gain of more than 24,000%. For some perspective, Apple, one of the most successful companies and stocks of the last generation, is up about 18,000% since it went public in 1980. But there is, as you could imagine, a slight problem with CYNK: It's not clear if there's any value to it. The website associated with the company is introbiz.com. On introbiz.com, under the "About IntroBiz" section, it states that, "Thru our marketplace you may both buy and sell the ability to socially connect to individuals such as celebrities, business owners, and talented IT professionals."  This premise, as we understand it, is basically a Facebook-like social network where you would pay IntroBiz (or CYNK, or whoever), to connect you with someone else. Maybe someone cool or famous. Who knows? Here's a screen shot of the home page. We're not quite sure what to make of it. introbiz.com The stock trades over-the-counter on an unregulated exchange and as a result isn't required to follow the same financial reporting rules as companies that trade on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq. The last SEC filing for the company is a Form 15, which is a filing used by foreign companies to suspend their duty to file financial reports with the SEC. On March 31, the company told the SEC it would be unable to file its Annual Report on Form 10-K.  And so trying to get a picture of CYNK's financials is a difficult task. The company's contact info, per otcmarkets.com, lists an address in Belize. However, the same site says the company is incorporated in Nevada and is classified as a data processing and preparation firm. According to data on Yahoo Finance, the company reported no revenue for any of its fiscal years ended on Dec. 31 2011, 2012, or 2013. This data also shows that the company's total operating loss for 2013 totaled $1.5 million. Yahoo Finance The company's last financial report with the SEC is from November 2013 and reports CYNK's quarterly results for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2013. There again, no revenue is reported. SEC The company's 10-Q also shows that it has no assets. SEC In the same filing, the company said that it's, "a development stage company that has not commenced its planned principal operates to date. Cynk Tchnology Corp. plans to launch its web based social network at the end of the next quarter."  The company never again disclosed its financials with the SEC.  Beyond the company's financials, just who is involved with the company gets even stranger: there is only one employee. In its March filing with the SEC that said the company would not be able to file its annual report, Marlon Luis Sanchez is listed as the company's president, CEO, CFO, chief accounting officer, secretary, treasurer, and director. In a filing with the SEC, however, the company says it "does not have an employment contract with its key employee, the sole shareholder who is the Chief Executive and Chief Technical Officer." According to data from Bloomberg, Sanchez owns 210 million shares of the company. As of November 7, 2013, there were 291.45 million shares of the company outstanding, according to an SEC filing. Just today, the stock was up more than $8, or nearly 150%, and people began to take notice. TheStreet.com's Herb Greenberg on Twitter said: Who trades garbage like $CYNK? Based in Belize…registered in Nevada…has only one exec. God love bull markets. Others found that calls to phone numbers listed for the company went unanswered. Business Insider found the same. A Twitter search for $CYNK is instructive. No one really knows what is going. Except probably something that's, well, impure at the very least. It's unclear who is buying CYNK stock, and not a lot of the outstanding shares are even being traded. According to Google Finance, just less than 100,000 of its 291 million outstanding shares traded hands today. Yelp, another social media company worth about $5 billion, saw 4.7 million of its 60.9 million outstanding shares trade hands today. It's unclear how this ends — or who is left holding the bag at $14 per share — when people realize the company has no assets and no revenue.    FREE AppDownload
American Apparel American Apparel will get $25 million from investment firm Standard General as part of a deal to help the troubled retailer pay off a $10 million loan, the company announced Wednesday.  The deal will shake up American Apparel's board of directors, forcing five of the seven current members — including CEO Dov Charney — to step down.  The deal comes several weeks after the company's board voted to fire Charney from his position as chief executive. Here are the terms of the deal, in more detail, from the company's release: "-- A reconstitution of the Company's board of directors in which five of the current seven members, including Mr. Charney, will voluntarily step down. The departing directors will be replaced by two new directors, chosen jointly by Standard General and the current board, and three new directors designated by Standard General. All but one of the new directors are expected to be independent directors and unaffiliated with either Standard General or Mr. Charney. The board will continue to be led by its current co-chairmen, David Danziger and Allan Mayer. Mr. Charney will not serve as a board member or be nominated by the Company or Standard General as a board member. -- A continuation of the ongoing investigation into Mr. Charney's alleged misconduct overseen by a newly appointed, independent board committee. Mr. Charney will serve as strategic consultant until the end of the investigation. Based on the findings of the investigation, the committee will determine if it is appropriate for Mr. Charney to serve as CEO or an officer or employee of American Apparel. -- Adoption of a standstill agreement through the Company's 2015 annual meeting that, among other things, prohibits Standard General and Mr. Charney from acquiring any additional shares in American Apparel and limits their vote to no more than one third of the Company's shares on any issue put to stockholders; their remaining shares would be voted proportionately to the vote of other stockholders." FREE AppDownload
Since 1947, when the U.S. economy has not been in a recession, economic activity has only contracted in 11 quarters. This most recent quarter was the worst of these, with GDP shrinking by 2.9 percent. Following negative quarters that occur absent a recession, however, the average rebound in economic growth has been more than 3 percent. When an expansion is clearly underway, the average rebound has been over 4 percent, with economic growth two quarters after the decline averaging 3.8 percent. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at Business Insider Intelligence. The ideal candidate will also be a strong writer.   What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the tech industry. We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends. The service, launched in 2012, has experienced rapid growth and has expanded to cover four verticals — mobile, social media, payments, and digital media. Check out BII here.  What's The Job?  The ideal Research Associate will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics related to the above verticals. The Research Associate will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, conducting written analysis of the charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce research reports of value to our members.  Desired Skills &amp; Experience: The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with good writing skills. The ideal candidate would have an interest in visual data presentation— charts, graphics, etc.  If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you possess: Requirements: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the media and research worlds. It would be an excellent way to begin a research/data-oriented career, or sharpen your skills before heading off to business school, or launching a career in the growing tech or digital media industries.  If interested, please include a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume with your application and apply here. Thank you in advance. FREE AppDownload
American Apparel American Apparel will get $25 million from investment firm Standard General as part of a deal to help the troubled retailer pay off a $10 million loan, the company announced Wednesday.  The deal will shake up American Apparel's board of directors, forcing five of the seven current members — including CEO Dov Charney — to step down.  The deal comes several weeks after the company's board voted to fire Charney from his position as chief executive. Here are the terms of the deal, in more detail, from the company's release: "-- A reconstitution of the Company's board of directors in which five of the current seven members, including Mr. Charney, will voluntarily step down. The departing directors will be replaced by two new directors, chosen jointly by Standard General and the current board, and three new directors designated by Standard General. All but one of the new directors are expected to be independent directors and unaffiliated with either Standard General or Mr. Charney. The board will continue to be led by its current co-chairmen, David Danziger and Allan Mayer. Mr. Charney will not serve as a board member or be nominated by the Company or Standard General as a board member. -- A continuation of the ongoing investigation into Mr. Charney's alleged misconduct overseen by a newly appointed, independent board committee. Mr. Charney will serve as strategic consultant until the end of the investigation. Based on the findings of the investigation, the committee will determine if it is appropriate for Mr. Charney to serve as CEO or an officer or employee of American Apparel. -- Adoption of a standstill agreement through the Company's 2015 annual meeting that, among other things, prohibits Standard General and Mr. Charney from acquiring any additional shares in American Apparel and limits their vote to no more than one third of the Company's shares on any issue put to stockholders; their remaining shares would be voted proportionately to the vote of other stockholders." FREE AppDownload
LumberLiquidators.comLumber Liquidators, a retailer of specialty hardwood flooring, just announced a warning that might make housing market watchers nervous. "Customer traffic to our stores was significantly weaker than we expected, particularly in geographic areas severely impacted by the unusually harsh weather in the first quarter," said CEO Robert Lynch. "The improvement in customer demand we experienced beginning in mid-March did not carry into May, and June weakened further. Our reduced customer traffic has coincided with certain weak macroeconomic trends related to residential remodeling, including existing home sales, which have generally been lower in 2014 than the corresponding periods in 2013.  We now believe the prolonged purchase cycle associated with our customers' discretionary, large-ticket home improvement projects is likely to be delayed for some customers into the fall flooring season, and for others, into spring of 2015." Home renovation activity typically occurs right before a seller sells a home or right after a buyer buys. Management expects to earn $0.59-$0.61 per share in Q2, which is sharply lower than the $0.90 expected by analysts. Comparable store sales plunged 7.1%. The stock is down by 16% in after-hours trading. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" said Container Store CEO Kip Tindell on Tuesday. "We are confident that customer enthusiasm for our brand, and employee morale are at all-time highs, yet we continue to experience slight traffic declines in this surprisingly tepid retail environment." These anecdotes contradict the expectation that the U.S. economy is in the process of a sharp snapback in growth after the recent unusually harsh winter. "Though we continue to believe we are early in a multi-year housing recovery that will drive home improvement spending, a number of the factors weighing on our second quarter results are likely to continue in the second half of 2014," said Lynch. While this is just one company operating in a very particular corner of the home improvement industry, Lumber Liquidators 'warning is nevertheless notable. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Tom GodberThe World Series of Poker is going right now in Las Vegas, and we're going to bring you one highlight a day of solid play. Here's what caught our eye on Tuesday, day two. In the first round of betting, David Tuthill spiced things up by immediately raising to 2,600. The following players around the table all folded... until one unnamed opponent decided to go all in with his last 25,100. Tuthill called, and both players revealed their cards. Tuthill had 10<U+2665> 10<U+2666>, while his opponent had A<U+2660> J<U+2660>. Now, all that there was left to do was to wait while the dealear produced the cards. The first three cards were 8<U+2660> K<U+2660> 3<U+2660>, meaning that the unnamed opponent had just flopped an ace-high flush. According to the WSOP's blog, that flop "elicited an immediate response from Tuthill", who yelled "Flush!" and laughed, no doubt surprised at the outcome. The next two were 4<U+2660> 2<U+2665>, which clinched the win for the unnamed opponent. Bonus Poker Term!David Tuthill was the first to bet in the first round of betting. This is referred to as being "under the gun".  Source: Poker News FREE AppDownload
Flickr/FonnaTasha Crumbs wasn't built to last, much to the dismay of cupcake fans everywhere. Did Americans' fixation with health do it in? Or was the cronut to blame?  The answer, says David Sax, author of "The Tastemakers: Why We're Crazy for Cupcakes But Fed Up With Fondue," might lie closer to home, on the Web. The life cycle of food trends is getting shorter and the cupcake trend proved that in real-time. "Anyone in the world could turn on their computer and see photos of cupcakes," he says of the early 2000s craze. "There are now cupcake shops in Rwanda opened by people who blogged about them."  The cronut, hand-crafted by baker Dominique Ansel, was the second pastry to become a cultural phenomenon. Imitators spread from Manhattan to Dunkin' Donuts in South Korea, and there was even a black market on Craigslist. Similarly, imitators appeared on the scene when Crumbs went public in 2011. "Usually [food trends] took [a long time to evolve] as someone tasted something, put their own spin on it, worked on it, and had someone else taste it," says Sax. "Now someone can see a clip on YouTube and spin out their own version in a week. The lag time for innovation is speeding up."  That's not to say there aren't definitive cycles. Yogurt is unique in that it has always cycled in and out of fads unlike cupcakes, which aren't as healthy and easy to tweak, says John Gordon, principal at Pacific Management Consulting Group, a restaurant industry analysis firm. In fact, if you're a food entrepreneur, there are plenty of lessons to be had in the yogurt business.  In the 1970s and 80s, frozen yogurt's popularity prompted TCBY to franchise--and over expand. But by the late 80s and early 90s, consumers were craving traditional flavors and sundaes, which helped Marble Slab and Cold Stone Creamery become national hits. By the late 90s, customization took hold, ushering in hybrid flavors and gourmet staples like Haagen Daaz.  By the early 2000s, the pendulum had swung back again, this time in favor of healthier (albeit sour-flavored) West Coast concepts like Pinkberry and Red Mango. Huge cups of froyo piled high with kiwi sold for as much as $7, while imitators like iYO and Orange Leaf tried to capitalize on the trend. When the recession hit and froyo felt expensive, the companies tried to diversify with made-to-order juices, soups, and salads.   What consumers are seeing now, says Gordon, is an evolution of fancy froyo, where everything is self-serve and they pay by the ounce. 16 Handles and Menchie's are leading the pack, but the category will likely keep changing.  The lesson for entrepreneurs is largely one of careful timing when you enter a market, warns Gordon. "If you go in too early, there won't be enough market awareness and it will be hard to build consumer brand interest and knowledge. And if you go in too late, there will too many competitors."  "The millennial generation is known for trying to find the next great thing," adds Darren Tristano, executive vice president at Technomic Inc., a Chicago research and consulting firm that specializes in the restaurant industry. But you have to know where a product is in its life cycle if you're trying to stick around.  For Crumbs and its competitors, latching onto a fad wasn't enough.  FREE AppDownload
Sergei Karpukhin/ReutersPicture illustration of a section of a Russian 100-rouble banknote taken in MoscowNaked images of the Greek God Apollo have graced buildings and paintings for centuries, but his disrobed body has so shocked one Russian lawmaker that he wants to change the country's 100-rouble banknote. The note, worth less than $3, depicts an image of a statue of Apollo riding a four-horse chariot atop the Bolshoi Theater, one of Russia's main cultural symbols. "You can see clearly that Apollo is naked, you can see his genitalia," Roman Khudyakov, a member of parliament for the nationalist LDPR party, told Reuters Television. "I submitted a parliamentary request and forwarded it directly to the head of the central bank asking for the banknote to be brought into line with the law protecting children and to remove this Apollo." He said he had been stirred into action when he saw two children looking at the banknote: "The girl screamed at the boy: 'Can you see that? I told you, there is a penis here!' I was shocked, you know." The call coincides with growing conservatism in President Vladimir Putin's third term, during which he has courted the Russian Orthodox Church. What is widely described as anti-gay legislation has also been passed banning the promotion of "non-traditional" relations to minors. The Bolshoi itself made headlines by covering the genitalia of the huge Apollo statue with a figleaf when it reopened in 2011 after a scandal-marred restoration that took more than six years and $700 million. Khudyakov's proposal triggered a wave of satire on the Internet, with some users joking it must have been the first time a lawmaker had seen a 100-rouble banknote as they are reported to deal with much larger sums. The central bank had no immediate comment. ($1 = 34.2275 Russian Rubles)   (Additional reporting by Oksana Kobzeva, Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, Editing by Timothy Heritage/Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eloy AlonsoStocks finished higher after two straight losing sessions, as the minutes from the latest FOMC meeting indicated the Fed sees a potential end to its QE program coming in October.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The minutes from the latest Federal Reserve's latest Federal Open Market Committee meeting were released at 2:00 pm EST, and for the first time indicated a potential end to the Fed's monthly asset purchase program, or Quantitative Easing (QE). The Fed has been reducing QE by $10 billion at each meeting since December 2013, and the latest minutes indicated that if the economy continues as the FOMC's members expect, QE could end with a single $15 billion reduction at its October meeting. The minutes also showed that the Fed plans to clearly indicate to the market when it plans to begin raising rates. 2) The FOMC minutes indicated that the Fed is concerned about investors growing too complacent given the current market environment. Following the minutes release, Joe Brusuelas and Josh Wright, economists at Bloomberg LP, said, "Of special note, some on the committee observed that results from the primary dealer survey suggested that low realized volatility, generally favorable economic news and less uncertainty for the path of monetary policy might have generated complacency on the part of market participants about potential risks. Given that one purpose of the Fed’s quantitative easing policy is to encourage risk taking in order to suppress yields at the longer end of the curve, investors will probably now look closely at the Fed’s intentions regarding macroprudential measures going forward."  3) In its earnings release yesterday afternoon, Kip Tindell, CEO of The Container Store, gave an ominous warnings about the state of retail activity. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailer, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" Tindell said. Shares of The Container Store fell 9%. as the company also reported same store sales that fell 0.8% and reported a loss of $0.07 per share. 4) Shares of Gigamon cratered, losing more than 30% after the company warned investors that its revenue would be way below forecasts. BI's Julie Bort noted that this is the second straight quarter the enterprise tech company has reduced its revenue outlook, and since topping out at $41.81, the stock is down more than 70%.   5) Next Monday, July 14, will begin a three-week period in which 72% of the S&amp;P 500 reports quarterly earnings. In a research note earlier today, Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider highlighted 22 companies that the firm expects to beat expectations. Among the notable companies Goldman is currently forecasting to beat earnings expectations are healthcare giant McKesson and energy company CONSOL Energy.  Don't Miss: It's Still Ridiculously Difficult To Buy Bitcoin » FREE AppDownload
The number of unemployed Americans per job opening tumbled to 2.1 as of May. Meanwhile, the average job opening sits on the market for almost six weeks. According to the Dice-DFH Vacancy Duration Measure, the average duration of a U.S. job opening is 25.1 days. From DiceHiring's release: "The average length of vacancies is up 64 percent since July 2009 and exceeds all previous peaks. Among the major U.S. regions, the West shows the largest increase, rising from 16.4 working days in 2009 to 26.7 days in May 2014, a new peak." “The further rise in vacancy durations indicates that employers face tighter labor market conditions,” said Dr. Steven Davis of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. “Manufacturing and Financial Services are among the sectors experiencing sharp increases in vacancy durations in recent years. Vacancy durations have also recovered to pre-recession levels in Construction." Dice derives this stat from the BLS's Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). Dice Hiring Indicators FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThis post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.  The investing landscape is changing fast: Stock returns have risen at a torrid pace, and interest rates have reverted to previous lows. Meanwhile, activity in the global economy remains modest, at best. We want to hear from you about your current and future investment concerns. Are you wondering which stocks might do well in the "new" bull market? Waiting for interest rates to rise? Or worrying how larger economic forces might affect your portfolio? Vote in the polls below, and economist Brian Levitt will address the results in three videos we're producing with OppenheimerFunds. If you have a specific question related to one of these three topics, leave it in the comments, email it to expert@businessinsider.com, or tweet it with the hashtag #AskOppFundsExpert, and Levitt may respond in one of the videos.       Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL-OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing.Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. OFDI engaged Business Insider to prepare this material. © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
APThe 2014 Volkswagen GTI, left, and Golf. Volkswagen recently announced that its U.S. auto sales dropped by a staggering 22% in June. This will mark the fourth time in the last six months that the brand has experienced a double-digit fall in sales. In that same time, its stock is down more than 5%.  Even though Volkswagen has sold more that 3 million cars worldwide so far this year, fewer than 180,000 of them were in the U.S. As Volkswagen Group, now the second-largest automaker in the world, continues to experience worldwide growth, it is troubling that its most prominent mass-market brand is having a hard time in one of its most important markets.  There are four major reasons for VW's struggle in the U.S. High Transaction Costs VW sees itself as competing with Toyota and Ford, but consumers don't see them that way, says Alec Gutierrez, senior market analyst at Kelley Blue Book. In the Volkswagen Group family, VW's role is to build mainstream, mass-market transportation while its luxury-oriented siblings like Audi and Bentley build higher priced, fancier models.  But thanks to its European origins and a close association to its corporate siblings, consumers in the U.S. see VW as a near-luxury product. This means buyers shopping for products like the brand's Passat sedan approach the process differently than they would if they were shopping for a Honda Accord or a Toyota Camry. A Camry or Accord buyer may be willing to part with his money for a bare-bones base model, but VW shoppers want a German luxury product at a discounted price, leading them to load-up on optional goodies.  VolkswagenThe 2014 Volkswagen Passat. As a result, the brand is at the highest point in virtually every segment in which it competes, Gutierrez says. While VW has attempted to make its product more attractive to value shoppers by offering de-contented models, the typical VW still costs more than its competitors.  According to KBB, the average transaction cost for a Passat sedan is $27,300. The average midsize sedan on the market costs $25,000, with the Ford Fusion coming in at $26,000 and an Accord $25,200.  Another reason for VW's higher price point is the brand's inclusion of premium technology even in lower-level models. The company chose to include complicated turbocharging systems and advanced DSG automated twin-clutch gearboxes on economy models, while competitors like the Honda Civic, Ford Focus, and Toyota Corolla employ cheaper and more conventional technology. The availability of such options is a boon for consumers, but it prevents VW from competing on price with its less sophisticated competitors.  Lack Of A Competitive Compact Crossover At 12.9% growth, the crossover SUV segment is the single fastest-growing sector of the automotive market, according to The Wall Street Journal. While VW's Tiguan compact crossover is a fairly competent car, it is not nearly as affordable or fuel-efficient as segment leaders like the Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4, says Gutierrez.  And the difference in sales is staggering. According to The Journal, in the first six months of 2014, Honda has shipped almost 155,000 CR-Vs and Toyota has sold 117,000 RAV4s. On the other hand, VW has sold just 13,000 Tiguans this year, and that figure is down 15.1% from last year.  A History Of Questionable Reliability VolkswagenThe 2014 Volkswagen Tiguan. In the past few years, the automaker has made significant strides in quality and recieved high marks from reviewers at the publication.  Still, there seems to be a stigma that lingers in the minds of mass-market shoppers who place a premium on reliability. This stigma is further enforced by publications like JD Power's 2014 initial quality and vehicle dependability surveys, where VW scored below industry average in both.  A Crowded Marketplace The final factor for Volkswagen's slipping sales is a marketplace that is growing more and more crowded with competitive products. A decade ago, VW's mass-market products only had to contend with challengers from the major Japanese manufacturers and a couple of domestic products like the Ford Focus. In the decade since, the market has changed significantly.  Not only are the Japanese brands still riding high; Volkswagen must now also compete with Hyundai and Kia from Korea, and a major resurgence from Detroit's Big 3. Even worse for VW, total U.S. auto sales have fallen from just under 17 million in 2004 to just 15.8 million cars in 2013. How Volkswagen Can Come Back AudiThe 2014 Audi A3. Instead of forcing their way into the mass-market segment, VW could change course and become a near-luxury manufacturer. This may be difficult and risky for Volkswagen, because moving into a higher price point could potentially cannibalize sales of Audi's A3 and A4 models, which sell for between $35,000 and $45,000. And a move up market would risk the brand becoming reduced to a niche luxury manufacturer, which does not mesh with VW's already successful global presence as a major mass-market brand. It remains to be seen how the company will try to change its image — and sales figures — in the U.S. An earlier version of the story misstated the total U.S. auto sales in 2013.    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve just released the minutes from its June 17-18 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. The minutes show that the Fed said if the economy progresses as the FOMC expects, the final reduction of asset purchases would occur following the FOMC's October meeting.  Since the Fed began reducing its asset purchases, it has reduced the pace of purchases by $10 billion with each meeting. If the economy progresses as the Fed expects, the final reduction in asset purchases would come with a single $15 billion reduction. The minutes also said it, "was observed that it would be useful for the Committee to develop and communicate its plans to the public later this year, well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate." In short, the Fed said it expects to let people know it's going to raise rates before it actually does it.  In its June 18 policy announcement, the Fed kept interest rates unchanged and took another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases.  Along with its policy announcement, the Fed also released its latest economic projections, which include the much talked about "dot plot," which shows where FOMC members think interest rates will be at the end of the next three years. Here's the full release from the Fed: PRESENT: Janet L. Yellen, ChairWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanLael BrainardStanley FischerRichard W. FisherNarayana KocherlakotaLoretta J. MesterCharles I. PlosserJerome H. PowellDaniel K. Tarullo ... In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that Loretta J. Mester had been elected a member of the Federal Open Market Committee and that she had executed her oath of office. In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the deputy manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets. The SOMA manager reported on the System open market operations during the period since the Committee met on April 29-30, 2014, outlined the testing of the Term Deposit Facility, described the results from the fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operational exercise, and provided some possible options for adjusting the list of counterparties eligible to participate in ON RRP operations. The manager also noted the effects of recent foreign central bank policy actions on the yields on the international portion of the SOMA portfolio and discussed ongoing staff work on improving data collections regarding bank funding markets. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Meeting participants continued their discussion of issues associated with the eventual normalization of the stance and conduct of monetary policy. The Committee's consideration of this topic was undertaken as part of prudent planning and did not imply that normalization would necessarily begin sometime soon. A staff presentation included some possible strategies for implementing and communicating monetary policy during a period when the Federal Reserve will have a very large balance sheet. In addition, the presentation outlined design features of a potential ON RRP facility and discussed options for the Committee's policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction and reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) in agency MBS. Most participants agreed that adjustments in the rate of interest on excess reserves (IOER) should play a central role during the normalization process. It was generally agreed that an ON RRP facility with an interest rate set below the IOER rate could play a useful supporting role by helping to firm the floor under money market interest rates. One participant thought that the ON RRP rate would be the more effective policy tool during normalization in light of the wider variety of counterparties eligible to participate in ON RRP operations. The appropriate size of the spread between the IOER and ON RRP rates was discussed, with many participants judging that a relatively wide spread--perhaps near or above the current level of 20 basis points--would support trading in the federal funds market and provide adequate control over market interest rates. Several participants noted that the spread might be adjusted during the normalization process. A couple of participants suggested that adequate control of short-term rates might be accomplished with a very wide spread or even without an ON RRP facility. A few participants commented that the Committee should also be prepared to use its other policy tools, including term deposits and term reverse repurchase agreements, if necessary. Most participants thought that the federal funds rate should continue to play a role in the Committee's operating framework and communications during normalization, with many of them indicating a preference for continuing to announce a target range. However, a few participants thought that, given the degree of uncertainty about the effects of the Committee's tools on market rates, it might be preferable to focus on an administered rate in communicating the stance of policy during the normalization period. In addition, participants examined possibilities for changing the calculation of the effective federal funds rate in order to obtain a more robust measure of overnight bank funding rates and to apply lessons from international efforts to develop improved standards for benchmark interest rates. While generally agreeing that an ON RRP facility could play an important role in the policy normalization process, participants discussed several potential unintended consequences of using such a facility and design features that could help to mitigate these consequences. Most participants expressed concerns that in times of financial stress, the facility's counterparties could shift investments toward the facility and away from financial and nonfinancial corporations, possibly causing disruptions in funding that could magnify the stress. In addition, a number of participants noted that a relatively large ON RRP facility had the potential to expand the Federal Reserve's role in financial intermediation and reshape the financial industry in ways that were difficult to anticipate. Participants discussed design features that could address these concerns, including constraints on usage either in the aggregate or by counterparty and a relatively wide spread between the ON RRP rate and the IOER rate that would help limit the facility's size. Several participants emphasized that, although the ON RRP rate would be useful in controlling short-term interest rates during normalization, they did not anticipate that such a facility would be a permanent part of the Committee's longer-run operating framework. Finally, a number of participants expressed concern about conducting monetary policy operations with nontraditional counterparties. Participants also discussed the appropriate time for making a change to the Committee's policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction and reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency MBS in agency MBS. It was noted that, in the staff's models, making a change to the Committee's reinvestment policy prior to the liftoff of the federal funds rate, at the time of liftoff, or sometime thereafter would be expected to have only limited implications for macroeconomic outcomes, the Committee's statutory objectives, or remittances to the Treasury. Many participants agreed that ending reinvestments at or after the time of liftoff would be best, with most of these participants preferring to end them after liftoff. These participants thought that an earlier change to the reinvestment policy would involve risks to the economic outlook if it was seen as suggesting that the Committee was likely to tighten policy more rapidly than currently anticipated or if it had unexpectedly large effects in MBS markets; moreover, an early change could add complexity to the Committee's communications at a time when it would be clearer to signal changes in policy through interest rates alone. However, some participants favored ending reinvestments prior to the first firming in policy interest rates, as stated in the Committee's exit strategy principles announced in June 2011. Those participants thought that such an approach would avoid weakening the credibility of the Committee's communications regarding normalization, would act to modestly reduce the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, or would help prepare the public for the eventual rise in short-term interest rates. Regardless of whether they preferred to introduce a change to the Committee's reinvestment policy before or after the initial tightening in short-term interest rates, a number of participants thought that it might be best to follow a graduated approach with respect to winding down reinvestments or to manage reinvestments in a manner that would smooth the decline in the balance sheet. Some stressed that the details should depend on financial and economic conditions. Overall, participants generally expressed a preference for a simple and clear approach to normalization that would facilitate communication to the public and enhance the credibility of monetary policy. It was observed that it would be useful for the Committee to develop and communicate its plans to the public later this year, well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate. Most participants indicated that they expected to learn more about the effects of the Committee's various policy tools as normalization proceeds, and many favored maintaining flexibility about the evolution of the normalization process as well as the Committee's longer-run operating framework. Participants requested additional analysis from the staff on issues related to normalization and agreed that it would be helpful to continue to review these issues at upcoming meetings. The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion. The information reviewed for the June 17-18 meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had dropped significantly early in the year but that economic growth had bounced back in recent months. The average pace of employment gains stepped up, and the unemployment rate declined markedly in April and held steady in May, although it was still elevated. Consumer price inflation picked up in recent months, while measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Most measures of labor market conditions improved in recent months. Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded in April and May at a faster rate than the average monthly pace during the previous two quarters. The unemployment rate dropped to 6.3 percent in April and remained at that level in May. However, the labor force participation rate also declined in April and then held steady in May, while the employment-to-population ratio remained flat. Both the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons and the rate of long-duration unemployment edged down in recent months, although both measures were still high. Initial claims for unemployment insurance decreased slightly, on net, over the intermeeting period, and the rate of job openings stepped up in April; nevertheless, the rate of hiring was unchanged and remained at a modest level. Industrial production increased, on balance, in April and May, as manufacturing output and production in the mining sector expanded and more than offset a further decline in the output of utilities from the elevated levels recorded during the unusually cold winter months. As a result, the rate of industrial capacity utilization rose in recent months. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of light motor vehicle assemblies would step up in the coming months, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from national manufacturing surveys, were consistent with moderate increases in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) declined a little in April following strong gains in February and March. The component of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE edged down in May, but light motor vehicle sales moved up briskly. Recent information about key factors that influence household spending mostly pointed to gains in PCE in the coming months. Real disposable income continued to rise in April, and households' net worth likely increased as equity prices and home values advanced further; however, consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers moved down somewhat in May and early June. The pace of activity in the housing sector remained subdued. Starts of new single-family homes declined slightly, on net, in April and May, although starts of multifamily units increased. Permits for single-family homes, which are usually a better indicator of the underlying pace of residential construction, increased only a little on balance. Sales of new homes rose in April but remained near their average monthly level last year. Existing home sales only edged up in April and were still below last year's average level, while pending home sales were little changed. Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products were estimated to have increased slowly in the first quarter as a whole. In April, nominal orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased a little after rising briskly in March. However, the level of new orders for these capital goods remained above the level of shipments in April, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions, were also generally consistent with modest increases in business equipment spending in the near term. Nominal business spending for nonresidential structures was essentially unchanged in April. Recent data on the book value of inventories, along with readings on inventories from national and regional manufacturing surveys, did not point to significant inventory imbalances in most industries except in the energy sector, where inventories appeared unusually low after having been drawn down during the winter. Federal spending data for April and May pointed toward only a small decline in real federal government purchases in the second quarter, as the pace of decreases in defense expenditures seemed to ease. Real state and local government purchases appeared to edge up going into the second quarter. The payrolls of these governments expanded in April and May, and nominal state and local construction expenditures increased a little in April. The U.S. international trade deficit widened in March and in April. Both imports and exports recovered from weak readings in February, with imports of consumer goods, automotive products, and capital goods rising significantly and exports of capital goods and industrial supplies showing particular strength. U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, was about 1-1/2 percent over the 12 months ending in April, below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent. Over the same 12-month period, consumer energy prices rose faster than total consumer prices, while consumer food prices climbed more slowly than overall prices; core PCE inflation--which excludes food and energy prices--was also around 1-1/2 percent. In May, the consumer price index (CPI) increased at a faster pace than in the preceding few months; both food and energy prices rose more briskly, and core CPI inflation also stepped up. Over the 12 months ending in May, both total and core CPI inflation were about 2 percent. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey declined slightly, on balance, in May and early June, while longer-term inflation expectations from the survey were little changed. Increases in measures of labor compensation remained modest. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector rose about 2-1/4 percent over the year ending in the first quarter; with small gains in labor productivity, unit labor costs advanced more slowly than compensation per hour. Over the year ending in May, average hourly earnings for all employees increased around 2 percent. Foreign real GDP growth slowed in the first quarter, especially in China and some other emerging market economies. Real GDP also increased more slowly in Canada, in part because of severe winter weather, and the pace of economic activity remained weak in the euro area. Economic growth continued to be strong in the United Kingdom, and economic activity jumped in Japan as household spending surged in advance of April's consumption tax hike. Indicators for the second quarter generally suggested that foreign economic growth picked up from the first quarter. In some advanced foreign economies, inflation moved up recently from earlier low readings. Inflation continued to be low, however, in the euro area, and the European Central Bank (ECB) announced additional stimulus measures. On balance, financial conditions in the United States remained supportive of growth in economic activity and employment: The expected path of the federal funds rate was slightly lower in the long run, yields on longer-term Treasury securities moved down modestly, equity prices rose, corporate bond spreads narrowed, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed. Federal Reserve communications over the intermeeting period had limited effects in financial markets. The April FOMC statement and minutes appeared to be generally in line with expectations, while the Chair's congressional testimony before the Joint Economic Committee in early May and the subsequent question-and-answer session were viewed by market participants as suggesting marginally more accommodative policy than expected. Results from the Desk's June Survey of Primary Dealers indicated no change in the dealers' consensus expectation about the most likely timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate target but showed a lower median longer-run level of the federal funds rate relative to the April survey. Expectations for Federal Reserve asset purchases were largely unchanged. In addition, although there was significant dispersion among dealer responses, the median dealer expected the FOMC to end its reinvestment of principal payments on Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency MBS sometime after the first increase in the federal funds rate target; in the April survey, the median dealer had expected reinvestments to end before liftoff. Yields on short- and medium-term nominal Treasury securities increased slightly, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In contrast, yields at the long end of the curve edged lower, continuing a downward trend evident over much of this year. Market participants continued to discuss the decreases in long forward rates since the beginning of the year and pointed to a variety of domestic and global factors possibly contributing to this trend, including lower expectations for potential growth and policy rates in the longer run, a decline in inflation risk premiums, purchases of longer-term securities by price-insensitive investors, unwinding of short Treasury positions, and falling interest rate uncertainty. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities remained about steady. Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. The Federal Reserve continued its ON RRP exercise. Total take-up in the ON RRP exercise rose in April and May before falling back in June. Much of the transitory increase in take-up occurred in response to a large seasonal reduction in outstanding Treasury debt and an associated drop in the rates on Treasury repurchase agreements during the first half of the second quarter that were reversed during the second half. In May, the Federal Reserve began an eight-week series of test auctions of seven-day term deposits. The number of participants and the total amount awarded increased over the course of the first five operations. Broad stock price indexes rose over the intermeeting period, apparently boosted by a more optimistic assessment of near-term economic prospects and likely supported by continued low interest rates. Despite generally lackluster results for first-quarter earnings, corporate guidance for profits in coming quarters led to upward revisions in analysts' forecasts of year-ahead earnings per share for S&amp;P 500 firms. The VIX, an index of option-implied volatility for one-month returns on the S&amp;P 500 index, continued to decline and ended the period near its historical lows. Measures of uncertainty in other financial markets also declined; results from the Desk's primary dealer survey suggested this development might have reflected low realized volatilities, generally favorable economic news, less uncertainty for the path of monetary policy, and complacency on the part of market participants about potential risks. Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained strong. Amid low yields and reduced market volatility, gross issuance of investment- and speculative-grade bonds rebounded in May. Commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) loans on banks' balance sheets increased and issuance of leveraged loans remained strong. Responses to the June Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms indicated that investor demand for financing to fund purchases of collateralized loan obligations rose somewhat since the beginning of the year. Commercial real estate loans continued to increase amid some further easing of underwriting standards for commercial mortgages. While issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities started the year a bit slow relative to 2013, it has picked up recently. Bank and insurance company originations of commercial mortgages expanded in the first quarter. Mortgage credit conditions generally remained tight, though further incremental signs of easing emerged amid continued gains in house prices. Mortgage interest rates declined somewhat more than long-term Treasury yields over the intermeeting period, while option-adjusted spreads on production-coupon MBS narrowed. Both mortgage applications for home purchases and refinancing applications remained at very low levels. Conditions in consumer credit markets were solid in recent months. Credit card loan balances increased. Growth in student loans moderated further but remained solid, and outstanding auto loans continued to pick up. Issuance of auto and credit card asset-backed securities was again robust. The expected path of ECB policy rates implied by market quotes for short-term interest rates fell over the intermeeting period, as investors anticipated the easing of policy announced by the ECB at its June meeting. By contrast, late in the period, market participants interpreted statements by Bank of England Governor Carney as signaling an earlier tightening of policy than had been anticipated, and near-term policy rate expectations moved higher in response. Benchmark sovereign bond yields declined modestly in most countries, but U.K. gilt yields rose. The foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed, on balance, over the period, as the dollar appreciated against the euro but declined against the Canadian dollar and many emerging market currencies. Consistent with some improvement in investor sentiment toward risky assets, foreign equity prices generally rose over the intermeeting period, and foreign sovereign and corporate bond spreads narrowed. In addition, both bond and equity emerging market mutual funds saw net inflows over the period. In the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the June FOMC meeting, real GDP growth in the first half of this year as a whole was lower, on net, than in the projection for the April meeting. In particular, the available readings on exports, inventory investment, outlays for health-care services, and construction pointed to much weaker real GDP in the first quarter than the staff had expected. However, the staff still anticipated that real GDP growth would rebound briskly in the second quarter, consistent with recent indicators for consumer spending and business investment, along with the expectation that exports and inventory investment would return to more normal levels and that economic activity that had been restrained by the severe winter weather would bounce back. Primarily because of the combination of recent downward surprises in the unemployment rate and weaker-than-expected real GDP, the staff slightly lowered its assumed pace of potential output growth this year and next and slightly decreased its assumption for the natural rate of unemployment over this same period. As a result, the staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was revised down a little on balance. Nevertheless, the staff continued to project that real GDP would expand at a faster pace in the second half of this year and over the next two years than it did last year and that it would rise more quickly than potential output. The faster pace of real GDP growth was expected to be supported by diminishing drag on spending from changes in fiscal policy, increases in consumer and business confidence, further improvements in credit availability, and a pickup in the rate of foreign economic growth. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce resource slack over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate in the medium term. In the longer-run outlook, the staff slightly lowered its assumptions for real GDP growth and the level of equilibrium real interest rates. The staff's forecast for inflation in the near term was revised up a little as recent data showed somewhat faster increases in consumer prices than anticipated. However, the medium-term projection for inflation was revised down slightly, reflecting a reassessment by the staff of the underlying trend in inflation. The staff continued to forecast that inflation would remain below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be subdued, and slack in labor and product markets anticipated to diminish slowly, inflation was projected to rise gradually toward the Committee's objective. The staff continued to project that inflation would reach the Committee's objective in the longer run. The staff's economic projections for the June meeting were somewhat different from the forecasts presented at the March meeting, when the FOMC last prepared a Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). The staff's June projections for the unemployment rate, real GDP growth, and inflation over the next few years were all a little lower, on balance, than those in its March forecast. The staff viewed the extent of uncertainty around its June projections for real GDP growth and the unemployment rate as roughly in line with the average over the past 20 years. Nonetheless, the risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were viewed as tilted a little to the downside, as neither monetary policy nor fiscal policy was seen as being well positioned to help the economy withstand adverse shocks. At the same time, the staff viewed the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, the meeting participants submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2014 through 2016 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy.3 The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the SEP, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, meeting participants viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity was rebounding in the second quarter following a surprisingly large decline in real GDP in the first quarter of the year. Labor market conditions generally improved further. Although participants marked down their expectations for average growth of real GDP over the first half of 2014, their projections beginning in the second half of 2014 changed little. Over the next two and a half years, they continued to expect economic activity to expand at a rate sufficient to lead to a further decline in the unemployment rate to levels close to their current assessments of its longer-run normal value. Among the factors anticipated to support the sustained economic expansion were accommodative monetary policy, diminished drag from fiscal restraint, further gains in household net worth, improving credit conditions for households and businesses, and rising employment and wages. While inflation was still seen as running below the Committee's longer-run objective, longer-run inflation expectations remained stable and the Committee anticipated that inflation would move back toward its 2 percent objective over the forecast period. Most participants viewed the risks to the outlook for the economy, the labor market, and inflation as broadly balanced. Household spending appeared to have risen moderately, on balance, in recent months, with sales of motor vehicles, in particular, rising strongly. However, several participants read the recent soft information on retail sales and health-care spending as raising some concern about the underlying strength in consumer spending. A couple of participants noted that, to date, consumer spending had been supported importantly by gains in household net worth while income gains had been held back by only modest increases in wages. In their view, an important element in the economic outlook was a pickup in income, from higher wages as well as ongoing employment gains, that would be expected to support a sustained rise in consumer spending. The recovery in the housing sector was reported to have remained slow in all but a few areas of the country. Many participants expressed concern about the still-soft indicators of residential construction, and they discussed a range of factors that might be contributing to either a temporary delay in the housing recovery or a persistently lower level of homebuilding than previously anticipated. Despite attractive mortgage rates, housing demand was seen as being damped by such factors as restrictive credit conditions, particularly for households with low credit scores; high down payments; or low demand among younger homebuyers, due in part to the burden of student loan debt. Others noted supply constraints, pointing to shortages of lots, low inventories of desirable homes for sale, an overhang of homes associated with foreclosures or seriously delinquent mortgages, or rising construction costs. Several other participants suggested the possibility that more persistent structural changes in housing demand associated with an aging population and evolving lifestyle preferences were boosting demand for multifamily units at the expense of single-family homes. Information from participants' business contacts suggested capital spending was likely to increase going forward. Contacts in a number of Districts reported that they were generally optimistic about the business outlook, although in a couple of regions respondents remained cautious about prospects for stronger economic growth or worried about a renewal of federal fiscal restraint after the current congressional budget agreement expires. Among the industries cited as relatively strong in recent months were transportation, energy, telecommunications, and manufacturing, particularly motor vehicles. Some participants commented that their contacts in small and medium-sized businesses reported an improved outlook for sales, and several heard businesses more generally discuss plans to increase capital expenditures. One participant noted that District businesses were investing largely to meet replacement needs, while another suggested that the backlog of such needs would likely provide some impetus to business investment. Favorable financial conditions appeared be supporting economic activity. While information about mortgage lending was mixed, a number of participants reported increases in C&amp;I lending by banks in their Districts, a pickup in loan demand at banks, or better credit quality for borrowers. In addition, small businesses reported improvements in credit availability. However, participants also discussed whether some recent trends in financial markets might suggest that investors were not appropriately taking account of risks in their investment decisions. In particular, low implied volatility in equity, currency, and fixed-income markets as well as signs of increased risk-taking were viewed by some participants as an indication that market participants were not factoring in sufficient uncertainty about the path of the economy and monetary policy. They agreed that the Committee should continue to carefully monitor financial conditions and to emphasize in its communications the dependence of its policy decisions on the evolution of the economic outlook; it was also pointed out that, where appropriate, supervisory measures should be applied to address excessive risk-taking and associated financial imbalances. At the same time, it was noted that monetary policy needed to continue to promote the favorable financial conditions required to support the economic expansion. In discussing economic developments abroad, a couple of participants noted that recent monetary policy actions by the ECB and the Bank of Japan had improved the outlook for economic activity in those areas and could help return inflation to target. Several others, however, remained concerned that persistent low inflation in Europe and Japan could eventually erode inflation expectations more broadly. And a couple of participants expressed uncertainty about the outlook for economic growth in Japan and China. In addition, several saw developments in Iraq and Ukraine as posing possible downside risks to global economic activity or potential upside risks to world oil prices. Labor market conditions generally continued to improve over the intermeeting period. That improvement was evidenced by the decline in the unemployment rate as well as by changes in other indicators, such as solid gains in nonfarm payrolls, a low level of new claims for unemployment insurance, uptrends in quits and job openings, and more positive views of job availability by households. In assessing labor market conditions, participants again offered a range of views on how far conditions in the labor market were from those associated with maximum employment. Many judged that slack remained elevated, and a number of them thought it was greater than measured by the official unemployment rate, citing, in particular, the still-high level of workers employed part time for economic reasons or the depressed labor force participation rate. Even so, several participants pointed out that both long- and short-term unemployment and measures that include marginally attached workers had declined. Most participants projected the improvement in labor market conditions to continue, with the unemployment rate moving down gradually over the medium term. However, a couple of participants anticipated that the decline in unemployment would be damped as part-time workers shift to full-time jobs and as nonparticipants rejoin the labor force, while a few others commented that they expected no lasting reversal of the decline in labor force participation. Aggregate wage measures continued to rise at only a modest rate, and reports on wages from business contacts and surveys in a number of Districts were mixed. Several of those reports pointed to an absence of wage pressures, while some others indicated that tight labor markets or shortages of skilled workers were leading to upward pressure on wages in some areas or occupations and that an increasing proportion of small businesses were planning to raise wages. Participants discussed the prospects for wage increases to pick up as slack in the labor market diminishes. Several noted that a return to growth in real wages in line with productivity growth would provide welcome support for household spending. Readings on a range of price measures--including the PCE price index, the CPI, and a number of the analytical measures developed at the Reserve Banks--appeared to provide evidence that inflation had moved up recently from low levels earlier in the year, consistent with the Committee's forecast of a gradual increase in inflation over the medium term. Reports from business contacts were mixed, spanning an absence of price pressures in some Districts and rising input costs in others. Some participants expressed concern about the persistence of below-trend inflation, and a couple of them suggested that the Committee may need to allow the unemployment rate to move below its longer-run normal level for a time in order keep inflation expectations anchored and return inflation to its 2 percent target, though one participant emphasized the risks of doing so. In contrast, some others expected a faster pickup in inflation or saw upside risks to inflation and inflation expectations because they anticipated a more rapid decline in economic slack. During their consideration of issues related to monetary policy over the medium term, participants generally supported the Committee's current guidance about the likely path of its asset purchases and about its approach to determining the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate and the path of the policy rate thereafter. Participants offered views on a range of issues related to policy communications. Some participants suggested that the Committee's communications about its forward guidance should emphasize more strongly that its policy decisions would depend on its ongoing assessment across a range of indicators of economic activity, labor market conditions, inflation and inflation expectations, and financial market developments. In that regard, circumstances that might entail either a slower or a more rapid removal of policy accommodation were cited. For example, a number of participants noted their concern that a more gradual approach might be appropriate if forecasts of above-trend economic growth later this year were not realized. And a couple suggested that the Committee might need to strengthen its commitment to maintain sufficient policy accommodation to return inflation to its target over the medium term in order to prevent an undesirable decline in inflation expectations. Alternatively, some other participants expressed concern that economic growth over the medium run might be faster than currently expected or that the rate of growth of potential output might be lower than currently expected, calling for a more rapid move to begin raising the federal funds rate in order to avoid significantly overshooting the Committee's unemployment and inflation objectives. While the current asset purchase program is not on a preset course, participants generally agreed that if the economy evolved as they anticipated, the program would likely be completed later this year. Some committee members had been asked by members of the public whether, if tapering in the pace of purchases continues as expected, the final reduction would come in a single $15 billion per month reduction or in a $10 billion reduction followed by a $5 billion reduction. Most participants viewed this as a technical issue with no substantive macroeconomic consequences and no consequences for the eventual decision about the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate--a decision that will depend on the Committee's evolving assessments of actual and expected progress toward its objectives. In light of these considerations, participants generally agreed that if incoming information continued to support its expectation of improvement in labor market conditions and a return of inflation toward its longer-run objective, it would be appropriate to complete asset purchases with a $15 billion reduction in the pace of purchases in order to avoid having the small, remaining level of purchases receive undue focus among investors. If the economy progresses about as the Committee expects, warranting reductions in the pace of purchases at each upcoming meeting, this final reduction would occur following the October meeting. In their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, members judged that information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April indicated that economic activity was rebounding from the decline in the first quarter of the year. Labor market indicators generally showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, though lower, remained elevated. Household spending appeared to be rising moderately and business fixed investment resumed its advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint was diminishing. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity would expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions would continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. Members saw the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but the Committee anticipated that with stable inflation expectations and strengthening economic activity, inflation would, over time, return to the Committee's 2 percent objective. However, members continued to recognize that inflation persistently below its longer-run objective could pose risks to economic performance and agreed to monitor inflation developments closely for evidence that inflation was moving back toward its objective over the medium term. Members judged that the economy had sufficient underlying strength to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and a return of inflation toward the Committee's longer-run 2 percent objective, and thus agreed that a further measured reduction in the pace of the Committee's asset purchases was appropriate at this meeting. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that beginning in July, it would add to its holdings of agency MBS at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month, and it would add to its holdings of Treasury securities at a pace of $20 billion per month rather than $25 billion per month. Members again judged that, if incoming information broadly supported the Committee's expectations for ongoing progress toward meeting its dual objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent, the Committee would likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. The Committee reiterated, however, that purchases were not on a preset course, and that its decisions about the pace of purchases would remain contingent on its outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. The Committee agreed to maintain its target range for the federal funds rate and to reiterate its forward guidance about how it would assess the appropriate timing of the first increase in the target rate and the anticipated behavior of the federal funds rate after it is raised. The guidance continued to emphasize that the Committee's decisions about how long to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate would depend on its assessment of actual and expected progress toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. The Committee again stated that it currently anticipated that it likely would be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continued to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored. The forward guidance also reiterated the Committee's expectation that even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. Beginning in July, the Desk is directed to purchase longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $20 billion per month and to purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $15 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account manager and the secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." ... Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Lael Brainard, Stanley Fischer, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Loretta J. Mester, Charles I. Plosser, Jerome H. Powell, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: None. More to come ... FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Economy Minister Axel Kicillof —obviously, they're pretty tight.For weeks, Argentina has been in the news for a strange case that has come to a head. The country owes a group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion and for years refused to pay. Now, a U.S. court is demanding it pay by July 30, or the country could face a catastrophic default. Not that Argentina hasn't been through anything that crazy before. Economic crashes, underground dollar exchanges, Rolling Stones cults, and a string of five presidents in two weeks — the Argentine Republic is a crazy place. The country is rich with resources but often broke. As a result, Argentines are so accustomed to political and economic turmoil that they've adopted a bunch of interesting coping mechanisms — like tons and tons of therapy.   FREE AppDownload
You might have read a post on Business Insider last month that told of a moment where the price of energy in the German electricity markets dipped below zero. Last week, it happened in Queensland. In Germany, it occurred due to a rare windy day which also happened to be sunny. The combination of wind and solar power entering the grid met nearly three-quarters of Germany’s total demand for an hour or so. Because Germany’s grid is by law required to buy every kilowatt produced by renewable sources, it’s utilities were (excuse the pun) powerless to make any money as free supply outstripped paid demand. Here’s how the same situation unfolded in Queensland on July 2, starting with this graph from reneweconomy.com: reneweconomy.com.au — Negative pricing does occur, but usually it’s around midnight and the early hours. You can see it nearly happened here on the morning of July 2. It actually happened just after 2pm.   — According to reneweconomy.com.au, it was a “combination of low demand and strong output from Queensland’s 1.1GW of rooftop solar”. — Queensland – the Sunshine State – has the lion’s share of solar output. More than 350,000 homes soak up that 1.1GW out of a total of 3.4GW across Australia. — July 2 was a perfect solar storm that hit coal-fired power providers in Queensland. It was a warm, sunny day, yet not hot enough for Queenslanders to be running airconditioners, and not cold enough for them to switch their heaters on. The result was a blip that one trader told reneweconomy.com.au “he could not remember” having happened before. Of course, it doesn’t mean that switching their lights and ovens on was free for Queenslanders during that magical 15-20 minutes. They still have to pay for network and retailer charges to have it delivered. But for coal, according to The Guardian, those charges add up to 19c/kWh. Industry estimates put the same charges for solar between 12c/kWh to 18c/kWh, and forecast for under 10c/kWh in the not-too-distant future. The point is, that for a moment last week, the coal power providers of Australia got a brief glimpse of what a widespread uptake of solar power in the suburbs can do to the price of energy in the right conditions. And the larger the uptake, the less ideal the conditions have to be to have it happen again. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipPro-democracy protestors took to the streets of Hong Kong on July 1 marching for universal suffrage (the right to vote) in the 2017 elections.  This came on the back of not just an informal referendum on making the 2017 elections more democratic, but a white paper published by the State Council Information Office in China in June. The paper stated that there are "many wrong views are currently rife in Hong Kong" as concerns the "one country, two systems." Now, banks are warning about the implications of the Occupy Central protests on broader asset classes. Paul Louie at Barclays has warned that "unexpected shocks" like the Occupy Central protest could cause a slump in Hong Kong's property market, according to South China Morning Post. "If a shock were to occur, we believe the subsequent recovery could take a long time, and better resemble 1998 [than the two later crises]," Louie is quoted saying. While Louie didn't go in to detail on the impact of the Occupy Central movement in the report, he told Joyce Ng, Jeanny Yu and Ray Chan at SCMP, that the protests "could be one of the unexpected shocks". Meanwhile, HSBC cut its outlook on Hong Kong stocks saying, "we reduce Hong Kong to underweight on concerns about negative news flow. 'Occupy Central  a campaign for greater democracy, could sour relations with China and may hurt the economy," according to Dennis Chong at AFP.  But after the report sparked some outrage, it was amended to show that the new rating was because of "the risk of weak residential real estate prices, the slowdown in mainland tourist arrivals, the market's link to US interest rates... and weak earnings momentum"," in addition to the protests. HSBC was criticized and accused of trying to appease Beijing, and independent financial analyst Francis Lun told AFP that "they're trying to distance themselves, even they realise that they made a mistake." We previously reported that despite suggestions of the sort, Beijing is unlikely to send its military to Hong Kong because of the implications for business and investor confidence in Hong Kong. And remember, Hong Kong has significant exposure to mainland China through inter-bank lending to mainland banks, "a complicated loop of cross-border banks and non-bank corporate entities," and "a house price crash," Freya Beamish at Lombard Street Research pointed out in a note earlier this year. We'll keep an eye out for "unexpected shocks." FREE AppDownload
David McNew/Getty ImagesThe House Ways and Means Committee unveiled its plan to shore up the Highway Trust Fund, providing a proposed solution to what many on Capitol Hill view as Congress' next big looming crisis. The House Republican plan, which was given a thrust of public support by House Speaker John Boehner on Wednesday, would provide federal financing for federal construction projects through next May. The plan would be financed through unusual offsetting, revenue-generating measures such as a method known as "pension smoothing" and various customs user fees.  The proposal is viewed as an early step toward an eventual congressional deal. A Senate committee spearheaded by Democrats is expected to introduce its own plan on Wednesday.  Lawmakers have warned that the Highway Trust Fund, which helps support tens of thousands of construction projects across the country, will be insolvent by the end of the month if Congress does not act to replenish it. The federal highway program itself is also set to expire on Sept. 30. The House committee's plan, however, was met from immediate resistance by some prominent Senate Democrats and some conservative groups who argue it amounts to a federal "bailout." "I know these policies are not perfect, but they are viable, have been used by the House and Senate before and should pass both the House and Senate quickly," House Ways and Means Chair Dave Camp said in a statement. "With these policies, we can steer clear of another crisis showdown, and we should." The highway funding bill would inject a cash infusion of more than $10 billion into the Highway Trust Fund, which Camp said would fund projects through next May. The main objection from Democrats will likely be the length of the extension.  Democrats want to extend highway funding through the end of the year, which would allow for debate on a long-term solution sooner — and while they still have guaranteed control of the Senate. Republicans want to extend it so that it could be addressed again when they potentially control both chambers of Congress next year.  "The timing difference of three months versus eight months is not one of policy, but politics: the GOP could be in charge of the Senate next May after the midterms and the Republicans are looking for maximum leverage in the negotiations next year when highway spending could also line-up with the debt ceiling," Chris Krueger, a political analyst at Guggenheim Securities, wrote in a research note Wednesday. Indeed, two Senate Democrats on the Environment and Public Works Committee (from which the Senate's version of the highway bill will emerge) said their main objection was the length. Both Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-California) and Tom Carper (D-Delaware) said it would only "create another fiscal crisis next year." "This ill-conceived proposal would prolong uncertainty for business, local governments and the states and would create another financial crisis right before the next construction season," Boxer said. "Passing a long-term transportation bill this year would provide a real boost for our economic recovery." However, Sen. Patty Murray (D-Washington), who has been Democratic leadership's point person on the issue, said Republicans' proposal left her "hopeful" about an eventual solution, though she didn't comment on the length of the extension. Some conservative groups also came out in opposition, providing a signal of the potential challenges House leadership faces in getting the bill passed before Congress leaves on a month-long recess in August. Dan Holler, a spokesman for the group Heritage Action, called it a "bailout" and said House Republicans were succumbing to "the Obama administration's reckless rhetoric." The administration has warned it will start slowing financial support to states by next month if Congress does not replenish the fund. Heritage argues that wouldn't be a crisis, since state and local governments would still provide funding for construction projects. It eventually wants to wind down the gas tax, which finances the Highway Trust Fund, and hand off control of infrastructure projects to state and local governments — something the conservative group Club for Growth also supports. The House bill is financed through two main provisions, both of which have received bipartisan support: • "Pension smoothing," which permits employers to delay contributions to employee pension plans, thereby increasing taxable corporate income and generating revenue for the Treasury ($6.4 billion). • Customs user fees, a provision in last year's bipartisan budget deal that allows the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to collect certain fees ($3.5 billion). Analysts see the likely eventual end game being the preferred solution of Democrats — an extension through the end of the year.  "We also suspect that Senate Democrats will look to their House Democratic colleagues to keep the end-of-year option open," Krueger said.  "It is very unclear if the House GOP can pass this bill (or any highway bill) with only Republican votes, which means the influence of the House Democratic leadership should not be overlooked – particularly given the recent shake-up in the House GOP leadership. This is another reason why we suspect that the Senate Democratic plan of an extension to the end of the year seems the most likely destination for the current highway bill vehicle." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghIt's not because of the World Cup loss, but Brazil's Bovespa stock exchange in Sao Paolo is closed today. Today is a national holiday in Brazil, recognizing the Constitutionalist Revolution of 1932, an uprising of the citizens of Sao Paolo against the government of Getulio Vargas, which took the Brazilian presidency in a 1930 coup d'etat. The iShares MSCI Brazil Index ETF was, however, trading in New York. As of 11:20 am EST, the ETF was up 1.7%. But in soccer-crazed Brazil, the country's 7-1 defeat to Germany in the World Cup semifinals is likely to result in something more resembling a day of mourning. For the host nation, which was an overwhelming favorite coming into the tournament before losing its best player in a quarterfinal match against Colombia, it was its worst loss ever. And this morning, the front pages of Brazilian newspapers today are absolutely brutal. The Financial Times notes that before the World Cup, UBS said a poor performance from Brazil in the World Cup could be good for Brazilian stocks, as it would increase the chances president Dilma Rouseff could be unseated by Aecio Neves, who represents a more pro-business party.  At Bloomberg View, Mohamed El-Erian writes, "[Brazilians’] disappointment is likely to be visible quite soon in President Dilma Rousseff’s popularity ratings. With campaigning for the presidential elections set to start shortly, Brazil’s football disaster could well play a role in frustrating Rousseff’s re-election bid." El-Erian adds that the financial market response to Brazil's defeat, "remains an open question," writing that the country could fall into a "football-induced slump" or do just the opposite. In the coming months, we'll find out if Brazil's inglorious exit from the World Cup really impacts the country's presidential race and economy.  But today, Brazil pauses.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/DevadasanA worker refreshes himself in the afternoon heat as he works on a construction site in Dubai June 19, 2006.Dubai has been one of the most exciting and volatile economic stories of the 21st century. It's global, glitzy, and growing like crazy. It also has a red-hot property market that has experts warning of a collapsing bubble. Related concerns have been tied to recent crashes in Dubai's stock market. Still, the tiny economy has developed into a world city that is a business and cultural focal point in the Middle East, and it has the attention of the world. Tourism and real estate drive the economy, and there seems to be a never-ending development of innovative and over-the-top projects. FREE AppDownload
Last week's jobs report was fantastic news for the economy, with 288,000 jobs added in June. Today, ADP released their estimates for regional and state job growth in June.  Each region of the U.S. added jobs last month, as did all 29 of the states for which ADP released estimates. Here's a map showing the percent change in private sector payrolls from May to June: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from ADP Nevada and Texas had the fastest growth among the 29 states, adding 4,050 and 36,140 jobs respectively. This lead to month over month growth rates in payroll jobs of 0.38% and 0.37%. Of the 29 states in the ADP report, Connecticut had the smallest growth rate, adding just 1,140 jobs in June: just a 0.08% change since May. By region, growth was fastest in the West, where 80,440 jobs were added, giving a monthly growth rate of 0.31%. Growth was slowest in the northeast, with 33,680 jobs added, a 0.15% month over month change. Official Bureau of Labor Statistics figures for state level employment statistics tend to take some time to be released. The Bureau of Labor Statistics' June numbers will be out on July 18, but the ADP estimates make for a good preview of the official statistics.
REUTERS/Jason RedmondDeb Greene of Seattle, the first customer at Cannabis City, holds up her purchase signed by owner James Lathrop during the first day of legal retail marijuana sales in Seattle, Washington July 8, 2014.SEATTLE (Reuters) - Eager customers lined up before dawn on Tuesday as Washington became the second U.S. state to allow the sale of marijuana for recreational use, although shortages and high prices were likely to accompany any euphoria. Store employees clapped and cheered at Top Shelf Cannabis in the northern city of Bellingham as its first buds were sold to a 29-year-old from Kansas, Cale Holdsworth."I'm happy to be a part of history," said Holdsworth, who was on vacation visiting family and took his place at the front of the line at about 4 a.m.REUTERS/Jason RedmondEmployees stock shelves at Cannabis City before their "high noon" grand opening during the first day of legal retail marijuana sales in Seattle, Washington July 8, 2014.A handful of shops opened a day after 25 outlets were issued licenses under a heavily regulated and taxed system approved by voters in November 2012. The nation, and the federal government, are watching Washington's rollout as a broader trend of liberalization and pro-pot activism takes hold in the United States.REUTERS/Jason RedmondPeople wait for the "high noon" grand opening at Cannabis City during the first day of legal retail marijuana sales in Seattle, Washington July 8, 2014.More than 100 people were outside Top Shelf Cannabis, in an industrial office park, when the doors opened at 8 a.m. After Holdsworth's ID was checked to ensure he was 21 or older, he picked out two grams (0.07 ounce) of "OG Pearl Kush" for $26.50, which included about $6 in taxes. His marijuana was placed in black plastic packaging labeled with its name and strength.REUTERS/Jason RedmondA cash register showing their first transaction is pictured at Cannabis City during the first day of legal retail marijuana sales in Seattle, Washington July 8, 2014."This is exactly what we need: proper education and information," Holdsworth said. "It's a great step forward." A couple of miles (3 km) away, Bellingham's second licensed store, 2020 Solutions, remained closed as staff said a technical issue with the state's tracking system prohibited their producer from shipping their pot. REUTERS/Jason Redmond Members of a medical marijuana delivery service promote their business at the High Times U.S. Cannabis Cup in Seattle, Washington September 8, 2013.  While Colorado has raked in millions of dollars a month in tax since regulated retail sales began in January, Washington has charted a glacial path to market. State regulators are still processing more than 300 license applications, and the limited harvests by approved growers have fed concerns about shortages.REUTERS/Jason RedmondEmployees stock their shelves with 2-gram packages of marijuana at Cannabis City during the first day of legal retail marijuana sales in Seattle, Washington July 8, 2014. In Seattle, home to about 630,000 people, the only licensed retailer held a "high noon" ribbon-cutting ceremony. First in line at Cannabis City was Deb Greene, a 65-year-old retiree who queued for 21 hours. She said she would keep her package of pot sealed as a memento, and might even leave it to Seattle's Museum of History and Industry in her will. Brent Michael, the owner of a tile and stonework business in Tacoma, said he and an employee took the day off to drive the 37 miles (60 km) north to the store.REUTERS/Jason RedmondBob Leeds, co-owner of Sea of Green Farms, shows some of the marijuana he produces during a tour of his company's facility in Seattle, Washington June 30, 2014."We took a snow day," Michael said. "We just wanted to come be part of this. I'll probably take the bag and save it and open up my regular jar and smoke the much more affordable pot." While some stores offered lower pricing for early customers, the cost of a gram is expected to rise to between $12 and $25 depending on quality and type. REUTERS/Jason RedmondCloned marijuana plants are pictured at the Sea of Green Farms growing facility in Seattle, Washington June 30, 2014. Customers are legally allowed up to 1 ounce (28 grams) of marijuana before buying more. They also can buy up to 16 ounces (454 grams) of pot-infused product in solid form, or up to 72 ounces (2 kg) of marijuana-infused product in liquid form.  (Additional reporting by Jimmy Lovaas; Writing by Daniel Wallis; Editing by Sandra Maler and Eric Walsh)
Getty / Scott Olson It's that time of year again. Investment bank Allen &amp; Co. is hosting its 32nd annual, week-long conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, and many of the world's wealthiest, most powerful businesspeople in media, finance, technology, and sports have swarmed the scene.  We've grabbed photos so you can see which power players made it out to Idaho this year. FREE AppDownload
CorcoranThe United Arab Emirates is taking up residence on New York's Upper East Side. According to the Wall Street Journal, The Permanent Mission of the UAE to the United Nations bought a six-story townhouse for $27.25 million, but declined to say what they would use it for. The country purchased it from Eric J. Gleacher, founder of Gleacher &amp; Company, a Manhattan boutique investment bank, who originally posted it with Corcoran for $30 million in 2013. Gleacher founded Lehman Brothers' Merger and Acquisitions department in the 1970s, and then headed up global M&amp;A at Morgan Stanley from 1985 to 1990 before founding his own shop. The brownstone features seven bedrooms, five bathrooms, two half baths, a chef’s kitchen, a formal dining room, a parlor, four working fireplaces, and many outdoor spaces including a roof deck. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasGeorge Soros A former Soros Fund Management portfolio manager claims he is owed at least $19,523,898.29 (yes, down to 29 cents) after being fired from the hedge fund in 2011, according to a complaint filed in New York State Supreme Court. Aaron Cowen, 42, is suing Soros for unpaid performance fees, management fees and pipeline revenue as well as alleged fraud, Bloomberg News reported. Specifically, Cowen claims he's owed $3,027,327 in performance fees from January 2011 to August 2011; $986,857 for August 2011 performance fees; $10,509,714.29 for performance fees from September 2011 to April 2012; $2,000,000 in management fees; and $3,000,000 for liquidating his portfolio following his termination. A spokesperson for Soros declined to comment.  According to the complaint, Cowen was approached in the fall of 2010 to join Soros Fund Management to run equities for a "long time" and that he would finish his career at the firm. At the time, Cowen was working for Steve Cohen's SAC Capital Management as the Chief Investment Officer and portfolio manager. "You are going to make a lot of money for me and you," the lawsuit claims Soros told Cowen during the recruitment process.  In January 2011, Cowen joined Soros. He was offered a $500,000 base salary plus incentive fees. At Soros, he managed a long/short equities portfolio with $500 million in assets for the Quantum Fund. According to the complaint, Cowen was told he would be managing a $1 billion in assets by the end of the year.  While many portfolio managers were struggling during volatile times, Cowen's portfolio suffered no losses. The lawsuit claims that then-CIO Keith Anderson told Cowen he was "the best long/short PM here". Around July 26, 2011, Cowen was terminated, the lawsuit said. The lawsuit said Cowen wasn't provided an excuse or reason for his termination. July 26, 2011 was also the day that the news broke that Soros Fund Management would operate as a "family-office" hedge fund and that money from the Quantum Fund would be returned to outside investors. Of the $26 billion in assets only about $1 billion belonged to outsiders.   After receiving his termination letter, Cowen had a friend set up a half-hour meeting with George Soros at the billionaire's Southampton home.   "I don't know why you were let go. You were doing very well," the lawsuit claims that Soros told Cowen. After being terminated from Soros, Cowen went on to found Suvretta Capital Management, which has more than $700 million in assets under management according to a Reuters report. Cowen currently resides in a gorgeous home on the Upper East Side located at 131 East 64th Street. According to Corocoran's website, the six-floor home complete with a swimming pool was listed for $18.5 million.  He began his career at Lehman Brothers in the mid-90s on the fixed income desk. After that, he had stints at the Baupost Group, Paloma Partners/Amaranth, Karsch Capital Management and SAC Capital.  Cowen graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania with degrees in finance and bioengineering. He received his MBA from MIT. (You can see an older photo of him here ») This isn't the first time we've seen a former trader take legal action over compensation.   Just last month, former Goldman Sachs trader Deeb Salem filed a petition claiming that his $8.25 million bonus the bank awarded him in 2010 was too low.  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoWe know what could happen if Argentina defies a U.S. Court and does not pay a group of hedge funds, known as NML, over $1.3 billion in debt dating back to its 2001 financial crisis — the country will default. That means rising interest rates, money printing, inflation, and a replay of the classic Argentine nightmare. So why would The Republic be willing to risk such a calamity? One reason the government has given time and time again is that it does not wish to trigger a clause in its bond contracts — the “Rights Upon Future Offers” or RUFO Clause. Basically, this clause states that if Argentina "voluntarily" makes a better offer to some creditors before December 31st, 2014, other bondholders have a right to the same treatment. Here's how it's written in Argentina's bond prospectus: Under the terms of the Pars, Discount and Quasi-pars, if following the expiration of the Offer until December 31, 2014, and except as provided below, Argentina voluntarily makes an offer to purchase or exchange or solicits consents to amend any Eligible Securities not tendered or accepted pursuant to the Offer, Argentina has agreed that it will take all steps necessary, including making any required filings, so that each holder of Pars, Discounts or Quasi-pars will have the right, for a period of at least 30 days following the announcement of such offer, to exchange any of such holder’s Pars, Discounts or Quasi-pars for (as applicable): Now what does that mean to The Republic in terms of dollars and cents? In a speech to the country after the Supreme Court effectively ordered that Argentina pay this debt, President Cristina Fernandez said that triggering the RUFO Clause would cost the country $15 billion — half of what it has in its dollar reserves. "As you can see," said Fernandez, "it's not only absurd, but also impossible for a country to give over 50% of the total reserves in its Central Bank in one payment to creditors." If that were the case, indeed that would be absurd however, analysts keep poking holes in the President's assertion for a number of reasons. First off, the use of the word "voluntarily" in the prospectus means everything (and may answer some of your most burning questions about Argentina's tone/legal strategy). Here's how GrahamFisher analyst and debt specialist Josh Rosner put it in a note: "In another effort to justify evasion of the U.S. courts, Argentina has stated that, because of Argentine law (specifically the “Rights Upon Future Offers” or RUFO Clause), it cannot settle with the holdouts on terms that are better than the exchange holders. Given that any resolution of this impasse would be defined as a settlement of a court order, rather than an exchange of securities, this seems to be an incorrect interpretation of their own law." In other words, if payment is Court ordered, it's not voluntary. If it's not voluntary, it's not a violation of RUFO. Argentina also has the option of negotiating with other bondholders, and getting them to forfeit the clause. Think about it: They want to get paid, and if Argentina doesn't pay NML, it can't pay anyone. Other bondholders may waive RUFO because they want to get their payout and end this nonsense. Another point that analysts have made is that once NML is paid, Argentina will no longer be a pariah of international markets. In that case, even if the RUFO Clause is triggered, it can actually raise money from creditors and replenish its Central Bank reserves. It could raise the $15 billion. More from Rosner: "Argentina has ignored the reality that even if that $15 billion number was correct and the creditors unwilling to negotiate a payment formula that was acceptable to both parties, the government would still be able to manage the increased debt burden as a percent of GDP. Moreover, late last year, at least one Wall Street firm offered to raise the full $15 billion that the government claims it owes. If the government chose to raise capital as a means of resolving this impasse, it would normalize its relations with the international capital markets, reduce its cost of funds going forward and immediately begin to attract the foreign investment necessary to develop key industries, including its energy sector and the broader economy." All this said, we have literally no idea why anyone would want to buy an Argentine after this episode — but investors are crazy, and we're all adults here (supposedly) and if you want to buy this stuff, God speed. It's your money. AP PhotoArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Economy Minister Axel Kicillof FREE AppDownload
By most measures, Reykjavik tops the list of energy efficient cities worldwide. Along with the rest of Iceland, Reykjavik relies on renewable hydropower and geothermal plants to provide all of the heat, electricity and hot water for its more than 120,000 citizens. The Nesjavellir geothermal power station services all of the space heating and hot water needs of the greater Reykjavik area. The city plans on becoming fossil-fuel-free by 2050 and the final piece of that puzzle is hydrogen power. In the mid-2000s, the city began replacing its public transportation with hydrogen-fueled buses. The only “pollution” emitted from these vehicles is pure water. Although Iceland may be a small country, its big energy ambitions are leading the way for the rest of the world. Vancouver gives Reykjavik a run for its money. In 2012, the city of Vancouver laid out an action plan to become the world’s greenest city by 2020. While that may seem like a big accomplishment in a fairly small amount of time, the city is well on its way. Hydroelectric power already accounts for 90 percent of the city’s energy supply, while the other 10 percent includes renewables like wind, solar and wave power. Add in Vancouver’s mass transit -- nearly 250 miles of bike lanes and ride sharing programs -- and the city has one of the lowest per capita carbon emissions of any major city in North America. With a large off-shore wind farm and streets known for being incredibly bike friendly (with over a third of residents riding every day), the city of Copenhagen is considered by many to be one of the world leaders in clean technology. As part of the city’s goal to be the first carbon-neutral capital by 2025, green roofs have sprouted up all over Copenhagen, not only helping to insulate buildings, but also allowing water to be more slowly absorbed, lessening the pressure on sewers and drains. Plus, as the city’s website puts it: “Green looks good” and can provide a bit of nature in dense urban areas. 80 percent of Oslo’s heating system is powered by renewable energy – mainly bio-methane from waste. In the next 10 years, the city hopes to get that number up to 100 percent. The city also uses “intelligent lights” that adjust their output depending on weather and traffic conditions, which have greatly improved the city’s energy efficiency. By 2030, Oslo hopes to reduce carbon emissions by 50 percent, while all of Norway hopes to be carbon neutral by 2050. Oslo also boasts “hugely successful” car and bike sharing programs. Thousands of electric vehicles are already enjoying “free parking, toll immunity, and access to lanes generally reserved for public transport.” Beginning in the mid-2000s, London has committed itself to upping its energy efficiency. Its 2007 climate change action plan laid out plans to switch 25 percent of its power generation to more efficient, local sources, as well as cut CO2 emissions by 60 percent over the next two decades. The plan also offers residents incentives to improve the efficiency of their homes, while implementing stiff taxes on automobiles – hitting SUVs particularly hard (electric vehicles and hybrids are exempt). And it’s not just London that’s going green: England has 10 of the top 25 operational offshore wind farms. Most of Sweden’s energy already comes from nuclear power and the country has reduced its consumption of fossil fuels by 25 percent from 2008 to 2012. Sweden’s third largest city, Malmo, has created an ambitious and innovative energy efficient housing plan. In a former shipyard called Western Harbour, the city of Malmo has constructed housing for 10,000 residents as well as space for 20,000 employees – all powered exclusively with “100 percent locally produced renewable energy from the wind, sun and water.” Along with measures for waste management, minimized transportation needs and increased biodiversity – this urban experiment could be the future of energy efficient living. These four U.S. cities topped the charts in the 2013 American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy city scorecard. The scorecard looks at key areas of efficiency, including transportation policies, local government operations, community-wide initiatives, utilities and building policies. Each city is scored out of a possible 100 points, with Boston coming out on top with 76.75 largely due to its community-wide programs and utility partnerships, including the Renew Boston Initiative. San Francisco also often tops the list of greenest American cities. The city recycles 77 percent of its waste, reserves nearly 20 percent of its land for green space and has been a leader on the electric car front. In 2001, San Francisco residents approved a $100 million bond initiative to finance renewable sources of energy, including solar panels and wind turbines. Portland has long been one of the most environmentally friendly cities in the U.S. With an eco-conscious citizenry that makes extensive use of bikes, the Pacific Northwest is green in more ways than one. Portland has replaced its traditional street lights with LEDs and has the goal of someday relying 100 percent on renewable energy sources. The gritty streets of New York may seem like a surprising place to find renewable energy, but the Big Apple tied for third in the 2013 scorecard. New York was a leader in community-wide initiatives, building policies, utilities and public benefit programs as well as access to energy data. New York has long been known for its subway and transit systems and the city plans to double its recycling rate to 30 percent by 2017. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsJohn Templeton once said that the four most dangerous words in investing are “it’s different this time”. But I have to disagree with this statement to some degree because I think each economic cycle is, to SOME degree, its own cycle and has elements that are always different from past cycles. And one common refrain today is how we might be experiencing something like the 70's in the not too distant future (see here for instance). It’s an intriguing idea given the economic malaise and the stagnant economy. Today’s environment sort of gives the feeling that we might be on the verge of a real stagflation where growth is moderate and inflation is high. But I really don’t think that’s the case. And there are three main reasons why. First, the labor class has far less negotiating power than it did 40 years ago.Regulations, union weakness, innovative efficiencies, cheap labor alternatives and the growing power of corporate America have all put the capitalist class in the driver seat. And that means wages are likely to remain low.  I keep hearing stories about how wage growth is on the verge of an upside explosion, but in an economy where there is so much slack, so much cheap labor, so much demand for labor and so little labor class negotiating power I just don't see how the pieces add up to substantial wage growth there. Orcam Financial Group, LLC Second, the 1970's were a period of tremendous oil price shocks.With the exception of 1997, we’ve never had oil shocks quite like the 1970's. That doesn’t mean it can’t happen again, but the growing abundance of energy alternatives and US oil production make this a far less likely event than we were likely to experience in the 1970's. FRED Lastly, the 1970's were a period of tremendous credit expansion.Many people don’t realize it, but the 1970's were a period of decent economic growth and robust credit expansion.  In fact, it was a period of sustained double digit credit growth in household debt.  Today’s environment is nothing like this.  After the credit bust lending standards are tighter and demand for debt is far lower.  This period looks nothing like the 1970's with regard to demand for loans. FRED This isn’t the 70's in my opinion.  This is its own unique economic environment and one that’s not likely to lead to a stagflation.  The much more likely case is a continued muddle through or even a malaise.  But it won’t be inflationary.  In fact, I still fear that disinflation with an outside chance of deflation is the greater risk…. FREE AppDownload
David Paul Morris/Getty ImagesBank lending has been setting new records since mid-2013. If the prior credit bubble — when too many loans were made helter-skelter by loosey-goosey loan officers before it all blew up in 2008 — was spectacular, this one is even more spectacular. It’s based on the principle that the US economy can only grow if bank lending balloons. In November, bank lending began to tick up at a faster clip. Then suddenly with the New Year, as if someone had opened the floodgates in a drunken stupor, bank lending started to soar. Perhaps it was a consensus within the business community that interest rates would soon go up, that the Fed would not only taper QE out of existence but also raise interest rates sooner than its cacophony suggested, that this was the last chance to get free or nearly free dough, after inflation, and they all started borrowing like madmen. The phenomenon has become reminiscent of the final ramp-up in lending seen in mid-2008, even as all heck was breaking loose in the financial sector. This time, economists have been brandishing the borrowing binge as a sign that investment was suddenly picking up, that these investments would soon filter into economic growth, and that after five years of false promises and sour disappointments, the ever elusive “escape velocity” could finally be achieved. Back in April, I wrote about “The Bank Credit Bubble in America, Now Bigger Than the Last One (Which Blew Up).” Since then, the pace of lending has been relentless. And this is what the auspicious chart of core bank loans outstanding looks like (via OtterWood Capital Management): Wolf Street Turns out, that jump in investment — powered by bank lending — that economists have brandished with such enthusiasm has been an illusion. And this time, it wasn’t some blogger spouting off party-pooper data, but the Financial Times, quoting sources of “senior executive” rank inside major US banks who “are privately warning” that the lending binge “should not be seen as evidence of an economic recovery.” Instead, much of the borrowed money was used “to fund payouts to shareholders” via dividends and stock buybacks and to “finance acquisitions,” the source said. None of these activities have any productive effect. In fact, acquisitions lead companies to boast about synergies and efficiencies — that is, layoffs — at either end, as the businesses get consolidated. And part of the borrowed money is being plowed into the US fracking boom where drillers have gotten on the terrible treadmill that fracking represents. The sharp decline rates of fracked wells force drillers to drill ever more just to maintain production, and they can never get off the treadmill because production would swoon, and with each well they have to borrow more, and then they require more production just to service the ballooning debt. Revenues have risen 5.6% over the last four years while debt that drillers have piled on has nearly doubled (more on that here: The Fracking Shakeout). “It’s crazy, it’s the boom, it’s the gold rush,” a senior corporate banking executive at a large US bank told the FT. “Small companies are becoming large companies overnight.” “Loan growth doesn’t seem to be driven by the underpinning of an economic recovery in terms of new warehouses and [capital expenditure],” the executive said. “You don’t see the foundation, the real strong demand.” Another corporate banking executive at a major regional lender told the FT: “The larger part of the usage in the market right now are loan refinancing where companies are paying dividends back out.” And that wasn’t all: “They’re requesting increased loans or usage under a lien in order to pay a dividend or equity holders of a company,” the source said. “Traditionally banks have been very cautious of that.” The loans the source was fretting about – those that “banks have been very cautious of” — are leveraged loans that private equity firms use to strip out whatever value is left in their portfolio companies. These already overleveraged outfits borrow even more money from banks and, instead of investing it in productive activities that create revenues and cash flow with which to service the loan, they pay the money out the back door as a special dividend to the PE firms. It pushes the company deeper into the hole, enriches the PE firms, and saddles the bank with a highly dubious asset. Bankers have thrown their now apparently silly concerns overboard, have loosened their underwriting standards, have watered down loan covenants, and whittled down risk premiums. While in the past, if they made those loans at all, they demanded being compensated for the nosebleed risks they were taking, and they’d charge an arm and a leg for these loans. As a result, companies stayed away from them. But these days, just about anything goes. “Frothy” is how bank executives described the corporate lending market to the FT. And how did the last lending boom of this type end? Bad deals are made in good times. Bad deals are made when the cost of money is nearly zero, when the Fed has inundated the corporate world and banks with cash, when risks have been printed out of existence. And these bad deals, the essential product of the largest credit bubble in history? They get pushed into dark recesses where they smolder quietly until they blow up. They did in 2008. And they’re going to again. It’s just a question of when. Banks are again taking the same risks that triggered the financial crisis, and they’re understating these risks. It wasn’t an edgy blogger that issued this warning but the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. And it explicitly blamed the Fed’s monetary policy. FREE AppDownload
Cindy Ord/Getty ImagesAnthony CumiaIf you're upset, don't tweet. On July 4, SiriusXM announced that it fired Anthony Cumia, one half of the of "The Opie &amp; Anthony Show," after Cumia fired off what the company called, "racially-charged and hate-filled remarks on social media." The previous day, Cumia was taking pictures in Times Square and was assaulted by an African-American woman who didn't want her picture taken, according to a report by TheWrap. Cumia then fired off a series of tweets, which have since been deleted, and was fired the following day. But while this firing might upset some fans of Opie &amp; Anthony's show, it probably isn't a big deal for the stock. Opie &amp; Anthony fans upset with Sirius' decision to fire Cumia are drawing a correlation between the company's value and its subscriber base. As of March 31, Sirius reported that it had 25.8 million subscribers, up from 24 million the prior year. But the real value of Sirius lies in its FCC spectrum licenses. According to its latest 10-Q, Sirius owns more than $2 billion worth of FCC licenses. The licenses, which Sirius is "reasonably certain" it can renew and extend "at minimal cost," could be valuable either to Sirius or a company that could seek to acquire Sirius in the future. Sirius is majority owned by John Malone's Liberty Media, which was among the companies seeking to take over Time Warner Cable — in which Liberty Media already had a minority stake — earlier this year. In a Wall Street Journal report late last year, The Journal's Maureen Farrell noted that Malone has, "made no secret," of his desire to consolidate the cable industry, and in 2013 made no less than $19 billion worth of deals. To broadcast cable television or radio, you need spectrum. The stock market was closed over the long weekend, but shares of Sirius XM have fallen 2.6% over the first two days of this week. On Twitter, some of Opie &amp; Anthony's fans have been trying to take out their anger over Cumia's firing on shares of Sirius XM. Look for $SIRI stock to fall following the firing of @AnthonyCumia and mass cancellations of subscribers #StandWithAnt I cancelled @SIRIUSXM sold my $siri stock because their actions are "wholly inconsistent" with my values. #StandWithAnt I repeat! $SIRI SELL! SELL! SELL! #StandwithAnt Sirius XM shares might suffer a small PR hit in the near-term following Cumia's dismissal, as TMZ noted the pair have been broadcasting together 1995. But if you're investing in Sirius, you're investing in a media conglomerate and what Liberty might do with its assets in the future, not a couple of shock jocks. FREE AppDownload
Our mobile devices come with us everywhere. We can't get enough of them, and a dead battery can be somewhat of a catastrophe. We are so obsessed in fact, that when you break down the numbers, it's actually kind of scary. Learn what we are actually doing on these things... Produced by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsLast week saw more evidence that U.S. economic growth is rebounding from the first quarter’s weather-induced contraction. Favorable data showing improving growth – including a dramatic acceleration in jobs growth, a jump in pending home sales and a further rise in new manufacturing orders –fueled stock gains, helping the market kick off a strong start to the second half of the year. As I write in my new weekly commentary, “Starting the Second Half on a Strong Note,” assuming the economic strength continues as I expect it to, a stronger economy is likely to impact the investment climate for both stocks and bonds in the second half of the year. To position portfolios for such an environment, investors may want to consider two moves in particular. Adopt a cyclical bias in equities. As I’ve emphasized in recent weeks, though stocks aren’t cheap, I believe they can climb modestly higher in the second half amid continued economic improvement, and they continue to look more attractively priced than the alternatives. As such, I continue to favor stocks over bonds, though I believe a selective approach is key. Within equities, I favor cyclical stocks — those most sensitive to economic growth — as they are likely to experience the biggest tailwind. Specifically, I see opportunities in energy and financials, as well as in select parts of the technology sector. Avoid shorter-term bonds. The outlook for bonds largely depends on the length of their maturity. Last week’s data, combined with other recent employment indicators and some signs of higher inflation, may lead the Federal Reserve (Fed) to begin raising short-term interest rates. To the extent this occurs earlier than investors expect, shorter-term bonds –those with maturities between two and five years – are likely to be the most vulnerable, and could see their value fall. Of course, while last week’s economic numbers are a hopeful sign that the economy is finally beginning to accelerate, how the stock and bond markets perform in the second half of the year – and, how the Fed reacts – all depend on this growth trend continuing. You can read more about my outlook for the second half in in the Mid-Year Update to BlackRock’s 2014 Outlook – The List: What to Know, What to Do as well as BlackRock’s other mid-year outlook pieces: the special mid-year check-in edition of Investment Directions and the BlackRock Investment Institute’s mid-year investment outlook. FREE AppDownload
Coinbase Lately Bitcoin seems to have entered a kind of equilibrium. On the one hand, it has mostly purged itself of the potential for major scandals like MtGox to cause another crisis of confidence. At the same time, the amount of Bitcoin being transacted on a daily basis remains at about the same level it was a year ago.  There may be a simple reason for why we the next big breakout has been put on hold: It remains exceedingly difficult to purchase Bitcoin.  Much of this is related to the regulatory difficulties Bitcoin sellers are still encountering. Very few U.S. states allow money transmitting businesses that can sell Bitcoin to operate without a license. As a result, American prospectors are confined to from the handful of exchanges operating in the U.S., or must take their chances with an overseas exchange.  But not all encumbrances are the result of government restrictions. Simply because of its recent vintage, having a totally secure Bitcoin wallet — one that only you control access to, because remember, you are supposed to not have to use a bank anymore — remains elusive. There continue to be reports of compromised Bitcoin wallets at even the most reputable firms, although not all of these are the firm's direct fault. So one's options for a safe purchase are limited. And attaining that security has created a contradiction for the cryptocurrency: The most trusted sites require you to give up your anonymity, which was supposed to be one of Bitcoin's principal virtues.   By consensus, the safest option for buying Bitcoin in the U.S. is Coinbase. The firm has put itself through a rigorous security audit to ensure there are no holes in its system, and enjoys some institutional heft (it's backed by Andreessen Horowitz's Chris Dixon, among others).  But with Coinbase, you trade security (though even this is not guaranteed) for convenience. First, you must connect your bank account, something that takes two-to-four business days for Coinbase to process. And if you're looking to use two-step identification for an extra layer of security, you must download a whole separate app that will give you a temporary PIN to key in to make your transaction. Then, buying the Bitcoin itself can take another four days — Coinbase uses the traditional (not to mention antiquated) ACH bank transfer system to collect money from your bank. ACH still uses batch transfers, and each step of making an ACH transfer takes about a day.  Once you are registered, the Coinbase process can get easier — you can buy Bitcoins instantly if you upload your credit card. Coinbase also has a 24-hour live-help-chat feature to help resolve issues that come up during your purchase. But even they admit the whole process takes a long time.  Another service, which comes recommended by mega Bitcoin wallet site Blockchain, is China-based ANX. Here too they seem to provide, but again this comes at the price of ease of use. Here's the form and all the identification required to purchase Bitcoin there: ANX  This form embodies the anonymity dilemma Bitcoin now faces: Registering to buy Bitcoin now requires about the same amount of effort as it does a regular bank account.  St. Louis Fed Senior Vice President and Director of Research David Andolfatto recently Tweeted that he wanted to experiment with buying Bitcoin — despite having written one of the most cogent breakdowns of the digital currency, he'd yet to actually used it. We asked him how it went. "So far, I've managed to download a wallet (easy)," he told us in an email. "I had no Bitcoins at the time and I didn't really know how to get some. So I went on Twitter and asked people to send me some (I sent [them] right back). That was pretty easy, although in one case the payment took about 2 days to clear." He did mention one other way that speeds up the process a bit: ATMs. But even here, you can end up waiting up to five minutes, at least for your initial purchase, for your account to be verified. And there still aren't that many in the U.S. BitcoinATMMap Bitcoin was supposed to be the most convenient form of money in the world. But if it wants to keep growing, it will have to start acknowledging that, while it may have other virtues, convenience isn't necessarily one of them. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Cellphones continue to become ever more dominant in our society, and people are increasingly trading in their landline phones.  Pew Research Center reports on a new study by the National Center for Health Statistics detailing estimates of cellphone use in American households, based on the July-December 2013 National Health Interview Survey.  This chart from the Pew report shows how dramatic the rise in wireless-only households has been in the last few years: Pew Research CenterAs can be seen in the chart, the proportion of adults that are living in wireless-only households has more than doubled since 2007. Pew notes that, "As one might expect, young adults are the most likely to be living the wireless-only lifestyle. Nearly two-thirds (65.7%) of 25- to 29-year-olds, 59.7% of 30- to 34-year-olds, and 53% of 18- to 24-year-olds live in wireless-only households, according to the center." The chart also shows that households in poverty are more likely than those not in poverty to be cell-only. The NCHS study points out as well that about three in four adults living with unrelated roommates and three in five adults who rent their homes have no landlines. The NCHS study also notes that only 8.6% of households were landline-only in the second half of 2013, meaning the vast majority of households are either wireless-only or rely on a mixture of cellphones and landlines.  FREE AppDownload
McKessonLast night, Alcoa kicked off second quarter earnings season with a beat.  Over the next several weeks, earnings reports will roll in with 72% of the S&amp;P 500 set to announce quarterly results over a three-week period beginning July 14.  In a note to clients ahead of earnings, Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider highlights 22 companies the firm expects to beat expectations. Many of the expected beats are just by a penny or three, but there are a few companies Sneider expects to soundly beat street estimates.  Goldman sees healthcare giant McKesson reporting a profit of $2.65 per share against Wall Street's current expectations for $2.36. In the energy sector, Goldman also sees a number of companies beating expectations, notably CONSOL Energy, which the firm expects to report earnings per share of $0.37 against Street estimates for $0.26.  By sector, Goldman sees the most earnings beats coming from the Information Technology, Consumer Discretionary, Financial, and Energy sectors.  Here's the full table.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons/Library of CongressCorporate rivalry was darkest during the industrial revolution. If you think that the rivalry between Facebook and Google is bad, then you should hear about Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse. During the 19th century, Thomas Edison noticed that there were problems with his direct current electrical system, and enlisted Nicholas Tesla to "design a more practical form of power transmission." Tesla told Edison that "the future of electric distribution" was in alternating current rather than direct current. Edison didn't take Tesla's advice.  But he should have because at the same time, George Westinghouse introduced his own alternating current generators across the country. "By 1887, after only a year in the business, Westinghouse had already more than half as many generating stations as Edison," said Gilbert King of Smithsonian.com. Edison decided that there was only one thing to do: to prove that Westinghouse's generators were more dangerous than his own. In order to prove his claim, he held public executions — often times in front of reporters — of animals such as dogs and horses. Around this time, a dentist from Buffalo, New York named Alfred P. Southwick was hoping to develop a "more humane" method of execution than hanging, and after seeing a drunkard accidentally kill himself by touching a generator, he decided that electrocution was the best idea. He reached out to Edison for help with his contraption. Edison was publicly against capital punishment and instead directed Southwick to Westinghouse, hoping the name "death machine" would become synonymous with alternating current generators. In fact, "Westinghoused" pretty quickly became a slang term for death by electrocution. Westinghouse, naturally, did not want his generator to be associated with the death penaty, and he refused to sell his generators to public officials. As a result, New York state commissioned another man, Harold Brown, to build the first official electric chair. Despite publicly denouncing capital punishment, Edison secretly financed Harold Brown's project in order to ensure that the first electric chair would be constructed using alternating currents. Eventually, the day of the first electric chair execution came; the hapless guinea pig was a convicted murder named William Kemmler. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Southwick was ceremoniously invited to attend the event. For 17 agonzing seconds, electricity coursed through Kemmler's body, and then he was pronounced dead. And just as Arthur Southwick announced: "This is the culmination of ten years work and study. We live in a higher civilization today," everyone noticed that Kemmler was still alive. It took some time for the electric chair to rebuild its current, but when Kemmler was shocked for the second time, the current completely cooked his already damaged body. Some horrified witnesses fainted or ran out of the room from the smell of burning flesh. Others claimed to see smoke "at the top of his head". Westinghouse reportedly said: "They could have done better with an ax." However, this was not enough for Thomas Edison, and he sought to prove that alternating current actually can kill quickly. At a demonstration that he held at Coney Island, he electrocuted and killed a circus elephant named Topsy. In the end, despite all of Edison's devious schemes that attempted to destroy his competition's success, Westinghouse's alternating current proved to be the greater of the two.  "For his part, Edison later admitted that he regretted not taking Tesla’s advice," wrote King. Sources: American National Biography Online and Smithsonian.com FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeLONDON (Reuters) - As global watchdogs warn that euphoric financial markets are divorced from economic reality and acting out some reprise of the credit bubble and bust of the past decade, fears of another subprime timebomb are inevitable. But even if you believe another crisis is brewing, it's most likely not where it was last time. At least not in U.S. securitised mortgages - the heart of systemic blowout that nearly brought down the global banking system in 2008. A mix of tighter regulation, stricter underwriting standards and the lowest new mortgage applications in almost 20 years means sales of private U.S. mortgage-backed securities have dwindled to just $600 million (350 million pounds) so far this year - a mere sliver of the record $726 billion of new bonds in 2005. For what it's worth, new U.S. bonds backed by subprime mortgages chave all but vanished. Bonds backed by subprime U.S. auto-loans have taken up some of the running, but not on anything like the same scale. Yet in its latest annual report the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel-based forum for the world's major central banks, seemed pretty convinced global debt markets are once again in risky territory and heading for a fall. The BIS focused mainly on fresh accumulation of new corporate and sovereign debt by asset managers rather than banks and scratched its head about the coincidence of sub-par economic activity and record low default rates that in turn depress borrowing rates and credit spreads ever lower nearly everywhere. 'Exuberant' equity and real estate and rock-bottom financial volatility merely fed off that picture, it said. And it added that if all this was simply due to zero official rates, it could all suddenly go into reverse when they rise. "It is hard to avoid the sense of a puzzling disconnect between the markets' buoyancy and underlying economic developments globally," the report mused. Low-grade corporate rather than household borrowing was marked out for special attention. New sales of 'junk' bonds worldwide hit a quarterly record of $148 billion between April and June, according to ThomsonReuters data. That's up from average quarterly sales of around $30 billion before the last credit bubble burst. Additionally, more than 40 percent of new syndicated loans signed for companies last year were low-grade leveraged loans - more than in the 2005-2007 period. Increasingly the money was raised without creditor protection in terms of covenants. So could this be the new subprime? Banks' inability to hold large inventory of these bonds since the crisis helps insulate the banking system per se but their limited ability to broker the market risks a stampede for the exit if prices become hard to find - with all the attendant shock that could deliver to corporate finance generally as well as savers and fund managers. After all, it was the post-crisis retrenchment of straight bank lending that pushed many firms to move en masse to the bond markets and seek investors direct. If that avenue is cut off suddenly and refinancing difficult, a shockwave would ensue. And yet for investors grappling with a 'safe' government bond universe with inflation-adjusted yields of less than one percent, junk bonds may be their only avenue to meet targets. And that won't change until interest rates do.   AFRICA'S SUBPRIME Ditto for high-risk government bonds - in particular the high-risk segment of the euro zone and emerging markets. Despite a shakeout in larger developing economies over the past year, appetite has been brisk for the more exotic debt of recent defaulters and bankrupt nations such as Greece and Cyprus or Ecuador and Jamaica, as well as a whole sweep of sub-Saharan Africa countries from Kenya to Zambia. New debt from high-risk 'frontier' nations, for example, hit a record $16.3 billion for the first six months of this year, Societe Generale estimates. Indeed, the welter of new bonds sold in recent years by African nations - just over a decade after multilateral debt forgiveness was agreed for many of them - led Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz to describe the bonds as "Africa's subprime". But even though potentially worrisome for poorer countries seeking 'no strings attached' borrowing instead of cheaper concessional lending or slower foreign direct investment, the scale of debt involved is nowhere near levels marking a systemic threat for the global financial system.   RATE FLAG The BIS, then, is at most just flagging the risk of higher interest rates. "The sustainability of this process will ultimately be put to the test when interest rates normalize." The seeming inevitability of rates rising from next year suggests investors should already be bracing for some serious turbulence, if not quite on 2007 levels. Yet many still believe central banks will hold off until the last minute because underlying economies will remain subpar for years to come as a result of aging demographics and the relentless paydown of past debts. And with inflation subdued, rates will likely only rise modestly even when they do go up. Another Nobel laureate, Paul Krugman, this week scoffed at the idea interest rates were artificially depressed. "There simply isn't any macroeconomic case for claiming that interest rates are wildly depressed relative to fundamentals, and not much reason to believe that assets in general are overvalued," he wrote in his New York Times blog. Maybe this time it really is different.   (Additional reporting by Sujata Rao and Dan Burns; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyA Container Store signage is seen in New York.Following a chilly winter that froze economic growth, economists have been forecasting a sharp snapback in activity for Q2 and the second half of the year. Recent reports on jobs and auto sales confirm as much. Add the fact that the stock market is near an all-time high, and you would assume the consumer would be feeling pretty confident. But new comments from a major U.S. retailer contradict all of the optimism out ther. On Tuesday afternoon, The Container Store Group announced that its comparable store sales fell 0.8%, which led to a wider than expected net loss of $0.07 per share. CEO Kip Tindell warned that weakness at his stores wasn't a company-specific problem. "Consistent with so many of our fellow retailers, we are experiencing a retail 'funk,'" Tindell said in the company's earnings announcement. "We are confident that customer enthusiasm for our brand, and employee morale are at all-time highs, yet we continue to experience slight traffic declines in this surprisingly tepid retail environment. While consumers are buying homes and automobiles and even high ticket furniture, most segments of retail are, like us, seeing more challenging sales than we had hoped early in 2014 – so we’re not alone in this." "Are there any potential alternative explanations for a 'surprisingly tepid retail environment?'" asked Marc Andreessen. If Tindell is right, then it may be prudent to be a bit more cautious as we wait for the final economic data to come out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eloy AlonsoA Dolores Aguirre fighting bull falls at the Estafeta corner, during the second running of the bulls of the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 8, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Alcoa Surges. The aluminum giant reported strong top- and bottom-line figures after the bell Tuesday, and shares were up 2% pre-market Wednesday. The company reaffirmed its 2014 outlook for global aluminum demand growth of 7%, and increased its 2014 estimate for the North America commercial transportation market to a range of 10% to 14%, from a previous range of 5% to 9% in the first quarter on rising truck orders and backlogs. Carlos Slim Is Dismantling His Empire. The FT's Jude Webber says he faces punitive measures if he doesn't. "América Móvil said it would sell off assets to bring it below a 50% market share threshold to prevent it from being classed as the dominant group in the market, subject to onerous new rules. Barring such a move, Mr. Slim’s empire faces being forced to share infrastructure with rivals for free – something América Móvil has slammed as 'confiscatory.'" INDONESIA: Both Candidates Claim Victory. Jakarta governor Joko "Jokowi" Widodo was shown to be leading ex-general Prabowo Subianto in unofficial polls. "Financial markets would favour a victory for Joko Widodo, the current mayor of Jakarta, and would almost certainly take a turn for the worse if his opponent, Prabowo Subianto, a former Suharto era general, were to emerge as the winner," Capital Economics' Gareth Leather said in a note before results came in. "But in reality there is enormous uncertainty over how either of the candidates would perform once in office." China Inflation Leaves Wiggle Room. June data came in at 2.3%, underneath 2.4% consensus forecasts and well below the government's 3.5% target. "...it leaves enough room for the government to roll out small-scale supportive measures to deliver the around -7.5% annual growth target, while the steadily rise of yoy PPI inflation may help alleviate some concerns about deflation," BAML's Ting Lu writes. No Let-Up In The Middle East. "We are killing terrorists of different ranks, and this operation will persist and intensify," Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon said after an IDF offensive entered its second day. "For our part, this doesn't have to be a short battle. We will continue hitting Hamas and other terrorist groups hard." But the Guardian reported that NGO Defence for Children International Palestine said it has confirmation of the killing of seven children in the Israeli offensive. "Most were killed in an air raid that targeted Hamas activist Odeh Ahmad Mohammad Kaware in the southern Gaza city of Khan Younis, it said."  FOMC Minutes At 2:00. Notes will be from the June 18 meeting; Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson is interested in what Fed members have been saying about inflation. " ...the May CPI numbers showed that core CPI inflation had jumped to 2.0%, thanks to increases across a broad array of components. Chair Yellen dismissed this as 'noise' at her press conference, but we wonder if the upturn in the numbers triggered a more substantive discussion at the meeting." Citi Settlement. Citigroup is reportedly going to pay $7 billion to settle mortgage fraud charges, twice what analysts were expecting. Reuters said analysts had expected, on average, that Citi would have to pay $3.4 billion to settle the case. The FT said analysts were expecting a $1.5 billion payout. Obama Seeks Border Surge. The President will ask Congress for nearly $4 billion to address a recent flood of young migrants that's created unsafe conditions at the border.   Markets. U.S. futures were flat. European stocks saw mixed gains. Shares in Asia were mostly lower.   No Major Economic Data. Argentina-Netherlands kicks off at 4 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeSan Marcos, CaliforniaNEW YORK, July 9 (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week as both purchase and refinancing applications increased, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, rose 1.9 percent in the week ended July 4. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications rose 0.4 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, increased 3.7 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.32 percent in the week, up 4 basis points from 4.28 percent the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch, Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
YouTubeCitigroup CEO Michael Corbat The Financial Times and Reuters are both reporting that Citigroup is preparing to pay $7 billion to settle a U.S. Department of Justice investigation into whether it defrauded investors in its mortgage backed securities. Citigroup stock fell 1.17% yesterday following a similar report in the Wall Street Journal. The FT says Citi will pay $4 billion in cash to the DOJ and set aside $3 billion in relief for mortgage holders. The deal is expected to be made public next week. Citi reports earnings on Monday. Reuters said analysts had expected, on average, that Citi would have to pay $3.4 billion to settle the case. The FT said analysts were expecting a $1.5 billion payout. Either way, the deal coming down the pike is more than twice what anyone realistically expected Citi would have to pay. JPMorgan paid $13 billion to settle a similar case. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Chip SomodevillaGood morning! Here's what people will be talking about on Wednesday. 1. The Israeli Defense Force hit at least 160 terror sites on the Hamas-controlled Gaza strip overnight. Operation Protective Edge continues into its second day to stop rocket fire from entering Israel. (Continue reading at The Jerusalem Post) 2. National Institutes of Health employees recently discovered old vials of the small pox virus in a storage room. The Centers for Disease Control, one of only two places around the globe allowed to house the smallpox virus, oversaw the destruction of the samples. (Continue reading at CNN) 3. Brazil suffered a crushing 7-1 loss to Germany in the World Cup semifinal match. "I feel immensely for all of us. Supporters and for our soccer players," Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff said via Twitter. "As all Brazilians, I am very, very sad with the defeat." (Read more at The Wall Street Journal) 4. U.S. prosecutors may still be building a case against Bernie Madoff's son, Andrew Madoff, for his involvement in a massive ponzi scheme. "Speculation about whether the sons knew of their father's decades-long, worldwide fraud has persisted since its collapse," Reuters says. (Continue reading at Reuters) 5. Venezuela's soaring inflation has caused profits to vanish for many foreign companies. For years the country's currenty, the bolívar, has been overvalued. (Continue reading at The New York Times) 6. UK Climate experts says two million households don't realize they're living on floodplains, while tens of thousands of other homes are still being built on floodplains. These homes are at risk of serious flooding, considered one of the greatest threats of climate change. (Continue read at The Telegraph).  7. NASA and Boeing have signed a $2.8 billion deal to build the largest and most powerful rocket ever. The Space Launch System should pave the way to send humans to mars. (Read more at The Hindu) 8. Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said in a speech that Iran needs to enrich more uranium. Khamenei says this is necessary in order to meet the country's long-term energy needs. (Continue reading at The Guardian).  9. Early results from the Indonesian presidential election shows that Joko "Jokowi" Widodo, the governor of Jakarta, is in the lead with 52% of the vote. The official results will be announced in two weeks when all the votes are counted. (Continue reading at The Associated Press) 10. J.K Rowling published a new story on her Pottermore website, giving fans the first update of what happens to the Harry Potter characters since the last book was published in 2007.  Rowling still maintains she has no plans to write another novel. (Continue reading at Vox).  And finally... A Frontier airlines pilot ordered pizza for every passenger on his plane Monday evening as the Denver-bound flight waited out a long weather delay. (Read more at FoxNews.com). FREE AppDownload
John Rodygin/ShutterstockForeign buyers purchased $92.2 billion worth of real estate in the period from April 2013 to March 2014, according to a new report from the National Association of Realtors.  This is up 35% from $68.2 billion for the previous period. And both the volume of sales and prices were up in this period.  International buyers typically buy higher-priced homes according to the report, with the mean purchase price of international clients doing to $396 million. This was up from $354 million in 2013, but down from $405 million in 2012. “International buying activity apparently was bolstered by continued rising affluence in China, Canada, India, Mexico, and the United Kingdom, according to the report. “In addition, the appreciation of the Chinese yuan and the British pound also made the purchase of U.S. property increasingly affordable for residents of those countries.” The Chinese and Canadians were the biggest players Those five countries accounted for 54% of real estate purchases. Canada was the biggest buyer in terms of transaction volume, but China was the biggest buyer in terms of dollar volume.  Sales from Chinese buyers climbed to $22 billion, accounting for a 24% share, up from $12.8 billion (19% share) the previous period. Meanwhile, sales from Canadians accounted for $13.8 billion of 15% share, compared with $11.8 billion (17% share) a year ago.  Chinese buyers also bought properties in more expensive markets like New York, California, and Washington, while Canadians bought homes in lower-priced markets like Florida and Arizona.  For the U.S. which is just starting to see housing supply expand this is a double-edged sword. The report finds that most purchases by foreign buyers tend to be cash purchases, and this can be an obstacle for traditional first time homebuyers. But increased demand could help boost prices and push more homebuilding and prompt more homeowners to list their properties. Here's a look at which states were most attractive to foreign buyers: NAR Here's a look at foreign purchases by country of origin and how the trend has changed since 2010: NAR FREE AppDownload
