AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana Trial prosecutors Brenda Morris, Nicholas Marsh, and Joseph Bottini, front to back, leave the U.S. District Court in Washington Wednesday Oct. 1, 2008, after the trial of Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens.A new book about prosecutorial misconduct opens with a grisly story about the suicide of Nicholas Marsh, a prosecutor involved in the botched case against Senator Ted Stevens. Marsh, 37, was being investigated for possible misconduct in the Stevens case when he slashed his wrists and hanged himself in Washington, D.C. in September 2010. Marsh's lawyer said after his death that his client felt burdened by the aftermath of the Stevens prosecution. However, Justice Department lawyers above Marsh's level were also responsible for the misconduct in the Stevens case, former prosecutor Sidney Powell asserts in her sweeping new indictment of the Justice Department, "Licensed to Lie." "Nicholas Marsh, a brilliant, capable young man, paid the ultimate price for something that should never have happened," Powell writes. "He was shattered — by his own choices and those imposed upon him." Powell argues that the forces that helped destroy Marsh were part of an increasingly rabid and unethical Justice Department that evolved after the collapse of Enron. The main problem with the Justice Department, she argues, is what one judge called "an epidemic of Brady violations in the land." Powell writes that federal prosecutors often break the so-called Brady rule, which requires them to turn over evidence that could work in the defendant's favor during the discovery phase of a case (when each side of a case turns over evidence to the other). In the case of longtime Alaska Senator Ted Stevens, the Justice Department asked to have his conviction voided in 2009 after it learned that prosecutors had not turned over favorable evidence, including evidence that called into question the integrity of the star witness for the prosecution. Mugshot via The Smoking GunTed Stevens' mugshot.Stevens was convicted of corruption in 2008 for accepting undisclosed gifts from an oil executive, Bill Allen, including an elaborate home renovation worth an estimated $250,000. However, prosecutors neglected to turn over an interview with Allen in which he said the renovation was worth only $80,000, according to a 525-page independent investigation of the prosecution by special prosecutor Henry "Hank" Schuelke III (which came to be known as the Schuelke report). The investigation found prosecutors failed to turn over a number of other records that could have been favorable to the defense, including evidence that questioned Allen's credibility. Even though the conviction was voided in 2009, it still cost Stevens the election in '08. A couple of years later, Stevens died in a plane crash as his prosecutors themselves were under investigation. Stevens' death and the protracted probe into his prosecution weighed heavily on Nick Marsh. From Powell's book: The senator's death and the tsunami of renewed publicity of prosecutorial and government misconduct was drowning Nick Marsh. He could hardly breathe. It was all he could do to get up in the morning and go to the back office to which he had been relegated at the Department of Justice. Nick felt heavier and heavier. He was on the verge of losing his career and possibly his liberty, and he felt as if he had lost his soul. He didn't recognize himself anymore. The book went on to say Marsh "feared that everything that went wrong in the Stevens prosecution was going to be hung around his neck." In "License to Lie," Powell pins some of the blame for the Stevens case on two lawyers who weren't formally investigated — Matthew Friedrich, who was assistant attorney general of the Justice Department's Criminal Division at the time of the Stevens prosecution, and his deputy at the time, Rita Glavin. Friedrich and Glavin were brought into the Stevens case relatively late in the game — about a month before he was formally indicted in July 2008. From Powell's book: Friedrich and Glavin took control of the Stevens prosecution and micromanaged it to absurd detail. On the eve of the indictment, they demoted Marsh from first chair to third chair for Stevens's trial. After Friedrich and Glavin took over, the prosecution had nothing but problems ... The Schuelke report noted that William Welch, former chief of the Public Integrity Section of the Justice Department, blamed Friedrich and Glavin for making decisions that "adversely affected the case." Specifically, Welch blamed them for bringing in the  seasoned prosecutor Brenda Morris to be lead prosecutor just before the trial. While Welch, and Powell, are quick to blame the top DOJ lawyers who came into the Stevens case relatively late, problems with the prosecution long began before they ever arrived. The prosecution's star witness, Bill Allen, also provided key testimony in two earlier trials from 2007 that were used to help build the case against Stevens and were part of a larger probe into Alaska corruption known as "Polar Pen." In one of those cases, Alaska state representative Pete Kott was convicted of illegally accepting favors from Allen's corporation. The other convicted ex-Alaska state legislator Vic Kohring of accepting similar favors. Friedrich, Glavin, and Morris weren't involved in those convictions, both of which were vacated after courts found prosecutors engaged in the same discovery violations that undid the Stevens case. Here's what Glavin had to say in an email message to me: The problems in the Stevens case stemmed from misjudgments and poor decisions about discovery that were made throughout the Polar Pen investigation, long before Matt Friedrich or I became involved. We did not give instructions about Brady or other discovery practices, and we became aware of the underlying problems only when they became public during the Stevens prosecution and thereafter. Ultimately, the special investigator who dug into the Stevens prosecution found only two prosecutors, Joseph W. Bottini and James A. Goeke, had deliberately withheld favorable evidence from Stevens' defense team. (Their lawyers deny that they failed to disclose evidence on purpose.) The report declined to make any conclusions about Marsh's role since he killed himself before it came out. After Marsh's suicide, his lawyer, Bob Luskin, said he believed the young prosecutor would have been exonerated. In any case, it seems like a mistake by the Justice Department to have put so much responsibility on a relatively inexperienced lawyer. As Powell notes in her book, when the Stevens prosecution was happening, Marsh was just 35 years old and was one of the youngest attorneys in the Justice Department's Public Integrity Section — and he had already led the "Polar Pen" investigation into corruption in Alaska for four years. Before he died, Marsh provided information that was used in the Schuelke report that suggested there was no formal process for turning over information that could be favorable to the defense, known as Brady material. He didn't even "remember anybody being specifically designated to be in charge of Brady review" and said it "was kind of done piecemeal." It's highly possible the young lawyer could have benefited from more supervision. While nobody knows what was really going through Marsh's mind when he killed himself, it's tragic that botched discovery played some role in his decision to end his life. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. BlackRock: Stick With Stocks Despite The 'Grand Reversal' (BlackRock Blog) Last year stocks had a strong run even as bonds struggled. Now we're seeing volatility in stocks that are just up modestly year-to-date, while U.S. bond yields have fallen. "Given the sharp and 'Grand Reversal' from 2013, many investors are wondering: “How should I be positioning for the long term?” writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. "My answer: Stick with stocks. Despite the strong performance of bonds year-to-date, I remain cautious toward fixed income and advocate maintaining a long-term overweight to stocks. To be sure, stocks are no longer cheap – and I would continue to avoid the more expensive areas of the market such as small caps and social media – but they still look inexpensive relative to bonds, particularly given the recent drop in yields." Koesterich warns that even a modest rise in interest rates (and he expects they will in 2014) will cause recent bond gains to "quickly evaporate." Investors Should Ask Their Advisors Three Key Questions About Alternative Investments (Advisor Perspectives)  Alternative investment strategies have become more widely accepted and available to investors. But before diving in, investors should ask their advisors three key things, writes Donna Chapman Wilson of Invesco Blog.  1. "What is the strategy’s directionality? One key risk measure to consider is directionality — the degree of exposure the strategy has to movements in the equity and fixed income markets. Whether a strategy has a high or a low degree of market exposure will impact how it’s used in a portfolio."2. "How has the strategy performed in different market cycles? Another way to look at risk is to analyze a strategy’s performance during different economic regimes or market cycles — such as growth, recession and inflation, for example — paying particular attention to strategies that performed well when the equity markets overall were not."3. "Has the strategy experienced extreme outcomes, and when? In addition to standard risk measures, it is also important to investigate a strategy’s historical pattern of major losses or extreme outcomes, as event risk can be high." We're Witnessing A Risky Build Up Of Investor Complacency In The Stock Market (Societe Generale)  The S&amp;P 500 has averaged 27 1% down days in any year since 1969. But in the last 12 months, the S&amp;P 500 has seen just 16 1% down days. And it has been 468 days since a correction of 10% or more, points out Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne. "The point of all these figures is to illustrate a potentially risky build up of investor complacency," Lapthorne writes. "The longer equities (and other risk assets) go without a typical period of losses, then the more these assets may be seen as one-way upward plays. Encouraging for new investors who may not have the capacity to absorb normal equity volatility and losses. Downplaying risk serves no one in the long term and we think policy makers should be more vocal about the potential downside."  Societe GeneraleHow Advisors Can Help Clients When Disaster Strikes (The Wall Street Journal)  A natural disaster or another unexpected event could leave clients making bad financial decisions during difficult times. It's important for the advisors to make sure that they don't writes Brian Heyes, CEO of Hayes Advisory Group in a WSJ column. "Having safety-net funds built into your client's plan is key to managing these situations, especially if the client lives in an area that is highly susceptible to natural disasters," writes Heyes.  "The common rule is that clients should have enough funds to live on for six months without income. However, I believe that everyone should have an even larger safety net to protect themselves and their families. For example, perhaps your clients have relatives that live in other states, and when those relatives get hit with an emergency or natural disaster, they may want to financially help them." Heyes writes that advisors should also look at portfolios for "exposure to areas or investments that could be affected by a natural disaster." Deutsche Bank Blasts James Montier And John Hussman's Case For Falling Profit Margins (Business Insider) GMO's James Montier and John Hussman of Hussman Funds argue that profit margins which are at record-highs are unsustainable and will have to fall to their long-term average. Both argue that the record high profit margins are attributable to huge government deficits and low household savings, and that as deficits shrink and savings rise, profits margins will tumble. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco however disagrees with this thesis.  "S&amp;P profit margins are high from structural reasons, not because of the deficit," writes Bianco. "…Simply said, the notion that savings reduces investment is a bold claim that runs contrary to basic macro economics. The continued extension of this misguided framework to the view that government deficits add to profits overlooks that someone's borrowing (for temporarily higher consumption or investment expenditure) is someone's savings (temporarily lower consumption or less direct investment expenditure, ie real assets, for indirect investment instead, ie financial assets)... In our view, profits are not a function of the degree to which households give back their wages as expenditures on consumption. This is a very flawed concept. This framework suggests zero sum economic terms and that savings are unproductive." FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsLately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. We also recently learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low. DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach thinks ownership rates won't come back any time soon. At last week's Altegris Strategic Investments Conference, which was co-hosted by John Mauldin, Gundlach reiterated his opinion that investors could do well by shorting the homebuilders via the SPDR S&amp;P Homebuilders ETF (XHB). He gave a presentation that was similar to the one he gave at the Sohn Conference in NYC, but the updated presentation is longer by almost 20 slides. The deck is loaded with charts on housing and debt, and they should be considered carefully by anyone who cares about the housing market.
Sales at Urban Outfitters' namesake brand are continuing to slide.  The retailed reported a decline of 12% at Urban Outfitters stores in the first quarter. Sales also fell last year.  The company identified several major problems in an earnings call with investors today.  Fashion misses. Urban Outfitters needs to sell hip, trendy apparel in order to bring in customers. But Urban Outfitters' latest offerings have been more obscure than hip. Take this bizarre bear coat from December, which retailed for $200. Urban's new fitness brand, created in response to the popularity of brands like Lululemon, was criticized for being overpriced and skimpy. Urban OutfittersOff-pitch marketing. Urban Outfitters markets to teen customers. Unfortunately, those customers are price-conscious and would rather shop at fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M, writes Miriam Gottfried at The Wall Street Journal. In order to turn business around, Urban Outfitters will have to resonate with older customers who are in college and beyond. Urban Outfitters CEO Richard Hayne said that the brand plans to improve store displays and advertisements.  Creative execution. Urban Outfitters is known for pushing the envelope. This year, however, the brand missed the mark. The brand was forced to pull a "Depression" t-shirt after customers expressed outrage. Urban Outfitters also pulled a shirt depicting "drunk" Jesus. These incidents eroded consumer perception in Urban's brand. Twitter/@MintyFreshLou Hayne said that the brand is working to fix fashion assortments and get customers back in stores.  Last month, Urban Outfitters appointed Trish Donnelly as president of its North American brand.  Hayne expects business to improve by the fall.  FREE AppDownload
via YouTubeThis shot was taken with a GoPro camera.GoPro, the portable camera company, filed for its IPO Monday. The company is profitable. It made $61 million in 2013. Revenue seems to be growing nicely year over year too. The company generated $986 million in 2013, up from $526 million in 2012 and $234 million in 2011. Now for some weird stuff. Quarter by quarter, revenue appears to be all over the place. In fact, revenue in Q1 2014 ($236 million) was down versus Q1 2013 ($255 million).  Basically, things are growing nicely, but revenue can be a bit unpredictable. In the filing, GoPro blamed production problems for the revenue decline in Q1 2014 versus Q1 2013. GoPro says a new product that was supposed to launch in Q4 2012 was delayed. That explains the higher-than-normal sales in Q1 2013. But the product launch cycle evened out after that, which explains the year-over-year revenue decline. Here's a detailed look at GoPro's income. Click for a larger view: GoProGoPro makes a variety of video cameras that can clip on to just about anything. They've been used to capture a lot of cool stuff.  And now, to the GIFs shot with GoPro: YouTube YouTube The Port Authority Of NY & NJ FREE AppDownload
Wedding invitations are cluttering everyone's social calendar right now as we move into prime wedding season. But dressing for summer weddings can be a challenge: You can't wear that tux to your friend's beach wedding or a seersucker suit to a black tie affair. Toby Bateman, the Buying Director at online menswear retailer MR PORTER, answered all of our summer wedding style questions.  For more on how to dress for a summer wedding, you can also check out the wedding style section at MR PORTER. From what to wear at the beach to deciding which tie is best, here is your definitive wedding style guide. MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($90-$1,990) "For a city wedding, I tend to keep my suit choice fairly sober — one that works as a summer business uniform in dark blue or a mid-grey wool that I then freshen up a bit with shoes and accessories," Bateman says. "The shirt should be classic in a crisp white or pale blue poplin and teamed with a smartly polished leather lace up shoe — oxford or derby, not a brogue." "Add a fresh colored plain or neatly patterned tie and a pocket square, neatly folded or with a flourish, to complete the look," he advises. (See how to perfectly fold your pocket square here.) MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($145-$2,345)  "For the country, a pale grey or a pale blue suit would be totally acceptable," Bateman says. "If you’re likely to be standing on someone’s lawn drinking PIMMS, this is your chance to be a bit more liberal with the fabrication of the suit – cotton or linen works and is more softly structured than your business suit." And don't be afraid of pattern in your suit or shirt choice. "Suits can be worn with either a plain shirt or one with a small scale pattern such as a small gingham or floral print," Bateman says. "If you have gone for a patterned shirt or suit then you might want to leave the pocket square at home or choose a subtle option to avoid too many patterns from clashing." "Shoes should be neutral but do not need to be as formal as the lace up worn for the city wedding, so a smart loafer works just as well." MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($85-$340) "Surely if someone is getting married on the beach, anything goes?" Bateman jokes. "Bring out the linen or opt for an unlined suit for a more casual and comfortable option."  "You can also mix the jacket and trousers, ditch the tie, or even adopt a sandal for a more laid-back look." MR PORTER Both items available through MR PORTER (Left: $1,950, Right: $665) "A single breasted jacket – one or two-button – is standard and typically the safest bet for weddings." Bateman says.  "The double-breasted jacket is also fine, but the thing about this style is that the fit is a bit more difficult to pull off," he says. "It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit." MR PORTER Ties available through MR PORTER ($190-$225) "Establish the dress code first — a Windsor knot is best worn with a spread collar for more formal occasions," Bateman explains. "The four-in-hand [standard knot] is best for casual settings." "Bow-ties don’t suit everyone and can sometime come off as cartoonish or a bit Pee Wee Herman, so I typically recommend them for a more formal wedding worn in black for a simple and sleek look," he adds. Still confused? Check out this handy infographic on correct tie proportion, length, and choosing the right knot for your collar. Get a tailor: An ill-fitting suit will ruin your look. Follow the groom's example (and the invitation dress code): If the groom is wearing a tux but the invitation says casual, go for a suit. If he's wearing something more casual like a linen suit, then you should too. Be bold with accessories: Pocket squares, ties, cuff links, tie clips, belts, and shoes can all make an outfit seem more interesting or original. It's the details that count! FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBillionaire and President of AS Monaco Dmitry Rybolovlev attends a French League One soccer match in Monaco.GENEVA (AP) — A Swiss court has ordered a Russian billionaire to pay more than $4.5 billion to his ex-wife in what could become the biggest divorce settlement in history. In papers delivered Monday to both parties, the Geneva Tribunal of First Instance said Dmitry Rybolovlev, an owner of the French soccer club AS Monaco, must pay 4,020,555,987.80 Swiss francs ($4,509,375,184.80) to ex-wife Elena Rybolovleva of Geneva. Both are aged 47. The judgment also granted his ex-wife property worth 130.5 million francs ($146 million) in property in Gstaad, Switzerland, where the couple owned two swanky chalets. It awarded his ex-wife two other pieces of real estate in the ultra-wealthy area of Geneva known as Cologny, where the couple once lived together, but listed no value for either address. And it confirmed her custody of their 13-year-old daughter, Anna. The couple also has an adult daughter, Ekaterina. Her lawyer Marc Bonnant called it "the most expensive divorce in history," an unheard-of amount for Switzerland and for Russian oligarchs. But Rybolovlev's lawyer said that the judgment's cash order was likely to be whittled down in coming appeals. "There will definitely be a new appellate review and therefore this judgment is not final given the existence of two levels of appeal in Switzerland," said Tetiana Bersheda. A separate statement by Bonnant and two other lawyers in the case, Corinne Corminboeuf Harari and Caroline Schumacher, called the record judgment "a complete victory" for her and said that under Swiss law she was entitled to half the fortune he made during their marriage. Most of that fortune was transferred to Cyprus-based trusts in 2005. The three lawyers said Monday's ruling demonstrated that "no one — not even a Russian tycoon who put his fabulous fortune into legal structures such as trusts and offshore companies — is above the law." But Rybolovlev's lawyer suggested the opposite, praising the judgment for "confirming both the validity of the trusts created by Mr. Rybolovlev and the validity of the asset transfer to them that occurred long before his wife initiated divorce proceedings." His ex-wife had demanded $6 billion from the man known as the "fertilizer king," whose fortune from potash mining once made him the world's 79th richest person. He is now ranked 147th on the Forbes list of billionaires, with an estimated fortune of $8.8 billion. The couple met as university students in Perm, Russia, and married there in 1987. Divorce proceedings began in 2008, when Forbes estimated his worth at $12.8 billion. A Geneva court had provisionally frozen Rybolovlev's assets in Switzerland and abroad, but it may prove difficult for Rybolovleva to obtain the money because Switzerland has no legal aid treaty with Cyprus. In the United States, Rybolovlev and his daughter Ekaterina used trusts to acquire some of the priciest real estate in the country, including a penthouse apartment at Central Park West in New York and a mansion in Palm Beach, Florida. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.   FREE AppDownload
YouTube/WWEVince McMahon gets "arrested" on a 1998 episode of Monday Night Raw.The announcement of World Wrestling Entertainment's new cable TV contract was supposed to be cause for celebration. For months, WWE CEO and chairman Vince McMahon had been telling investors his company would triple its 2012 operating income of $60 million by 2015, in large part because of a fat new TV contract in line with the big increases enjoyed by other sports leagues like Major League Soccer. In August, McMahon was so confident that WWE would benefit from the trend that he told a financial analyst he could put him in a hammerlock if the company didn't double the value of its domestic contracts for its two most popular shows, Monday Night Raw and Friday Night Smackdown. Instead, the company announced Thursday that it had re-signed with NBCUniversal in a deal that would pay WWE about $150 million a year, a decent increase of 50% on the previous contract but nowhere near the spike investors had been waiting for. The stock took its biggest nosedive since its 1999 IPO the following day, and Forbes reported that McMahon had lost nearly a third of his $1.1 billion fortune in the crash. Looking back, the WWE's recent implosion was caused in large part by an embarrassing amount of unsubstantiated hype the company communicated to investors, both about the size of its forthcoming TV deal and the fortunes of its recently launched streaming video network. Let's start with the WWE Network, created earlier this year in a bold attempt to replace a stagnant but significant $83 million revenue stream with an entirely new business. The aforementioned $83 million in revenues was tied to the WWE's monthly special events, which tend to include the most important matches and have for years been sold to viewers for about $55 via cable pay-per-view. Though pay-per-view still made up 16% of the WWE's net revenues in 2013, it was no longer the $127 million juggernaut it was in 2001, the height of the company's most recent boom period. Instead, the WWE announced in January that it would offer these live special events to fans for $9.99 a month on an online network they could access via PCs, smart TVs, gaming consoles, and mobile devices. The Network, which cost about $70 million to get up and running, would also include thousands of hours of archived video alongside new, wrestling-related content. Here's where the WWE got ahead of itself: In a presentation given shortly after the Network was announced in January, the company told investors that it would take 1 million U.S. subscribers for the Network to break even, but if it got to 2 million subscribers, the Network would produce additional income of $50 million, thereby nearly doubling the entirety of the company's 2012 operating income before depreciation and amortization (OIBDA). WWEA slide from an investor presentation in January 2014. Naturally, a statement like that had investors licking their chops. Unfortunately, 2 million U.S. subscribers is a completely unreasonable number given the size of the WWE's American fan base, a fact that shouldn't come as much of a surprise to people familiar with how the WWE made its estimate. In fact, the estimate is based on in-house research that found that 52 million broadband-enabled U.S. homes have someone in them who has "an affinity" for World Wrestling Entertainment. As a result, the WWE reasoned the Network could get 2 million subscribers by getting just 4% of these households to sign up. This logic is extremely flawed. While it's nice that 52 million households have "affinity" for the WWE, the fact is that only about 5 million people watch the company's flagship cable show, "Monday Night Raw," each week. It stands to reason that people who aren't watching the company's free offerings would be unlikely to pay $9.99 monthly for premium content. A better pool to look at would be the people who were already paying for two or three pay-per-views and would realize savings by getting all of the events on the Network. While the WWE's most popular pay-per-view, WrestleMania, can generate more than 1 million buys, its other events are significantly less popular. Only one other pay-per-view, the Royal Rumble, was purchased by more than 300,000 people in 2013. Source: WWEOnly two pay-per-views earned more than 500,000 buys in 2013. It's no surprise then that WWE reported only 667,000 subscribers in April. While it's possible the service could get to 1 million over the coming year, it seems that its next big growth period would likely come around the Network's biggest selling point, WrestleMania, which won't come again until April 2015. The company said during a conference call Monday that it would announce Network subscriber numbers only once a quarter, but you'd have to think they'd have given investors some good news if they had any to share. Of course, investors would have been OK swallowing the Network's underwhelming growth if the WWE had delivered on its new TV contract. One TV executive familiar with the process told me that the WWE significantly weakened its negotiating position by rolling out the Network while it was trying to get a new TV deal. With all of the content available to subscribers, it's entirely possible some would opt to watch a set of old TV shows on the Network instead of current episodes of Monday Night Raw on live TV. In Monday's call with investors, McMahon himself confirmed that the Network negatively influenced WWE's negotiations, but said he didn't know how much. And while Monday Night Raw is largely responsible for USA Network being the most-watched network on basic cable, advertisers pay less to reach its viewers than any other show the station airs. These low ad rates are partially attributable to the stigma that has followed pro wrestling since its carnival origins, but they're also grounded in reality. According to a survey of sports fans produced by Scarborough in 2013 and reported on by wrestling business reporter Chris Harrington, half of WWE viewers earn an income under $50,000, compared to 30% of sports fans in general. On top of that, 66% of adult WWE viewers never attended college, well above the 44% national average. Despite wrestling's simulated competition, the WWE isn't a sport, and the people who watch it aren't the same group that tunes in for the NBA or NHL. Friday, Vince McMahon and the WWE paid dearly for trying to convince their shareholders otherwise. Yahoo   FREE AppDownload
Arnd Wiegmann/REUTERSCredit Suisse CEO Brady DouganThe U.S. has filed a criminal case against Credit Suisse in federal court, Bloomberg News reports.  The Swiss bank is expected to plead guilty. The bank has been charged with a conspiracy count in a case alleging that they helped U.S. citizens evade taxes.    FREE AppDownload
Dan Dennison/Getty ImagesUrban Outfitters' reported earnings today, and news is bad for the namesake brand.  The shares are plummeting more than 3% afterhours. While the overall brand sales were up 6%, sales at Urban Outfitters tumbled 12%. Free People reported an 8% increase in sales, while Anthropologie was up a whopping 25%.  Late last year, the company blamed its sales woes on "missed fashion calls, off-pitch marketing and poor creative execution." Here's the full release from Urban:  PHILADELPHIA, PA, May 19, 2014 - Urban Outfitters, Inc. (NASDAQ:URBN), a leading lifestyle specialty retail company operating under the Anthropologie, Bhldn, Free People, Terrain and Urban Outfitters brands, today announced net income of $37 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014.  Earnings per diluted share were $0.26 for the three months ended April 30, 2014. Total Company net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 increased 6% over the same quarter last year to a record $686 million. Comparable Retail segment net sales, which include our comparable direct-to-consumer channel, were flat. Comparable Retail segment net sales increased 25% at Free People and 8% at the Anthropologie Group and decreased 12% at Urban Outfitters. Wholesale segment net sales increased 27%. "I am pleased to announce record URBN first quarter sales driven by strong performances at both the Anthropologie and Free People brands," said Richard A. Hayne, Chief Executive Officer.  "While Anthropologie and Free People continue to deliver record levels in sales and profits, Urban Outfitters had a disappointing quarter and is working diligently to regain its fashion footing," finished Mr. Hayne. Net sales by brand and segment for the three month periods were as follows: 1 Anthropologie Group consists of the Anthropologie and Bhldn brands. For the three months ended April 30, 2014, the gross profit rate declined by 209 basis points versus the prior year's comparable period. The decline in gross profit rate was primarily due to a deleverage in store occupancy costs driven by negative store comparable sales at the Urban Outfitters brand and pre-opening rent expense related to new stores. Lower merchandise margins at the Urban Outfitters brand resulting from poor performing product also contributed to the decline. As of April 30, 2014, total inventories increased by $24 million, or 7%, on a year-over-year basis. The growth in total inventories is primarily related to the acquisition of inventory to stock new and non-comparable stores. Comparable Retail segment inventories increased 2% at cost while decreasing 5% in units. For the three months ended April 30, 2014, selling, general and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, increased 45 basis points compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to increased marketing expenses which drove higher direct-to-consumer traffic.  The Company's effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was 37.0% compared to 35.4% in the prior year period. The increase in the rate was due to a true-up in state taxes. During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 10.0 million common shares under a share repurchase program. During the first quarter of fiscal 2015, the Company repurchased and retired 9.7 million common shares for approximately $353 million completing the share repurchase authorization. During the three months ended April 30, 2014, the Company opened a total of 5 new stores including: 2 Urban Outfitters stores, 2 Free People stores and 1 Anthropologie Group store. Urban Outfitters, Inc. is an innovative specialty retail company which offers a variety of lifestyle merchandise to highly defined customer niches through 232 Urban Outfitters stores in the United States, Canada, and Europe, catalogs and websites; 190 Anthropologie Group stores in the United States, Canada and Europe, catalogs and websites; 92 Free People stores in the United States and Canada, catalogs and websites; Free People wholesale, which sells its product to approximately 1,400 specialty stores and select department stores worldwide; and 2 Terrain garden centers and a website, as of April 30, 2014. Management's first quarter commentary is located on our website at www.urbanoutfittersinc.com.   A conference call will be held today to discuss first quarter results and will be webcast at 5:00 pm. ET at: http://edge.media-server.com/m/p/dphfjzty/lan/en FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA phone hangs above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening of the market.There was a decent amount of company-specific news out there to move markets a bit. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
BIICredit card technology in the U.S. is about to change.  In part, thanks to a renewed focus on credit card data theft following the massive breach at Target stores, the electronic payments industry is championing a new security standard centered on cards with an embedded microchip.  The chip card standard is more secure than conventional magnetic stripe-bearing cards for several reasons. The embedded chip allows the card to communicate with a payment company's computer servers. That means the card's security features aren't static — they can be refined and reinforced over time. In contrast, if magnetic stripe cards are "skimmed," the data can more easily be used to create clones of the card to commit fraud. In a recent report from BI Intelligence we look at the new so-called EMV standard, what it is, how much it will cost to implement, how much it could save in terms of mitigated fraud, and whether or not the upgrade will ultimately be worth its cost. We also examine who the potential winners and losers could be in the switch over, and whether consumers will authenticate EMV transactions with a PIN or a signature. Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today » Here are some of the key takeaways from the report:  For full access to BI Intelligence's payments industry coverage, including downloadable charts and data, sign up for a free trial. In full, the report: BII     FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   Robert Johnson for Business InsiderBusiness Insider is the fastest-growing business news site on the Web. We are looking for an editor to oversee our Visual Features team. If you love telling stories through images, are obsessed with photography, and want to manage a growing team, then this job is for you. The Visual Features Editor will manage a small group of reporters and photographers, assign and write stories, and work with section editors to produce slideshows and photo-based stories across Business Insider. The ideal candidate will have 2 to 4 years experience reporting and/or working on visuals at a digital publication, and a knack for taking photos.  Here are some recent visual features from Business Insider: Wait Until You See What Our Coal Addiction Is Doing To West Virginia Here's What It's Like To Take A Helicopter To The Best Surf Spots In Alaska WELCOME TO 'LITTLE ODESSA': Inside The Brooklyn Neighborhood That's A Miniature Version Of Russia We Went Out To Count All Of The Homeless In New York City, And It Was Devastating A Rare Look Inside The Monte Carlo Casino, The World's Most Spectacular Gambling Den What The Ku Klux Klan Looks Like Today Interest piqued? Submit three clips and a cover letter, along with your resume here. Please note: This job requires that you work full-time from our Manhattan headquarters. Competitive compensation and benefits package offered. Salary dependent on experience. Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed and a tour of our new office in the Flatiron district. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveFor much of 2013, India was considered the apotheosis of emerging-market woes. But the tide turned a few months ago on the Modi sentiment — the belief that Narendra Modi would come to power with a stable government, and that he would push through much-needed reforms that would help revive Indian economic growth.  India's Sensex index is up a whopping 13.9% since the beginning of the year. Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, tells The Economic Times that the rally is far from over and that Indian stocks could rise another 10% to 15% this year. Here's an excerpt: We have seen Indian markets going up for the last eight months. Do you think India's on the verge of a new bull run?  Yes, I think India is on the cusp of a new bull market. I think the risk premium for India will start to decline, and people will begin to factor in the possibility of higher earnings. Are Indian market valuations stretched after the sharp rally? Obviously, there would be a limit to how much the markets can rally. I think if people make revision of earnings growth forecast, then the implied price-to-earnings (PE) multiple will be less than what people are currently thinking. I reckon there's a very good chance of the Indian markets rallying another 10-15% this year. The BJP's return to power has made investors bullish on investment-related sectors. What's your view? I agree investment is important because the new government will need it for structural growth. India has the potential to grow at 10% because of its demographics, and I think this is the right time to be bullish about the possibilities. The sectors that might benefit from investment reforms would be banking, insurance, and agriculture, though I would be bullish in general. O'Neill said he'd like to see a "government is less involved with people's daily lives," lower deficit, more stable inflation and moves to boost foreign direct investment (FDI). Click here for the full interview » FREE AppDownload
There's a certain charm in speaking with a Southern drawl. So we turned to voice and dialect coach Patricia Fletcher to teach us how to do a Southern accent. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Photo courtesy of Tom NewtonBill Ackman of Pershing Square Capital gets ready to receive a serving from the opposing team. The tennis community on Wall Street is extremely tight-knit. At 7 a.m. on Saturday mornings, you can probably find Bill Ackman of Pershing Square and other finance folks playing on the Randall's Island courts.  This weekend, the Wall Street tennis community held a fundraiser tournament for the R Baby Foundation—a not-for-profit foundation dedicated to saving babies lives through improving pediatric emergency care. Some hedge fund managers in attendance included, Bill Ackman (Pershing Square), Marc Lasry (Avenue Capital), Jon Bader (Halcyon) and Bruce Richards (Marathon), just to name a few. There were also a bunch of world-ranked players at the tournament. In the end, a professional poker player and fund manager duo were the winners.   The tournament raised at least $270,000 for R Baby. A big thank you to photographer Tom Newton, who was kind enough to share some of his photos with us. We've included highlights from the tournament in the slides that follow.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Gaillard There is no casino more grand and more famous than the Casino de Monte Carlo in Monaco. The ornate gambling house has been featured in multiple "James Bond" movies and is perhaps the most iconic building in the tiny principality. Cameras are strictly forbidden inside the casino's gilded rooms. But Reuters photographer Eric Gaillard recently gained access to document the casino's inner workings over three days. He wrote on Reuters' photographers' blog: "I was surprised by the lavishly decorated interior, and greeted by the sound of vacuum cleaners as valets cleaned the gaming tables, removing dust and bits of foreign matter that might compromise gambling results. I quickly realize how privileged I am to witness this private world with its codes and particularities." Now step inside the world's grandest casino and meet the people who make it tick.
LifeLockLifeLock (LOCK) shares are tanking after the company disclosed late Friday that it is suspending its LifeLock Wallet mobile payment application.  Shares of the internet security company are currently down more than 17%. LifeLock acquired the Wallet application as part of its $42.6M deal for Lemon, which it announced in December.  In its filing, LifeLock also said it informed the FTC of its issues with Wallet, and the company expects to receive further requests from the Commission for information.  Today's tumble comes on the heels of a tough quarter for LifeLock investors, as the stock was part of the group of internet-based momentum names that fell during March and April. Year-to-date, LifeLock is down more than 35%. Since its February 13 all-time closing high of $22.62, the stock is down more than 50%. Despite recent weakness, LifeLock is till up better than 45% from where it debuted in October 2012.  Here's the full statement from LifeLock: We have determined that certain aspects of the Lemon Wallet (now called the LifeLock Wallet mobile application), which we acquired as part of our acquisition of Lemon, Inc., are not fully compliant with applicable payment card industry (PCI) security standards. As a result, we have temporarily suspended the Wallet mobile application, and are deleting the data (encrypted or otherwise) from our servers, until we can operate the Wallet mobile application in accordance with those standards. We have no indication that the data included in the Wallet mobile application servers was compromised. The Wallet mobile application storage processes are separate and independent from LifeLock’s core identity theft protection services business, including the enrollment and related credit card storage processes used in our standard LifeLock® service and our LifeLock Ultimate™ service. As such, we do not expect the suspension of the Wallet mobile application to impact in any manner the core functionality or utility of the identity theft protection services we provide to our members. Our consent order with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) sets forth certain requirements for the security practices of LifeLock and all of its subsidiaries and for our representations to consumers about those practices. On May 15, 2014, on our own initiative, we informed the FTC Staff of these issues, and we expect to receive further requests for information from the FTC about these issues. It is possible that this PCI non-compliance of the Wallet mobile application could result in a determination by the FTC that we are not in full compliance with our FTC consent order. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderCreditworthy homebuyers continue to be squeezed out of the housing market by those making all-cash purchases.  Cash purchases accounted for 39% of total sales in Q1 2014, according to Morgan Stanley's Vishwanath Tirupattur. While this is up from the second half of last year, it is down from the highs of Q1 2013, Q1 2012, and Q1 2011. In terms of absolute volume, cash transactions have fallen down 15% quarter-over-quarter and are at the lowest level since Q1 2009.  This is because "distressed transactions, which have a far higher share of cash sales than their non-distressed peers do, are down 58% from their peak in Q3 2009 and hit their lowest levels in Q1 2014 since Q4 2007," writes Tirupattur. Surprisingly though, it turns out that even as distressed transactions have fallen, the share of cash purchases in distressed transactions is at all-time high. "Investors of distressed properties are not buying as many properties, but they appear to be using cash more often than ever," writes Tirupattur. So what exactly is going on? "In our view, the rise in cash share seems to be less a function of borrowers using cash in lieu of mortgage financing, and more a consequence of tight mortgage lending conditions suppressing overall transaction volumes," argues Tirupattur. While it's getting easier for Americans to get mortgages, mortgage credit availability is still tight historically. And as mortgage lending continues to remain "anemic," and as shadow inventory declines leading to fewer distressed sales, national housing activity will continue to soften unless mortgage lending picks up. Here's a look at share of cash purchases in distressed and non-distressed transactions: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Jean Georges/Mike Nudelman-Business InsiderWith 65 Michelin-starred restaurants — seven of which hold three star ratings — and more impressive new establishments opening up year after year, New York City is the gourmand capital of America. It's easy to see why so many of the places on our list of the 45 Best Restaurants In America are located in New York. We looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to create the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants. (You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here). We pulled the top New York restaurants from our list, and ranked them here so you can see the best of the Big Apple in one place. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorThe major stock market indexes are each higher, with the Nasdaq leading the way, gaining more than 0.8% in midday trade. AstraZeneca (AZN) shares are tanking, down 11%, after rejecting Pfizer's (PFE) final offer to buy the company. Pfizer's latest deal values AZN at about $120B.  DirecTV (DTV) is down 1.2% after AT&amp;T (T) offered to buy the company in a cash-and-stock deal worth about $95 per share.  Major advancers include: Major decliners include: FREE AppDownload
The millennial generation is growing up, and they're going to have a huge effect on the country's economic future. There is no universal definition of exactly when the millennial generation begins or ends. Goldman Sachs, in a recent set of reports, chose to set the cutoffs as people born between 1980 and 2000. Sociologists William Strauss and Neil Howe, widely credited with coming up with the term millennial, define the generation as people born between 1982 and 2004. Historically, 16- to 24-year-olds have always had higher unemployment than their older cohorts, but unemployment for younger millennials has skyrocketed since the financial crisis and is only slowly returning to normal: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Labor force participation has been flat or dropping for teenagers and young adults for a while, with millennials less likely to be in the labor force than teenagers and young adults of past generations. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics Goldman Sachs Millennials are coming into their 30s, which means they will be an increasingly important consumer group, as seen in this Goldman Sachs chart: Goldman Sachs Pew Research Center Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs This is a result of the culture of health prevalent among this generation: Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Goldman Sachs Millennials are more likely than other generations to share their opinions on the things they buy using emerging social-media technologies: Goldman Sachs Here's some demographic background on this rising generation. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census Bureau A higher proportion of 18- to 24-year-olds are going to college now than at any time in the past: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from the National Center for Education Statistics Relatedly, older millennials and Gen-Xers are better educated than their parents and grandparents: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey Nine of the 10 cities with the highest proportion of people between 16 and 34 are college towns: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey   Overall, while millennials face economic headwinds, they're poised to become a highly technologically capable consumer force in the coming years. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeU.S. stocks are now the least popular in the world, according to a recent Bank of America Merrill Lynch survey. "The U.S. is the least-favored region with a net 18 percent saying it’s the region they most want to underweight, up from a net 9 percent in April," said BofA Merrill Lynch in their press release. Instead, European equities markets are now most favored. A net 28% said Europe is the region they most want to overweight, up from a net 23% a month ago. A net 14% said European equities are undervalued. For most of 2014, at least 60% said U.S. stocks are overvalued.  “Investors are showing belief in the economy but with two big question marks: Are we on the brink of a disruptive event? And why, at this point in the cycle, isn’t this recovery stronger?” said Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. “Specifically, within Europe, investors are all aboard the periphery train, and there’s now simply no margin for error. Spanish and Italian equities are preferred over those in the U.K. and Switzerland, while eurozone periphery debt is seen as the most crowded trade globally,” said Obe Ejikeme, European equity and quantitative strategist. (Via Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Things got icy between former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers and author Nassim Taleb last week at SALT Las Vegas, one of the biggest hedge fund conferences of the year. The two shared the stage for a discussion about the global post-crisis financial system. The discussion was widely reported on (see MarketWatch and CNBC), but according to Taleb, Summers violated pre-approved ground rules of the debate. "I was fighting with a bully," Taleb said of Summers' performance, later adding, "It's very strange for a Harvard professor to act like a cheap politician." That's a burn, and here's what Taleb is burning about. In the debate, he maintained that 'too big to fail' is still very much a reality, that bankers were never punished for their recklessness and as such will remain reckless. Taleb said that anyone who handles money should have skin in the game. He reminded the room full of hedge fund managers that if they messed up, their funds would go down and it wouldn't be front page news and government bailouts — not so with the banks, not in 2007 and not now. Summers preferred to talk about what the government did, and can or cannot do in the future — which is ensure that banks are adequately capitalized and playing by the rules we have currently. He also said that it was not the government's job to get involved in Wall Street compensation or anything that Taleb might consider a deterrent to reckless actions. "He said we have good techniques to do stress testing ... which is bullsh*t," said Taleb. As for what bothered Taleb the most, it was Summers' characterization of Taleb's argument about how it's important to have skin in the game: "Basically when you argue with an academic that skin-in-the-game is necessary not sufficient, the rest of the discussion should take that into account. Summers kept viciously transforming my argument into 'skin-in-the-game is a replacement for more capital and risk controls.'" So, what's the problem? Taleb is more offended by Summers' form. He said Summers stooped to a low point that he wouldn't go to. "I stuck to my commitment," Taleb said. "He's [Summers] narcissistic ... At no point did I try to win the argument." Business Insider was there, and it did seem like the argument was well-moderated. There were moments of tension, but that's healthy. It's certainly not the first time the two have gotten feisty either. "We did lay out the ground rules and I don't think either side violated them," said Anthony Scaramucci, founder of SkyBridge Capital, the firm that hosted the conference. "Moreover the audience seemed split. I even think Larry agreed with some of Nassim's points. However the world isn't perfect and like it or not governments intervene in crisis. They did in 2008 and will again in the future. We are lucky to have Larry otherwise things would be a lot worse." Right, at least Taleb didn't live tweet it. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Alex Today is National Accounting Day, and it's the perfect time to celebrate the brave souls who balance our books, sort out our files, and lead the way through tax season. To thank the pros who crunch the numbers so we don't have to, we polled accountants and auditors and scoured the web to round up 25 jokes that only accountants will love. 1. Welcome to the accounting department, where everybody counts. 2. What does CPA stand for? Can't Pass Again. 3. It's accrual world. 4. It's 4:04. Do you know where your auditor is? 5. Where do homeless accountants live? In a tax shelter. 6. A fine is a tax for doing wrong. A tax is a fine for doing well. 7. How do you know you have a great CPA? He has a tax loophole named after him. 8. What do you call an accountant with an opinion? An auditor. 9. An accountant is someone who solves a problem you didn't know you had in a way you don’t understand. 10. Why did the accountant cross the road? Because she looked in the files and did what they did last year. 11. How does Santa's accountant value his sleigh? Net Present Value. 12. What do accountants suffer from that ordinary people don’t? Depreciation. 13. Why are accountants always so calm, composed, and methodical? They have strong internal controls. 14. Be audit you can be. 15. What do you call a financial controller who always works through lunch, takes two days holiday every two years, is in the office every weekend, and leaves every night after 10 p.m.? Lazy. 16. What do you call a trial balance that doesn't balance? A late night. 17. An economist is someone who didn't have enough personality to become an accountant. 18. Why do economists exist? So accountants have someone to laugh at. 19. What's the difference between an accountant and a lawyer? The accountant knows he's boring. 20. What do you call a group financial controller who's lost his job? Bob. 21. How can you tell when the chief accountant is getting soft? When he actually listens to marketing before saying no. 22. There are just two rules for creating a successful accountancy business: 1. Don't tell them everything you know. 2. [Redacted] 23. What's an actuary? An accountant without the sense of humor. 24. What do actuaries do to liven up their office party? Invite an accountant. 25. Four Laws of Accounting:        1. Trial balances don't.      2. Bank reconciliations never do.      3. Working capital does not.       4. Return on investments never will. Looking for more accountant jokes? We found those that didn't come from friends and family at The Alternative Accountant, Crush The CPA Exam, Accounting Courses Online, Jokes4Us, and Pinterest. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@DevlinBarrettA U.S. grand jury in Pennsylvania indicted five Chinese military officials on 31 counts involving cyber espionage, Attorney General Eric Holder said Monday. The indictment named five defendants who were part of the Chinese People's Liberation Army — Wang Dong, Sun Kailiang, Wen Xinyu, Huang Zhenyu, and Gu Chunhui.  They targeted five U.S. companies and one U.S. labor union as part of their hacking — Westinghouse Electric Co. (Westinghouse), U.S. subsidiaries of SolarWorld AG (SolarWorld), United States Steel Corp. (U.S. Steel), Allegheny Technologies Inc. (ATI), the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW) and Alcoa Inc. The grand jury brought 31 counts in total. All defendants were charged in all counts: • One count of conspiring to commit computer fraud and abuse. This count carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. • Eight counts of accessing (or attempting to access) a protected computer without authorization to obtain information for the purpose of commercial advantage and private financial gain. These counts each carry a maximum of five years in prison. • 14 counts of transmitting a program, information, code, or command with the intent to cause damage to protected computers. Each count carries a maximum of 10 years in prison. • Six counts of aggravated identity theft. Each carries a maximum of two consecutive years in prison. • One count of economic espionage, which carries a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison. • One count of trade secret theft, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison. "The range of trade secrets and other sensitive business information stolen in this case is significant and demands an aggressive response," Holder said Monday.  "Success in the global marketplace should be based solely on a company’s ability to innovate and compete, not on a sponsor government’s ability to spy and steal business secrets. This administration will not tolerate actions by any nation that seeks to illegally sabotage American companies and undermine the integrity of fair competition in the operation of the free market." Here's a breakdown of some of the criminal conduct alleged against the individual companies and labor union: • Westinghouse — In 2010, while Westinghouse was building four power plants in China, the defendant Sun allegedly stole confidential and proprietary technical and design specifications for pipes, pipe supports, and pipe routing. • SolarWorld — In 2012, the defendant Wen and others allegedly stole "thousands of files including information about SolarWorld’s cash flow, manufacturing metrics, production line information, costs, and privileged attorney-client communications relating to ongoing trade litigation, among other things." The Justice Department said this would have theoretically enabled a Chinese competitor to gain an advantage and target SolarWorld on multiple angles. • U.S. Steel — The defendant Sun allegedly sent phishing emails to U.S. Steel employees while the company was participating in trade cases with Chinese steel companies. After the resulting malware was installed on the U.S. Steel computers, Wang allegedly stole hostnames and descriptions of U.S. Steel computers. • ATI — The defendant Wen allegedly stole network credentials for "virtually every ATI employee" in 2012, when the company was involved in a public trade dispute with a China state-owned enterprise. • USW — Also in 2012, Wen allegedly stole emails and other sensitive documents from senior USW employees, at the time USW was involved in public trade disputes with Chinese state-owned enterprises in at least two areas. • Alcoa — The defendant Sun allegedly sent a phishing email to Alcoa addresses about three weeks after the company announced a partnership with a Chinese company. About four months later, unidentified individuals stole thousands of e-mail messages and attachments from Alcoa’s computers. The FBI also released photos of the alleged hackers, who are now included on the FBI's Most Wanted list of cyber targets: FBI FBI FBI FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevork DjansezianCustomers walk outside a Walmart store in the Porter Ranch section of Los Angeles.For most of the past five decades, Wal-Mart has been the retailer competitors feared most and as a result it made for a phenomenal investment for its shareholders. But Wal-Mart has begun to lose its cache with consumers and major holes are starting to form in its business. Interestingly, Wal-Mart has hidden its financial problems from the headlines because challenges are different around the world, masking themselves in the overall picture. But when you dig between the headlines you can see a company in serious trouble and could be the latest in a long line of leading retailers to go from boom to bust in the blink of an eye. U.S. shoppers are abandoning Wal-Mart The most alarming statistic at home in the U.S. comes from falling same-store sales. This measures how sales are growing location by location and any healthy retailer is looking to grow same-store sales at or faster than consumer spending grows because that shows increased market share locally. Overall sales can be increased by increasing store count, but if same-store sales are falling then the return on each store will drop, something well see in a minute. Below, I've built a table that shows year-over-year changes in same-store sales at U.S. Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores compared to the growth in consumer spending on goods. You can see that Wal-Mart is growing far slower than what consumers spend on goods and has been consistently negative over the past year. 2013  Q1 2014 Q2 2014 Q3 2014 Q4 2014 Wal-Mart 1.8% -1.4%  -0.3% -0.3% -0.4% Sam's Club 2.2% -1.2% 0.1% -0.2% -0.4% Consumer Spending-Goods 3.1%  3.7% 3.1% 4.5% 2.9% The problem for Wal-Mart goes far further than just cyclical swings in retail or a weak economy. Wal-Mart has long been able to lure customers with one-stop shopping and low prices, but consumer trends are now working against that core strategy. For cost conscious shoppers, lower prices can often be found online and more affluent consumers are choosing style and quality products over one-stop shopping. This can be seen clearly by the growth in online retailers like Amazon.com as well as specialty retailers like Williams-Sonoma ,Lululemon, and Michael  Kors, among others. Foreign failures don't help the problem Here's where Wal-Mart's story gets really interesting. Sales in the U.S. are beginning to struggle, but overseas the company's profitability is in downright freefall. I highlighted this in an article a couple of weeks ago and the table below shows just how fast margins are falling internationally. High margins in the U.S. have masked profit struggles overseas and store growth in some international locations is masking U.S. struggles from the revenue side. So, when you look at Wal-Mart's overall profitability it's hard to see any problems emerging.  But there's only so far you can push margins in the U.S. before you either start losing sales to lower cost competitors or you have to lower prices. So, eventually profits could decline in the U.S. and that's when the warts will truly show.  Wal-Mart's high returns are falling like a rock The most startling evidence of Wal-Mart's decline comes from Wal-Mart itself. Each year, the company provides a return on investment calculation for investors, which measures the profit Wal-Mart makes from the money it invests in stores, inventory, and other infrastructure. You can see below that Wal-Mart's ROI is dropping rapidly since 2010, despite the broader economy recovering over that time. If ROI continues to decline, Wal-Mart could become unprofitable very rapidly. Falling same-store sales and plummeting returns are how Sears, Kmart, or Montgomery Ward, becameformer retail icons that were eventually overtaken by competitors. These two trends can only last so long before something has to be done. Is Wal-Mart in serious trouble? Wal-Mart's traditional supercenter business model is clearly showing major signs of weakness both in the U.S. and overseas. If the retail giant can't adapt to new competition like online, specialty, and local retailers there's a real chance the company is in danger of heading down a downward spiral we've seen so many retailers go down before. Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market is an effort to move away from the big box to local retail. Source: Wal-Mart. There are efforts to introduce smaller footprint stores closer to consumers but that's a stretch for a business that's operated one way for decades. Many major retailers have problems adapting to shifts in the way consumers buy products, which is one reason you don't shop at the same stores your grandparents did 50 years ago. From an investment perspective, I think Wal-Mart is going to be a loser long-term, because of the challenges I've outlined above. Returns are falling, Wal-Mart is struggling overseas, U.S. consumers are shopping elsewhere, and the success of new formats is uncertain. Time will tell if Wal-Mart can turn around but I'd stay out of the stock and would even consider shorting shares if operations continue to struggle. Travis Hoium has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
There are three interest rates the ECB could cut. The first is the lending rate, which stands at 75 bp and marks the top of its interest rate corridor. Usually in low or falling interest rate environment, the rate ceiling is of lesser importance. However, a lower lending rate, under current conditions, cold help reduce the volatility of overnight rates (EONIA). The second rate it could cut is the re-finance. It is at 25 bp and under the current policy setting, the ECB is willing to provide as much funds at this rate as banks want, limited only by the acceptable collateral. A 10-15 bp cut seems to be the consensus view. The ECB also could extend the period for which is it willing to provide full allotment (unlimited funds). There have been some calls to reduce the refi rate to zero, but this seems to be an outside possibility. Even though EONIA has traded above the refi rate, a lower refi rate may still exert, albeit, limited downward pressure on overnight rates. The third interest rate that the ECB could cut, and the most controversial is the deposit rate. It currently stands at zero, and there is much talk that the ECB could set it at -25 bp. This would, in effect, tax banks for leaving excess reserves at the ECB. The tax would hit banks with the most surplus funds that hardest and these of course are mostly from core countries, excluding France. Banks from peripheral Europe and France may account for 20% of the funds at the ECB. These banks typically are net borrowers and so lower rates would also likely benefit them the most. There are secondary effects of a negative deposit rate that may overwhelm these primary effects. It is important to recognize that such a measure has not been implemented by a large economic area. Even at the worst of its deflationary phase, Japan never forced banks to pay for the privilege of leaving funds with it. Banks are likely to pass on the negative rates to customers, as some banks did when Denmark adopted a negative deposit rate. This may lead to a change in the way corporations and institutional investors manage their euro balances. The prospects of a negative deposit rate may be a factor weighing on the euro. However, more importantly, the recognition that an asset purchase scheme is somewhat less likely, has helped encourage increasingly nervous investors in the peripheral European bond markets. As we have noted, IMF and EU officials have expressed concern about the sustainability of the peripheral bond rally and some institutional investors has been quoted by the press indicating some profit-taking had begun. The flows leaving the periphery appear to be returning to core bonds. Last week, 10-year Treasury and bund yields fell 13-14 bp. Gilts, with the help of a dovish BOE's Quarterly Inflation Report and soft earnings growth data, outperformed with 17 bp decline in 10-year yields. In contrast, Italy's 10-year yield rose 9 bp, Portugal 16 and Greece 59 bp. Spain fared best, with only a 2 bp increase in the 10-year yield. Funds also seemed to move into emerging markets.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index (equity) rose 2.5% last week, easily outperforming the major indices. Emerging market bonds also rallied. Some investors are also moving into eastern and central Europe, including Poland and Hungary. HSCB will report its flash manufacturing PMI survey for China at midweek and some sign that the world's second largest economy is not slow further may also provide some support for emerging markets as an asset class. Global monetary conditions will remain extremely accommodative. Soft US industrial output and manufacturing data on the heels of a disappointing retail sales report continues to discourage investors from taking too seriously St Louis Fed's call for a rate hike as early as Q1 15. Even now the Federal Reserve is buying more long-term assets than it was when it first announced QE3+ in September 2012. The rally in short-sterling futures suggests the BOE has been successful in pushing out interest rate hike expectations. The BOJ is the main exception. It is leaning against expectations that it will have to increase its $70 bln a month of asset purchases. The economic data scheduled to be released in the coming days is unlikely to change the basic economic assessment and policy outlooks. The FOMC minutes will do nothing to change perceptions that those officials that are emphasizing the economic slack, particularly in the labor market, are in a majority over those who are emphasizing the risks of such extremely accommodative monetary policy. The stronger than expected housing starts reported last week, is likely the start of some more constructive housing data, including existing and new home sales reports this week. We do not expect the minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia or the Bank of England to be very revealing. The RBA is clearly on hold and prefers a weaker currency. The BOE's minutes have been trumped by the Quarterly Inflation Report. Next month's Financial Policy Committee meeting is more important in terms of macro-prudential efforts to address housing. This will reinforce the BOE's signal that it is in no hurry to raise rates. Separately, it appears that UK consumer prices are stabilizing while retail sales should accelerate from the nearly flat (0.1%) rise in March. They will be reported Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. The flash euro zone PMI will be reported on Thursday. It should not be surprising to see the PMI begin to move broadly sideways after the strong advance in recent quarters. That said, the real economy has not performed much different than the ECB expected. There is no evidence that the risk of deflation is sparking a downward spiral in demand as consumers postpone purchases in anticipation of lower prices. Politics, rather than economics, may be the key talking points in the coming days, ahead of the EU Parliament election in the second half of the week, with results announced on May 25. Polls suggest that the anti-EU parties may draw as much as a quarter of the vote, with France's National Front and the UK's Independent Party doing particularly well, with implications for national campaigns. It appears to be a very close race between the center-right EPP and the center-left S&amp;P. The Ukraine presidential election will be held on May 25. That will likely begin a new phase in the crisis. Reports suggesting that non-uniformed combatants (Blackwater) maybe confronting non-uniformed Russian allied combatants in east Ukraine also appears to be mark a new phase. It continues to appear that the limited sanction regime is having a somewhat greater cooling off effect on Russia's financial and trade ties than it may have initially appeared. Perhaps it is Putin's trip to China that may be the most suggestive of change. It might take Europe a few years to cut its dependency on Russian energy if it wanted. However, that is the direction that its strategic interest lie. Russia's actions, especially the annexation of Crimea and its continued bully behavior towards Georgia and Moldova, has alienated it from the Europe. It must turn to Asia. Chinese officials are well aware of this. They hold the whip hand. It is an opportunity to secure low energy prices on a long-term contract. That this can turn into a strategic relationship is unlikely, but it may serve Russia and China's interest independently to at least pretend this is possible. For its part, China has adopted different tactics in Hong Kong, and Taiwan than Russia is on its borders. China would not accept Tibet, for example, of having a referendum on independence. It abstained in the UN Security Council vote to condemn Russia. To the extent the Russia's actions in Europe frustrate the US effort to implement its Asian pivot, China is unlikely to undercut it. China has its own problems in securing its territorial claims. The regional hostility toward Japan and the nationalistic impulse of Prime Minister Abe win little general support. The Philippines dispute with China may be dismissed as a client state of the US. However, the confrontation with Vietnam has escalated over the weekend, leading China to evacuate some of its citizens. Unlike Japan and the Philippines, Vietnam does not enjoy a security treaty with the US, leaving it more vulnerable to Chinese reprisals. Lastly, the electoral victory in India of the BJP and its allies is encouraging investors and fanning the hopes of reform. In the five sessions, through May 15, foreign investors bought $1 bln of Indian shares, almost 20% of what was bought since the start of the year. Last week, Indian shares rallied 5% about 50% of what they had risen up until then. The rupee was the strongest of the Asian currencies last week appreciating 2% against the dollar. Before last week, it had gained about 3% since the start of the year. We expect Modi to enjoy a honeymoon that will be good for investors and recommend global investors embrace potential near-term profit-taking as a new opportunity to participate.        Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoIn the wake of a failed merger, declining revenues, and a general routing by its peers, the company that runs The World Poker Tour — U.K.-based gaming company Bwin.Party — has seen its stock decline 20%. In the last five years it's down over 56%. And some investors have had it. Particularly Jason Ader and Andrew Wallach of SpringOwl Asset Management. They own 5.35% of the $1.6 billion company and they want to see four new members on the board and a revamp of the company's strategy. As often happens, however, Bwin.Party has said that it has no interest in taking SpringOwl's recommendations to heart. A new chairman will take over at the company's AGM on Thursday, and he's said the board could use three new managers, but hasn't given any clues as to who they are. So SpringOwl will continue to press its case. The fund's argument is all here and on their website, savebewinparty.com, and we have it for you here as well. This deck, ladies and gentlemen, is ugly.  
The S&amp;P 500's 180% surge since hitting bottom in March 2009 is one of the most impressive bull-market runs in history. However, it is no longer the strongest ongoing rally in the world. Ever since India caught Modi fever, India's BSE Sensex index has been on a huge tear. And after Narendra Modi secured a huge victory last week, the market only went higher. Since March 2009, the Sensex is up 195%. "We considered a decisive majority as probably the best scenario, or our bull case for the market," wrote Ridham Desai, Morgan Stanley's India equity strategist. "This election result could herald a sea change for India’s economy, which has struggled with stagflationary-type conditions over the past few years. We think the incoming government will have to de-anchor inflation, raise capital productivity, improve the investment climate and de-lever private balance sheets to engineer a new growth cycle." Advisor Perspectives' Doug Short charted the major world indexes since March 9, 2009. As you can see, the S&amp;P 500 and Sensex had been jockeying for position for a while. But now, the Sensex is the clear leader. Advisor Perspectives FREE AppDownload
ReutersMcDonald's is facing more challenges than ever before. Sales are weakening, profits are declining, and workers are organizing global protests for higher wages. The company is also facing growing unrest among franchisees, who have expressed frustration over McDonald's rapidly expanding menu and frequent promotions. These tensions could come to a head on Thursday at the company's annual shareholder's meeting. Amid the mounting pressure, the company has decided to bar reporters from attending the meeting this year.  McDonald's claims that that it's excluding press from the event because reporters didn't show enough interest in attending.  "This year, based on direct feedback from reporters and steadily declining media attendance, we are solely inviting media to listen to the meeting via webcast, as for quarterly earnings," McDonald's spokeswoman Lisa McComb told Business Insider. "This also levels the playing field for reporters outside of Chicago who do not receive budget approval to travel." But a former McDonald's executive says the move is more likely a result of the pressure the company is feeling from shareholders, franchisees, and especially workers — who are planning to protest at the meeting in Oakbrook, Illinois. "They are under a lot of pressure," said Richard Adams, who worked in the fast food chain's corporate offices for nearly two decades before starting his own consulting firm for franchisees. "They are control freaks. They are trying to control the message by keeping [the press] out." Retail analyst Brian Sozzi agrees that the move is designed to avoid negative press.  "Aside from the protests and hot button minimum wage issue, McDonald's has lost share in breakfast to Taco Bell," Sozzi said. "There are pictures of chicken McNuggets being ground up into paste circulating on Twitter. Burger King U.S. is beating the company in terms of same store sales growth. And, frankly, the operating performance of the business has been dreadful." FREE AppDownload
We compared the cities with the most attractive, young, productive, fit and wealthy individuals. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The S&amp;P 500 touched an all-time intraday high last week in what has been a remarkably low volatility rally with only very modest sell-offs. "Little wonder," wrote Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne this morning. "The number of 1% down days for the S&amp;P 500 in any given year has averaged 27 since 1969; the S&amp;P 500 has seen just 16 1% down days over the last 12 months. It has now been 468 days since a market correction of 10% or more, the fourth longest period on record, and, as we show below, the annualised peak to trough loss has only been 5% compared to typical annual drawdown of 15%." Sell-offs happen. And sometimes they're big. "The point of all these figures is to illustrate a potentially risky build up of investor complacency," he continued. "The longer equities (and other risk assets) go without a typical period of losses, then the more these assets may be seen as one-way upward plays. Encouraging for new investors who may not have the capacity to absorb normal equity volatility and losses. Downplaying risk serves no one in the long term and we think policy makers should be more vocal about the potential downside." Lapthorne charted the maximum annual drawdowns in the S&amp;P since 1970. As you can see in the far right, volatility has been below normal. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe real-life Wolf of Wall Street, Jordan Belfort, now a motivational speaker, said at a conference in Dubai that he expects to make more than $100 million from his speaking tour this year, Bloomberg reports. Belfort is the author of a best-selling tell-all memoir that chronicled his boozy, drug-fueled Wall Street lifestyle running the Stratton Oakmont boiler room, a firm that used high-pressure sales tactics in the 1990s. His book was adapted into a film, "The Wolf of Wall Street," which was directed by Martin Scorsese and starred Leonardo DiCaprio. Belfort was arrested and convicted for securities fraud and money laundering. He served a 22-month prison sentence after being sentenced to four years. He was also ordered to pay $110.4 million in restitution to victims of Stratton Oakmont. He hasn’t finished paying them back yet, but he said at the Dubai conference that he would be able to finish doing so thanks to his speaking tour.  "My goal is to make north of a $100 million so I am paying back everyone this year," he told the audience, according to Bloomberg. As a stockbroker, he made about $50 million per year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Allison JoyceFormer IMF Chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn leaves his apartment with wife Anne Sinclair (L) and an unidentified man (R) in Manhattan, July 1, 2011.PARIS/CANNES (Reuters) - Former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn has instructed lawyers to sue the makers of a movie in which veteran French star Gerard Depardieu plays a sex addict who commits a sexual assault on a hotel maid, his lawyer said on Monday. "Welcome to New York" by Abel Ferrara, which had a private screening on the sidelines of the Cannes film festival at the weekend and has been on pay-per-view in France, is billed as a piece of fiction and comes with a legal disclaimer. But Strauss-Kahn's lawyer said the film was defamatory in that its subject matter was similar to the accusations leveled against Strauss-Kahn, who quit the Washington-based International Monetary Fund in 2011 after a New York hotel maid accused him of sexual assault. Strauss-Kahn settled a civil case taken by the maid after criminal charges were dropped. "This happened three years ago and he was cleared," lawyer Jean Veil told Europe 1 radio on Monday. "He is frightened, sickened (by the film). He has instructed his lawyers, myself, to make a complaint for defamation based on accusations of rape, on the insinuations made throughout this film." Interviewed by Reuters TV in Cannes, filmmaker Ferrara said the film was fiction and that he had the right to choose his subjects. "I'm not on trial," Ferrara said. "I'm an artist, I have freedom of speech. I'm from America I'm from the country of the free, land of the free and home of the brave. REUTERS/Eric GaillardCast member Gerard Depardieu (C) is surrounded by bodyguards as he leaves after the screening of the film "Welcome to New York" directed by Abel Ferrara at a movie theatre during the 67th Cannes Film Festival in Cannes May 17, 2014. The film begins with an extended sex-party scene before the encounter between the main character, George Devereau, and a maid. Throughout the over 20-minute scene, Depardieu appears naked and flits from one bacchanalian encounter to another. Reporters the screening were handed a gift bag containing condoms and Viagra. Trade publication Variety called the film in a review "a sure-fire scandal-starter in France" and said the "audacious performance (from Depardieu) is undeniably the pic's chief selling point," a view shared by most critics. Films that are not competing in the official 12-day film festival at Cannes often hold screenings nonetheless in order to gain publicity. Following the "Welcome to New York" screening, the film was made available throughout France on pay-per-view. (Reporting by Mark John in Paris, Matthew Stock and Alexandria Sage in Cannes Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTOKYO (Reuters) - Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is moving to shake up oversight of the world's largest pension fund, expanding the board and giving it new power to steer a shift out of Japanese government bonds and into higher-yielding assets, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. Officials are considering a proposal to add two or three dedicated professional advisors to the committee that oversees investment at the $1.26 trillion Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). They would play a key role in reforming a fund that's bigger than the economic output of Mexico with the power to influence markets as Abe presses policies to spur growth. The beefed-up GPIF committee could be given new, broader powers that would make it the final arbiter for how the Japanese pension fund invests its money, according to the people, who asked not to be named because the policy measures remain under discussion. The existing investment committee comprises academics and economists, with a representative from Japan's trade union federation and one from the main business lobby. Its current role is restricted to advising the fund's president. The proposed reforms would help shift GPIF towards riskier investments like stocks and away from low-yielding Japanese government bonds. Supporters of the reform say targeting higher returns would benefit future pension recipients in Japan's ageing population and drive economic growth. A spokesman for GPIF said the fund would not comment on matters under consideration as a matter of policy. Earlier this month, Abe told a dinner hosted by the City of London that reform of GPIF was under way and that the fund was "making improvements". Last June, GPIF lowered its allocation target for domestic bonds and raised its target for stocks as part of a bid to achieve higher returns. In March, the fund was given a target of hitting a return of 1.7 percentage points over wage increases. Taken together, GPIF has already seen more changes in the past year under Abe than it has since its establishment as a public fund in 2001. As part of those changes, a person with knowledge of the process said GPIF's investment committee has formed a four-member working group headed by Sadayuki Horie, a senior researcher at Nomura Research Institute, that has been tasked with a review of its allocation targets over the next two to three months. Horie declined to comment. As it reforms GPIF, Abe's government is betting that it can give up a back-pocket means of financing Japan's government debt, now over 200 percent of GDP and the largest in the industrialized world. GPIF currently holds 60 percent of its assets in Japanese government bonds, but the Bank of Japan now buys up most new debt issued by Japan's government as part of an aggressive monetary easing. "Debate is already proceeding and we've indicated a direction for GPIF in moving out of JGBs and into risk assets like stocks, REITs and infrastructure funds," Japan Vice Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura told Reuters. The target for reformers has been to make GPIF more like overseas public pensions, like those run by Norway,Canada and the state of California. Those funds all hold more than half of their assets in equities. At the same time, they are staffed by hundreds of professionals to vet fund managers and monitor performance. The Canada Pension Plan Investment board employs over 900 staff. Japan's GPIF, by contrast, has only about 80 staff. Fidelity Investments, the private U.S. mutual fund giant, has about $1.9 trillion under management as of April and employs over 40,000 people in North America. Masahiko Shibayama, a lawmaker in Abe's Liberal Democratic Party who heads the group preparing proposed financial reforms, told Reuters in a recent interview that GPIF's investment committee needed more authority. "We think it's necessary to reform governance of GPIF," Shibayama said. "I think there needs to be an official process so that the knowledge of specialists can be reflected in decision-making. It's very simple." Shibayama declined to comment on the specific proposals his panel is preparing, part of a June announcement of Abe's "third arrow" of reforms, referring to the third plank of policies designed to revive the world's third-biggest economy. Among measures expected to be announced are a recommendation for a cut in the corporate income tax level. Last month, Japan's health ministry, which has a supervisory role for the fund, appointed eight members to the GPIF investment committee. Three of the eight also previously served on a separate Abe-appointed economic advisory panel that recommended increasing the role of financial professionals at GPIF and reducing its reliance on Japanese government bonds. The proposed reforms add a new note of uncertainty about the tenure of the fund's president, Takahiro Mitani, a former Bank of Japan board member with one year remaining of a five-year term. Mitani declined a request for an interview. Although Mitani is credited with helping to steer GPIF through its still-developing reform, his tenure is also seen as symptomatic of the passive and bureaucratic approach to fund management that the Abe government is set to change. One obstacle to hiring full-time fund managers, for instance, has been GPIF's salary structure, which is in line with government ministries. Mitani, who made the equivalent of $192,000 for the year ended March 2012, has been the highest paid fund employee. GPIF is in the process of selecting a consultant to review its salary and bonus scheme for new and existing staff, a spokesman said. (Reporting by Chikafumi Hodo and Takaya Yamaguchi; Editing by Kevin Krolicki, Edmund Klamann, Kenneth Maxwell and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUnder Secretary of the U.S. Treasury for International Affairs Lael BrainardWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The two new nominees to the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors are expected to push for an expanded Fed role in managing the U.S. economy, working to replace the current raft of programs that resulted from the financial crisis with more permanent tools. The arrival of former Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer and former U.S. Treasury official Lael Brainard will add two strong voices to back Chair Janet Yellen's view that loose monetary policy needs to be extended to turn around a slack labor market. Fischer intervened directly in Israel's mortgage market to tackle a real estate bubble, while Brainard pushed EU governments hard for more aggressive action from the European Central Bank during the euro zone crisis. Interviews with former colleagues and a review of their public statements and published material also suggest both will want the Fed to remain in activist mode long after its current programs wind down and its bloated balance sheet shrinks. How they influence the U.S. central bank is a critically important question for investors, who are searching for clues on when the Fed will lift interest rates from near zero, where they've been since late 2008. It is a debate that may well be the defining one of Yellen's tenure. In coming months, the Fed may have to remake the tools it uses to control interest rates, choose whether to liquidate or hold the $4 trillion of investments it has on its balance sheet, and decide when to begin pushing borrowing costs higher. It will also need to make longer-term decisions about how closely it wants to be involved in monitoring and shaping financial markets to guard against another systemic crisis. Fischer, who is nominated to be Fed vice chairman, is expected from day one to pursue his belief that central banks need to develop new powers and tools to prevent future crises. "What Fischer can bring to the table is some very valuable practical experience guided by a strong analytical framework," said David Stockton, the Fed's former research director and now a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Fischer, 70, sees "a lot of work to be done" to get central banks to integrate concerns about financial stability into their monetary policy decisions, said Stockton. "As he has looked at the crisis and thought about the advanced economies, he has seen there are some serious lapses." Divisions within the Fed over how long to extend its activist approach are likely to increase. A number of officials, including Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George and Richmond Fed chief Jeffrey Lacker, have warned about the threats that might develop if current policy is kept in place too long, arguing it should shift back to a more traditional, less interventionist role. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said last week he felt inflation was starting to gain traction, raising the risks of keeping easy monetary policy in place too long. Fischer and Brainard are unlikely to back any proposals to push the Fed back into a corner. According to colleagues who have worked closely with him, Fischer's concerns over financial stability have become steadily more important to his thinking - to the point where he feels central banks should stand ready to intervene in markets in a way likely to draw opposition from those who prefer a hands-off approach. In Israel, he used a variety of tactics to isolate and deflate what he concluded was a risky asset bubble in real estate, including imposing higher loan-to-value requirements for lending that targeted the entire mortgage market. By contrast, the new powers and responsibilities established for the Fed under the Dodd-Frank financial reforms have dealt with regulation of individual banks, not rendering judgment on whether specific asset markets are growing too fast. "The central bank has to be one of the central elements in building the system of macro prudential supervision," Fischer said last fall at a conference at the International Monetary Fund, where he served as the No. 2 official in the 1990s, playing a leading role in battling the Asian financial crisis. The regulatory system, he argued, can no longer concentrate just on standards for individual financial institutions, but instead "needs to ask itself what are the interactions within the financial system that could lead to problems over and beyond those that would arise for individual banks." Fischer and Brainard declined to comment for this article through a Fed spokesperson, citing their pending nominations. The Senate is expected to approved Fischer's nomination this week. It is unclear when it might vote to confirm Brainard. 'BAZOOKA' THINKING Like Fischer, who was born in what is now Zambia, Brainard spent her early years overseas, as the daughter of a diplomat posted to Germany and Poland at the end of the Cold War. A Washington fixture, she served in both the Clinton and Obama administrations and spent the intervening years at the Brookings Institution, a top think tank. Brainard, 52, reached the upper ranks of the U.S. Treasury as undersecretary for international affairs, but does not have as deep a background in monetary policy as Fischer. Her work in Washington has been less that of a technical economist and more about the political economy of globalization and international institutions. But during the crisis that threatened to break up the euro zone while she was at Treasury, she voiced an expansive faith in what central banks can and ought to do, often serving as the point person in the Obama administration's efforts to goad Europe into stronger action. European officials who worked with her during that period, as well as U.S. government colleagues, describe a tough bureaucratic infighter - someone not prone to easy compromise once she has made up her mind. In sometimes heated meetings, Brainard encouraged European officials to throw out their existing rule book and radically expand the European Central Bank's role. "There was this whole idea of the 'bazooka,'" or using the central bank's resources to overwhelm concerns that one or more European countries might default, said Jean Pisani-Ferry, former head of the Bruegel think tank in Belgium and now an adviser to the French government. "That basically came from them," he said in reference to then Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Brainard. Former colleagues tell of battles she waged within the administration to increase U.S. assistance to the World Bank, or beat back what was seen as an effort by the State Department to intrude on Treasury's oversight of the bank and the IMF. "She can be very assertive where she has strong views," said Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Kissinger Associates and a former senior State Department official. Both Brainard and Fischer are expected to deepen Fed discussion of how its decisions may impact the global economy and vigorously defend U.S. policy overseas. Fischer's time as a central banker came as Israel was buffeted by a crisis that emanated from the United States. He certified his standing during that time as an economist both rooted in tradition - he literally wrote the book on modern macroeconomics - and willing to discard convention. "He'll use whatever tools are available," said former Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn. (Reporting by Howard Schneider and Michael Flaherty; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
TwitchReports this weekend claimed that YouTube is on the verge of buying games streaming service Twitch for $1bn – a deal not a million miles away from the $1.65bn that Google paid for YouTube back in 2006. Twitch is well known to tens of millions of gamers, but still somewhat under the radar for everyone else. So what is the company, how popular is it, and why might YouTube want to buy it? Here's a primer. It’s essentially the YouTube for live gaming: people broadcast themselves playing and/or talking about games while other people watch them (either live or via archived footage) while chatting about it. Very. Last year, Twitch more than doubled its monthly audience from 20m people at the end of 2012 to 45m at the end of 2013. Those viewers were watching 106 minutes a day on average, with 6m videos broadcast on the site every month by 900,000 unique broadcasters. In February this year, a study by internet infrastructure company Deep Field claimed that in primetime hours in the US, Twitch was the fourth largest source of network traffic, behind only Netflix, Google and Apple. Meanwhile, last October's League of Legends Season 3 World Championship event attracted 32m viewers in a single day, with 8.5m watching simultaneously at its peak. Twitch was a spin-off from Justin.tv, one of the first big livestreaming-video sites online. It launched in June 2011 billed as “the largest competitive video gaming broadcast network in the world”, with an emphasis on e-sports (sports video games). Since then, the company has raised $35m in funding from various venture capital firms in two rounds. Screenshot In its report at the end of 2013, Twitch said that 76% of its users are aged between 18 and 49; that 68% are watching less TV in order to focus on “game entertainment”; and that 58% spend more than 20 hours a week on Twitch. Around 99% of users watch live streams of games, while 38% watch video highlights, 61% chat with other Twitch users and 25% broadcast their own gameplay. Broadcasters include games firms (Mojang, 2k and League of Legends creator Riotgames), media sites (Destructoid, Machinima and TouchArcade) and essentially lots of people who are really good at games. "When video game historians look back on gaming a decade from now, 2013 will be the year they cite as the tipping point of streaming," its vice president of marketing Matthew DiPietro told Forbes earlier this year. "Every major event, publisher, developer, and media outlet in the gaming industry had a presence on Twitch, and streaming became an ever-present piece of the gaming experience. And it’s only going to get bigger." And then there’s Pokémon… Yep. Twitch's biggest recent headlines were made by an inventive experiment on the network where up to 150,000 people at once crowdplayed vintage Game Boy game Pokémon Red on Twitch by typing in text commands, which were passed on to the emulator running the game – which tried to process them all. It sounded (and often looked like) a recipe for digital chaos, but the players completed the game at the start of March, quickly moving on to try to crack Pokémon Crystal. It was fun rather than a serious glimpse at the future for Twitch as a gaming platform, but it helped a new wave of people learn about the site. Twitch’s biggest recent moves have been integration into Sony’s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One consoles, which both enable people to livestream video of their gaming exploits. Within a month of the PS4’s release in mid-November, 100,000 new broadcasters had signed up. Twitch also has an app for Amazon's recently-launched Fire TV set top box-cum-console. Where it's not so big – yet – is in mobile gaming. There are Twitch apps for iOS and Android, but they're purely for watching and chatting about videos, rather than broadcasting them from within games on those devices. YouTube and Twitch are both benefiting from the same trend: people going online to watch other people playing games – an artform that traditional television has usually struggled (in the west, at least) to make compelling viewing. Gaming channels like PewDiePie, Stampy, The Diamond Minecart, Vanoss Gaming, Yogscast, Sky Does Minecraft and others are hugely popular on YouTube: PewDiePie is the most popular channel on the service with 26.4m subscribers, and nearly 300m video views in April alone. Gaming is thus one of YouTube's biggest genres alongside music. Buying Twitch would shore up that status, making YouTube the number one platform for e-sports as well as "Let's Play" videos. Oh, and the huge and engaged audience to show ads to is obviously part of the appeal too. The two companies also have similar approaches: for example, YouTube's partner program for its creators is matched by Twitch's Twitch Partner Program, which had 5,100 members at the end of 2013. • Google reportedly acquiring live games video site Twitch for $1bn This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogCurrently, global is showing relatively slow but improving growth, with global industrial production up 3.9% y/y during February. That’s up from a recent low of 1.1% during February 2013. Output growth has slowed to around 4.5% among the emerging economies over the past year. However, industrial production growth among the advanced economies has rebounded smartly from a recent low of -1.2% during January 2013 to 3.3% in February. Interestingly, industrial production indexes have been stalled at their record highs for the past two to three years in Brazil, India, Mexico, South Korea, and Taiwan. Still ascending to new highs are Indonesia, Malaysia, Poland, and Singapore. China’s output, of course, continues to set record highs. However, the country’s economy seems to have slowed much faster during Q1-2014 than widely recognized. China’s real GDP growth is reported on a y/y basis because the underlying data aren’t seasonally adjusted. Haver Analytics, our data vendor, provides a seasonally adjusted quarterly series. While the y/y growth rate was 7.4% during the first quarter, the q/q growth rate (saar) was only 5.7%, the lowest since Q4-2008. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Man on the Train. (1) Hazardous work. (2) Google it. (3) Don’t be evil. (4) Momentum stocks testing their 200-dmas. (5) Not ruling out a broad melt-up. (6) No “Great Rotation” out of bonds. (7) Dividend-yielding stocks are high priced. (8) Internal valuation correction goes global. (9) Last week’s landslide in India and EM stocks. (10) Emerging economies' growth is slow. (11) China’s real GDP growth already under 6%! (12) Eurozone’s recovery harder to see. (13) Confidence down again in Japan. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
AFPGlobal mining giant Rio Tinto says it is set to finalize a $US20 billion deal to develop the world's biggest untapped iron-ore deposit in Guinea later this month following years of delays. The Simandou iron ore project, which could create Africa's biggest-ever infrastructure venture, will boost Guinea's annual revenue by $US1.2 billion through income tax and royalty payments and pump billions more into the nation's economy, Rio chief executive Sam Walsh said. "Later this month, we expect to sign the investment framework that formalizes our partnership with the government of Guinea, Chalco and the IFC," Walsh said in a speech in Washington on Saturday and uploaded on to the company's website Monday. "This has taken some time to bring to fruition and I think this signing will inject the project with renewed momentum," he added in the speech on infrastructure investment in developing countries, a key theme of this year's G20 meetings chaired by Australia. Walsh said the "remarkable project" would see billions of dollars invested in developing infrastructure in one of Africa's poorest nations, which is still recovering from decades of military dictatorships and misrule. The deal will formalize the partnership for Simandou with Guinea's government, China's state-run aluminium group Chalco and the International Finance Corporation, a division of the World Bank. "When fully operational, the annual economic contribution of Simandou to the Guinean economy is estimated to be $US7.6 billion -- that's 22 times the US$340 million in international aid contributions to Guinea in 2012," Walsh added. "It would be fair to say that this represents a new paradigm for Guinea." The estimated $US20 billion project will include a railway to carry iron ore from the Simandou mountain range to a deep-water port 650 kilometres (400 miles) away. The joint-venture includes the development of the port, the establishment of fibre optic and wireless communications, and more than 1,000 kilometres of new and upgraded roads. Rio was awarded control of all four tenements at Simandou -- which it said held 2.25 billion tonnes of iron ore resources -- in 2006, but was ordered by the then military dictatorship to relinquish two northern concessions in 2008. These concessions were given to BSG Resources (BSGR), a firm controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz, which in turn sold half its rights to Brazilian mining giant Vale. The permits were declared void by the Guinea government last month, although the nation's President Alpha Conde said the withdrawal of concessions were part of a wider clampdown on mining rights and not "case-specific" despite claims of corruption against BSGR. BSGR has strongly denied the allegations. In April, Rio Tinto launched a complaint in a US district court against the awarding of the northern Simandou mining concessions to the VBG consortium, which was formed in 2010 by Vale and BSGR, appealing for damages to be awarded to the miner for the loss of the permits. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the topics that traders are talking about today: US Futures are about 30bp weaker this AM, mirroring overseas weakness.  While the DAX is only off 40bp, it is trading in heavy volume, 40% above normal – but the EU fins are off over 2% as DB announces a fresh capital raise and PIIGS bonds get hit.  Peripheral Europe under sharp pressure however, led by a 2.3% drop in Italy as Italian Banks are getting smacked hard this AM as Yields are widening in Italian debt on chatter the ECB will refrain from any bond-buying measures this week.   You can’t point to Ukraine for the stress, as the Micex is up over 1% to the highest since March as Putin Orders Troops Near Ukraine Back to Bases.  In Asia, Japan was hit for 70bp, but China was the main event, where housing and finance concerns hit Shanghai for 1% in light trading.  India’s market cheered the election results, with the Sensex popping 1%, but Aussie was hit for 1.3% as Miners whacked on Chinese concerns.  The pops in India and Russia have Emerging Markets hitting 6M+ highs this AM. The 10YY remains under pressure, hovering around the 2.5% level - Bernanke last week was very dovish in a series of quarter-million-dollar dinners with wealthy private investors – he speaks at 12:50 today in Dallas.  We will also get fresh Manufacturing prints globally, as well as Home Sales data in US for April this week.  The Yield Curve continues to flatten, so another headwind for US Banks.  The Yen is popping to 2M highs against the $, and the € has a bid into the ECB this week – knocking the DXY – a tailwind for commodities.  Chinese headlines have metals mixed, with Ore hitting 20M lows, but Copper is up 1% - hitting new 2M highs.  The Energy complex is well bid as Gunmen stormed Libya’s parliament on Sunday, with Brent and WTI up roughly 50bp.   Catalysts are light today, with a decent sized POMO at 11 - Fed’s Williams (Dove) and Fisher (Big Hawk) speaking at 12:10 – While Bernanke speaks at 12:50 today.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Wong CampionA man smokes as he waits with his painted buffalo before a buffalo bodypainting competition in Jiangcheng county, Yunnan province, May 18, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Pfizer Rejected. British drug giant AstraZeneca has rejected what Pfizer says will be its final over to acquire the company at a $117 billion valuation, the FT reports. "A top 10 shareholder said they were 'sick as a parrot' at the UK pharmaceutical company’s decision," the paper said. "AstraZeneca’s shares were down 12.8 per cent at £42.05 by mid morning in London." AT&amp;T Buying DirecTV. The telecom behemoth announced it'll purchase the satellite TV provider for an all-in total of $67 billion. It will now face regulatory scrutiny. Here's how, BI's Steve Kovach says, they intend to beat it: "AT&amp;T will frame the DirecTV purchase as a way to provide blanket internet access to portions of the country that don't have reliable broadband yet. Meanwhile, AT&amp;T will have to prove to the government that its proposed merger won't give it an unfair advantage over other TV and internet providers. However, AT&amp;T could spin its own proposal as a counterweight to the Comcast deal." Deutsche Bank Fundraising. The Frankfurt-based megabank announced it raised $11 billion in new capital, including $2.4 billion from the Qatari royal family. The firm has recently faced calls to ramp up its capital ratios. China Home Price Growth Slows. Year-over-year new home prices slowed to an 11-month low in April, China said Sunday. Existing home prices fell from March in 22 of 70 cities in April, compared with just 14 in March. Data last week showed property sales dropped 6.9% in the January-April period from a year earlier in terms of floor space, and fell 7.8% in terms of value. Europe Stocks Tank. Italian stocks fell 2.39%, and London's FTSE and Germany's Deutsche Boerse were down 0.4%. "The weakness in the market today is likely a hangover from last week's disappointing euro-area growth figures, but also reflects uncertainty ahead of the European elections," the Wall Street Journal quoted ING's Aengus McMahon as saying. "There is certainly more nervousness in the market, but I think that will dissipate as soon as the elections are over."  ECB Easing In The Offing. 90% of economists polled by Bloomberg believe Mario Draghi will ease monetary policy in June. "Draghi clearly pre-committed,” Elwin de Groot, an economist at Rabobank in Utrecht, the Netherlands, told Bloomberg. “As any other central banker should know, he would risk his reputation, and a significant strengthening of the euro, if the ECB doesn’t follow through in June.” Subprime Across The Pond. There's been a new surge in non-conforming loan sale packages in the U.K.'s white-hot property market, the FT reports. A senior London-based securitization banker told the paper: "Banks have had these loans on their balance sheets for a while and are seeking to take advantage while the market is more receptive to racier credits. Also, with regulators' stress tests coming up, these are the kind of assets you want to get rid of because they hurt you." Credit Suisse Penalties. Bloomberg reports the Geneva-based firm will pay $2.5 billion to U.S. regulators over charges it helped Americans evade taxes, and that CEO Brady Dougan could step down.  Irish Debt Rallies. Yield on Ireland's 10-year bond fell four basis points to 2.62% Monday. After Moody's hiked Ireland's credit rating two notches to Baa1 on Friday evening. No US Data Today. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher speaks at noon.  FREE AppDownload
GazpromRussian President Vladimir Putin told Chinese media that the strength of Russia-China relations is at an all-time high as the two countries are reportedly finalizing a 30-year gas-supply deal. "Now Russia-China cooperation is advancing to a new stage of comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction," Putin said. "It would not be wrong to say that it has reached the highest level in all its centuries-long history." The gas deal, which has been on the table for over 10 years, would send 38 billion cubic meters of natural gas to China each year starting in 2018 with the potential to expand the annual capacity to 61 billion cubic meters. China consumed about 170 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2013 and set a target of up to 420 billion cubic meters a year by 2020. Europe is Russia’s largest energy importer as it bought more than 160 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2013, but tensions and sanctions over Putin's meddling in Ukraine have Russia looking elsewhere. Consequently, the deal is huge for the Kremlin since natural gas represents nearly 60% of Russia's total exports. Here's a look at Russia's existing supply lines to Europe. AFP
REUTERS/Bruno KellyA boy rides his bicycle along Third Street of the Alvorada neighbourhood which is decorated for the 2014 World Cup in Manaus, one of the tournament's host cities, May 17, 2014.There's very little on the economic calendar this week. However, we will get new monthly reports on existing home sales and new home sales on Thursday and Friday, respectively. Those measures have been among the various worrisome data points that led Goldman Sachs economists to slash their forecasts for housing and GDP growth on Friday. It's worth mentioning that mortgage rates are at seven-month lows, which should help the housing market. Speaking of interest rates, the 10-year Treasury note yield tumbled to 2.48% last week. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last Monday, the S&amp;P 500 passed 1,900 for the first time ever, and it got as high as 1,902 before it ended the week at 1,877. Despite the milestone, the index is up just 1.6% this year. "One... item confusing investors is the strength of bond prices this year even as so many believe equities would be the better performers," said Tobias Levkovich, Citi Chief U.S. Equity Strategist. He noted that falling rates were "unexpected with various theories running around, ranging from foreign buyers trying to push down their own currencies to drive exports for domestic economic growth reasons to banks covering short positions given tighter risk controls amidst greater regulatory oversight. Indeed, some think that the regulatory environment has led to low inventories that exacerbate market moves in any direction. We have heard that strong stock price gains last year have forced pension funds to rebalance their portfolios from equities to bonds as equity holdings rose to uncomfortably higher levels due to last year’s index value appreciation. And, safe haven arguments have evolved as well to explain Treasury buying due to the Ukraine and other regional trouble spots." Levkovich pointed out that while the outperformance of bonds relative to stocks may seem odd, it's not unprecedented. "In any event, stock price relative gains versus Treasuries had been quite strong versus history (see Figure 6) and some backup is not all that shocking," he said. "Moreover, with no indications of inflation expectations shifting, one should not worry that much about a big imminent spike in interest rates." Citi Research For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorAstraZeneca has rejected Pfizer's $116bn takeover approach, saying the bid undervalues the UK company and poses too many risks. AstraZeneca's shares tumbled 14% to $69.70 on the news. Leif Johansson, AstraZeneca's chairman, said Pfizer's $92.48 a share valuation fell short of the price that the US company was told was necessary. A deal would be the biggest foreign takeover of a UK company. Pfizer had offered $89.96 on Friday but AstraZeneca told Pfizer at the weekend that the price needed to be at least 10% higher, valuing AstraZeneca at about $124.43bn. Pfizer announced last night that it would make a final approach at $92.48 a share that could not be increased. It also increased the cash portion of the bid to 45% from 33% with the rest payable in Pfizer shares. Johansson said Pfizer had already said its $89.96 approach was its final offer and that the US company did not warn AstraZeneca about last night's increased bid. He said the approach undervalued the Anglo-Swedish company's prospects for producing new drugs as an independent business. He added that Pfizer's plans to move to the UK for tax purposes and its record for slashing research spending endangered the future of the combined company. Johansson said: "Pfizer's approach throughout its pursuit of AstraZeneca appears to have been fundamentally driven by the corporate financial benefits to its shareholders of cost savings and tax minimization. "From our first meeting in January to our latest discussion yesterday, and in the numerous phone calls in between, Pfizer has failed to make a compelling strategic, business or value case. The board is firm in its conviction as to the appropriate terms to recommend to shareholders. "We have rejected Pfizer's final proposal because it is inadequate and would present significant risks for shareholders, while also having serious consequences for the company, our employees and the life-sciences sector in the UK, Sweden and the US." The rejection appeared to end a battle between the two companies unless AstraZeneca shareholders push the board to accept Pfizer's latest approach. However, Pfizer said it was considering its options. Johansson told the BBC's Today programme he did not know if the deal was dead. "I have no idea. This has been going on for quite some time, and in very deep engagement over the whole of the weekend. Pfizer now says this is the final offer - I have to believe them at what they say." Pfizer's pursuit of AstraZeneca has divided opinion among shareholders with some investors calling for AstraZeneca to negotiate with Pfizer while others have praised AstraZeneca's board for resisting the bid. The Viagra maker's offer also stoked a political row. Labour accused the government of acting as a cheerleader for Pfizer and threatened to impose a public interest test if a takeover had not been completed before next year's general election. Chuka Umunna, the shadow business secretary, said on Twitter that AstraZeneca had rejected Pfizer's "fast buck" business mentality: "I very much welcome the rejection of Pfizer's final offer by the board of AstraZeneca.The right decision for the company and for the country. "We don't want to see the takeover of great British firms driven by financial engineering – we want them to be driven by long-term investment." At two parliamentary hearings last week, Pfizer's boss, Ian Read, tried to convince MPs that he wanted to invest in UK scientific research but also admitted that the combined business would have fewer scientists and less research spending than the two companies possess now. AstraZeneca chief executive, Pascal Soriot, told the Guardian last week that AstraZeneca's reputation could be damaged by Pfizer's tax avoidance plans, which will involve Pfizer basing the company in the UK in order to keep its cash pile away from the US tax authorities. He also raised concerns about the proposed break-up of the business, which would have split AstraZeneca's assets between three new Pfizer divisions. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenMohamed El-Erian, CEO and Co-Chief Investment Officer, Pacific Investment Management Co., speaks during the "Financial Recovery: When and How?" panel at the 2009 Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California April 27, 2009. Probably the biggest market surprise in 2014 has been the bond market rally. Almost everyone predicted that interest rates would rise in the US and elsewhere, as the economy took off. Instead, the yield on the 10-year bond is backdown to 2.51%. In a piece up at the FT, Mohamed El-Erian gives three reasons why investors keep piling into bonds, and driving rates lower. They are: Failure of the economies of Europe and the US to really take off, signaling from the central banks that they will keep rates very low, and investors positioning. On that last point, basically, investors were almost uniformly positioned for bond prices to fall, so as that failed to happen, there's been a big short-covering scramble.  Read El-Erian's full column here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLabourers work on the scaffolding of a construction site for a new residential building in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China will increasingly manage its troubled property sector at a local level as it seeks to avoid sparking either an abrupt slowdown that undermines the economy or another surge in prices, according to government economists involved in policy discussions. After increasing at double-digit rates through most of last year, home prices started cooling in late 2013 as a sustained campaign to clamp down on speculative investment and easy credit gained traction. Annual growth in average new home prices slowed to an 11-month low in April, official data showed on Sunday. Existing home prices dropped from a month earlier in 22 of 70 cities in April, compared with 14 in March. Data last week showed property sales dropped 6.9 percent in the January-April period from a year earlier in terms of floor space, and fell 7.8 percent in terms of value. Authorities know a severe property crunch could worsen a build-up of debt, but also that a blanket easing of restrictions could set off another round of credit-fuelled house price rises. "There is no sign that the central government will relax property controls on a nationwide scale even though the economy is slowing," said Zhao Xijun, deputy head of the Finance and Securities Institute at Renmin University in Beijing. "The pressure is mainly on local governments, because some of their debts are maturing and they need to repay." Local governments rely heavily on revenues from land sales to fund debts that official data show total 17.9 trillion yuan ($2.9 trillion), so price falls and slowing sales have sparked concerns about their ability to service their debts. The economists expect restrictions on property introduced over the past five years to largely remain in place, particularly in major cities, but with some local authorities given leeway to support their markets. Some smaller cities, including the eastern city of Tongling in Anhui province and Ningbo, the coastal city of eastern Zhejiang province and the southern city of Nanning in Guangxi, have started to loosen home purchase rules. Back in 2012, Beijing forced governments in areas including Wuhu, Foshan and Chengdu to retract plans to ease controls on real estate, but there has been no such response this year. "They (policymakers) are still watching. Property prices have started to fall but they still don't see any serious problems," said a senior economist at a government think-tank in Beijing. "The bottom line is that a property slowdown doesn't trigger financial risks," said the economist, who spoke on condition of anonymity. President Xi Jinping has said China should adapt to a "new normal" of slower growth as the government pushes market-based reforms to cut debt levels in the economy and generate more sustainable long-term growth. The cooling real estate market helped drag annual economic growth to an 18-month low of 7.4 percent in the first quarter, and a sustained fall would risk China missing its economic growth target for the first time in 15 years. Standard Chartered said official figures showed 17 months stock of apartments in Tier 1 to Tier 3 cities, which cover China's major metropolises, including Beijing and Shanghai. "The momentum is clearly negative. This downturn appears worse than previous episodes - the scale of oversupply is likely to be larger, and policy makers are understandably more hesitant to step in with immediate support," Standard Chartered economists said in a report. The government is still trying to deal with the hangover of a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package implemented in 2008-2009, which insulated China from the global crisis but also created piles of local debt and record house prices. "It's natural to relax controls if property prices fall. Our purpose is to curb price rises and we should relax if prices no longer rise," said Zhu Baoliang, chief economist at State Information Centre, a top government think-tank. "I don't think property prices will rise further. On the contrary, the downward pressure is big." Last week the central bank called on banks to speed up the granting of home loans to first home buyers, although that is seen having only a limited impact. "We doubt that banks will rush out with mortgages," analysts at Bank of America/Merill Lynch said in a research note. "Even a meaningful increase in mortgage supply shouldn't fundamentally change the worsening property market conditions." Many economists believe that if the economy slows further, the central bank will cut banks' reserve requirement ratios around the middle of the year. That would support activity, but it is a broad-brush policy that authorities can't fully control. "We need to keep liquidity relatively loose to help safeguard economic growth," said Li Huiyong, chief economist at Shenyin &amp; Wanguo Securities in Shanghai. "But money has no label and we cannot rule out the possibility that money will drive up property prices, even though it has yet to lead to improvement in the economy." &lt;^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ GRAPHIC: China property prices http://link.reuters.com/pek96s GRAPHIC: China econ/trade suite http://link.reuters.com/fut96s ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^&gt; ($1 = 6.2289 Chinese Yuan) (Editing by John Mair) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinRussia's President Vladimir Putin (front) gestures as his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping (L) smiles, during their meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow March 22, 2013. SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Preparations for an agreement on long-awaited Russian natural gas exports to China have entered "the final phase", China's state-run Xinhua news agency on Monday quoted Russian President Vladimir Putin as saying ahead of a two-day visit to Shanghai. "For Russia, implementing these agreements means diversifying gas supply destinations, while for our Chinese partners ... it could be a remedy for energy shortages and helps ecological security," Xinhua quoted Putin as saying in an interview with Chinese media ahead of the May 20-21 visit. A deal after nearly two decades of talks would secure the world's top energy user a key chunk of supply as demand for the cleaner burning fuel is set to surge. For Russia, the deal to supply China with 38 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas a year would help cut its dependence on Europe as the major market for its gas and create a strategic shift to Asia, as political pressure piles up over Ukraine. Russian state-run Gazprom &lt;GAZP.MM&gt; said at the weekend it was still "one digit" away from finalizing a 30-year gas supply deal with Beijing which is expected to crown Putin's visit to China next week. Earlier this month, state China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC) &lt;CNPET.UL&gt; said that it and Gazprom had reached an agreement to sign a contract during Putin's visit but that the two sides had yet to iron out price differences. At 38 bcm per year, Russian supplies would be equal to nearly a quarter of current consumption and make up nearly a tenth of China's estimated total gas demand by 2020. China is fast-tracking gas use, which is set to grow about 2.5 fold between 2014 and 2020, to curb use of the dominant but dirtier coal. The country's state planning agency forecast last month that China would raise its total natural gas supply capacity to 400 billion cubic meters (bcm) per year by 2020. (Reporting by John Ruwitch; Editing by Richard Pullin) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks out of a building at Alibaba's headquarters on the outskirts of HangzhouBEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - For Yuan Yue, a Chinese graduate student in international trade, moving all of her spare cash to an online investment fund called Yu'e Bao was a no brainer. "The yield is even higher than a bank time deposit, but a time deposit ties up your money ... so it's better to just keep it in Yu'e Bao, because you can use the money anytime. So why keep it at the bank?" said Yuan, who studies in Shanghai. Yu'e Bao, available on smartphones, is conveniently linked to China's biggest online payments platform Alipay, similar to PayPal and owned by an affiliate of e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Users can dip directly into Yu'e Bao to pay for goods bought online. As Alibaba gears up for what could be the world's biggest tech IPO, online finance has become another focus of the sprawling firm - and while that business will be largely kept separate from the offering, it could play a major role in the entire company's future growth. China's banking industry is behind those of developed markets but its number of Internet users, now more than 618 million, is sparking a boom in online and mobile payments. The total transaction value of China's third-party online payments is expected to reach 18.5 trillion yuan ($2.97 trillion) by 2017, up from 5.4 trillion yuan last year, according to Shanghai-based data firm iResearch. Yu'e Bao's high interest rates are an incentive to deposit money into the platform, money which can easily be used to buy products on Alibaba's huge online shopping websites and anywhere else that takes Alipay. Money market fund Yu'e Bao has been such a success that the fund management company that helped launch it, Tianhong Asset Management Co, has gone from near obscurity to China's biggest in terms of assets under management (AUM) in just months. The firm had 554 billion yuan ($88.88 billion) in AUM in the first quarter of 2014, from just 10.5 billion yuan a year earlier, according to Z-Ben Advisors, a Shanghai-based investment management consultancy. And now the company that owns Alipay, Zhejiang Alibaba E-Commerce Co, is waiting for regulatory approval to buy 51 percent of Tianhong. Tianhong's massive assets under management are in low risk, highly liquid money market funds, said Wang Dengfeng, Tianhong's fund manager. "We knew it was a break-through product and would succeed but we were surprised that it could reach today's levels," Wang said. "We didn't expect it to move the money market industry and also the country's money management policies." CHALLENGES AHEAD Tianhong may have grown fast, but like most money market funds it has razor thin profit margins, said Chris Powers, a consultant at Z-Ben Advisors. "The key will be whether Tianhong can take their now new name recognition and their long list of investors and use them to get them to invest in normal equity funds or fixed income funds which will really help grow their AUM but also grow their revenue," he said. Yu'e Bao and Tianhong may also come under regulatory pressure. Their rise has angered China's big state-owned banks, which can't compete on deposit interest rates as they're controlled by the central bank. The banking regulator has been talking about possible restrictions on fund flows to e-payment platforms or even subjecting them to the same requirements as standard banks. Alibaba founder Jack Ma is fighting back. "It's not the monopolies and powers that determine success in the market, it's the consumer," Ma said on Alibaba's mobile chat app, after banks imposed limits on how much their customers could transfer to Alipay in March. But it's not just regulatory challenges looming. Competitors such as China's dominant online search company Baidu Inc and Tencent Holdings Ltd, a social networking and online gaming giant with the hugely popular WeChat mobile messaging app, have their own investment platforms for customers. And those customers are fickle. Yuan Yue has been watching the yields on Yu'e Bao carefully as they've dropped below 5 percent for the first time. A one-year time deposit at a local bank pays at most 3.3 percent. "If it falls below 4 percent I won't keep it in Yu'e Bao," she said. "Others like WeChat and Baidu are offering similar products. "I can split it up - 2,000 yuan in Baidu's fund, 2,000 yuan in a WeChat fund. They all make me money and the risk is diversified." ($1 = 6.2334 yuan) (Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Getty/Jeff J. Mitchell Good morning! Markets around the world are slipping US futures are down about 0.2%. Japan fell 0.6%. But the real story is in Italy, where the FTSE MIB stock index is down over 3%. This comes amid a general bout of weakness in peripheral stocks and bond markets in recent days. There's been a huge rally over the last several months in peripheral government debt, and lately that has been reversing a bit with yields popping higher. Meanwhile, over the weekend there was a lot of deal news. AT&amp;T confirmed its attempted acquisition of DirecTV and Pfizer cranked up its offer, once again, of AstraZeneca. Other than that, there's not a ton going on. This is scheduled to be both a quiet week on both the economic data front and the corporate front. FREE AppDownload
