Malaysia Airlines shares were down nearly 16% in Friday trading as markets digested the aftermath of one its planes going down over Eastern Ukraine. U.S. authorities say the Flight MH17, a Boeing 777, was shot down, though it was not yet known by whom. It's not been a good year for the airline, which also saw its stock price suffer in the wake of flight MH370's disappearance over the Indian Ocean this past winter. Shares are down more than 40% over the last 12 months. Here's the chart: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoPeople light candles at the Dutch embassy for victims of Malaysia Airlines MH17, which crashed in eastern Ukraine, in Kiev July 17, 2014.The shooting down of a Malaysian Airlines passenger jet over eastern Ukraine has shaken the world. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Ukraine’s security services have released an intercepted audio recording in which pro-Russia separatists allegedly discuss how they shot down a civilian aircraft in eastern Ukraine. On the tape, militants nicknamed “Major” and “Greek” discuss the unfolding situation as separatists inspected the crash site and realise it’s a civilian aircraft, and seeing dead passengers. “It’s 100% a passenger aircraft,” Major is recorded as saying, noting that he saw no weapons on-site. “Absolutely nothing. Civilian items, medicinal stuff, towels, toilet paper.” 2. This is a huge escalation of the Ukranian tensions because it draws other countries, at least by having to press for a resolution to the crisis. (It was put to Prime Minister Tony Abbott that the only source of a missile capable of shooting down a passenger jet flying 10km over Ukraine would be Russia.) Russian president Vladimir Putin partially blamed the Kiev government this morning for the atrocity, saying that Ukraine had failed to deal sufficiently with the pro-Russian separatists. For Kiev, the pressure will intensify to remove the separatists by force, according to Eurasia Group President Ian Bremmer. The Sun in the UK hasn’t pulled any punches with its front page, which carried the headline “PUTIN’S MISSILE”. 3. Up to 27 Australians are believed among the dead, though reports say only 23 have been officially confirmed as passengers on the flight, which departed Amsterdam for Kuala Lumpur. It was due to change in Kuala Lumpur to an onward flight to Melbourne. There were 280 passengers in total, plus 15 crew. The vast majority – 154 – of the passengers were Dutch. It’s also been reported that 23 Americans were aboard, with the remainder being Malaysian, Indonesian, German, Belgian, and Filipino. Australians concerned about friends and loved ones can call 1300 555 135. 4. The images from the crash site are shocking. Be warned that they’re graphic, but you can see them here. Most of the plane has been reduced to ash but heartbreakingly, one video still shows a soldier at the scene holding an Australian passport: 5. World leaders have reacted cautiously, with Barack Obama saying in brief remarks to the press that the incident “may have been a terrible tragedy”. In an incredible twist, Obama learned about the incident while on a scheduled call with Vladimir Putin. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said that while the cause of the crash had not been verified, if it “transpires that the plane was indeed shot down, we insist that the perpetrators must swiftly be brought to justice”. Tony Abbott said that while the circumstances of the crash weren’t yet fully known, there was “quite strong evidence” that a missile was responsible and, were that the case, it would be an “unspeakable crime”. Ukraine’s government is calling it an “act of terrorism”. 6. Also overnight, Israel launched a major ground offensive in Gaza, targeting tunnels used by Hamas. Tens of thousands of reserves have been mobilised for a potential expansion of Operation Protective Edge, following 10 days of aerial bombardment in retaliation against Hamas rocket attacks. 7. Markets had their biggest fall in months, with the S&amp;P 500 down 1.1%, and the fall continuing in after-hours futures trading. It’s the first time in 63 sessions there’s been more than a 1% move in the S&amp;P 500. The Dow was down 0.9% and the Nasdaq shed 1.4%. We’re likely to see falls on the Australian market today, with the SPI 200 September contract down 27 points to 5,454, so pointing to a heavy fall at the open. A fall in the iron ore price overnight could also see some downward pressure on resources stocks. Gold spiked overnight as risk came off, and the volatility index, or Vix, spiked 32%. 8. Microsoft is shedding 18,000 jobs, the biggest layoff in the company’s history. Most of the losses will come from Nokia, which Microsoft acquired this year. 9. Clive Palmer’s budget threat. The PUP leader says the government has tried to do too much in the federal budget, and that it will either have to do a mini-budget to change some of the spending plans, or go back to the country. We’ll see. 10. A solid day for the Aussies at the British Open. Adam Scott and Marc Leishman are two and three shots behind Rory McIlroy after the opening day. A couple of Italian brothers – Edoardo and Francesco Molinari – are tied for third. But the horror show award goes to two-time Open champion hit a spectator in the jaw with a tee shot and with his mind obviously still on it, three-putted from within a foot. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
flickr via zolakomaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. These 6 Steps Can Help Assess And Adjust Your Financial Portfolio (Morningstar) As you check on your portfolio from time to time, Morningstar's Christine Benz recommended using a quick list of assessments, modeled after a food pyramid, to evaluate your investments. "Like the original food pyramid, the items toward the base of the financial pyramid are the most important--the equivalent of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables," she writes. "Meanwhile, the top of the pyramid features items that have less of an impact on the success or failure of their financial plans." Benz points out six things that investors need to ask themselves, starting with the base question, (have your goals changed) to the top of the pyramid. Here they are verbatim: 1. Have your goals changed?2. Is your savings or spending program on track? 3. How does your asset allocation compare with your targets?4. Does your portfolio align with your risk tolerance? Are you reducing exposure to the market hot spots?5. Have you maxed out your tax-sheltered accounts? If any changed are warranted, can you make them in a tax-sensitive way?6. Are your holdings on track? "As you conduct your portfolio checkup, don't focus disproportionately on individual holdings' absolute returns and return rankings, though they can be difficult to ignore," Benz said. "Instead, concentrate on fundamentals, revisiting whether your reason for holding each position remains intact." SEC Will Prioritize Examining Expensive Mutual Funds And Bad Brokers (Reuters) As the Securities and Exchange Commission prepares to examine financial advisory firms, they named a couple key focuses for 2015. These include costly mutual funds that rake in high fees, and brokers with disciplinary violations. Citing Kevin Goodman, who heads the broker-dealer examination program for the SEC, Suzanne Barlyn at Reuters writes that "one issue of concern was brokerages that sell pricey share classes of mutual funds and variable annuities."  "Goodman cited 'an explosion' of so-called 'L-shares,' a type of mutual fund shares held in variable annuities that have short surrender periods, but higher upfront costs,"Barlyn reports.  "The SEC was interested to know whether investors were aware of the fees they pay for different types of share classes and whether these charges were appropriate for the investors buying them, Goodman said." "...The agency may decide to look at individual branch offices on a standalone basis next year. If finalized, examiners would choose those offices based on factors such as their size, trading activities, and sales in certain products, such as an unusual amount of risky complex securities, Goodman said. The industry can also expect a 'laser like focus' on brokerages and brokers who have a history of disciplinary violations." Financial Advisors Are Seeing Increased Pay And Job Security (Wall Street Journal) As profits from wealth management divisions at financial firms are increasing, financial advisors are risking up in the ranks. WSJ's Corrie Driebusch reported that large banks, such as UBS and Morgan Stanley are focusing more on wealth management, rather than riskier businesses. "Profits from wealth management are swelling at Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and other firms with big retail brokerages. That has meant bigger signing bonuses for top brokers who choose to change shops and better job security for those who don't. The advising industry also is viewed as suffering from a shortage of new and younger talent, making older, proven producers a coveted commodity," Driebusch said.  "A top-producing financial adviser jumping from one big firm to another could demand a recruitment bonus of as much as three times the revenue he or she produces, according to brokers and recruiters. That compares with bonuses of about two times revenue before the financial crisis. " FINRA Has Created A New Task Force To Improve The Arbitration Process (Wealth Management) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has created a task force to review the arbitration process and suggest improvements. Diana Britton from Wealth Management reported that although there have been changes in the last several years, many advisors remain critical of the process. "One possible issue the task force could look at would be the downward trend in what claimants recover," Britton said. "[Attorney Howard] Prossnitz said claimants now recover 44 percent of the time, down from as high as 55 percent, and when they do recover, they typically get one-third of what they’re seeking. 'The elephant in the room, which no one ever really wants to discuss, is mandatory arbitration,' Prossnitz added." "There are also limited ways to get a case thrown out, said Richard Roth, founder and partner of The Roth Law Firm in New York. In court, you can file a motion to dismiss or a motion to summary judgment," Britton said. "The arbitration process is also much longer than people would anticipate, Roth said. The average case takes about a year, he said, while some can go on for four or five years." Why Some Investors Are Using Treasury Inflated Protected Securities (BlackRock) BlackRock's Matthew Tucker explained why investors are using Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) to hedge against rising inflation in a recent blog post. Tucker remains skeptical of this strategy because he foresees inflation accelerating only at a modest rate. "When considering TIPS as an investment it’s important to note that TIPS derive their returns from two sources – rates and inflation – and while TIPS may be a good option when hedging against rising inflation, they’re not ideal for a rising interest rate environment," Tucker said. "TIPS tend to struggle in rising interest rate environments, especially those that have low levels of inflation. Looking forward I believe that interest rates will gradually rise, and that inflation may pick up but isn’t likely to increase substantially in the near term. Additionally yields remain low; as a result TIPS won’t generate much income if inflation does not accelerate." FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Advanced Micro Devices Inc posted a net loss for the second quarter and gave a revenue forecast for the current quarter that missed expectations, sending its shares sharply lower. AMD's stock fell 15 percent in extended trade on Thursday after the company said it had a net loss of $36 million, or 5 cents a share, in the June quarter, compared with a loss of $74 million, or 10 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding items, AMD earned 2 cents per share, compared with 3 cents expected by analysts. A strong quarterly report this week from Intel Corp underscored expectations on Wall Street that the worst is over for a personal computer industry hammered by the mobile revolution. But much of the recent stabilization in the PC market has been driven by businesses replacing old PCs. AMD has less exposure to business customers than Intel. AMD has been expanding into new markets like game consoles and low-power servers and it aims to obtain half of its revenue from those additional businesses by the end of 2015. But selling PC chips remains its business for now. “The company's transformation is going to take a little longer. They're taking the right steps but we don't think investors should step in right now,” said Stifel Nicolaus analyst Kevin Cassidy. Prior to Thursday's post-report sell-off, AMD's shares had gained 24 percent in the past three months. AMD's revenue rose 24 percent to $1.44 billion in the second quarter. The company said its third-quarter revenue would rise 2 percent, plus or minus 3 percent, from the June quarter. That would be about $1.47 billion. Analysts on average had expected revenue of $1.44 billion in the second quarter and $1.57 billion in the third quarter, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Shares of AMD were down 15.3 percent at $3.87 in extended trade after closing down 1.93 percent at $4.57. (Reporting by Noel Randewich; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
The current IPO market certainly seems highly speculative, but our recent Financial Times commentary discussed how the speculation within the IPO market actually reflects investors’ fears regarding plain stocks that are sensitive to the economy. High-beta stocks within the S&amp;P 500® are actually selling at their cheapest relative valuations in nearly thirty years of data. The IPO market is frothy, but that frothiness doesn’t seem to have spread to more traditional stocks. Investors never fully embraced the bull market and remain very uncertain despite that the bull market is more than five years old. Consider the following: 1)    Credit Suisse data shows that US pension funds have their lowest equity allocations in more than 30 years. 2)    BofAML’s “Sell Side Indicator” highlights that Wall Street strategists continue to underweight equities in their recommendations. 3)    ISI’s hedge fund survey suggests that hedge funds are neutrally positioned. 4)    ICI mutual fund flows have been negative for US equity funds for more than two months. 5)    As mentioned, S&amp;P 500® high beta stocks are selling at their cheapest relative valuations in nearly 30 years. Over-enthusiasm is typically a characteristic of the late stages of a bull market. Analysts often focus on investor sentiment to determine if investors are over enthusiastic about stocks. As noted above, the data strongly suggest limited, if any, enthusiasm for the broader stock market. It is often equally interesting to look at corporations because corporate hubris typically drives decision-making in the real economy during the late stages of an economic cycle. Corporations’ budding enthusiasm as the cycle matures leads them to increase their operating leverage and raise fixed-costs. Operating leverage generally increases firms’ sensitivity to the economy, and smaller changes in demand have a magnified effect on profits. During a slowdown, increased operating leverage amplifies a slowdown in profits which then results in layoffs, plant closings, and the drawdown of inventories. Corporations have been very conservative so far in this cycle regarding increasing fixed costs. Although merger and lending activity has recently picked up, uncertainty over the past several years has curtailed the normal cyclical corporate hubris. Such reserve could ultimately be a very healthy contributor to an elongated economic cycle. Chart 1 shows that corporations are not building excessive inventories. This suggests that the quality of earnings is probably quite good, and decreases the probability of an inventory-led recession (i.e., producing goods that can’t be sold and hindering future production). Richard Bernstein AdvisorsChart 2 demonstrates that corporations are not yet building excess capacity. Property, plant, and equipment (PPE) growth, while above average, is hardly extreme and has slowed some. Richard Bernstein AdvisorsChart 3 highlights that corporations are not using excessive leverage to finance PPE and inventory expansion. Debt/equity ratios seem quite conservative relative to history. Richard Bernstein Advisors RBA’s corporate motto is Uncertainty = OpportunitySM. Certainty implies risks not anticipated, and potential disappointment. Uncertainty, however, often suggests higher- than-normal risk premiums and investment opportunity. A broad swath of data, whether focused on investors or corporations, continues to suggest meaningful uncertainty. Accordingly, we continue to believe this may be an elongated cycle that still offers unrecognized investment opportunities. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyWooldon Manor in Southampton.Hedge fund tycoon Scott Bommer has flipped his Southampton estate for more than $80 million just a year after buying it for $75 million, reports The Wall Street Journal's Candace Taylor. Bommer, founder of SAB capital initially listed the expansive property on Lake Agawam for $98 million in March. The historic estate, called Wooldon Manor, previously belonged to shoe tycoon Vince Camuto. It sold as two separate parcels: the 10,000-square-foot home and 2 acres, which were bought by a "New York family" for $50 million, and a 12-acre plot, which went to a developer. The estate — which has a gorgeous pool, pool house, formal gardens, a romantic greenhouse, and tennis court — had been owned by both the Woolworth family and Edmund Lynch, a founding partner of Merrill Lynch. FREE AppDownload
The volatility index, or VIX, gained 32% today. The VIX, commonly referred to as the "fear index," measures expected volatility in the S&amp;P 500 over the next month.  Amid the Malaysia Airlines plane crash in Ukraine and late afternoon reports that Israel has begun a ground operation in Gaza, stocks sold off as "safe haven" assets like gold and bonds rallied. Gold was trading near $1320 an ounce, up from about $1305 early in the day, while the yield on U.S. 10-year Treasury bonds fell to 2.44% from 2.51% earlier.  The VIX, which has been at historically low levels through the spring, traded up to 15.00 — or an advance of more than 37% — at one point during the session before settling at 14.54. Here's a chart of today's action.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Getty / Justin Sullivan Google earnings are out! It's a miss on the bottom line, but a beat on the top line: Google also announced that long time sales boss Nikesh Arora is leaving the company, going to Softbank where he will be a vice chairman and CEO of its Internet and Media division. Omid Kordestani will take Arora's place. The stock is up modestly after-hours. The most important thing investors were watching was paid clicks and cost per click: Paid clicks increased approximately 25% over the second quarter of 2013 and increased approximately 2% over the first quarter of 2014. Cost per click, CPC, was down 6% from the previous year. However, that's a modest increase over the first quarter of the year, when CPC was down by 9% year-over-year. It remained constant from the first quarter of 2014.  The numbers show that even as mobile ads become a larger part of its business, Google still can't charge as much for them as it can for desktop ads. In the earnings call, though, Nikesh Arora said that there's "huge revenue opportunity" for mobile, and  Google expects that mobile ads will eventually be more lucrative than desktop. Here's a look at the change in Google's CPC over the last few years, from Business Insider Intelligence: BII Here's a nice chart from from Jan Dawson: Here are those new metrics from Google: clicks on Google’s own websites growing nicely, prices down all over pic.twitter.com/qFkjNJWVq7 Google Google made a few acquisitions this year, including Titan Aerospace, a drone company, and Skybox Imaging, a satellite service. These acquisitions (and the hundreds of millions of dollars that they required) will be helpful for Google's "moonshot" type projects, and on the call, an investor asked about Google's timelines for profitability for these various initiatives. The company's ceded that these are long-term projects, and although it's constantly updating its theses about profitabilty, these are multi-year commitments that could take decades.  Nikesh Arora is speaking on the call, after the news that he'll be leaving the company to join SoftBank.  He calls out successful channels like, Epic Rap Battles of History, for increasing interest in YouTube. He highlights Google MyBusiness, Google's initiative to help small business manage their web presences.  I can report that over 60% of over Fortune 500 companies use Google enterprise products, he says. 1 million Chromebooks were sold into schools. Chromecast is becoming more popular, particularly overseas.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Manu FernandezIBM CEO Ginni RomettyIBM just reported its quarterly earnings and it's full of good news. It reported darnings per share of $4.32 and revenue of $24.36 billion. That's a beat, all the way around. Wall Street analysts expected $4.29 cents EPS on $24.12 billion in revenue. The expectations for revenue were modest, a 3% decline. IBM still reported a decline, but of only 2%. The expectations for profits were significantly higher as IBM marches toward its promised $20 EPS by 2015. IBM reported $3.22 EPS in the year-ago quarter. The company also reiterated its EPS guidance for the full-year of at least $18. This is an important beat for IBM. Revenues at IBM have been shrinking for a while and it's been struggling to hit Wall Street's revenue expectations for more than a year now. During fiscal 2013 it missed expectations four times in a row. It also missed on revenue for its first quarter 2014. In May, CEO Ginni Rometty said that growing revenue was "not the No. 1 priority on my list." Instead, she's trimming the company's least profitable business units (commodity hardware) and shifting resources to new, growing and more profitable areas (namely cloud computing). She's laying off thousands of workers in the process and hiring thousands of others with new skill sets. “We don’t want empty calories,” Rometty told the New York Times. “So when people keep pushing us for growth, that is not the number one priority on my list.” Here's the relevant parts of the press release: ARMONK, N.Y.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- IBM (NYSE:IBM) Diluted EPS:GAAP: $4.12, up 42 percent;Operating (non-GAAP): $4.32, up 34 percent; Net income:GAAP: $4.1 billion, up 28 percent;Operating (non-GAAP): $4.3 billion, up 21 percent; Gross profit margin:GAAP: 49.1 percent, up 50 basis points;Operating (non-GAAP): 49.8 percent, up 10 basis points; Revenue: $24.4 billion:Down 2 percent; down 1 percent adjusting for divested customer care outsourcing business;Software, Services adjusting for divested customer care outsourcing business and Global Financing grew; Systems and Technology declined; Services backlog of $136 billion, down 1 percent adjusting for divested customer care outsourcing business; Strategic growth initiatives grew double digits: Cloud revenue up more than 50 percent year-to-date;For cloud delivered as a service, second-quarter annual run rate up nearly 100 percent to $2.8 billion year-to-year; Business analytics revenue up 7 percent year-to-date; Mobile revenue up more than 100 percent year-to-date; Security revenue up more than 20 percent year-to-date;Continue to expect full-year operating (non-GAAP) EPS of at least $18.00.IBM (NYSE:IBM) today announced second-quarter 2014 diluted earnings of $4.12 per share, compared with diluted earnings of $2.91 per share in the second quarter of 2013, an increase of 42 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings were $4.32 per share, compared with operating diluted earnings of $3.22 per share in the second quarter of 2013, an increase of 34 percent. Second-quarter net income was $4.1 billion compared with $3.2 billion in the second quarter of 2013, an increase of 28 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) net income was $4.3 billion compared with $3.6 billion in the second quarter of 2013, an increase of 21 percent. The year-to-year results include the impact of a charge in the prior year period of $1 billion for workforce rebalancing. Total revenues for the second quarter of 2014 of $24.4 billion were down 2 percent (down 1 percent, as reported and adjusting for currency, adjusting for the divested customer care outsourcing business) from the second quarter of 2013. In the second quarter, we made further progress on our transformation. We performed well in our strategic imperatives around cloud, big data and analytics, security and mobile, said Ginni Rometty, IBM chairman, president and chief executive officer. We will continue to extend and leverage our unique strengths to address the emerging trends in enterprise IT and transform our business, positioning ourselves for growth over the long term. Second-Quarter GAAP Operating (non-GAAP) Reconciliation Second-quarter operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings exclude $0.20 per share of charges: $0.16 per share for the amortization of purchased intangible assets and other acquisition-related charges, and $0.04 per share for non-operating retirement-related charges driven by changes to plan assets and liabilities primarily related to market performance. Full-Year 2014 Expectations IBM expects full-year 2014 GAAP diluted earnings per share of at least $17.00, and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of at least $18.00. The 2014 operating (non-GAAP) earnings expectations exclude $1.00 per share of charges for amortization of purchased intangible assets, other acquisition-related charges, and retirement-related charges. Geographic Regions The Americas second-quarter revenues were $10.6 billion, a decrease of 1 percent (up 1 percent, adjusting for currency) from the 2013 period. Revenues from Europe/Middle East/Africa were up 1 percent at $7.9 billion (down 3 percent adjusting for currency). Asia-Pacific revenues decreased 9 percent (down 6 percent adjusting for currency) to $5.3 billion. OEM revenues were $433 million, down 19 percent (down 19 percent adjusting for currency) compared with the 2013 second quarter. Growth Markets Revenues from the companys growth markets were down 7 percent (down 4 percent, adjusting for currency). Revenues in the BRIC countries Brazil, Russia, India and China were down 2 percent (up 1 percent, adjusting for currency). Services Global Services segment revenues decreased 1 percent (down 1 percent, adjusting for currency) to $13.9 billion. Revenues increased 1 percent adjusting for the impact of the divested customer care outsourcing business. Global Technology Services segment revenues decreased 1 percent (down 1 percent, adjusting for currency) to $9.4 billion. Adjusting for the impact of the divested customer care outsourcing business, revenues were up 2 percent (up 2 percent adjusting for currency). Global Business Services segment revenues were down 2 percent (down 2 percent, adjusting for currency) to $4.5 billion. Pre-tax income from Global Technology Services increased 22 percent and pre-tax margin increased to 19.2 percent, including the impact of a $0.4 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year. Global Business Services pre-tax income increased 34 percent and pre-tax margin increased to 17.8 percent, including the impact of a $0.2 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year. The estimated services backlog at June 30 was $136 billion, down 1 percent adjusting for the divested customer care outsourcing business (down 3 percent adjusting for currency). Software Revenues from the Software segment were $6.5 billion, up 1 percent (flat adjusting for currency) compared with the second quarter of 2013. Software pre-tax income increased 10 percent and pre-tax margin increased to 36.5 percent, including the impact of a $0.2 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year. Revenues from IBMs key middleware products, which include WebSphere, Information Management, Tivoli, Workforce Solutions and Rational products, were $4.3 billion, up 1 percent (flat adjusting for currency) versus the second quarter of 2013. Operating systems revenues of $530 million were down 13 percent (down 13 percent, adjusting for currency) compared with the prior-year quarter. Financing Global Financing segment revenues increased 4 percent (up 4 percent, adjusting for currency) in the second quarter at $504 million. Pre-tax income for the segment increased 8 percent to $593 million. Hardware Revenues from the Systems and Technology segment totaled $3.3 billion for the quarter, down 11 percent (down 12 percent, adjusting for currency) from the second quarter of 2013. Systems and Technology segment pre-tax income increased $0.2 billion, including the impact of a $0.2 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year. Total systems revenues decreased 11 percent (down 11 percent, adjusting for currency). Revenues from System z mainframe server products, in the seventh quarter since they were announced, decreased 1 percent compared with the year-ago period. Total delivery of System z computing power, as measured in MIPS (millions of instructions per second), was flat. Revenues from Power Systems were down 28 percent compared with the 2013 period. Revenues from System x were down 3 percent. Revenues from System Storage decreased 12 percent and within this business area, flash storage grew more than 100 percent. Revenues from Microelectronics OEM decreased 18 percent. Gross Profit The companys total gross profit margin was 49.1 percent in the 2014 second quarter compared with 48.7 percent in the 2013 second-quarter period. Total operating (non-GAAP) gross profit margin was 49.8 percent in the 2014 second quarter compared with 49.7 percent in the 2013 second-quarter period, with increases in Global Technology Services and Global Financing. Expense Total expense and other income decreased to $6.8 billion or 15 percent, including a gain of $121 million from the divestiture of the customer care outsourcing business and the impact of a $1.0 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year period. S,G&amp;A expense of $5.6 billion decreased 16 percent year over year. R,D&amp;E expense of $1.5 billion decreased 6 percent compared with the year-ago period, and was 6 percent of revenue, consistent with the second-quarter of 2013. Intellectual property and custom development income decreased to $191 million compared with $247 million a year ago. Other (income) and expense was income of $201 million compared with prior-year income of $91 million. Interest expense increased to $136 million compared with $98 million in the prior year. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other income decreased 14 percent to $6.7 billion compared with the prior-year period, including the impact of a $1.0 billion workforce rebalancing charge in the prior year period. Operating (non-GAAP) S,G&amp;A expense decreased 16 percent to $5.5 billion compared with the prior-year period. Operating (non-GAAP) R,D&amp;E expense of $1.5 billion was down 4 percent compared with the year-ago period. Pre-Tax Income Pre-tax income increased 25 percent to $5.2 billion and pre-tax margin of 21.2 percent was up 4.6 points compared with the prior-year period. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income increased 18 percent to $5.4 billion and pre-tax margin was 22.3 percent, up 3.9 points. *** IBMs tax rate was 20.0 percent, down 2.1 points year over year; operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was 20.0 percent, down 2.0 points compared to the year-ago period. Net income margin increased 4.0 points to 17.0 percent. Total operating (non-GAAP) net income margin increased 3.5 points to 17.8 percent. The weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding in the second-quarter 2014 was 1.01 billion compared with 1.11 billion shares in the same period of 2013. As of June 30, 2014, there were 998 million basic common shares outstanding. Debt, including Global Financing, totaled $46.5 billion, compared with $39.7 billion at year-end 2013. From a management segment view, Global Financing debt totaled $29.4 billion versus $27.5 billion at year-end 2013, resulting in a debt-to-equity ratio of 7.1 to 1. Non-global financing debt totaled $17.1 billion, an increase of $4.9 billion since year-end 2013, resulting in a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 56.1, essentially flat quarter-to-quarter and higher than the ratio at year-end 2013. IBM ended the second-quarter 2014 with $9.7 billion of cash on hand and generated free cash flow of $3.0 billion, excluding Global Financing receivables, up $0.3 billion year over year. The company returned $4.8 billion to shareholders through $1.1 billion in dividends and $3.7 billion of gross share repurchases. Year-To-Date 2014 Results Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2014 was $6.5 billion compared with $6.3 billion in the year-ago period, an increase of 4 percent. Diluted earnings per share were $6.37 compared with $5.60 per diluted share for the 2013 period, an increase of 14 percent. Revenues for the six-month period totaled $46.8 billion, a decrease of 3 percent (down 2 percent, adjusting for currency) compared with $48.3 billion for the first six months of 2013. Operating (non-GAAP) net income for the six months ended June 30, 2014 was $7.0 billion, flat year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share were $6.82 compared with $6.23 per diluted share for the 2013 period, an increase of 9.5 percent. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson This morning the New York Department of Financial Services released a draft proposal of how they would regulate Bitcoin businesses. Under the draft rules, all firms will have to learn the identities of their customers, will have to maintain their own secure Bitcoin reserve fund, and undergo strict security audits. The more well-capitalized Bitcoin players, like SecondMarket's Barry Silbert and the Winklevoss twins, have embraced the proposal, saying it provides clarity for how they should be conducting their businesses. All three gave statements at DFS' hearings on the new licenses in January. But other Bitcoin evangelists hate the draft policies. Ryan Selkis, who blogs about Bitcoin at The Two-Bit Idiot, told BI in an email the proposed requirements would bring onerous new compliance costs on smaller firms. "It's almost hard to believe that the NYSDFS sought to strike an appropriate balance with this initial proposal because these prescriptions seem neither measured or balanced," he said in an email. The rules would also hamper transaction liquidity, and contended that they restrict businesses from investing their earnings in virtual currencies.  Others are concerned the rules will stamp out privacy and strangle innovation. Here's what Bryce Weiner, Director of Cryptoeconomy Engineering for the Blockchain Technology Group, told us in an email: It has been well established by a Penn State University study from 2013 that the identities of individuals using cryptocurrencies are easily compromised through metadata analysis. The combination of that published metadata analysis and the proposed regulations would lead to effectively ending the privacy of cryptocurrencies and regulate the creation of any new currencies developed in the US, which would not only cost American jobs as development firms move to more welcoming countries, it would ultimately stifle innovation and protect bitcoin from competition. In a blog post, Jerry Brito, a senior research fellow at George Mason's Mercatus center, said the rules are a good start, but that there is a considerable amount of ambiguity, especially over what types of firms require licenses, and that they seem to annul parts of virtual currencies' appeal. ... The ability to trade across borders, especially with those in developing countries who don’t have access to electronic payment systems, is one of Bitcoin’s greatest advantages and it could be seriously hampered by such a requirement. The rationale for creating a new “BitLicense” specific to virtual currencies was to design something that took the special characteristics of virtual currencies into account (something existing money transmission rules didn’t do). I hope the rule can be modified so that it can come closer to that ideal. There is now a 45-day comment period on the rules. We're sure DFS will be getting a few. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevAn armed pro-Russian separatist stands at a site of a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 plane crash in the settlement of Grabovo in the Donetsk region, July 17, 2014.Stocks were lower as headlines were dominated by the crash of a Malaysia Airlines flight in Ukraine near the Russian border. All major stock indices closed lower, with the S&amp;P 500 ending its streak of sessions without a 1% move at 62, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq suffered the deepest losses, falling 1.4%.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) A Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 crashed in eastern Ukraine at about 10:00 ET, with the news first breaking the U.S. at around 11:15 am ET. There were reportedly 295 people on board, including 280 passengers and 15 crew, when it crashed. Twenty-three Americans were on board the flight, which had no survivors. An adviser to the Ukraine Interior Minister said pro-Russian separatists shot down the plane. Following the reports, U.S. and Russian stocks fell as gold rallied and the VIX, or volatility index, surged more than 20%. 2) In economic news, the Department of Labor released its weekly report on initial jobless claims, which showed claims totaled 302,000, less than the 310,000 that was expected by economists. The report said that the 4-week moving average of initial claims is now 309,000, the lowest level for this average since June 2007. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Claims are still trending downwards; a much better guide to the economy right now than housing starts." 3) On the housing front, housing starts unexpectedly plunged 9.3% to an annualized rate of 893,000; economists were expecting starts to climb 1.9%. Building permits also fell 4.2% to 963,000. Much of the weakness in the report, however, was confined to one region of the country: the South. Housing starts in the South plunged 29.6%, driven by weakness in single-family units. Following the report, Eric Green at TD Securities wrote that, "the report is exceptionally uneven and on balance is not an indication of a significant turn in housing construction." 4) The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report soundly beat expectations, coming at 23.9 against expectations for a 16.0 reading. In seven of the report's nine subindices, the report showed improvement. Labor market conditions also showed broad improvement. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "Strong activity components, and another robust selling price reading... the report confirms the improvement in the business sector." 5) Microsoft announced that it would cut up to 18,000 jobs, including 12,500 at its recently acquired Nokia unit. Shares of the tech giant were trading near 14-year highs following the news, and Microsoft stock finished the day up 1%.  6) Morgan Stanley reported earnings that beat expectations, while the bank's profit came in at $1.94 billion for the second quarter, better than the $980 million reported a year ago. And while the bank beat on the top and bottom line, BI's Linette Lopez noted that the bank's shift towards wealth management under CEO James Gorman has bolstered its business.  7) After President Obama last night announced a fresh round of sanctions against Russian companies, stocks in Russia took a beating as the ruble weakened considerably against the U.S. dollar. In U.S. trade, the RSX exchange-traded fund that tracks Russia fell more than 7%. Beyond today's initial move, Citi highlighted stocks that have exposure to Russia and Ukraine, including Pepsi and Avon Products.  8) Also on the geopolitical front, late afternoon headlines said that Israeli forces began a ground operation in Gaza. 9) According to Bespoke Investment Group, the S&amp;P 500's more than 1% decline marked the first time in 62 trading sessions that the benchmark index logged a move greater than 1%. Don't Miss: This Is Why The Labor Force Participation Rate Keeps Falling » FREE AppDownload
Since day-to-day financial operations have moved online, Wall Streeters have grown increasingly concerned about the safety of their data. While most hacks are for gathering information and espionage, one well-executed cyberattack could bring down the entire structure of the financial system. Four years ago, a Russian cyber hack on Nasdaq proved just how vulnerable Wall Street is. Bloomberg Businessweek dove into the details in its cover story, "The Nasdaq Hack." According to the magazine, it all started in October 2010, with the discovery of malware in NASDAQ's central servers. Most alarming, the malware was an attack code, a military strike, from another country. The National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center launched a five-month investigation, of which many details are still classified. In the following investigation, the NSA recognized the malware from a previous version, built by Russia's main spy agency. However, this time it was much more dangerous – it had the ability to disrupt the entire network, potentially to wipe out Nasdaq altogether. The next step was tracing the attack back to the source. The search revealed the tracks of several other hacker groups within the system. Even worse, trying to track the attack brought attention to the unpreparedness of other large financial institutions. Bloomberg reported:  "The agents found little evidence of a broader attack. What they did find were systematic security failures riddling some of the most important U.S. financial institutions. It turned out that many on the list were vulnerable to the same attack that struck Nasdaq. They were spared only because the hackers hadn’t bothered to try." Officials ran through potential motives for the cyber hack: profit, destruction, sabotage. By 2011, they had concluded that Russia wanted to imitate the Nasdaq exchange, and used the hack to collect information for their own stock exchanges, Micex and RTS. When asked about the attack, Russian Embassy spokesman Yevgeniy Khorishko said, "It is pure nonsense that it is not even worth commenting on." The hack was disrupted, and further research showed the malware wasn't as dangerous as initially believed. However, the discovery of this weakness in Nasdaq also exposed how ill-equipped the rest of the country was to deal with any future threats. Bloomberg summed up the fear inspired by the 2010 attack: For some U.S. officials, however, the lessons of the incident are far more chilling. The U.S. national security apparatus may be dominant in the physical world, but it’s far less prepared in the virtual one. The rules of cyberwarfare are still being written, and it may be that the deployment of attack code is an act of war as destructive as the disabling of any real infrastructure. And it’s an act of war that can be hard to trace: Almost four years after the initial Nasdaq intrusion, U.S. officials are still sorting out what happened. Although American military is an excellent deterrent, it doesn’t work if you don’t know whom to use it on. Read the full story at Bloomberg Businessweek &gt;&gt;  FREE AppDownload
On Thursday hedge fund Pershing Square did yet another presentation meant to sway Allergan shareholders toward a Valeant Pharmaceuticals takeover, and a question at the end of the presentation regarding Basuch &amp; Lomb — which Valeant acquired in May of 2013 — may give us all a clue as to why Valeant is so eager to get this deal done fast. The presentation was led by investor Bill Ackman, whose hedge fund Pershing Square owns almost 10% of Allergan and supports the takeover. Over and over again during the presentation, Ackman expressed dismay that Allergan was delaying the deal — his fund had to take the company to Court and faced hurdles in calling special meetings to address the board. This, he said, was a massive waste of time. Allergan, for its part, has rejected Ackman and Valeant's advances and taken a poison pill to ward off any other investor acquiring more than 10% of the company (a not-so-subtle shot at Ackman). Allergan has argued that Valeant has no organic growth. It says that Valeant acquires companies, cuts their research and development, and then uses the revenue from acquired products to hide that lack of growth. At the end of the presentation, a listener asked Ackman a simple question. Why not wait to do the deal and let the Bausch &amp; Lomb acquisition annualize to show that it is growing organically? Valeant had, after all, said that it was confident that Bausch &amp; Lomb would continue "to deliver organic growth of &gt;10%... for the remainder of 2014." Surely if shareholders saw that, they would feel more confident about a future with Valeant. It would assuage their main fear. Ackman replied that it wouldn't be fair for shareholders to let a deal like the one he and Valeant had put on the table pass them by. The thing about all this, is that Allergan has brought up Valeant's claim that Bausch &amp; Lomb is growing time and time again. Instead of holding Bausch &amp; Lomb up as a shining example of Valeant's success — a company that grew bigger and better under Valeant's wing — Allergan has held up Bausch &amp; Lomb as an example of Valeant's failure. Allergan has argued in its own presentations that while Bausch &amp; Lomb's revenue has grown, sales are falling. Revenue, it says, is being driven by an unsustainable price hikes. Allergan  Moreover, Allergan argues, Bausch &amp; Lomb's share in key emerging markets is actually on the decline. Allergan Last month Valeant CEO Michael Pearson said he believed that Bausch &amp; Lomb would continue to experience double digit growth, but Allergan's numbers don't jive with that. It estimates Bausch and Lomb's growth at 5%. Allergan So if you see this the way Allergan does Valeant has every reason to want this deal done as soon as possible. Valeant doesn't want Bausch &amp; Lomb to disappoint. Besides making Allergan shareholders even more skeptical than they already are, a thing like that could hurt Valeant's stock price. And since Valeant stock is part of the deal to buy Allergan, Valeant would then need to put more money on the table to sweeten the deal even more. FREE AppDownload
White House Council of Economic AdvisorsThe labor force participation rate is one of the most buzzed about parts of the monthly jobs report.  The labor force participation rate, or the percent of the civilian population over 15 that is either working or searching for work, has fallen from 65.8% in the first quarter of 2007 to 62.8% as of the most recent jobs report.  Many who are skeptical of any meaningful improvement in the labor market and the economy point to the declining labor force participation rate as evidence that, rather than try to find work, people are simply leaving the workforce. Those who reject this notion often point to an aging population. Chiming in on this debate, The White House just released a huge report on the labor force participation rate. The report attributes the drop to three main factors: the aging population, a cyclical decline in the labor force, and "residual" factors. The most interesting part of the White House's report is the "residual" factors, which the White House say arise from trends that both pre-date the Financial Crisis and the ensuing recession's unique severity.  The White House boils these factors down to two key elements: changes in workforce participation for prime-age men and women, and the post-Crisis recession's severity and resulting labor dynamics.  The report says that since the mid-1950s, the labor force participation rate for prime-age men, (i.e. men between 25-54), has fallen steadily, while the participation rate for women has declined since the late 1990s, reversing a decades-long trend of increased participation by women through the 1970s and 80s.  White House Council of Economic Advisers The recession that followed the Financial Crisis lead to sharp deterioration in labor conditions, and the recovery out of recent recession has been notably slow.  This yielded the recently-retired scariest jobs chart.  Calculated Risk But aside from these "residual" impacts on the participation rate, the aging workforce dynamic is not a new issue. A shrinking workforce due to an aging population has been predicted by the CBO since before the Financial Crisis. The White House notes that in 2004, the CBO predicted that participation would drop 1% between 2007-2013 due to aging.  White House Council of Economic Advisers This chart from the White House shows clearly how the workforce has aged in the last decade.  White House Council of Economic Advisers The "cyclical" factors weighing on the labor force participation rate, The White House says, are attributable to some workers deciding to defer looking for work until the economy improves.  This chart from The White House shows a number of alternative scenarios for the labor force participation rate, which seems destined to fall further.  White House Council of Economic Advisers FREE AppDownload
Ginny / Flickr, CCThe Manhattan District Attorney's Office has become more aggressive against people stealing intellectual property from financial institutions to the next level.  Former Two Sigma Investments analyst Kang Gao was accused of stealing trade secrets earlier this year and is facing a potential four-year prison sentence, Bloomberg's Chris Dolmetsch and Tiffany Kary reported.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing told Bloomberg that this is the first lawsuit he's seen to rise to a level or criminal indictment. This is also the first time Two Sigma has had an employee jailed for stealing the hedge fund's secrets. Leading the charge is District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. Vance has been pushing for stricter laws to protect Wall Street firms from theft of coding software and trade models.  Disputes over cyber information have grown more prominent as finance has become computerized. The challenge for Vance is changing existing laws to include protection of technology secrets, and proving these thefts are harmful to markets and the general public. Vance is also pursing former Goldman Sachs programmer Sergey Aleynikov, and former Flow Trader employees Jason Vuu and Glen Cressman. Aleynikov was sentenced in 2010 to eight years in prison, but his verdict was overturned one year in. Since then, the protection of products and services has been added to the U.S. Economic Espionage Act.  Gao's attorney Marc Agnifilo told Bloomberg that leaving these cases to prosecutors is actually easier than hiring a private law firm.  "What you're starting to see now is these companies, rather than paying money for a private law firm, go to the district attorney’s office and have the district attorney’s office do their bidding. The district attorney’s office is certainly better at it -- they hold people in jail." Oing said he believes this case will establish a precedent for sending more analysts and programmers to jail as a consequence of stealing tech secrets. "That, perhaps, may now be opening the door for all employers to think ‘You know what, we are going to put these guys in jail now,'" he told Bloomberg. "That is going to be really something." Read the full story at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA television screen displays Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's news conference as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange June 18, 2014.On Tuesday, Janet Yellen seemed to come out with an unusually specific warning about overstretched valuations in social media, biotech and other high-flying stocks. The remarks came in Yellen's semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress. However the concerns weren't mentioned in her prepared Senate remarks. Nor were they explicitly addressed in her Q&amp;As with the Senate and the House.   On its face one would not hesitate to conflate Yellen's opinion with the Fed. But Cornerstone Macro's Roberto Perli argues the absence of discussion about those sectors by Yellen directly is a sign this issue is not on her radar. While she ostensibly signs off on the report, it's written by her staff, with very little input from her or the Board.  In a note released yesterday he writes: I find it significant that both in her written testimony and in the Q&amp;A Yellen did not refer to equity valuations as a source of concern.  She limited herself to saying that valuations appear stretched “in some sectors, such as lower-rated corporate debt.”  That’s a much milder statement, which has been made before by people inside and outside the Fed.  Moreover, in the past, as well as again today, Yellen made it very clear that the Fed is very unlikely to raise rates to address what it sees as financial imbalances.  The Fed prefers to use so-called macroprudential tools for that purpose.  It is unclear what macroprudential tools Yellen might have to bring down the valuation of some specific equity subsectors.  So, even if it were her firm opinion (and again, I don’t think it is) that some equity sectors are overvalued, there isn’t much that she could do to change that as long as she is not willing to raise interest rates to achieve the purpose.  As a result, Perli says, he does believe the Fed will react at all to market valuations of any kind, much less ones in specific sectors. "I would be inclined to treat the controversial sentence more as a rhetorical sidenote than a firm policy position, let alone one that the Fed has the power or willingness to enforce," he writes. FREE AppDownload
The Market Vector Russia ETF, an exchanged-traded fund that is designed to track the performance of public companies from Russia, is tumbling. The RSX was down nearly 6% in afternoon trade following reports that Malaysia Airlines passenger plane crashed in eastern Ukraine near the Russian border.  In addition to the RSX falling, U.S. markets are also lower while gold, considered a "safe haven" asset, is sharply higher.  An advisor to the Ukraine Interior Minister says the passenger plane was shot down. It was an ugly day for Russian stocks following last night's announcement of new sanctions by The White House, but this news has put those markets under additional pressure.  Here's an intraday chart of the RSX. Google Finance More to come ... FREE AppDownload
ZillowHedge fund manager David Ganek is selling his elegant duplex at 740 Park Avenue for $44 million, according to Curbed. The building was designed by renowned architect Rosario Candela. In addition to its stunning amenities, the apartment also has an interesting history: Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis lived in the home as a child, and her grandfather developed the building back in 1929. The newly renovated duplex features a marble gallery, a library, a media room, and more. The residence is for sale through Sotheby's International Realty. FREE AppDownload
A flight-tracking website shows the path of the Malaysia Airlines plane that reportedly went down near the Russian border. The Boeing 777 plane — Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 — was flying over Ukrainian airspace when it crashed. The plane was flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. Here's the live-tracking map that shows the path of the plane: FlightAware And here's the path of the inbound flight, which also flew directly over Ukraine: FlightAware The plane might have diverted from its original flight path because of weather, according to CNN. There were reportedly 295 people on board the plane that went down. On July 8, the State Aviation Administration of Ukraine closed the airspace to civilian aircraft after a military transport plane was shot down. Another flight tracking website places the plane right over eastern Ukraine before it lost contact with the airline: Malaysia Airlines flight #MH17 was shoot down over Ukraine on 33,000 feet, 60 km east of Donetsk. R.I.P. pic.twitter.com/kcnAprU6zj Malaysia Airlines flight #MH17 just before it disappeared over Ukraine. pic.twitter.com/xvDHsEQtkg FREE AppDownload
 Linda Rottenberg, Co-Founder of the global entrepreneurship network, Endeavor, knows something about starting a successful business. She's helped to start 580 companies in 20 countries around the world. In a recent interview with Skiddy von Stade, the CEO of finance career site, OneWire, Rottenberg offers two fascinating anecdotes and a killer piece of advice demonstrating how great entrepreneurs think differently. Lets go with the stories first. When Endeavor was just starting, Rottenberg flew down to Argentina for a mere 10-minute meeting with Eduardo Elsztain, an Argentine businessman who famously got a $10 million investment from a meeting with George Soros. When she met him, she got right down to business. “Look,” she said, “I’m an entrepreneur, you’re an entrepreneur…I want your time, your passion, and $200,000.” And Elsztain turns to his colleague and said in Spanish, “This girl is crazy.”…A few minutes later, Rottenberg walked out of the office with a check for $200,000. But of course, being an entrepreneur isn't always about charging into a situation. Sometimes you have to trust your team and be really honest with them and yourself. “I used to think that as a female leader, I had to be very tough and invincible and keep my private life separate.” Then, Rottenberg’s husband, the author Bruce Feiler, was diagnosed with bone cancer. “When I came back [to work],” Rottenberg recalls, “I was very open, I occasionally cried…I was vulnerable for the first time. And the young people here who worked for me said, ‘Linda we always admired you, but you were kind of superhuman…in a kind of scary way. When you showed us your vulnerable self, you became a real person to us, and in fact it made us want to follow you more.’” Rottenberg couldn't have done any of this if she was afraid of failure. That means taking risks, or as she puts it, "smart risks." "The riskiest thing of all is to take no risk at all," she said closing the interview. "Your job is not going to be stable, the company you work for is not going to be stable, so you might as well learn to take smart risks in the pursuit of big dreams... There's ways to de-risk that risk along the way, but you've got to get out of your comfort zone and if you do you can take charge of your life and write your own story." For more great interviews, subscribe to OneWire’s YouTube Channel. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevAn armed pro-Russian separatist stands at a site of a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 plane crash in the settlement of Grabovo in the Donetsk region, July 17, 2014.Stocks were lower as headlines were dominated by the crash of a Malaysia Airlines flight in Ukraine near the Russian border. All major stock indices closed lower, with the S&amp;P 500 ending its streak of sessions without a 1% move at 62, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq suffered the deepest losses, falling 1.4%.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) A Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 crashed in eastern Ukraine at about 10:00 ET, with the news first breaking the U.S. at around 11:15 am ET. There were reportedly 295 people on board, including 280 passengers and 15 crew, when it crashed. Twenty-three Americans were on board the flight, which had no survivors. An adviser to the Ukraine Interior Minister said pro-Russian separatists shot down the plane. Following the reports, U.S. and Russian stocks fell as gold rallied and the VIX, or volatility index, surged more than 20%. 2) In economic news, the Department of Labor released its weekly report on initial jobless claims, which showed claims totaled 302,000, less than the 310,000 that was expected by economists. The report said that the 4-week moving average of initial claims is now 309,000, the lowest level for this average since June 2007. Following the report, Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said, "In one line: Claims are still trending downwards; a much better guide to the economy right now than housing starts." 3) On the housing front, housing starts unexpectedly plunged 9.3% to an annualized rate of 893,000; economists were expecting starts to climb 1.9%. Building permits also fell 4.2% to 963,000. Much of the weakness in the report, however, was confined to one region of the country: the South. Housing starts in the South plunged 29.6%, driven by weakness in single-family units. Following the report, Eric Green at TD Securities wrote that, "the report is exceptionally uneven and on balance is not an indication of a significant turn in housing construction." 4) The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report soundly beat expectations, coming at 23.9 against expectations for a 16.0 reading. In seven of the report's nine subindices, the report showed improvement. Labor market conditions also showed broad improvement. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "Strong activity components, and another robust selling price reading... the report confirms the improvement in the business sector." 5) Microsoft announced that it would cut up to 18,000 jobs, including 12,500 at its recently acquired Nokia unit. Shares of the tech giant were trading near 14-year highs following the news, and Microsoft stock finished the day up 1%.  6) Morgan Stanley reported earnings that beat expectations, while the bank's profit came in at $1.94 billion for the second quarter, better than the $980 million reported a year ago. And while the bank beat on the top and bottom line, BI's Linette Lopez noted that the bank's shift towards wealth management under CEO James Gorman has bolstered its business.  7) After President Obama last night announced a fresh round of sanctions against Russian companies, stocks in Russia took a beating as the ruble weakened considerably against the U.S. dollar. In U.S. trade, the RSX exchange-traded fund that tracks Russia fell more than 7%. Beyond today's initial move, Citi highlighted stocks that have exposure to Russia and Ukraine, including Pepsi and Avon Products.  8) Also on the geopolitical front, late afternoon headlines said that Israeli forces began a ground operation in Gaza. 9) According to Bespoke Investment Group, the S&amp;P 500's more than 1% decline marked the first time in 62 trading sessions that the benchmark index logged a move greater than 1%. Don't Miss: This Is Why The Labor Force Participation Rate Keeps Falling » FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK — If you're planning to take the Long Island Rail Road back from the Hamptons on Sunday, you might want to start thinking about a Plan B. Weekend beach-goers have been scrambling to book alternative options to get back to Manhattan — from rental cars to seaplanes — to prevent being stranded if a strike by LIRR workers shuts down train service as early as 12:01 a.m. on Sunday. Many services are already sold out, with wait lists, organizers said. “We are getting a lot of inquiries about reservations for Sunday — people asking us how much it would cost to rent a car here and drive it back to the city,” said Dillon, an employee at Enterprise Rent-A-Car in Southampton, who declined to give his last name. Some vacationers are already thinking about cutting their trips short. "I've already booked a 9 p.m bus ticket to return to the city on Sunday but I might change it to an earlier time if there's a strike," said Dayanara Fromenta, 39, who was hopping on a bus from the Upper East Side to East Hampton on Wednesday morning. "Sunday traffic is always bad in the Hamptons, but if there's a strike everyone is going to take the bus and it's going to be even worse," she added. The MTA has announced some contingency plans for a strike, including shuttle buses from Long Island to subway stations in Queens, but the buses won't start running until Monday morning and will be extremely limited. “This shuttle bus service should be considered only as a last resort,” the MTA said on its website. If you don't want to cancel your Hamptons trip, here's how to get back to the city on Sunday without using the Long Island Rail Road:(YOU CAN ALSO CLICK HERE FOR THE FULL LIST OF CITYWIDE TRANSIT ALTERNATIVES) Buy a Bus Ticket Hampton Jitney has several buses leaving from the Hamptons on Sunday and is working on a strike-related contingency plan set to be released soon, a spokesman said.  Andrew Lynch, Hampton Jitney's vice president, told 27east.com that the company was working with other companies to add more buses to its routes on Sunday.  A one-way ticket from the Hamptons to Manhattan costs $28 if you book online, and there were still seats available for Sunday as of Wednesday afternoon. Hampton Luxury Liner, another bus company serving the Hamptons, also has several departures on Sunday, with the last bus leaving East Hampton at 3:50 p.m. It’s $40 for a one-way trip and you can book your ticket online. Rent a Car Several car rental outlets allow you to rent a car in the Hamptons and return it in the city. Some companies apply an extra fee (up to about $100) for that service. “People tend to book their car very last minute on Sunday and usually when they call I don’t have any cars left, so the sooner you book the better,” said Pamy Ericson, who manages car rentals for Budget Southampton NY Rent-A-Car and the Southampton Avis location. For $12 to $14.50 per hour, Zipcar members can take out a car in Manhattan and drive it both to and from the Hamptons. Zipcar does not offer one-way trips, so you’ll need to return the car to its reserved parking spot. Take a Taxi Several taxi companies operating in The Hamptons can bring you back to the city. Fares from West Hampton to the Upper East Side are about $220 to $250 for a car of four people, depending on the company. Add approximately $50 if you are leaving from East Hampton. “The sooner you book your taxi the safer because it’s going to be a busy weekend,” said Matt Crouthamel, head of Matt’s Car Service and Uneedaride? Car Service. Crouthamel’s companies have a fleet of five vehicles including two 14-passenger vans. Fly Home If you can’t stand the idea of being stuck in gridlock — and if you’re willing to spend a little more — hopping in one of Sound Aircraft Service's planes might be a solution. On Sunday, the company has two flights leaving at 4:30 p.m. and at 6:30 p.m. from East Hampton Airport. It will take 45 minutes to fly to Skyport Marina on East 23rd Street, and a one-way ticket costs $550. There is already a waiting list for Sunday, but the company said it is trying to add more flights. Booking a charter is also one of your options. For about $3,600, you can be back on Manhattan in less than 50 minutes. Companies such as New York Helicopter or HeliNY provide charters that can accommodate up to 6 people. They have several pickup locations in the Hamptons and can either land at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport or on West 30th Street and 12th Avenue, depending on your arrival time. On Wednesday, both companies said they still had availability for Sunday. If your group is smaller than six and don’t want to share your flight with strangers, Awesome Flight provides the same service for a maximum of three passengers. The price tag for a charter coming back from the Hamptons on Sunday is approximately $1,590. As of Wednesday, the company was still talking reservations for Sunday. FREE AppDownload
Iraqi bankers says ISIS militants never stole $430 million from banks in Mosul, Borzou Daragahi of the Financial Times reports.  The internet had been saturated with rumors since ISIS captured Mosul that the militant group raided the city's financial institutions and stole close to $430 million. Iraqi officials, including prominent former exile Ahmed Chalabi, have been cited in international media detailing the heist and lending credence to the story. However, according to Iraqi bankers, this story still remains unconfirmed and unlikely.  “Nobody until now has confirmed that story,” Atheel al-Nujaifi, governor of Nineveh province which includes Mosul, told the Financial Times.  Alaa Karam Allah, the CEO of Iraq's United Bank for Investment, corroborated that view. According to Allah, the bank's branch in Mosul continued to work normally and had not suffered any assault.  "Not a single center had been stolen from the bank. Isis never put a hand on the money," Talal Ibrahim, the executive director of the private Union Bank of Iraq, told the Financial Times.  Banks in Mosul reportedly remain open and are guarded by their own private security forces.  Tellingly, ISIS itself has never claimed to have seized money from any institution in the city. ISIS has bragged, though, of its seizure of millions of dollars worth of US military equipment from the Iraqi military after it fled the city.  Among the equipment ISIS ransacked in Mosul were 1,500 U.S.-supplied Humvees and 52 American made howitzers.  FREE AppDownload
via WikimediaWhen the idea of high oil prices comes to mind, one quickly recalls the hot months of 2008, when crude prices of nearly $150 a barrel had summer drivers rethinking the cost vs. benefit equation of road trips. But one silver lining of the global financial crisis and economic slowdown was that it brought prices back down below $50 a barrel in November of that same year. And here we are again: Last month, the five-year rolling average price of Brent crude topped $100 a barrel for the first time ever. Worse yet, Credit Suisse energy commodity analyst Jan Stuart doesn’t think another reprieve is in the cards. He calls the current price level “a new normal.” How did we get back here so quickly and why are prices likely to stay put? On the demand side, it’s quite simple. Both the global economy as well as global population continue to grow, and along with them demand for fossil fuels. Global oil demand has fallen only two times in the past two decades: the height of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009. Global consumption should increase by 1.4 million barrels a day, or 1.5 percent, to a record 92.7 billion a day in 2014, according to the International Energy Agency, which raised its forecast in March as the economic recovery gained momentum. For its part, supply is not keeping up with demand. While U.S. production has grown substantially thanks to shale drilling, the U.S. is the only major non-OPEC nation posting significant production increases. All-in, last year’s oil consumption grew by 1.4 million barrels a day, while production only increased 560,000 barrels a day, according to the BP Statistical Review of Energy. As has been the case since the start, the main threat to oil supply is geopolitics. Increasing sectarian violence in Iraq, for example, has once again put the 150 billion barrels of proven oil reserves of OPEC’s second-largest producer into question, in the process helping to push the price of Brent to a high of $115.19 on June 19. Back in 2009, expectations were high: New investment by foreign oil companies was going to double Iraq’s output to 5 million barrels a day by 2013 and further increase it to 8 million by 2019. And that, in turn, would account for some 60 percent of OPEC’s overall production increase through decade’s end. Yet we’re nearly halfway through the decade and production remains at the same level it was in 2009—2.5 million barrels a day. Brent prices have dipped back below $110, and the current spasm of violence hasn’t reached the oil producing south, but companies including ExxonMobil and BP have begun evacuating employees, and investors are worried that continued violence could render even more modest production forecasts a pipe dream. Iraq is just one example of many. The wave of political uprising exuberantly (and prematurely) coined the “Arab Spring” has left oil supply problems in its wake nearly everywhere it has rolled through. Protests that began last summer in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest reserves, cut output to around 350,000 barrels a day from the 1.4 million barrels a day the country was producing last year, although the country recently restarted production at its El Sharara field, which will hopefully bring 340,000 barrels a day back online after a four-month strike by protesters. In South Sudan, fighting between the president and his former deputy has cut output by roughly one-third to around 160,000 barrels a day since December. Conflicts in Syria and Yemen have also cut output. “The instability in the Middle East and North Africa is so fundamental that it’s going to take a very long time for it to become a stable place for the oil industry,” says Stuart. In the meantime, production has fallen by a total of 3.5 million barrels a day, according to Credit Suisse. So let’s get back to this ‘new normal.’ Last month, Credit Suisse raised its forecast for average Brent prices in 2014 and 2015 to $110.64 and $102.50 from $107.03 and $97.50, respectively. And these things do not happen in a vacuum. Every $10 a barrel increase in oil prices reduces real U.S. income growth by as much as 0.4 percent, according to Credit Suisse estimates. “We are worried about the political events in the Middle East,” says James Sweeney, chief economist for Credit Suisse’s investment bank. “A meaningful shock in oil could really disturb a lot of our cyclical outlook.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe New York Department of Financial Services has released a draft for what the state's BitLicenses will look like, and they're going to change the face of digital currency commerce in the U.S.. The greatest change is that anyone using a New York-sanctioned Bitcoin or cryptocurrency service will no longer be anonymous. This was something Bitcoin's earliest users said was a key ingredient to the digital currency's appeal, but which DFS, as well as other lawmakers, expressed strong distaste for at hearings earlier this year. Now, any business whose essential service is buying, selling, or processing Bitcoin will have to maintain records of their customers' names and addresses, and check them against the Treasury's list of bad actors. The businesses will also have to maintain reserve Bitcoin assets equal to 100% of however much they are holding on behalf of customers, and get bonded-up "in such form and amount as is acceptable to DFS for the protection of the licensee’s customers." And they'll have to submit and publish a detailed consumer complaint policy that must include a provision allowing customers to pursue their complaint with DFS.  Finally, DFS will be conducting security audits on any firms with a BitLicense to prevent another MtGox-type hack from occurring. The former exchange, once the world's largest, lost hundreds of millions of dollars, over security issues. This is likely to raise the cost of complaince considerably, and could eliminate some of the cost efficiencies that were also touted as key to Bitcoin's advantage over traditional forms of transaction. The draft proposal makes New York the first government entity to propose comprehensive Bitcoin regulations, and are likely to serve as a model for other states and even federal guidelines, given New York's role as the vanguard financial authority outside Washington — DFS Superintendent Ben Lawsky, for instance, was a critical player in the recent penalties delivered against BNP Paribas for violating sanctions.    Gil Luria of WedBush, which has been on the front lines among Wall Street firms in studying Bitcoin, says this ultimately good news. "It will make it possible for Bitcoin companies to function in a regulated way which most of them have been seeking out," he told BI in an email. "It should help create the infrastructure to support the growth of the technology as new robust, liquid, US-based exchanges emerge." Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who are seeking to launch a Bitcoin ETF, told BI in a statement: We are pleased that Superintendent Lawsky and the Department of Financial Services have embraced Bitcoin and digital assets and created a regulatory framework that protects consumers. We look forward to New York State becoming the hub of this exciting new technology. You won't need a license if you're a retailer accepting Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies as a form of payment. Below is the full text. There will now be a 45 day comment period. NY DFS RELEASES PROPOSED BITLICENSE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR VIRTUAL CURRENCY FIRMS  Framework Includes Consumer Protection, Anti-Money Laundering, and Cyber Security Rules for Virtual Currency Businesses    Proposed Regulations Submitted for a 45-Day Notice and Comment Period to Solicit Public Feedback  Benjamin M. Lawsky, Superintendent of Financial Services, today announced that the New York State Department of Financial Services (DFS) has issued for public comment a proposed “BitLicense” regulatory framework for New York virtual currency businesses. The proposed regulatory framework – which is the product of a nearly year-long DFS inquiry, including public hearings that the Department held in January 2014 – contains consumer protection, anti-money laundering compliance, and cyber security rules tailored for virtual currency firms.Superintendent Lawsky said: “We have sought to strike an appropriate balance that helps protect consumers and root out illegal activity – without stifling beneficial innovation. Setting up common sense rules of the road is vital to the long-term future of the virtual currency industry, as well as the safety and soundness of customer assets.”  In accordance with the New York State Administrative Procedures Act (SAPA), the proposed DFS rules for virtual currency firms will be published in the New York State Register’s July 23, 2014 edition, which begins a 45-day public comment period. After that public comment period, the rules are subject to additional review and revision based on that public feedback before DFS finalizes them.Additionally, DFS is today immediately publishing a copy of the regulations on the website Reddit. Earlier this year, Superintendent Lawsky hosted an “Ask Me Anything” forum on Reddit about DFS’ work on virtual currency regulation, which generated more than 1,200 public comments. Links to the proposed rules are also being tweeted out from the DFS Twitter handle (@NYDFS) and Superintendent Lawsky’s Twitter handle (@BenLawsky).Superintendent Lawsky said: “We recognize that – as the first state to put forward specially tailored rules for virtual currency firms – continued public feedback will be an important part of finalizing this regulatory framework. We look forward to carefully and thoughtfully reviewing public comments on our proposal.” The new DFS BitLicenses will be required for firms engaged in the following virtual currency businesses: The license is not required for merchants or consumers that utilize Virtual Currency solely for the purchase or sale of goods or services; or those firms chartered under the New York Banking Law to conduct exchange services and are approved by DFS to engage in Virtual Currency business activity.  Key requirements for firms holding BitLicenses include: o   Verification of Accountholders. Firms must, at a minimum, when opening accounts for customers, verify their identity, to the extent reasonable and practicable, maintain records of the information used to verify such identity, including name, physical address, and other identifying information, and check customers against the Specially Designated Nationals (“SDNs”) list maintained by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Asset Control (“OFAC”). Enhanced due diligence may be required based on additional factors, such as for high-risk customers, high-volume accounts, or accounts on which a suspicious activity report has been filed. Firms are also subject to enhanced due diligence requirements for accounts involving foreign entities and a prohibition on accounts with foreign shell entities. o   Reporting of Suspected Fraud and Illicit Activity.Each Licensee shall monitor for transactions that might signify money laundering, tax evasion, or other illegal or criminal activity and notify the Department, in a manner prescribed by the superintendent, immediately upon detection of such a transactions. When a Licensee is involved in a transaction or series of transactions for the receipt, exchange or conversion, purchase, sale, transfer, or transmission of Virtual Currency, in an aggregate amount exceeding the United States dollar value of $10,000 in one day, by one Person, the Licensee shall also notify the Department, in a manner prescribed by the superintendent, within 24 hours. In meeting its reporting requirements Licensees must utilize an approved methodology when calculating the value of Virtual Currency in Fiat Currency.  In August 2013, DFS announced its inquiry into the appropriate regulatory guidelines for virtual currencies. As part of an ongoing fact-finding effort informing that inquiry, the Department held public hearings in January 2014. In March 2014, the Department issued apublic order announcing it will be considering formal proposals and applications for the establishment of regulated virtual currency exchanges operating in New York. To view a copy of the proposed DFS BitLicense framework, please visit, link. Only comments formally submitted pursuant to the SAPA process will be considered in connection with the promulgation of the proposed regulations. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe latest manufacturing report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve came in at 23.9. Economists were looking for a reading of 16.0, below last month's 17.8 reading.  The prices paid index, which gained 12 points last month, was little changed from June.  The report also indicated that labor market conditions are improving. From the report, “The current indicators for labor market conditions also suggest improved conditions this month. The employment index remained positive, and, although it increased less than 1 point, it has improved for four consecutive months." The survey's broad indicators of future growth improved again this month, and the future general activity index is at its highest reading since last October.  This chart from the Philly Fed shows improvement in 7 of the survey's 9 subindices.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri MaltsevWednesday afternoon, the U.S. announced a new round of sanctions against Russia, this time targeting not just individuals but companies, including defense and energy firms, as well.  Among the notable companies targeted by the U.S.'s actions are Russian state-controlled oil giant Rosneft and Gazprombank, Russia largest private bank.  Following the latest sanctions, stocks across Europe sold off and bonds rallied, though as reported by BI's Brett Logiurato, the sanctions stopped short of cutting off entire sectors of the Russian economy.  Back in March, when tensions between Russia and Ukraine first flared, Robert Buckland and the global strategy team at Citi published a list of the non-Russian companies that have the most exposure to Russia and Ukraine. At the top of the list is German-based Coca-Cola Hellenic and Danish beer maker Carlsberg. U.S. companies on the list include tobacco giant Philip Morris, PepsiCo, and Avon Products. And following the latest round of sanctions, shares of BP, which owns a 19.75% stake in Rosneft, were trading lower.  Here's the full table from Citi.  Citi FREE AppDownload
Recently, in the village of Poloson, in Uzbekistan's section of the Ferghana Valley, the faithful had gathered for Namaz at the local mosque. As Friday Prayers ended the imam spoke his final words of the service, then advised his congregation to purchase lottery tickets and said a car, just one example of the prizes, was parked right outside the mosque.  Yes, Uzbekistan has lottery fever these days. But it not entirely by choice, it seems. RFE/RL's Uzbek Service, Radio Ozodlik, has been receiving some irate calls from citizens, and dubious answers from officials, about the "Farovonlik" (Prosperity) lottery going on in Uzbekistan. In April, Russia's Central Bank reported some $6.6 billion was sent from Russia to Uzbekistan in 2013. Millions of people from Uzbekistan work as migrant laborers in Russia and there are hundreds of thousands working in other countries who are also sending money back home. There is only one bank in Uzbekistan that handles these remittances: Agrobank. Uzbek citizens inside Uzbekistan and working in Russia have contacted Ozodlik to complain that when people in Uzbekistan go to pick up the money sent to them from abroad they are required by Agrobank to purchase at least one lottery ticket at a cost of 5,000 soms (a bit more than $2 at the official rate). One person from the Kokand area said it had been that way for the last five months. "Every time you go to get money you are obliged to get a lottery ticket," the person said. "If you don't buy a lottery ticket you don't get money. We already have five tickets at home." This person noted that they only go to pick up money sent to them from abroad once a month but "some migrant laborers send money to relatives every 10 days or even every week." And the lines to collect money are apparently always very long with one person saying they showed up in the morning and finally receiving their money after 4 p.m. So after a long wait, and faced with the possibility of not getting any money at all, few seem to refuse playing the lottery. Ozodlik contacted a representative of Agrobank who denied anyone was being forced to buy lottery tickets. "Clients purchase lottery tickets as they wish. We have no instances of forced sales, and we have this under strict control," the representative said. One person did complain about not wishing to buy a lottery ticket and was directed to the bank's manager on the second floor. "He told us a directive came from above that for every monetary transfer one lottery ticket needed to be sold," the person said. But of course, there's more. Earlier, an employee at an Agrobank branch in Andijon Province said employees of the bank were also obliged to buy lottery tickets. The head of Agrobank said from his office in Tashkent that no employees were forced to buy tickets and went so far as to say some employees not only did it "voluntarily" but on occasion even brought their families to the bank for the joyous moment when the ticket or tickets were purchased. Some teachers in Khwarezm and Bukhara provinces have told Ozodlik they too are forced to play the lottery and have at times have even been given lottery tickets instead of their salaries. There are 10 million tickets that need to be sold. The population of Uzbekistan is officially at just over 30 million people but anywhere between 4 to 8 million are outside the country working as migrant laborers. So on average, there's one ticket for roughly every 2.5 people. The winning numbers are scheduled to be announced in December. The prizes include 40 new cars, which admittedly, few of those playing could likely ever afford to buy. Those in Uzbekistan who claim they were forced to buy their tickets and doubt their chances of winning might find comfort speaking with some of the millions of citizens of neighboring Tajikistan who have been forced to buy shares in the Roghun hydropower plant project during the last few years. Oh yeah, that's right. Tajik officials said they were buying those shares voluntarily too. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPeter Arispe from Mexico works as a quality control checker at the American Apparel factory in downtown Los Angeles October 17, 2008.(Reuters) - Standard General, a little-known hedge fund that has taken the reins of American Apparel, has mapped out a recovery plan for the retailer with or without its ousted Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney. The fund invests in companies that have potential even though they may be bogged down by debt and are undergoing an event such as bankruptcy. Standard General has not always succeeded — consider its passive investment in RadioShack's stock, which has fallen about 69 percent this year. But it has a track record of turning positions in distressed companies into board seats and eventual profitability. The 14-employee firm manages about $1.1 billion. In 2013, it posted returns of 32.5 percent net of all fees on its offshore fund, according to a document obtained by Reuters. That fund was up 8.6 percent in 2012 but down 6.2 percent in 2011, according to a separate report. Standard General first focused on American Apparel six months ago, because it "has a strong underlying brand but was in turmoil," the fund's partner David Glazek told Reuters. "It has a balance sheet problem that we can help fix," he said. Standard General's investment in American Apparel recently climbed to 44 percent after Charney gave his stake to the hedge fund as collateral for a loan, according to a filing. If Charney repays this loan, the hedge fund can buy back almost 19 percent of the company stock at about 71 cents per share. The stock closed at $1.15 Wednesday. Standard General has promised $25 million to American Apparel, which the company may use to repay a $9.9 million loan. As part of the deal, the hedge fund will nominate three candidates to the retailer's new board, one of whom may be a Standard General partner. Glazek said he is optimistic that simple changes can help turn around the retailer, including opening more stores and improving its website. "The American Apparel e-commerce platform is so antiquated that you don't need much to really improve it," said Glazek. PREVIOUS VENTURES Standard General has used a single board seat to steer several companies through major transitions, and it is turning to these experiences as it plans American Apparel's future. In 2010, the hedge fund's co-founder Soohyung Kim secured a seat on Young Broadcasting's board after Standard General bought distressed bank loans of the bankrupt $200 million company, according to Glazek. Kim, previously a principal at Och-Ziff, helped refinance the company's loans, appoint a CEO, roll out HD on its stations and secure a merger with Media General. "He's certainly not shy about his point of view," said Media General board member Charles Diao, who has known Kim for more than a decade. "But he's not going to run the business." Now a second merger, between Media General and LIN Media, will net Standard General 20 percent of a $5 billion company, pending government approval. "In terms of our time frame and our approach and our style, there are some similarities," Glazek said, comparing American Apparel with Young Broadcasting. However, he cautioned that plans for American Apparel do not rely on future mergers or acquisitions. While Standard General's largest position is in the media sector, it has about 70 investments across many industries. It believed the market was "extremely bearish" on RadioShack, and the potential reward from the retailer's success far outweighed the cost of losses from its 10 percent stake, Glazek said. One former investor said he withdrew his money from the fund in 2013 because the returns were not worth paying premium fees of 2 percent and 20 percent. "They were far more risk averse than I thought they would be," the investor said. As for Charney, a board committee will review the findings of an investigation by FTI Consulting to determine whether he may return, after the old board ousted him on June 18 for misconduct. "It's going to be entirely fact-based and at the discretion of the board," Glazek said. (Reporting By Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIran's Foreign Minister Zarif attends a bilateral meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Kerry in ViennaBRUSSELS/VIENNA (Reuters) - With talks between world powers and Iran over a broad nuclear accord at an impasse, Western governments are considering offering a significant easing of sanctions early on in the process to try to wring concessions from Tehran, diplomats say. To be effective, such a plan would have to involve clear guidance to companies made wary by U.S. fines for sanctions-busting, be reversible and not go too far, or skeptical U.S. lawmakers would simply reimpose restrictions. The OPEC oil producer has seen its economy devastated by years of sanctions imposed over its contested nuclear program, which Western states say appears to be aimed at producing a nuclear bomb and Tehran says is purely peaceful. The prospects for an immediate accord scaling back that program in return for sanctions relief appeared tenuous on Thursday. Diplomats said the six world powers negotiating with Iran - the United States, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany - were working out terms for an extension of talks, beyond their self-imposed July 20 deadline, instead of seeking to close a deal now. If there is an agreement in the coming weeks or months, Western diplomats have told Reuters, Iran might still have to wait years, or as long as two decades, to see the complex web of sanctions permanently removed. Instead, they said, Western states may opt for a patchwork of steps suspending sanctions in various industries that can be easily reinstated if Tehran reneges on its nuclear commitments. The extent of these steps would match Iranian concessions. "When Iran does something, then we can respond with sanctions relief," one said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "The whole process will take years." The timing of any easing of oil sanctions - closely watched by the markets - which now prohibit U.S. and European importers from buying Iranian crude and impose severe restrictions on third country purchases, will depend on what Iran offers to do from its side and when. But some diplomats said restrictions on banking with Iran might have to be eased in step with other industries, such as shipping for example, to make sure companies can finance any newly re-established trade. "We can be flexible," a senior western diplomat said. Without access to finance, relief might not materialize, raising questions about the world powers' credibility and endangering the implementation of the accord, they said. Western companies are eager to enter Iran, a market of nearly 80 million people and vast oil reserves. But banks have been reluctant to process cash when it became admissible to a certain extent under an interim accord struck between Iran and the world powers last November, which provided modest sanctions relief for some nuclear concessions. Some experts have said overcoming this reluctance may mean, for example, that the West would have to name several banks that would process transactions allowed under newly allowed relief. "Overcoming the reticence of international banks to do business with Iran will require the (six powers) to issue clear regulatory guidance about which multilateral sanctions are lifted," said Elizabeth Rosenberg from the Center for a New American Security in a research note. French bank BNP Paribas agreed earlier this month to pay $9 billion for contravening U.S. sanctions, also against Iran, in a move likely to increase western banks' reluctance to open up for business with Tehran.   THE RIGHT TIMING How sanctions relief for Iran is introduced might be a crucial factor in ensuring the integrity of any deal, which will likely be implemented over many years. The West wants Iran to scale back its atom work so much that it would take it a long time, maybe years, to assemble materials for a bomb. To achieve that it wants Iran to limit its capacity to enrich uranium to bomb-grade and subject any remaining work to strict United Nations oversight. For now, diplomats said, the sides have struggled to match Iranian and western concessions sufficiently to craft a deal, despite holding six rounds of talks since the start of this year coordinated by the EU's top diplomat Catherine Ashton. Some diplomats have said that as a goodwill gesture towards Iran, the West would be willing to "front-load" some sanctions relief, in return for quick stepping back from atom work. "It's all meant to be reciprocal," one diplomat from the six powers said. But experts warn that Congress, where Republicans and some Democrats have called for talks to be abandoned and a return to tough sanctions to deter Tehran from building an atom bomb, may move ahead with new sanctions if they view a deal as too lax. "If they try to front-load relief too significantly or lift key elements (of the western sanctions architecture) too precipitously, they will inspire a congressional backlash," said Mark Dubowitz of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a U.S. think-tank which advocates tougher sanctions.   POLITICAL COMPLICATIONS Any sanctions relief would have to be closely coordinated between the United States and Europe, some diplomats also said, to ensure Washington's power to punish third countries for contravening its restrictions does not complicate implementation. It would be difficult, for example, for the Belgium-based SWIFT, which provides banks with a system for moving funds around the world to unblock Iranian banks from using its network to transfer money without some easing of U.S. restrictions. The Belgian company cut off Iranian banks in 2012 as part of a wider international push to ratchet up sanctions that also included a European Union embargo on purchases of Iranian oil. The once unthinkable move - considering the extent of dependence of some European countries on Iranian crude - pulled between 450,000 and 600,000 barrels per day off world markets and made it very difficult for global buyers of Iranian crude to insure shipments. One western diplomat said Iran's immediate goal was to roll back sanctions to what they were prior to EU moves in 2012. If that happens, EU rules would only allow for the oil embargo to be initially suspended before permanent removal. A suspension could be easily reversed, while to reimpose such a ban, which took months of painstaking negotiations in 2011 to agree, might be impossible again because it would require a unanimous decision by all 28 EU governments. In Washington, Obama can theoretically use waivers to allow for some previously sanctioned trade. But a permanent removal of sanctions in many industries would require congressional support, which might be impossible to secure before Iran has completed its side of the deal. Several diplomats said much of the extensive western sanctions architecture could remain in place even after an accord is concluded. Many U.S. measures pre-date the nuclear conflict and are related to tensions between Washington and Tehran over a hostage crisis following the 1979 Islamic Revolution. The domestic U.S. oil embargo would be one example, even if Washington gradually removes pressure on third states not to buy Iranian oil.   (Additional reporting by Fredrik Dahl in Vienna; editing by Philippa Fletcher) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Donna McWilliamEarlier Thursday morning we saw that housing starts unexpectedly plunged 9.3% to an annualized rate of 893,000.  On the face of it, the report was ugly, considering all the talk about the recent housing snapback. It's important to note that the miss was entirely due to one region: the South. Housing starts plunged 29.6% in the South, driven by weakness in single-family units. "All the hit is in the south, where starts plunged by 29.6%, the biggest ever monthly drop, despite gains in each other region," wrote Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Starts were actually up in the rest of the country. In the Northeast, housing starts were up 14.1%, driven mostly by multifamily starts. In the Midwest they were up 28%, and in the West they were up 2.6%.  It wasn't immediately clear what was behind the sudden plunge in the South. "But homebuilders are being constrained by a shortage of labour and lots," Paul Diggle at Capital Economics.  "Labour shortages are particularly prevelant in the carpentry and framing trades required at the start of the construction process. And shortages of lots mean that land prices are rising more quickly than the historical relationship with house prices would suggest." While the headline was weak, Eric Green at TD Securities wrote that "the report is exceptionally uneven and on balance is not an indication of a significant turn in housing construction." During her semiannual monetary policy report this week, Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen said the housing sector hadn't shown much progress. "While this sector has recovered notably from its earlier trough, housing activity leveled off in the wake of last year's increase in mortgage rates, and readings this year have, overall, continued to be disappointing," she said. While this report has been disappointing, economists do point out that single-family details were actually better than multifamily starts. And Shepherdson argues that this correction was expected after "May starts overshot the pace  implied by building permits." "It's probably just noise," Shepherdson told Business Insider in an email. "Single-family permits are the best guide to activity and they rose 2.6% in May and have recovered most of the winter hit.  I don’t expect significant further gains, but equally I’m not looking for further declines after the terrible-looking June headlines." Bottomline: The report is ugly no doubt, but we'd urge caution with interpreting these volatile numbers. Michael McDonough, global head of economics at Bloomberg, tweeted this chart that shows a breakdown of housing starts by region. Michael McDonough via Twitter FREE AppDownload
APShares of BP are down 2% in pre-market trading after the U.S. last night announced a new round of sanctions against Russian companies, including state-owned oil giant Rosneft. BP holds a 19.75% stake in Rosneft. These latest sanctions mark a significant escalation in the U.S. standoff with Russia, as these sanctions don't just target individuals, but also large banks and energy and defense firms. In the first quarter, ExxonMobil reported that its share of Rosneft's oil and gas production for the quarter was 1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. Excluding Russia, Exxon's underlying production was slightly lower than the prior year.  Exxon is down by just 0.5% in pre-market trading. A report from Bloomberg's Matthew Campbell noted that a number of other companies, including ExxonMobil, Halliburton, Schlumberger, and National Oilwell all have operations in Russia.  Following the sanctions, the Russian stock market took a bit, falling nearly 3% while the Russian ruble fell more than 1% against the dollar. Shares of Rosneft trading in Moscow were also down more than 4%, though only 10.75% of the company trades publicly, as state-owned company OJSC ROSENFTEGAZ holds a 69.50% stake in the oil producer.  FREE AppDownload
Thursday morning Morgan Stanley reported its Q2 earnings, and beat analyst estimates by just a hair. That is in part because Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman was never too proud to be boring. In case you missed it — net revenue came in at $8.61 billion (while estimates put it at $8.19 billion) and earnings per share hit $0.60 (while estimates had put it at $0.56). That was in spite of the weak trading revenue numbers that have plagued the entire Street this quarter. Morgan Stanley's came in at $2.5 billion (where analysts expected $2.61 billion). The bank can attribute some of that success to the stunning growth of its wealth management division. Once considered the most boring part of Wall Street's business, in the wake of the financial crisis it has become a critical profit center. Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman saw that shift early, and made it his business to make Morgan Stanley's wealth management business grow. Profit margins hit 21% since it bought the division as a joint venture with Citigroup (Morgan Stanley bought Citigroup out of the venture last year). And grow it has. The division has $2 trillion assets under management. This quarter brought in $3.7 billion, up from $3.5 billion this time last year. Pre-tax income came in at $767 million compared with $655 million in the second quarter of last year. Compare that to where the division was two years ago, in Q2 of 2012. In Q2 2010 Wealth Management's pre-tax income came in at $207 million. Not so boring. FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceMicrosoft shares jumped 3.8% yesterday to close at a 14-year high. And after today's massive layoff announcement, in which the company said that it would cut 18,000 jobs, the stock is only going higher. In pre-market trading, MSFT is up 2.4%. "We will begin to reduce the size of our overall workforce by up to 18,000 jobs in the next year," said CEO Satya Nadella in a memo to employees. Despite the tumbling national unemployment rate, some big U.S. corportation are continuing to reduce headcounts in their efforts to cut costs, improve profit margins, and boost earnings growth. "With earnings growth (4.6%) expected to rise at a faster rate than revenue growth (2.7%) in Q2 and in future quarters, companies (particularly in food-oriented industries) have continued to discuss cost- cutting initiatives to maintain earnings growth rates and profit margins," said FactSet's John Butters on Friday. Microsoft is a component in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and its one of the most heavily weighted stocks in the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray We've now spoken with sources on many sides of the Fox-Time Warner deal. Here's the thinking on where we are and what will happen next: * Yesterday's news blitz was likely a deliberate (and effective) tactical move by the Murdoch camp. Having made a significant offer to Time Warner's board, and been rebuffed, Fox went over the Board's heads to Time Warner shareholders. The Time Warner shareholders, who are the key constituency that both sides will now be trying to win over, reacted positively to this overture. Mr. Murdoch now has their attention, and they are eager to hear what he will say next. * Time Warner anticipated this move and did a good job parrying it. Time Warner's response—a cool, calm, confident, polite demurral—conveyed an effective message: We appreciate your offer. We considered it carefully. It's not enough to get us to the negotiating table. But we're not crazy, and a bigger number might be. *  The $85-a-share offer did its job—got everyone's attention—but is viewed on all sides as an opening bid. Although there is precedent for Murdoch's opening offer to be his best-and-final offer—he shrewdly and patiently persuaded the shareholders of Dow Jones to accept his opening number, for example—this situation is different. First, Time Warner's shareholders are professional shareholders, not private family members with competing interests. Second, Time Warner's board is not alone in not viewing $85 as a compelling takeout price—Time Warner's shareholders agree with the board. The number seemed especially low considering that the bulk of payment would be delivered in Fox stock (which already has dropped in price). A source familiar with Fox's thinking suggests Fox is open to raising its bid, but will need cooperation from Time Warner to do it (i.e., let's sit down and talk). * $100 a share does seem to be a reasonable "clearing price." Sources familiar with both sides of the deal say they would be unhappy with this number, which suggests that it's in the ballpark. A major Time Warner shareholder also seemed ambivalent about this price, suggesting he wouldn't be thrilled with it but would probably take it. He also offered reasonable logic to back this number up: 1) Analysts think Time Warner will earn almost $6 a share in 2016, Time Warner will likely accelerate earnings growth thanks to affiliate-fee renewal deals, and this acceleration will likely drive a modest increase in Time Warner's stock multiple. Put all that together, and it's reasonable to think that Time Warner's stock will naturally trade at about $100 in 12-18 months. 2) Time Warner actually does have a compelling growth plan, and it will not be that hard to deliver on it. The shareholder expects that Time Warner will be able to negotiate significant long-term fee increases from its distribution partners and that these will accelerate earnings growth. * A source familiar with Time Warner's thinking argues that Fox would be unable to pay the price it would take to get to a deal, but a major media investor says this is nonsense. Fox is radically "underlevered," this investor says. Fox could borrow billions of dollars to raise cash to sweeten the bid, and it could also issue new equity. These fund-raising tools could also allow Fox to shift the purchase consideration to more cash and less stock, which would make the deal more attractive. * Fox stock dropped on the news not because Fox shareholders hate the deal but because Fox shareholders are concerned that Mr. Murdoch will overpay.  The shareholders have this view in part because Mr. Murdoch is perceived to have overpaid for Dow Jones. The Fox camp is naturally working hard to persuade everyone that Mr. Murdoch will not overpay this time. A source familiar with Mr. Murdoch's view argues that this deal is a "nice-to-have," not a "must-have," and that if Time Warner has delusions of grandeur, Mr. Murdoch will walk away. * The summer timing of Fox's overture gives Time Warner a tactical advantage, because Fox can't immediately force Time Warner shareholders to vote on the deal. Time Warner's annual shareholder meeting, at which a "hostile" move like this could take place, isn't until next spring, 9 months from now. This removes a near-term threat and gives Time Warner breathing room. It also suggests that Fox's overtures are likely to remain "friendly," at least for the time being, and that we could be in for a long siege. * Time Warner does not want to sell itself now: The ideal timing, from Time Warner's perspective, would be 2-3 years from now. There are three reasons for this.  * Everyone agrees that the next move is Mr. Murdoch's. He will listen carefully to Time Warner shareholders, and if he feels they would be supportive of the deal at a higher price, he will likely raise his offer in an attempt to bring Time Warner to the negotiating table. Stay tuned! Email: hblodget@businessinsider.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Mike BlakeConstruction workers build new single family homes at a development area in Vista, California March 20, 2012.We just some discouraging data from the housing market. Housing starts unexpectedly plunged 9.3% to an annualized rate of 893,000. Building permits unexpectedly fell 4.2% to 963,000. Economists estimated starts would climb by 1.9% and permits would gain 3.0%. This comes despite low mortgage rates and limited supply in the housing market. "The decrease was concentrated in the South, where starts fell 29.6% m/m; starts rose in the other three regions," noted Barclays' Dean Maki. "It is unclear what led to the sharp decline in housing starts in the South in June, but the rise in single-family permits in June and the increases in the NAHB homebuilders index in June and July suggest that starts will increase in the coming months. It is also worth highlighting that housing starts rose an annualized 26.2% in Q2 14 after plunging in Q1 14 due to adverse weather conditions, so residential investment is still likely to make a positive contribution to Q2 14 real GDP growth, despite the weakness in June." FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotWeekly initial jobless claims totaled 302,000. Expectations were for claims to total 310,000. Continuing jobless claims totaled 2,507,000, up/down from last week's 2,584,000. According to the Department of Labor, the 4-week moving average of initial claims fell to its lowest level since June 2007. "The 4-week moving average was 309,000, a decrease of 3,000 from the previous week's revised average. This is the lowest level for this average since June 2, 2007 when it was 307,500. The previous week's average was revised up by 500 from 311,500 to 312,000," the report said." The 4-week average for continuing claims also fell to 2,559,000, the lowest level for the average since October 2007. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Claims are still trending downwards; a much better guide to the economy right now than housing starts... This time last year, the trend is claims was about 345K, so the improvement has been substantial, and more than enough to support a clear acceleration in payroll growth from last year's average 194K average."  Last week, jobless claims came in at 304,000, but were revised up to 305,000 with the latest report.  FREE AppDownload
DigiTimes reports Apple's suppliers are struggling to manufacture the super slim components Apple is requesting for the next iPhone. "Taiwan-based component makers are reducing the thickness of components including panels, chassis and battery packs for upcoming iPhones, and are facing technological difficulties maintaining or hiking yield rates," says DigiTimes.  It says the battery is going to be 2 mm thin, as opposed to 3 mm for the current model.  Again, is a story we hear whenever Apple rolls out a new product. Suppliers struggle initially to make new, slim parts, but eventually they figure it out.  Really, the most important news in the DigiTimes report is this: "60-70 million new iPhones are expected to be sold by the end of 2014." We're assuming that number is just iPhone orders in the fourth quarter. If so, it's a big jump on a year-over-year basis for Apple. At the low-end of that range, it's a 17% increase. At the high end, it's a 37% annual increase. Via: BGR FREE AppDownload
APMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella announced plans to cut 18,000 jobs, the most in the company's history. In a memo to employees, Nadella said the majority of the cuts — 12,500 — would come from newly acquired Nokia. That's half of the employees who joined Microsoft from Nokia. As for the timing of the cuts, he said: "We are moving now to start reducing the first 13,000 positions, and the vast majority of employees whose jobs will be eliminated will be notified over the next six months." Microsoft's highest-ever job cuts before this were 5,800 in early 2009 during the low point of the recession. Microsoft has 127,104 employees worldwide, so these cuts affect 15% of its workforce. As a result of these layoffs, Microsoft will have a charge of $1.1 billion to $1.6 billion related to severance and benefits packages.  Nadella recently foreshadowed that cuts were coming in a big memo that outlined his vision for the future of the company. "Nothing is off the table in how we think about shifting our culture ... Organizations will change," he wrote at the time. "Tired traditions will be questioned. Our priorities will be adjusted ... " In today's memo, he said these cuts were "the first step to building the right organization for our ambitions is to realign our workforce." Yesterday, Microsoft's stock was at the highest it's been in nearly 14 years. It is up 1.45% in premarket trading. There's more than just layoff news in Nadella's announcement.  Buried deep in the memo: Microsoft will stop making Android phones through Nokia. "In addition, we plan to shift select Nokia X product designs to become Lumia products running Windows. This builds on our success in the affordable smartphone space and aligns with our focus on Windows Universal Apps," the memo said. Just after Microsoft bought Nokia, Nokia started making Android-based phones. This was a surprise since Microsoft makes its own mobile operating system — Windows Phone.  Nadella had no desire to continue with Android. He wants Microsoft's operating system to be the company's only mobile operating system. Here's the memo: From: Satya Nadella To: All Employees Date: July 17, 2014 at 5:00 a.m. PT Subject: Starting to Evolve Our Organization and Culture Last week in my email to you I synthesized our strategic direction as a productivity and platform company. Having a clear focus is the start of the journey, not the end. The more difficult steps are creating the organization and culture to bring our ambitions to life. Today I’ll share more on how we’re moving forward. On July 22, during our public earnings call, I’ll share further specifics on where we are focusing our innovation investments. The first step to building the right organization for our ambitions is to realign our workforce. With this in mind, we will begin to reduce the size of our overall workforce by up to 18,000 jobs in the next year. Of that total, our work toward synergies and strategic alignment on Nokia Devices and Services is expected to account for about 12,500 jobs, comprising both professional and factory workers. We are moving now to start reducing the first 13,000 positions, and the vast majority of employees whose jobs will be eliminated will be notified over the next six months. It’s important to note that while we are eliminating roles in some areas, we are adding roles in certain other strategic areas. My promise to you is that we will go through this process in the most thoughtful and transparent way possible. We will offer severance to all employees impacted by these changes, as well as job transition help in many locations, and everyone can expect to be treated with the respect they deserve for their contributions to this company. Later today your Senior Leadership Team member will share more on what to expect in your organization. Our workforce reductions are mainly driven by two outcomes: work simplification as well as Nokia Devices and Services integration synergies and strategic alignment. First, we will simplify the way we work to drive greater accountability, become more agile and move faster. As part of modernizing our engineering processes the expectations we have from each of our disciplines will change. In addition, we plan to have fewer layers of management, both top down and sideways, to accelerate the flow of information and decision-making. This includes flattening organizations and increasing the span of control of people managers. In addition, our business processes and support models will be more lean and efficient with greater trust between teams. The overall result of these changes will be more productive, impactful teams across Microsoft. These changes will affect both the Microsoft workforce and our vendor staff. Each organization is starting at different points and moving at different paces. Second, we are working to integrate the Nokia Devices and Services teams into Microsoft. We will realize the synergies to which we committed when we announced the acquisition last September. The first-party phone portfolio will align to Microsoft’s strategic direction. To win in the higher price tiers, we will focus on breakthrough innovation that expresses and enlivens Microsoft’s digital work and digital life experiences. In addition, we plan to shift select Nokia X product designs to become Lumia products running Windows. This builds on our success in the affordable smartphone space and aligns with our focus on Windows Universal Apps. Making these decisions to change are difficult, but necessary. I want to invite you to my monthly Q&amp;A event tomorrow. I hope you can join, and I hope you will ask any question that’s on your mind. Thank you for your support as we start to take steps forward in evolving our organization and culture. Satya   FREE AppDownload
Moex.comMarkets are getting slammed in Russia. The MICEX stock market index is down by 2.9%. The ruble is down 1.1% against the dollar. This comes after the U.S. announced new sanctions against Russia's energy and financial industry. "Among the targeted firms on the new sanctions list include Rosneft, the world's largest oil company; Gazprombank, Russia's largest private bank; Novatek, Russia's largest independent natural-gas producer; and Vnesheconombank, a development lender," reported BI's Brett Logiurato. "From the West's perspective they could not have chosen a better time to intensify sanctions," said Societe Generale strategist Regis Chatellier. "Until a few weeks back Russia was in a position of relative strength because there was massive pressure on oil but that is not the case any more." The sanctions don't appear to be having a major impact elsewhere. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed essentially unchanged. Markets in Europe are down, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, and Germany's DAX down 0.3%. FREE AppDownload
FinVizCrude oil is the biggest mover in the commodities markets. WTI crude is up 1.0% to $102.19/barrel and Brent crude is up 0.6% to $107.81/barrel. The moves come in the wake of new U.S. sanctions against Russian financial and energy firms including Rosneft, the world's largest publicly-traded oil company. Rosneft produces 4.2 million barrels of oil per day. Energy experts seem to agree that the sanctions really aren't that big of a deal. “OPEC will step up and export more to replace the lost Russian crude and calm these oil-price spikes,” said Nomura's Gordon Kwan via Bloomberg. “The U.S. and EU are smart enough not to risk derailing the global economic recovery by choking off Russia’s oil exports.” That seems obvious. No one wants to shoot themselves in the foot. "OPEC’s spare capacity is estimated at 3.25 million barrels a day, the International Energy Agency said in its monthly report on July 11," reported Bloomberg's Ben Sharples. "Russia exported about 6.14 million barrels a day of crude in May, said the Paris-based agency, an adviser to developed nations. Commercial oil inventories held by members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development rose by 44.2 million barrels in May to 2.639 billion, its report shows." FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley reported earnings this morning, and the bank just beat analyst estimates with net revenue coming in at $8.61 billion and earnings per share hitting $0.60. Analysts estimated that the bank's revenue would come in at $8.19 billion with an earnings per share of about $0.56. The bank posted a profit of $1.94 billion, compared with a year-earlier profit of $980 million What everyone's looking at this quarter is trading revenue, which has wilted all over Wall Street since the market got quiet at the beginning of the quarter. At Morgan Stanley, trading revenue was expected to come in at $2.61 billion, down 12% from this time last year. The number that came in was $2.5 billion — not great, but not death either. "Our quarterly results demonstrated solid performance, despite a muted operating environment," said CEO James Gorman. "We are seeing momentum across our businesses, with particular strength in Investment Banking, Equity Sales &amp; Trading and Wealth Management – where profit margins hit 21% for the first time since the founding of the JV and assets entrusted to us by clients reached $2 trillion. We also continued to be disciplined on expenses, while focusing on delivering higher returns.” Thing is, since the financial crisis, Morgan Stanley has pivoted its business toward wealth management — once considered a more boring part of the business. But boring is in right now, and that change proven profitable for the bank. Last quarter the bank's wealth management division brought in $3.5 billion. This quarter that number increased to $3.7 billion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Finbarr O'ReillyIsraeli security personnel look at a window damaged by shrapnel after a short-range rocket landed on Tuesday near the Erez crossing July 16, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Russian Sanctions. The Obama administration announced another round of sanctions on Russia in response to ongoing tensions on the Ukrainian border. "The sanctions are targeted at a series of large banks and energy and defense firms, marking a significant escalation in the U.S.'s standoff with Russia," reported BI's Brett Logiurato. "Up to this point, the sanctions had only been aimed at several Russian individuals and their businesses involved in the destabilization of the situation in Ukraine. Among the targeted firms on the new sanctions list include Rosneft, the world's largest oil company; Gazprombank, Russia's largest private bank; Novatek, Russia's largest independent natural-gas producer; and Vnesheconombank, a development lender." Russia Gets Slammed. Russia's MICEX stock market index is down over 2.7% and Russia's ruble is down 1.1% against the dollar. "From the West's perspective they could not have chosen a better time to intensify sanctions," said Societe Generale strategist Regis Chatellier. "Until a few weeks back Russia was in a position of relative strength because there was massive pressure on oil but that is not the case any more." But Will The Sanctions Work?. While the sanctions may do damage on Russia's economy, they may not be able to get Russia to back off from the border. Here's a quote from a paper written by Robert Pape: "The key reason that sanctions fail is that modern states are not fragile. Nationalism often makes states and societies willing to endure considerable punishment rather than abandon their national interests. States involved in coercive disputed often accept high costs, including civilian suffering, to achieve their objectives. …Even in the weakest and most fractured states, external pressure is more likely to enhance the nationalist legitimacy of rulers than to undermine it." Markets Are Down. World stock markets are taking the sanctions in stride. Markets in Europe are down, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 down 0.5%, and Germany's DAX down 0.4%. U.S. futures are also lower with Dow futures down 37 points and S&amp;P futures down 7.6 points. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed essentially unchanged. Historic Firings Coming To Microsoft. "Microsoft Corp is set to cut more than 6,000 jobs in an announcement expected early Thursday, according to sources familiar with the matter, as it trims its newly acquired Nokia phone business and reshapes itself as a cloud-computing and mobile-friendly software company," reported Reuters' Ron Grover and Bill Rigby. "What could be the deepest job cuts in the company's 39-year history come five months into the tenure of Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella, who outlined plans for a "leaner" business in a public memo to employees last week." Meanwhile At Xbox. "Since the new Xbox One offering launched on June 9th, we’ve seen sales of Xbox One more than double in the US, compared to sales in May, and solid growth in Xbox 360 sales," said Microsoft's Xbox staff in a blog. Job Market Update. At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Labor Department will publish its latest weekly report on unemployment insurance claims. Economists estimate weekly initial claims ticked up 310,000 from 304,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims continue to linger below 320k," noted Nomura economists. "This suggests that layoffs have bottomed out and also corroborates the strong payroll growth and declines in the unemployment rate we’ve seen this year." Housing Market Update. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll also get the July report on housing starts and building permits. Economists estimate starts increased by 2.4% in June with building permits jumping 3.1%. "Building permits have trended higher and are running above the pace of starts," noted BofA Merrill Lynch economists."Moreover, homebuilder sentiment, as measured by the NAHB housing index, picked up over the month. New home sales also surged in May, which should incentivize greater building. After a rough start to the year, we think housing conditions have improved." East Cost Update. The Philly Fed Business Outlook report will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate the Philly Fed index fell to 16.0 in July from 17.8 in June. "The index has rebounded sharply after posting a decline in February on winter-related softness, and while we continue to expect broad-based improvement in manufacturing, we look for more moderating gains," said Barclays economists. Here Come Q2 Earnings... Among today's big earnings announcements are Morgan Stanley ($0.56 estimated), Sherwin-Williams ($2.93), Google ($6.25), and IBM ($4.31) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar Men push a float representing a foreclosed home during the "Main Street to Wall Street" rally in New York.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Foreclosure activity in the United States dropped last month to the lowest level since July 2006, before the housing bubble burst, and likely will continue to drop through the first half of next year, an industry group said on Thursday. RealtyTrac, which tracks housing market trends, said that 107,194 properties across the country were at some stage of the foreclosure process in June. That marked a 2 percent decline from May and left foreclosure activity, which includes foreclosure notices, scheduled auctions and bank repossessions, 16 percent below the year-ago level. "Over the next six to nine months, nationwide foreclosure numbers should start to flatline at consistently historically normal levels," RealtyTrac vice president Daren Blomquist said in a statement. June was the 45th consecutive month foreclosure activity was down on an annual basis. Declining foreclosures have reduced the supply of properties on the market, pushing home prices up. That, combined with higher mortgage rates, has slowed the recovery of the U.S. housing market. Lenders reclaimed a total of 26,889 properties in June, down 5 percent from May and the lowest level since June 2007. Repossessions were down 24 percent from a year ago. Nationwide, 46,743 properties were set for foreclosure auctions, a 13 percent decrease from the last year, bringing scheduled foreclosure auctions to the lowest level since July 2006. Lenders started the foreclosure process on 47,243 properties in June, down 18 percent from a year ago, and the lowest level since November 2005. Florida continued to have the nation's highest foreclosure rate, followed by Illinois, New Jersey and Nevada. The RealtyTrac report also included data for the first half of the year, which showed foreclosure activity decreased in 79 percent of the 212 metropolitan areas during the first half of 2014. Foreclosure activity for the first six months of the year was down 23 percent from the same period in 2013. "While it's important that any remaining foreclosure infection is addressed promptly to keep it from festering, foreclosures are no longer a widespread contagion threatening to derail the housing market's return to full health," Blomquist said.   (Reporting by Elvina Nawaguna; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank President Draghi speaks during the bank's monthly news conference in FrankfurtBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone inflation stayed low as expected in what the European Central Bank calls the "danger zone" in June as falling prices of food and phone calls offset more expensive tobacco and restaurants, data showed on Thursday. Consumer prices in the 18 countries using the euro rose 0.1 percent on the month in June for a 0.5 percent year-on-year gain -- the same annual inflation rate as in May, data from the European Union's statistics office Eurostat showed. The annual rate is well below the ECB's inflation target of close to, but below 2 percent. The central bank believes that price growth slower than 1 percent is a "danger zone" because of the risk of deflation. Price growth has been below 1 percent since last in October. The ECB left interest rates unchanged in July, a month after cutting them to record lows and pushing the deposit rate into negative territory and it made clear it was ready to print money in the future if needed to prevent deflation. Consumer prices fell in Greece, Portugal and Slovakia in June and 5 countries had inflation at or above 1 percent, including Germany where prices rose 1.0 percent on the year. Core annual inflation - which excludes the volatile prices of energy and unprocessed food - stood at 0.8 percent in June, unchanged from May. The ECB is also keeping an eye on the euro exchange rate and its impact on inflation -- the bank is ready to launch additional measures to prevent deflation if the euro becomes to strong.   (Reporting by Martin Santa) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei NikolskyiRussia's President Vladimir Putin visits a Rosneft refinery in the Black Sea town of Tuapse in southern Russia October 11, 2013. NEW YORK (Reuters) - President Barack Obama aimed a direct blow at Russia's economic heart on Wednesday with sanctions on Rosneft, the flagship oil giant that generates more than 4 percent of the world's crude and over 8 percent of the country's GDP. But in a change of tack from previous similar efforts, the measures were narrowly tailored to slowly starve the state-run energy firm of U.S. dollar funding, not bar it from doing business with oil buyers such as BP or stymie multibillion-dollar ventures with firms like ExxonMobil, experts say. The sanctions against key parts of the Russian energy and financial industry were intended to serve notice to Moscow that its refusal to curb violence in eastern Ukraine has consequences. In announcing the sanctions, which also hit No. 2 natural gas producer Novatek as well as two banks and eight defense firms, the Treasury Department said U.S. companies were only prohibited from engaging in any "new debt of longer than 90 days maturity or new equity" with the energy firms and banks. The measures would not freeze the Russian firms' assets "nor prohibit transactions with them beyond these specific restrictions," the Treasury Department said. That marked a change from many earlier measures that effectively shut down a sanctioned firm's ability to do any business with U.S. entities. The result is likely to be an increase in the cost of financing for Rosneft, which has grown increasingly reliant on pre-financing oil supply deals with firms including Glencore and BP. It may need to seek out new banks for loans, and could eventually slow investment in new projects. But it will not "directly affect or limit Russia’s oil exports the way that sanctions on Iran were designed to do," said Gary Hufbauer, expert on economic sanctions at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, DC. Washington has long barred U.S. companies from investing in Iran, and more recently has imposed sanctions that have halved its oil exports over Tehran's nuclear program. "The U.S. is scaling its sanctions to have a slow increase in pressure on Russia," Hufbauer said. To be sure, Wednesday's sanctions will intensify the tension between the West and Moscow over Russia's role in Ukraine, and therefore add to broad geopolitical unease across the oil sector. The impact on a deal to buy Morgan Stanley's physical oil trading business, which is now pending before the U.S. foreign investment approval committee, is not clear. Yet the immediate effect may be less dramatic than in March, when Obama's first major sanctions sparked a brief wave of panic among energy traders who feared they may be cut off from key counterparties such as global commodity merchant Gunvor, whose founder and then co-owner Gennady Timchenko was targeted. Washington added Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin to the sanctions list a month later. The latest sanctions "could have been a lot worse," Douglas Jacobson, an attorney at Jacobson Burton in Washington and sanctions expert. "The sectoral sanctions list is extremely narrow in terms of parties and what it prohibits." Obama told reporters the measures were "significant" but also "designed to have the maximum impact on Russia while limiting any spillover effects on American companies or those of our allies". FUNDING SQUEEZE Thus far, Washington’s sanctions have had only a limited impact on the Russian energy industry, a cornerstone of the country's $2-trillion economy, resulting mostly in higher borrowing costs for domestic companies. Even as the pressure has mounted over recent months, executives from Total, BP, Statoil and ExxonMobil have all visited Russia, underlining the importance they attach to business with the world's leading oil producer with current output of around 10.5 million barrels per day (bpd). Rosneft alone pumps about 40 percent of that. Experts said that Rosneft's business partners would not likely be in danger of falling foul of the sanctions. The latest effort "will limit the sources from which Rosneft can get financing and thus raise the cost of capital for the firm," according to Jason Bordoff, director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University and a senior White House energy adviser until late 2012. "It does not prohibit U.S. firms from doing business with Rosneft or bar Russian energy supplies from flowing into the global market." Sechin, speaking at a BRICs meeting in Brasilia, said the sanctions would not affect Rosneft's current project with ExxonMobil, but would damage the shareholders of U.S. companies cooperating with Rosneft. Exxon has a $10 billion joint venture with Rosneft off the Pacific island of Sakhalin producing over 100,000 bpd. A spokesman for the company declined to comment. A spokesman for BP, which has a 20 percent stake in Rosneft and a number of large joint exploration projects, said the company was considering implications of the new sanctions, but had no additional comment at this point. A spokesperson for Schlumberger NV, which drills with Rosneft on the Russian island of Sakhalin, was not immediately available to comment. Chevron has a stake in a Russian pipeline and last fall inked a $10 billion deal to develop Ukrainian shale. "We are reviewing the sanctions to ensure strict compliance with the law and we continue to monitor events," Chevron spokesman Kent Robertson said.   PRE-PAID OIL DEALS? A larger question may be Rosneft's more than $15 billion worth of oil-related finance arrangements known as pre-payment deals, in which loans are repaid through future oil supplies. Such deals have raised billions of dollars for Rosneft, which borrowed $30 billion in two separate loans in 2012 and 2013 to help finance last year's $55 billion acquisition of TNK-BP. In addition to BP and Glencore, Rosneft has done deals with big global traders Vitol and Trafigura as well. With pressure over Ukraine mounting, however, some energy companies had already begun discussing a possible switch to using other currencies to settle the transactions. While oil is typically priced in U.S. dollars, in theory deals can be settled in any currency the counterparties agree on. Some firms had also begun to back away from dealing with Rosneft. Part state-owned lender Lloyds Bank pulled out of a $2-billion prepayment facility with Rosneft announced last month to avoid embarrassing the UK government, bankers had said. "I think the Obama Administration is trying to squeeze Rosneft against continuing to go to the Exxons and BPs and asking for loans," said Amy Jaffe, international energy policy expert at University of California, Davis. "Eventually, everything that limits a big state oil company’s access to financing would have an effect on production, just not right away."   (Reporting by Joshua Schneyer and Ed McAllister; Editing by Jonathan Leff and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithSEATTLE (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp is set to cut more than 6,000 jobs in an announcement expected early Thursday, according to sources familiar with the matter, as it trims its newly acquired Nokia phone business and reshapes itself as a cloud-computing and mobile-friendly software company. What could be the deepest job cuts in the company's 39-year history come five months into the tenure of Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella, who outlined plans for a "leaner" business in a public memo to employees last week. Many of the cuts are expected to come from the Nokia unit, which Microsoft acquired in April for $7.2 billion, pushing up Microsoft's headcount by a quarter to 127,000. Microsoft said when it struck the deal to buy the Finnish phone maker that it would cut $600 million per year in costs within 18 months of closing the acquisition. Microsoft is also expected to trim staffing at its Xbox game and entertainment unit, which Nadella last week praised but stopped short of describing as a "core" business. Nadella's cuts are set to be the biggest at the Redmond, Washington-based company since his predecessor Steve Ballmer axed 5,800, or about 6 percent of headcount at that time, in the depths of recession in early 2009. The new CEO's move is designed to help Microsoft shift from being a primarily software-focused company to one that sells online services, apps and devices that it hopes will make people and businesses more productive. Nadella needs to make Microsoft a stronger competitor to Google Inc and Apple Inc, which have dominated the new era of mobile-centric computing. Marking this change of emphasis, Nadella last week rebranded Microsoft as "the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world." Microsoft is not alone among the pioneers of the personal computer revolution that are now slimming down as they adapt to the Web-focused world. PC-maker Hewlett-Packard Co is in the midst of a radical three-to-five-year plan that will lop up to 50,000 of its 250,000 staff. International Business Machines is undergoing a "workforce rebalancing," which analysts say could mean 13,000, or about 3 percent of its staff, being laid off or transferred to new owners as units are sold. Chip maker Intel Corp and network equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc both said in the past year they are cutting around 5 percent of their staff. (Reporting by Ron Grover in Los Angeles and Bill Rigby in Seattle; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersECB headquarters are pictured prior to the bank's monthly news conference in FrankfurtLONDON (Reuters) - The European Central Bank (ECB) on Thursday laid out plans to publish a trove of data on individual banks - ranging from measures of their leverage to a standard level of non-performing loans - on individual banks when it completes a landmark review. The central bank also said it would give lenders just two weeks to come up with plans to deal with capital shortfalls. The ECB is reviewing the asset valuations of the euro zone's 128 most important lenders and assessing their ability to withstand future crises. The results will be published in the second half of October, before the ECB takes on bank supervision on Nov. 4. "The ECB has been very transparent in engaging with banks and aims to provide as many details as possible to markets and other participants on progress in the comprehensive assessment and what the end of the process will look like," said Danièle Nouy, chair of the ECB's supervisory board. As well as publishing a template of the six pages of data it will give per bank, the ECB detailed milestones between now and the end of the tests, including plans to give banks "partial and preliminary" results in "September/October" while withholding the final results until "very close" to publication.   FULL REVEAL   As reported by Reuters on July 9, the disclosure template includes the 'leverage ratio', a blunt measure of banks' total assets to equity that lenders are not yet required to disclose. Along with the headline results of capital ratios, the ECB will also make extensive disclosures about banks' portfolios, including details of the areas where regulators made the largest adjustments to banks' asset valuations. Standardised ratios for non-performing loans as a percentage of outstanding loans will be given for the first time, along with standardised figures on the level of loan-loss provisions they have taken relative to their bad loans. This will allow analysts and investors to make more meaningful comparisons between the state of banks' loan books, something they have complained about being unable to do in the past. Giving investors the tools to make more informed decisions about European banks is a key objective of the tests since European bank valuations have trailed their U.S. peers over the financial crisis. [graphic: http://link.reuters.com/buf36v]   CAPITAL   The results will be based on banks' positions at the end of 2013, but details will be given of any funds raised in the capital markets between January 1 and September 30. Banks with capital shortfalls will have to present plans to tackle them within two weeks. The ECB said its "general expectation" was that banks would use the purest form of equity capital to cover shortfalls revealed by the asset review and the 'baseline', or most likely economic, scenarios. This implies banks cannot use asset sales as a way of remedying shortfalls, although the banks with shortfalls based solely on the asset quality review can offset this with earnings from 2014. Banks who fail based on the adverse scenario, which models negative developments in everything from house prices to economic growth and inflation, will be allowed to make "limited use" of other kinds of higher quality capital including some types of bonds that convert to equity. Other milestones over the next three months include the publication, in early August, of the methodology that it will 'join up' the results of the asset valuation review and a forwarding looking stress test on how well positioned banks are to withstand future crises.   (This refiled version of the story removed repeated words in first paragraph)   (Reporting By Laura Noonan; Editing by Larry King) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray Rupert MurdochNEW YORK (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch’s Twenty-First Century Fox Inc made an audacious offer for Time Warner Inc that if it succeeds would transform the American media landscape and cement the 83-year-old's status as the most powerful magnate in U.S. media and entertainment. While Time Warner, whose assets include the HBO cable channel and the Warner Bros movie studio, rejected the $80 billion bid, Murdoch is unlikely to abandon the pursuit and has the “disciplined determination” to get the deal done, people close to the situation said. Investors expect he will eventually raise the offer and increase the cash component – 40 percent - to win the prize. Murdoch's proposal, fresh on the heels of his high-profile divorce and a damaging phone-hacking scandal that involved his British tabloids, is aggressively bold even for a media mogul whose ambitions are legendary. A combined Fox-Time Warner would have a massive array of media and sports content and be in a very powerful negotiating position with cable and satellite distributors - some of whom have themselves announced mega-deals and newer ways of getting to consumers, such as online video distributors Netflix Inc and Amazon.com Inc. "It's a chance to put some great programming and content assets under one umbrella," a person close to the situation said. "There are other alternatives, but none of them fit anywhere near as well as this does." Still, Time Warner pushed back strongly against Murdoch's approach, insisting the offer undervalued the media conglomerate and raising fears about the dominating role that his family would play, another person close to the situation said on Wednesday. In particular, the board is worried about the future value of Fox's shares, which represented 60 percent of its cash-and-stock proposal. Those fears were magnified by a lack of voting rights, the source said, as that would concentrate too much power in the hands of Murdoch and his sons. "To do a merger of this scale and size where Time Warner shareholders have no insight into the destiny of the company is very troubling," the source, who was not authorized to speak on the record, told Reuters. Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes told the conglomerate's employees in a videotaped appearance that the company's standalone strategic plan would create value "superior to any proposal" that Fox could offer. The acquisition, if ever completed, would mark the second-largest media deal ever, when debt is included, trailing only Time Warner's disastrous takeover of AOL in 2000. In the end, a Time Warner deal is likely to hinge on price. The source pointed out that Fox's stock has traded at the highest multiple of its peer group and Time Warner - prior to its 17 percent rally on Wednesday - was trading at the lowest. Time Warner worries that the stock - the main "currency" of the deal - may be ripe for a pullback, lowering the value that is currently on the table. According to StarMine SmartEstimates, Fox shares trade at a multiple of about 19.5 times 12-month forward earnings, above the group median of 17.8 and now in line with Time Warner's 19.5 times - a valuation substantially above where the shares closed on Tuesday. Shares of Fox dropped 6.2 percent to $33. The offer, first reported by The New York Times, was worth about $80 billion, or $85 a share, when it was made in June. Fox estimates that a combined company, which would have $60 billion in annual revenue, would save $1 billion in costs and possibly more, the people familiar with the matter said. Detailed negotiations with Time Warner could reveal even more potential savings, they said, which may then justify sweetening the offer. Fox said no talks were under way, and it has no desire to go hostile or to bid against itself with a higher offer, the people familiar with the matter said. Either way, a takeover by Fox could win the blessing of many of Time Warner's shareholders, a majority of whom also own Fox's non-voting stock. In addition, Time Warner does not have a staggered board and its bylaws allow as few as 15 percent of shareholders to call a special meeting, factors that could help a takeover bid. A number of Time Warner shareholders said Twenty-First Century Fox and Murdoch might have to raise the bid to as high as $95 per share from $85 when the bid was made in June to wrap up a merger. Murdoch also would do well to offer more cash upfront, investors said. Time Warner has no controlling shareholder, meaning the company could easily go into play, said Ken Griffin, founder and chief executive of Citadel LLC, which owns shares in both companies. “It’s going to be tough to say no,” he said during a conference in New York. Mario Gabelli, chairman and CEO of Gamco Investors, said he expects a technology company with more cash than Fox, such as Apple or Amazon, could emerge with a bid. “It’s not a dynamic I want to dismiss out of hand. They have a currency, and they understand the value of content,” he said of the tech companies." Gamco's funds own about 3.6 million shares of Time Warner and about 10.5 million Fox shares. Fox's overtures are likely to reverberate across the industry, accelerating a wave of consolidation that is already well underway. Comcast Corp, the largest U.S. cable provider, offered in February to buy Time Warner Cable Inc for $45.2 billion in stock. Overseas, Fox's 39 percent-owned British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc is negotiating to buy Fox's Sky Italia and its Sky Deutschland subsidiary in a deal that could net Fox as much as $13 billion. As a consequence of the Murdoch bid, "the urgency to find a dance partner will increase across the sector," said Bernstein Research analyst Todd Juenger. U.S. media shares closed higher on the deal, with top gainers including Discovery Communications Inc, up 6.3 percent; Viacom Inc, which rose 3.3 percent; and AMC Networks Inc, ending 4.5 percent higher. Murdoch started thinking about a potential merger with Time Warner as he was separating Twenty-First Century Fox, which mostly consists of media properties, from News Corp, focused on the Wall Street Journal and other publishing assets, people familiar with the company said. The separation, triggered by the British phone-hacking scandal which dragged Murdoch before the British parliament, has in the end positioned Fox to become a powerful consolidator of media properties, people familiar with the matter said. Fox has indicated it would sell Time Warner's CNN cable channel, a direct competitor of Fox News, to clear any regulatory hurdles, according to the people. At least one antitrust expert, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said it was unlikely that any issues that arise would kill a Fox deal for Time Warner. The source pointed out that there were five major content companies in the United States, plus numerous smaller ones. News of the Time Warner bid comes as Fox is reorganizing its television business, aiming to lift its network out of last place among the big U.S. broadcasters. Fox is being advised by Goldman Sachs and Centerview Partners, while Time Warner is working with Citigroup, people familiar with the matter said. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Goldman Sachs would lead any financing required for the bid. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom is providing legal advice to Fox, while Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore is legal adviser toTime Warner. (Additional reporting by Soham Chatterjee in Bangalore, Ross Kerber in Boston Luciana Lopez in New York and Diane Bartz in Washington; Writing by Frank McGurty; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty , Lisa Von Ahn and Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
WikipediaThe Beatles arrive at John F. Kennedy International Airport, Feb. 7, 1964Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. President Barack Obama on Wednesday imposed the toughest sanctions on Russia so far, targeting a number of large banks and energy defense firms. The companies — including Russia's largest oil producer Rosneft and largest private bank Gazprombank — don't have access to U.S. debt markets. 2. Israel said it would halt attacks on Gaza for five hours on Thursday morning after four Palestinian boys were killed on a beach by an Israeli gunboat. Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the country planned to escalate military operations after Hamas militants rejected a cease-fire proposed by Egypt earlier in the week. 3. A California judge ruled the death penalty unconstitutional, responding to the case of a prisoner who was sentenced to death nearly 20 years ago but hasn't been executed yet. The waiting period to carry out the death penalty is so long that it can be considered a form of cruel and unusual punishment and is therefore unconstitutional, according to U.S. District Court of Orange Country Judge Cormac J. Carney. 4. Rupert Murdoch's $80 billion bid for Time Warner was rejected, but the media mogul's attempt at a takeover is likely not over. While "no talks are underway," The New York Times' Dealbook reports, "Mr. Murdoch is determined and unlikely to walk away anytime soon, people briefed on the matter said." 5. Scientists are mystified by a giant hole large enough to fit two helicopters that suddenly appeared in Russia's tundra. An explosion triggered underground by "the pressure of meltwater from the thawing solid" during the summer is the most likely cause of the crater, The Telegraph said.  6. The latest allegations against drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline involves the bribing of Chinese officials by staff as early as 2001, The Financial Times reports. The British company is currently being investigated for allegedly bribing doctors to get them to prescribe their medicines. 7. Scientists developed a biological pacemaker made from actual heart cells by injecting a human gene into the hearts of pigs with a condition. This is a major step forward in developing alternatives to electronic pacemakers. 8. Mexico is going to war on the nation's obesity epidemic by banning television ads for soda and high-calorie foods. Commercials for sugary drinks and junk food can't be shown between 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. on weekdays, and between 7:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m. on weekends, The Daily Beast reports. 9. Kabul's airport was closed early Thursday after it was attacked by Taliban fighters. "Militants fire rockets into the airport almost every week," Reuters notes, "but frontal attacks on the heavily guarded facility are rare and represent an ambitious target for insurgents." 10. Typhoon Rammasun, the strongest storm to hit the Philippines this year,  killed at least 38 people and led to the evacuation of more than 400,000 people. The storm churned through areas badly damaged by Typhoon Haiyan, which killed more than 6,000 people last November. And finally... Ron Howard is going to be directing a documentary on the Beatles. It will focus on the group's touring years between 1964 and 1966, the height of "Beatlemania." FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Twenty-First Century Fox's plan to buy Time Warner could create an upheaval in the sports television world, creating the first meaningful challenge to Walt Disney Co's ESPN. Time Warner's board has rejected an $80 billion bid, but Fox Chairman Rupert Murdoch is unlikely to walk away quickly. A deal would bring him college basketball's "March Madness" championship tournament, prime time National Basketball Association (NBA) games, and Major League Baseball (MLB) games. Fox's sports rights include National Football League games, professional baseball games and NASCAR racing. In 2015 it gets the rights to women's World Cup soccer and in 2018 the men's World Cup. Disney's ESPN, with Monday Night Football, Major League Baseball games, NBA games and college football, will still be the team to beat, but for once there might be a match. "You start to put it all together and you create a significant competitor to ESPN for ratings and advertising dollars,” said Marc Ganis, a sports TV consultant. In an age of DVRs and on demand viewing, sports stands out for its ability to draw television audiences which are large and watch live, two traits crucial for selling advertising, says Ed Desser, a former president of NBA Television and New Media Ventures, who advises teams and league's on their TV contracts. "It's TV's growth engine," he says. "It drives subscriber fees and keeps people watching." Ganis speculates that some key Time Warner sports, such as its professional basketball doubleheaders, could move from TNT to Fox Sports 1. Fox Sports 1 already airs major league baseball, motor sports, mixed marital arts and college football and basketball games from the larger conferences. The additions could allow Fox Sports 1, now in about 90 million homes, to add subscribers and raise the affiliate fees from cable and satellite operators that make up the majority of its revenues. ESPN is in more than 100 million homes, not too far ahead of Fox. However, ESPN currently can charge cable companies $6.04 per month for each subscriber, according to data compiled by consultant SNL Kagan. By comparison, Fox Sports 1 is paid 68 cents for each of its subscribers. Thanks in part to its National Basketball Association games, TNT gets $1.48 per subscriber.   SPREADING THE COSTS Murdoch could also use Time Warner's collection of channels to outbid competitors for key sporting events, spreading the costs among its Fox network and cable channels, said Derek Baine, Research Director at SNL Kagan. "One of the things driving this deal is that Fox will be more aggressively bidding on sports rights, so this will give them more fire power," Baine said in an email. "Like NBCU with the Olympics, they can spread games across multiple networks." Combining the two would also eliminate a major buyer of sports programming, which may raise concerns at the U.S. Justice Department when it reviews a deal, said Peter Carstensen, who teaches antitrust at the University of Wisconsin Law School. Carstensen says the review may focus on specific parts of the content business -- movies, sports, news -- rather than a new company's entire offering of content. "My guess is that enforcers are less likely to be concerned by the overall programming," he said. "If you're not going to take the general market view, you may have to divest some sports programming." Fox also will have to convince sports leagues or conferences to alter existing contracts to shift around the sports, said Desser. Contracts usually tightly prescribe where games can be shown, and leagues are loath to change them for fear of upsetting other TV rights holders. Fox already airs NBA games on many of its 22 regional sports cable channels, he says. "But anything is possible, and deals get rewritten," he said. "Sports are such a pure growth engine that they may try."   (Editing by Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
