Associated PressElon Musk owns a car company, a solar company, a space exploration company, and has invested in an artificial intelligence company.  So how could he possibly be in the wrong business? By not focusing more exclusively on the potentially explosive technology underlying two of the four firms: batteries. In an interview with Bloomberg's Barry Ritholtz, bond investing guru Jeff Gundlach says Musk should double down on the battery technology that powers Teslas and which allows homeowners to create their own miniature power plants when coupled with solar panels. "I just think that the battery technology that Tesla has developed is so far ahead of everybody else that it could really have broad uses," Gundlach said. "If I was running GM, or BMW or Ford, I would be open to the idea of just buying the batteries from Tesla." Ritholtz pointed out that Mercedes' new B class electric vehicle will feature a Tesla battery and drive train, to which Gundlach responded by calling on Musk to make similar overtures to other car manufacturers. "If I was Elon Musk, I might go to all the other auto companies and say, I'll make you a deal: I'll get out of the car business, but let's set up a long-term deal on you buying my batteries." But the batteries' potential is even greater than that, Gundlach said: Who's to say these batteries don't become much more efficient, just like how the electromagnet, in the 1830s and 1840s, went from something that was of low power, to suddenly there's a guy named [Joseph] Henry that developed a tightly wound electromagnet. And it radically increased the power. If Tesla is able to increase this lithium battery power to a certain point, it could power your house — you could get away from public utilities, you could think of of ubiquitous usage of this battery technology that could have incredible monopolistic profit potential.  Gundlach said he is all-in on the stock, despite its astronomical projected valuation of 191 price-to-earnings ratio according to Bloomberg. ... It's one of the few stocks that's a high-flyer that has incredibly high P/E that seems to be by a lot of people insanely overvalued. I'm not convinced that it is overvalued, relative to the potential. Now it's high risk — what's the percent chance that it turns into this world-beating, ubiquitous technology, maybe it's 30% or something, but the payoff for that would be incredibly high. So I'm sort of bullish on Tesla as a speculative investment.  Gundlach concluded by saying that while he was not a utility investor, traditional utility companies, not to mention gas stations, could face a long-term threat from Tesla's technology. Tesla had previously said it would begin groundbreaking on the sites of its gigafactories, the manufacturing facilities Musk hopes will double the world's volume of lithium ion batteries, sometime in June. Tesla has not updated its timeline, but Musk recently said the final site selections would be announced "before the end of the year."   Click here to listen to the full interview » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.The weekend is over and stocks are up. U.S. futures were 0.1% higher. Japan's Nikkei opened with a 0.2% gain. Korea's Kospi index was up 0.4%. Markets seem undeterred by Singapore's latest GDP report, which showed the city-state's economy contracted in Q2. After last week's sleepy week in data we've got a big bounce back this week — click here to read markets editor Sam Ro's preview » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray HOBART Tasmania (Reuters) - Young Australian vintner Nick Glaetzer's winemaking-steeped family thought he was crazy when he abandoned the Barossa Valley - the hot, dry region that is home to the country's world-famous big, brassy shiraz. Trampling over the family's century-old grape-growing roots on the Australian mainland, Glaetzer headed south to the island state of Tasmania to strike out on his own and prove to the naysayers there was a successful future in cooler climate wines. Just five years later, Glaetzer made history when his Glaetzer-Dixon Mon Pere Shiraz won a major national award - the first time judges had handed the coveted trophy to a shiraz made south of the Bass Strait separating Tasmania from the Australian mainland. Glaetzer's gamble embodies a major shift in Australia's wine-growing industry as it responds to climate change. A study by the U.S. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found that up to 73 percent of Australian land currently used for viticulture could become unsuitable by 2050. As the country's traditional wine growing regions including the Barossa, the Hunter Valley and Margaret River grow ever hotter and drier, winemakers are rushing to the tiny island state of Tasmania. Average summer temperatures there are currently about 38 percent cooler than in the Barossa. Temperatures in Australia's main wine regions are projected to increase by between 0.3 and 1.7 degrees celsius by 2030, according to the CSIRO, Australia's national science agency. The hotter temperatures would reduce grape quality by 12 to 57 percent, the agency's modeling shows. But in cooler Tasmania, warmer weather could be a benefit because current temperatures can get too chilly for some grape varieties. Wine makers are so concerned about the impact of global warming on the A$5.7 billion ($5.3 billion) industry that they funded a government-backed experiment in the Barossa vineyards to simulate the drier conditions expected in 30-50 years' time. For wine lovers, the upshot is that Australia's iconic shiraz is already changing - Glaetzer's version is 15-20 percent lower in alcohol content than its Barossa cousins - and could be unrecognizable in half a century's time. "If the projections are right, a shiraz in the Barossa in 50 years' time may well taste totally different to what it does at the moment," said Michael McCarthy, the government scientist heading up the Barossa experiment.  HOT, DRY AND EXPENSIVE The flight south comes as Australia's wine industry emerges from a disastrous few decades, blighted by a high Australian dollar and a lengthy grape glut that saw exports plummet. While the national wine industry has shrunk 1.9 percent annually from 2009 to 2014, the Tasmanian state industry is growing at a rate of close to 10 percent per annum, according to the Tasmanian Climate Change Office. "We are investing increasingly in Tasmania ... because it's one of the cooler areas inAustralia to grow grapes and if we are going to have climate change, you might as well start in a cooler climate," said Cecil Camilleri, the manager of sustainable wine programs at Yalumba, the 165-year-old winemaking company that has snapped up three Tasmanian properties in the past 15 years. The average temperature in the Tamar Valley in the northeast of the state is around 17 degrees celsius (63 degrees Fahrenheit), peaking at 22 degrees in the summer - well below the Barossa's typical summer spike into the upper 30s. Treasury Wine Estates &lt;TWE.AX&gt;, the world's No.2 wine company, last year purchased Tasmania's White Hills vineyard. The move was a geographical hedge as well as part of its strategy of owning or controlling vineyards that supply grapes suited to its luxury wine portfolio. The company has sold its vineyards in the Hunter Valley north of Sydney where the world-famous Lindemans brand originated, citing its concern that the region will become "hot and dry and expensive."   BAROSSA BATTLERS Barossa winemakers, meanwhile, aren't sitting back waiting for their vines to wither. Yalumba is enforcing a change in the irrigation technology used by its growers from broadacre systems, which provide water to large swathes of land, to microsystems, which target specific areas, ensuring each drop of water counts. It is also encouraging growers to use graftlings, wine varietals that are grafted on to rootstocks, that have drought resistance as one of their characteristics. "There's a lot of season-to-season adaption happening right now, because climate change is happening now," said Yalumba's Camilleri. "It's happening incrementally and we are adapting incrementally." The government-backed "winter drought project", throwing tarpaulins over rows of vines, is designed to simulate reduced rainfall of between 15 and 20 percent that the region is projected to experience in 2030-50. "If less winter rainfall has the impact we hope to demonstrate in this experiment, that's going to have some pretty major ramifications for the whole of the Australian industry in terms of yield, productivity and maintenance of productivity," said McCarthy, lead researcher at the South Australian Research and Development Institute (SARDI). The group is investigating whether drip irrigation, which wets only a small portion of the vine rootzone, will be enough to supplement natural rainfall, which wets the entire rootzone. Adding to vintners' woes, the rise in temperatures means a greater proportion of fruit is ripening in a shorter time window, resulting in a compressed harvest period that is putting pressure on vineyard facilities and management. Treasury Wine Estates' national viticulturalist Paul Petrie said his company was looking for ways to "put harvests back into a more reasonable timeframe."   'NOT A NEW THING' Not everyone shares the concern. Australia's current Conservative-led coalition government is playing down the role of climate change on Australian agriculture. Since taking leadership of the country last September, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, who in 2009 said the science behind climate change was "crap", has abolished the independent Climate Commission, the body created by the former Labor government to provide public information on the effects of global warming. Abbott has also introduced legislation into parliament to axe Labor's Climate Change Authority, which advises the government on emissions-reduction targets, and to repeal its tax on carbon pricing. Abbott dismissed climate change as a factor when unveiling a A$320 million short-term drought relief package for farmers earlier this year: "If you look at the records of Australian agriculture going back 150 years, there have always been good times and bad, tough and lush times. This is not a new thing in Australia." The Climate Commission had warned in its 2011 Critical Decade report that wine grapes and other temperature-and water-sensitive crops needed to adapt to climate change "or move to locations where growing conditions are more amenable to their production." ($1 = 1.0680 Australian Dollars) (Editing by Emily Kaiser) FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.org(Reuters) - Prosecutors from the U.S. Department of Justice are offering immunity deals to junior traders in London as they continue to investigate the alleged rigging of foreign exchange rates by banks and senior traders, the Financial Times reported, citing sources. Justice Department staff have flown to Britain in recent weeks to interview foreign exchange traders and offer them partial immunity, or "proffer agreements", in exchange for information about superiors, the FT said, citing people familiar with the situation. (http://on.ft.com/1zzu1s4) The deals allow individuals to give authorities information about crimes with some assurances that they will be protected against prosecution, as long as they do not lie. A senior lawyer said the DOJ probe was "well-advanced", the FT reported. However, it quoted another lawyer saying that most of the traders the DOJ had approached had so far declined the immunity deals. The DOJ did not immediately respond to calls seeking comment outside of regular business hours. Sources told Reuters in April that the DOJ and Britain's Financial Conduct Authority were interviewing London traders in connection with the investigation into the largely unregulated $5.3 trillion-a-day forex market. Several banks, including Bank of America Corp , Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc and Credit Suisse Group AG, have been accused of using chat rooms, instant messages and emails to share client information and manipulate daily currency benchmarks. (Reporting by Richa Naidu in Bangalore) FREE AppDownload
Despite the housing crash, many Americans still find themselves in a position where homeownership is unaffordable to them. My colleague Andy Kiersz recently published the following map, based on data from Zillow, showing where middle class homebuyers are totally screwed. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Zillow The darker the patch, the greater percentage of one's earnings an average middle-income earner would have to devote to a mortgage. As you can see, the coasts are the worse, especially California. The East Coast is also really bad, especially the Northeast. There are all kinds of ideas for making homes more affordable, including adding significantly to the housing stock of our big cities, so that any supply/demand imbalance can be alleviated. That's one solution. Another solution is to just have more people do what LeBron James just did, which is to leave the coast and head inland, where things don't look nearly so bad. In his latest column at the NYT, Ross Douthat sounds hopeful that more talented professionals will do just that, reversing the trend of elites going to the cities: And the return of the King is also a reminder that social trends, like careers, aren’t arrows that fly in one direction only. As real estate prices rise insanely on the coasts, as telecommuting becomes more plausible for more people, as once-storied cities hit bottom and rebound ... well, there could be more incentives for less-extraordinary professionals to imitate this heartland native’s unexpected return. At the very least there’s nothing written that says we have to come apart forever. Or that some Americans with less extraordinary but still substantial gifts can’t find a way, like LeBron, to take those talents home again. Obviously, LeBron James is an edge case, because he's guaranteed to make ridiculous amounts of money and have massive fame wherever he goes. But there are other highly talented people who could make themselves successful anywhere there go. And if they went to places like Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Minnesota, and elsewhere, they'd find housing to be much less of an issue. Getting migration trends to change is going to run into a collective-action problem. But that's the case for everything good in the world. FREE AppDownload
AirbnbJoining the sharing economy as a provider of services – accommodation, transportation or whatever else the market calls for – gives you a chance to make money while being part of a “movement”. It sounds tremendously appealing, doesn’t it? The companies being built around this new zeitgeist have different enough business models for it to be worth discussing them as if they do, indeed, fall into a different category from more traditional bastions of capitalism. To some, the appeal is the ability to feel like part of a community by pooling their resources: helping a neighbor or network member to cut the cost of everything from a pricey textbook to a baby stroller, or a ride from San Francisco to LA and an overnight stay in someone’s spare room. It’s a far cry from shopping on Amazon, and checking for plane fares on JetBlue and shopping around for hotel bargains on Priceline – somehow morepersonal. But make no mistake: it’s a business. And you forget that at your peril, regardless of how you’re participating in the sharing economy. Here’s the bottom line: none of the businesses that have sprung up to serve the sharing economy are 501c3 non-profit entities. Rather, they are corporations whose goal is to make a profit out of a much less formal sharing economy that already existed. Long before Airbnb was launched in 2008, a friend of mind traveled across Europe using a couch-surfing style network called Servus. I’ve formed some lasting friendships with people with a free Airbnb-style network, Hospitality Club, that offers hosts and guests the chance to review each other, Airbnb style. Airbnb has just formalized those arrangements, while ride-sharing companies like BlaBla Car have done the same with those old-fashioned ride share boards on walls or online – and build in a profit for the middleman. But you don’t get to become one of the most valuable venture capital-based businesses in the world, as Airbnb has done, and to be worth an estimated $10bn (more than some hotel chains) if all you are is part of a “movement”. Nope, you have to have found a way to make being the middleman pay off very handsomely indeed – and that’s capitalism 101, not a movement. All of which means that if you’re doing business with Airbnb – or Uber, or Parking Panda, or Liquid, or any of the other sharing economy enterprises springing up – you need to think of it in those terms, too. First of all, while you may think of this as just generating a bit of extra income on the side – a way to pay off your student loans, to make your summer vacation pay for itself, to fund your weekends out with friends or to help save up to pay for a wedding or a downpayment for your house or car – the IRS won’t see it that way. And if you think the IRS won’t ever know, well, let me disabuse you of that right now. You’ll fill out tax forms – and come January, you’ll get a 1099 form. Depending on the figure on it, you may end up kissing your expected refund goodbye, or facing an unexpected tax liability. If that 1099 form doesn’t show up? Don’t heave a sigh of relief and fail to report that income. If you think an unexpected tax liability is bad, getting on the wrong side of the IRS is exponentially worse. The best idea of all is to talk to your accountant and ask for their input. At what point does sharing economy income change your tax picture by putting you in a higher tax bracket? Are there any additional writeoffs you should be aware of? Sure, this might cost you an hour of her time – but it could save you a lot of money down the road. And remember, you’re thinking of this as a business – just like the Airbnbs, Ubers and others who are quite happy to scoop up a percentage of what you collect. Before you delve into the sharing economy, consider the regulations governing the micro-business that you’re choosing to enter and how they might affect you. In New York, for instance, it’s illegal to rent out a room in your apartment unless you’re there during the guest’s stay; generally, apartment rentals of under 30 days are illegal. (Depending on who you ask, this is an attempt either to make sure housing stock remains available to people who want to live in it, or a result of fierce lobbying by the hotel industry.) That doesn’t stop people from publicly violating both the law and the terms of their own leases – but Airbnb has made it crystal clear that they are on their own when it comes to sorting out those problems. So if you’ve got a landlord – or neighbors – who you know are just itching to bid you farewell for whatever reason, handing them an ironclad reason to do so might be foolhardy. (Meanwhile, Airbnb is confronting some of these issues itself: this past week Barcelona slapped a fine on the company for violating laws that require rooms rented to tourists be registered with government authorities.) What does set this new breed of business apart from its peers and predecessors is the emphasis on collaboration: hence, the alternative moniker of “collaborative consumption”. That’s a reason to assume that it’s less businesslike in nature (just as the Internet startups of yore were no less focused on making millions just because their founders wore khakis instead of suits). What it means for those of us hoping to make a much smaller amount of money alongside the capitalist creators of these businesses is that marketing may matter much more than before. Expectations are pretty low for customer “service” from traditional businesses; they’re higher from your peers in the sharing economy community who will be rating things like the cleanliness of your home and the promptness with which you respond to queries. The “sharing economy” isn’t going anywhere, and the temptation to become a micro-entrepreneur is only going to grow. But if you’re on the verge of succumbing to temptation, ask yourself whether you’re ready to view this as a business. If not, you’re probably not ready to deal with the risks you’ll be taking onboard along with the much more widely touted rewards. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
The inflation warning signs are really piling up. Last week, Deustche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated a stack of charts showing that wage growth is about to pick up. From Slok: "Those who say that there is no wage pressure are not looking at the data. The Fed looks at five different measures of wages: Average hourly earnings for all workers, Average hourly earnings for nonsupervisory workers, Employment Cost Index, Median usual weekly earnings, and Unit labor costs. One year ago all of these measures were flat and there was no sign anywhere of rising wage inflation. Today, 2-3 of these measures are on a clear uptrend, see charts below. This is not surprising given the labor market continues to tighten, including in the JOLTS data yesterday and NFP last week. Or put differently, if there really is so much slack in the labor market why are any of these wage measures then trending higher?" Check out the charts: Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
 While traveling around Latin America, Linda Rottenberg noticed a troubling trend. "I was noticing that there were no jobs,” she said in a recent interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, “and everyone I was meeting felt that they didn’t want a government job, but no one else was hiring … And I kept saying ‘Why aren’t you starting a business!’ And I’d tell the story of Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in the garage and they’d say, this is Latin America. No one is funding me to start my crazy idea … and I don’t even have a garage.” From that moment on Rottenberg went on a mission to support entrepreneurship in emerging markets — to help the people who already had the motivation. “I just had seen too much talent,” she explains, “And I knew there were great ideas, and I knew if we could just marry a few stories with some people that had the expertise, the mentoring, and the capital, that this would come to life.” That's how Rottenberg's venture, Endeavor, was born. Now it operates in over 20 countries, creating 580 companies, and has helped over 900 committed entrepreneurs with funding. “These are people who are changing their communities. These are people who are creating really high wage jobs — they’re changing cultures. They’re creating a role model effect.” Check out more awesome interviews with CEOs on OneWire's YouTube Channel. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasGeorge Soros A former Soros Fund Management portfolio manager claims he is owed at least $19,523,898.29 (yes, down to 29 cents) after being fired from the hedge fund in 2011, according to a complaint filed in New York State Supreme Court. Aaron Cowen, 42, is suing Soros for unpaid performance fees, management fees and pipeline revenue as well as alleged fraud, Bloomberg News reported. Specifically, Cowen claims he's owed $3,027,327 in performance fees from January 2011 to August 2011; $986,857 for August 2011 performance fees; $10,509,714.29 for performance fees from September 2011 to April 2012; $2,000,000 in management fees; and $3,000,000 for liquidating his portfolio following his termination. A spokesperson for Soros declined to comment.  According to the complaint, Cowen was approached in the fall of 2010 to join Soros Fund Management to run equities for a "long time" and that he would finish his career at the firm. At the time, Cowen was working for Steve Cohen's SAC Capital Management as the Chief Investment Officer and portfolio manager. "You are going to make a lot of money for me and you," the lawsuit claims Soros told Cowen during the recruitment process.  In January 2011, Cowen joined Soros. He was offered a $500,000 base salary plus incentive fees. At Soros, he managed a long/short equities portfolio with $500 million in assets for the Quantum Fund. According to the complaint, Cowen was told he would be managing a $1 billion in assets by the end of the year.  While many portfolio managers were struggling during volatile times, Cowen's portfolio suffered no losses. The lawsuit claims that then-CIO Keith Anderson told Cowen he was "the best long/short PM here". Around July 26, 2011, Cowen was terminated, the lawsuit said. The lawsuit said Cowen wasn't provided an excuse or reason for his termination. July 26, 2011 was also the day that the news broke that Soros Fund Management would operate as a "family-office" hedge fund and that money from the Quantum Fund would be returned to outside investors. Of the $26 billion in assets only about $1 billion belonged to outsiders.   After receiving his termination letter, Cowen had a friend set up a half-hour meeting with George Soros at the billionaire's Southampton home.   "I don't know why you were let go. You were doing very well," the lawsuit claims that Soros told Cowen. After being terminated from Soros, Cowen went on to found Suvretta Capital Management, which has more than $700 million in assets under management according to a Reuters report. Cowen currently resides in a gorgeous home on the Upper East Side located at 131 East 64th Street. According to Corocoran's website, the six-floor home complete with a swimming pool was listed for $18.5 million.  He began his career at Lehman Brothers in the mid-90s on the fixed income desk. After that, he had stints at the Baupost Group, Paloma Partners/Amaranth, Karsch Capital Management and SAC Capital.  Cowen graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania with degrees in finance and bioengineering. He received his MBA from MIT. (You can see an older photo of him here ») This isn't the first time we've seen a former trader take legal action over compensation.   Just last month, former Goldman Sachs trader Deeb Salem filed a petition claiming that his $8.25 million bonus the bank awarded him in 2010 was too low.  FREE AppDownload
How to fold a T-shirt in seconds.  Produced by Matt Johnston
Business InsiderIf you want to trade the markets you have to live the markets — that means turning your trading desk into your second home. That's why we put out a call to our readers to send in pictures of their oh-so-important spaces, and the response was just awesome. The desks came in from Croatia to Chicago, Brazil to Switzerland. You sent us everything from massive desks with a bunch of screens to killer views that likely make the day go by a lot faster. Thanks. Keep 'em coming. If you would like to include your trading desk set up, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com with a photo and a brief description.  FREE AppDownload
The authors of "Freakonomics" and "Super Freakonomics" have a third book called "Think Like A Freak." In this book Levitt and Dubner reveal the strange way the world works and they offer prescriptions to help change the way you think and solve problems. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP PhotoWe know what could happen if Argentina defies a U.S. Court and does not pay a group of hedge funds, known as NML, over $1.3 billion in debt dating back to its 2001 financial crisis — the country will default. That means rising interest rates, money printing, inflation, and a replay of the classic Argentine nightmare. So why would The Republic be willing to risk such a calamity? One reason the government has given time and time again is that it does not wish to trigger a clause in its bond contracts — the “Rights Upon Future Offers” or RUFO Clause. Basically, this clause states that if Argentina "voluntarily" makes a better offer to some creditors before December 31st, 2014, other bondholders have a right to the same treatment. Here's how it's written in Argentina's bond prospectus: Under the terms of the Pars, Discount and Quasi-pars, if following the expiration of the Offer until December 31, 2014, and except as provided below, Argentina voluntarily makes an offer to purchase or exchange or solicits consents to amend any Eligible Securities not tendered or accepted pursuant to the Offer, Argentina has agreed that it will take all steps necessary, including making any required filings, so that each holder of Pars, Discounts or Quasi-pars will have the right, for a period of at least 30 days following the announcement of such offer, to exchange any of such holder’s Pars, Discounts or Quasi-pars for (as applicable): Now what does that mean to The Republic in terms of dollars and cents? In a speech to the country after the Supreme Court effectively ordered that Argentina pay this debt, President Cristina Fernandez said that triggering the RUFO Clause would cost the country $15 billion — half of what it has in its dollar reserves. "As you can see," said Fernandez, "it's not only absurd, but also impossible for a country to give over 50% of the total reserves in its Central Bank in one payment to creditors." If that were the case, indeed that would be absurd however, analysts keep poking holes in the President's assertion for a number of reasons. First off, the use of the word "voluntarily" in the prospectus means everything (and may answer some of your most burning questions about Argentina's tone/legal strategy). Here's how GrahamFisher analyst and debt specialist Josh Rosner put it in a note: "In another effort to justify evasion of the U.S. courts, Argentina has stated that, because of Argentine law (specifically the “Rights Upon Future Offers” or RUFO Clause), it cannot settle with the holdouts on terms that are better than the exchange holders. Given that any resolution of this impasse would be defined as a settlement of a court order, rather than an exchange of securities, this seems to be an incorrect interpretation of their own law." In other words, if payment is Court ordered, it's not voluntary. If it's not voluntary, it's not a violation of RUFO. Argentina also has the option of negotiating with other bondholders, and getting them to forfeit the clause. Think about it: They want to get paid, and if Argentina doesn't pay NML, it can't pay anyone. Other bondholders may waive RUFO because they want to get their payout and end this nonsense. Another point that analysts have made is that once NML is paid, Argentina will no longer be a pariah of international markets. In that case, even if the RUFO Clause is triggered, it can actually raise money from creditors and replenish its Central Bank reserves. It could raise the $15 billion. More from Rosner: "Argentina has ignored the reality that even if that $15 billion number was correct and the creditors unwilling to negotiate a payment formula that was acceptable to both parties, the government would still be able to manage the increased debt burden as a percent of GDP. Moreover, late last year, at least one Wall Street firm offered to raise the full $15 billion that the government claims it owes. If the government chose to raise capital as a means of resolving this impasse, it would normalize its relations with the international capital markets, reduce its cost of funds going forward and immediately begin to attract the foreign investment necessary to develop key industries, including its energy sector and the broader economy." All this said, we have literally no idea why anyone would want to buy an Argentine after this episode — but investors are crazy, and we're all adults here (supposedly) and if you want to buy this stuff, God speed. It's your money. AP PhotoArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Economy Minister Axel Kicillof FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's almost impossible to ignore past performance when picking a mutual fund to invest in. Indeed, past performance is often the first thing a mutual fund will reveal about itself. "The phrase 'past performance is not an indicator of future outcomes' (or some variation thereof) can be found in the fine print of most mutual fund literature," writes Aye Soe, Director of Global Research &amp; Design for S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices. "Yet due to either force of habit or conviction, investors and advisors consider past performance and related metrics to be important factors in fund selection." Because of the way our brains our wired, we often believe that a mutual fund that did well in the past should therefore do well in the future. But that's a mistake. Soe reviewed the performance of 687 actively managed domestic U.S. equity mutual funds. "Very few funds can consistently stay at the top," writes Soe. "Out of the 687 funds that were in the top quartile as of March 2012, only 3.78% managed to stay there by the end of March 2014. Further, 1.90% of the large-cap funds, 3.16% of the mid-cap funds and 4.11% of the small-cap funds remain in the top quartile." In other words, past performance was not an indicator of future outcomes 96.22% of the time. Less than a quarter of the top performing funds were still at the top in the next year. S&P Dow Jones IndicesProspective mutual fund investors often use their own lack of investing knowledge as an excuse for relying on past performance as an indicator. However, they might actually be better suited by just throwing a dart a list of mutual funds. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesAs the average cost of higher education in America continues to rise, at least 50 American colleges and universities are now charging students more than $60,000 per year. We found these numbers by examining the average cost of tuition, fees, room, and board that an incoming student would face over the 2014-15 academic year. Check out a more in-depth breakdown of the 20 most expensive colleges here &gt;&gt; While these direct costs are a significant portion of the total cost of college, they alone do not reveal the true financial burden of higher education — students are also responsible for paying for textbooks, travel costs, and, of course, any social expenses. These "indirect costs" can often add up to an extra $2,000. The most expensive school in the country for the upcoming school year is Harvey Mudd College, charging $64,527 — $48,694 in tuition and fees, and $15,833 for room and board. Last year, only nine colleges charged more than $60,000. New York University — then the most expensive school — cost $61,977. Here are the 50 colleges and university that now charge more than $60,000 a year: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Jill Comoletti contributed research to this article.
Wikimedia CommonsEver since the financial crisis, sales growth has been pretty anemic. Corporations, however, have satisfied their investors by delivering healthy profit growth by boosting profit margins. These fatter profit margins come from cutting costs, which usually means getting more productivity out of a fewer number of workers. After around five years of cost-cutting, some market watchers have warned that there aren't any more costs to be cut. However, the early read from Q2 earnings announcements is that the cost-cutting theme is alive and well. "With earnings growth (4.6%) expected to rise at a faster rate than revenue growth (2.7%) in Q2 and in future quarters, companies (particularly in food-oriented industries) have continued to discuss cost- cutting initiatives to maintain earnings growth rates and profit margins," writes FactSet's John Butters. In his latest Earnings Insight note, Butters quotes five recent earnings announcements and conference calls: “Cost savings from the company's CCI program and the impact of higher-margin industrial products improved gross profit margin, which rose to 39.9% from 39.3% in the year-ago period.” –McCormick &amp; Co. (Jun. 26) “Our Consumer Foods supply chain cost reduction programs continue to yield good results, and delivered cost savings of approximately $50 million for the quarter.” –ConAgra Foods (Jun. 26) “In addition, supply chain cost-savings from our ongoing Holistic Margin Management (HMM) program are expected to exceed $400 million in 2015. We anticipate these savings will offset input cost inflation, which we estimate at 3 percent for the new year.” –General Mills (Jun. 25) “We remain focused on cost discipline to offset the negative effects of our gross profit dollar growth. We will be accelerating our optimization efforts, taking additional steps to lower our expenses company- wide.” –Walgreen (Jun. 24) “We've continued to achieve a more cost-effective platform. Transformative changes that we've talked about the past in Darden's operations have significantly reduced costs by over $150 million annually in selected operating areas around support including supply chain, facilities management, water and energy usage.” –Darden Restaurants (Jun. 20) Keep in mind that these are just anecdotes, and we're still at the very beginning of Q2 earnings announcement season. FREE AppDownload
 There's been a virtual civil war happening in the battle to create the next generation of motor vehicles. The battle is between plug-ins and fuel cells. You may have heard more about about plug-ins thanks to Tesla, which has single handedly revived the market for a technology that was otherwise going nowhere. Tesla's foe — and indeed, that is how Elon Musk regards the technology — is fuel-cell vehicles, which run on hydrogen.  Fuel-cell vehicles have seen their own recent jolt thanks to more established automakers like Toyota, which just got a major boost from the Japanese government in the form of fuel-cell vehicle subsidies. At least three other major automakers plan to release FCVs in the near future.  Tesla is enjoying lots of momentum — its shares are up about 50% this year — and the company has embarked on an unprecedented capex odyssey to double the world's supply of lithium ion batteries and expand its charging networks. Can they really be derailed by fuel cells? Or could the two technologies even learn to get along someday?  Let's back up for a moment. Fuel cells take hydrogen and turn it into electricity. The most common way of doing this involves charging a special material, called a proton exchange membrane, to separate out the proton and electron from a hydrogen atom. The electron gets captured as electricity, then recombines with the proton and a supply of oxygen and comes out as water.   UAF If you stack a bunch of these guys together, you get a fuel cell. Here's what it looks like in the inside of a car. There's only a motor in the front; the fuel cell is in the middle of the car.   The principal advantage of fuel-cell vehicles is that you don't have to plug them in. Instead, you simply go to a fuel station and refill your car with hydrogen. Battery electrics, on the other hand, require you to leave your car at a charging station for hours (or a little more than an hour in the case of a Tesla). Environmentally, while neither generate direct emissions, creating the hydrogen, and the raw electricity for batteries, requires burning fossil fuels upstream at a power plant. So, neither is truly emission free. However, there remain huge gaps in fuel cells' charging networks, while those for battery electric are much more widespread. Here's the map for fuel cells: Netinform.net And for battery-electric charging stations: PlugShare Despite its Fremont digs, Tesla does not rule the California roost. The state plans to have 25 hydrogen fueling stations operating by fall of next year capable of handling 4,000 new vehicles. A new study says existing gasoline stations can safely store and dispense hydrogen, which could allow that figure to jump. In fact, many hydrogen vehicles start out being only available in California. And because of how the state's complex emissions credit rules are calculated, hydrogen-powered vehicles earn more points for range and speed of refueling than do battery-electric cars, according to GreenCarReports. Indeed, the California Air Resources Board projected in 2012 that there would eventually be more fuel cells on the road than battery electrics: CARB Governor Jerry Brown recently signed an executive order calling for 1.5 million zero-emission vehicles on California roadways by 2025. The state is actually one of eight states that together hope to put 3.3 million zero-emission. The program's incentives are fuel source-agnostic.   Getting cheaper ... at least automakers hope so To date, most fuel-cell infrastructure has been directed toward power plants that run on hydrogen. A recent note from Navigant Research indicates more sectors are looking to fuel cells to provide sources of power independent of the grid in case of natural disasters. Fuel cells have also found their way into warehouses — Wal-Mart has been using fuel cells as cost- and labor-saving devices for its forklifts; they allow for lower refueling times. Fuel cell automakers are hoping all this capacity spills over — Toyota, Ford, GM, and Hyundai all plan to roll out new FCVs. Adam Jonas says they don't have much choice: He sees their push as the result of failing to make a good enough plug-in electric. "We are not aware of any recent breakthrough in the field of hydrogen fuel cells," he wrote in a recent note. "What we are aware of, however, is a failure of most EVs to achieve their stated volume targets." He calls their doubling down on fuel cells, "a diversionary tactic to slow down, if not completely reset, a regulatory framework scripted to support mass adoption of EVs that don’t appear ready for prime time."   FREE AppDownload
Christian Charisius/ReutersTwenty years ago, one bond-trading hedge fund grew from launch to over $100 billion in assets in less than three years. It saw yearly returns of over 40 percent. It was run by finance veterans, PhDs, professors, and two Nobel Prize winners. Everyone on Wall Street wanted a piece of their profits. But by 1998, that firm was primed to expose America's largest banks to more than $1 trillion in default risks. The demise of the firm, Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM), was swift and sudden. In less than one year, LTCM had lost $4.4 billion of its $4.7 billion in capital. The entire story is recounted in Roger Lowenstein's book, 'When Genius Failed', with details on the specific strategies and financial theories employed by Long-Term. It's an absolute must-read for anyone working on Wall Street, so we've summarized the basics for you in ten slides. This story has all the players — the Federal Reserve, which finally stepped in and organized a bailout, and all the major banks that did the heavy lifting: Bear Stearns, Salomon Smith Barney, Bankers Trust, J.P. Morgan, Lehman Brothers, Chase Manhattan, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, and Goldman Sachs.  In desperate need of a $4 billion bailout, the crumbling firm was at the mercy of the banks it had once snubbed and manipulated. Consider this a history lesson. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Julien MuguetBNP Paribas Chief Executive Jean-Laurent BonnafeLONDON/HONG KONG (Reuters) - Financiers may grumble that the United States is acting like an imperial power in punishing foreign banks for dealings far beyond U.S. territory, but in the end they are more likely to bow to Washington than kick against its dollar muscle. Last week, French politicians and business leaders demanded an end to the global dominance of the U.S. currency - and hence of the U.S. banking system - after a New York court fined French bank BNP Paribas $9 billion for doing business in Sudan, Iran and Cuba. Yet despite irritation at the long reach of U.S. sanctions, most bankers see that as wishful thinking. Instead, major lenders in Europe and Asia are reacting to the steady flow of punishments from the United States by doing ever more to comply with U.S. laws and by cutting business ties in countries Washington dislikes rather than risk its wrath and, in the worst scenario, risk exclusion from the dollar system. Official regulators outside the United States are starting to look at ways to prevent their own banks and markets from being damaged by the scale of U.S. penalties. But for now, each bank on its own has little choice but to toe Washington's line. "The demands placed on banks to know their customer's customer, even in countries where such records are not routinely kept, means that banks have little choice but to terminate relationships or risk eye-watering, balance sheet altering fines," said Anthony Browne, chief executive of the British Bankers' Association (BBA). The BBA estimates Western banks have cut hundreds of relationships with correspondent banks in emerging markets, hurting businesses, governments and people in poorer countries. Large commodity traders such as Glencore, Vitol, Trafigura and Mercuria are stepping in to plug the gap in trade finance. Glencore was chosen last month by the government of Chad to finance its purchase of $1.3 billion of assets being sold by U.S. oil company Chevron. Meanwhile, far from turning their backs on the United States as a result of the demands of regulators and judges, foreign banks who have fallen foul of U.S. rules are doing everything they can to ensure they can still tap the world's financial epicenter. BNP has set up a financial security unit in New York to ensure its staff comply with all U.S. sanctions and all of its U.S. dollar flows will ultimately be processed and controlled via its branch in New York, centralizing activities that used to be spread across various international offices.   RUSSIA "WAKE-UP CALL" For all that, there are plenty of bankers with whom the U.S. attitude rankles. Many - privately - sympathize with the senior British banker who was quoted in U.S. legal papers when his bank was fined in 2012 for breaching sanctions on Iran. In an expletive-charged broadside, the executive was quoted as saying: "You ... Americans! Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we're not going to deal with Iranians?" Nowadays, bankers are loath to object in public to U.S. requirements, even though privately many believe Washington is using its financial dominance to push its foreign policy agenda and give its own banks the edge over foreign rivals. "It’s the U.S. that people worry about," said the chief executive of a bank in the United Arab Emirates, the Gulf state that has long been forum for business with sanctions-hit Iran. "If the U.S. says you must clamp down, you have to do it." New York attorney Adam Kaufmann dismissed the idea that the United States was engaging in "financial imperialism" overseas or targeting foreign banks for economic gain. U.S. courts were simply applying laws in respect of the domestic banking system - where foreign banks need some presence if they are to clear payments in dollars, wherever in the world they are made. "If you’re going to use U.S. financial institutions, you have to play by U.S. rules," said Kaufmann, a former prosecutor involved in numerous sanctions violations cases. Despite grumbling from European players, U.S. banks have also suffered. JP Morgan was fined a record $13 billion this year for misleading investors during the housing crisis. In Russia, where Western sanctions imposed on Moscow over this year's Ukraine crisis have prompted tens of billions of dollars in capital flight, the BNP fine may make international banks even more wary of doing business with Russian customers. Brian Zimbler, managing partner of U.S. law firm Morgan Lewis's Moscow office called BNP's penalty a "wake-up call": "Banks around the world are very scared of the U.S. authorities," he said. "They are less likely to want to do deals with any counterparty in Russia unless they know them well." British banks Lloyds and HSBC, both of which have been punished by the United States in the past for sanctions violations, last month pulled out of a financing deal involving Russian state-run oil company Rosneft over concerns it could become embroiled in the diplomatic conflict.   FOREIGN REGULATORS' IRKED Banks' shareholders remain more troubled by the legacy of past failures to follow U.S. policies. Analysts at Morgan Stanley expect major banks to pay out another $75 billion in the next three years, on top of $210 billon already paid. But estimates are hard to pin down. As recently as February, BNP Paribas was setting aside just $1.1 billion to cover its U.S. sanctions settlement. That was $8 billion off target. Uncertainty is putting off investors and causing headaches for regulators. A senior official at the Bank of England said this week that potential fines were making it harder to work out how much capital regulators should tell lenders to hold. "We have to be very clear that actions are taken which do not undermine the stability of the financial system," said the central bank's deputy governor Andrew Bailey. Britain's financial watchdog levied total fines last year equivalent to just 8 percent of the BNP fine alone, according to figures compiled by regulatory think tank JWG Group. In a bid to try and iron out differences in the way different countries punish corporate wrongdoing, international regulators are carrying out a review of the different penalties to show which ones are the most effective. "I think people are beginning to realize that it's not healthy to have different approaches," said David Wright, secretary general of regulators association the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In Asia, mounting U.S. fines and Washington's determination to impose its rules has prompted regulators to join forces, and, in a marked cultural shift, air their grievances publicly. "Regulators in some Asian jurisdictions are beginning to recognize that they need to band together, as they won't get very far on their own," said Mark Austen, chief executive of Hong Kong-based bank trade group the Asia Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. "We are seeing a sea change." Other big capital markets may some day encroach on U.S. financial hegemony, but probably not any time soon. At a summit next week in Brazil, leaders of the BRICS - China, India, Russia, Brazil and South Africa - will launch a development bank to be a symbol of their ambitions for global influence. The currency in which they have chosen to denominate its share capital is a familiar one, however - the U.S. dollar.   (Additional reporting by Swati Pandey in Sydney, David French in Dubai, Sarah McFarlane and Huw Jones in London, Megan Davies in Moscow, Emily Stephenson in Washington and Karen Freifeld in New York Writing by Carmel Crimmins; Editing by Alastair Macdonald) FREE AppDownload
The latest issue of The Economist, in fact, asserts that Poland has had its best 25 years in half a millennium, citing its relatively quick market-oriented recovery, decrease in public spending and insistence on keeping its native currency, the flexible zloty, in favor of adopting the euro. For these reasons and more, Poland was the only country in the EU—of which it’s been a member since 2004—to dodge the recession that struck Europe in the late 2000s. More recently, the international sanctions against Russia following its invasion of the Crimean Peninsula have also benefited Poland, as many investors have found it to be a safer, less volatile place for their money. In a recent interview with VoiceAmerica, U.S. Global Investor’s Director of Research John Derrick said: [Poland is] used as a safe haven in the region: stable economy, stable political environment. It’s benefited from the European recovery and doesn’t have that much trade with Russia. Many economists now believe that Poland will eventually join ranks with the top 20 economies in the world, perhaps by as early as 2030. It currently sits at number 22, 23 or 24, depending on the source. As you can see in the chart below, Poland has consistently outpaced its EU peers in the eurozone for the last 10 years, never once dipping below zero percent growth.  An eye for business. Poland has grown in economic strength largely because it offers the EU low-wage yet high-quality labor. Many German companies can get a better production deal from their eastern neighbor than they can from China. Although Poland doesn’t have any internationally recognizable brands, there are a few held in EUROX worth mentioning. One of the most successful and lucrative companies is Powszechna Kasa Oszczednosci Bank Polski, which translates roughly to “Polish General Savings Bank.” With a net income of over $1 billion, PKO Bank Polski, as it’s popularly known, is the largest and most highly rated bank not just in Poland but also Central and Eastern Europe. Founded in 1919, the bank is headquartered in Warsaw.  Another Warsaw company in the financial industry is Powszechny Zaklad Ubezpieczen, or PZU Group. With a net income just below $1 billion, it’s one of the top insurance groups in Central and Eastern Europe. ENERGA Group, which rounds out the top three Polish stocks in EUROX, held its initial public offering (IPO) in December of last year. With over 118,000 miles of power lines, ENERGA is one of Poland’s leading energy providers, servicing close to 3 million customers. A significant percentage of the power it generates comes from renewable energy sources such as wind, biomass and run-of-the-river hydroelectricity. ENERGA reported a high return on equity (ROE) in the first quarter of this year, soaring to 10.6 percent, up from 4.4 percent in the same quarter last year. Always seeking growth and opportunity. If any country knows how to overcome crushing war and hardship, it’s Poland. Having been invaded and antagonized countless times over the centuries by nations such as Russia, Sweden, Austria, Hungary, Turkey and, most notably, Germany, it’s had little chance to find its place in the world. But after 25 years of peace and stability, Poland is finally on a path to great success, ascending more rapidly than any other country in Central or Eastern Europe, with no signs of slowing. Find out what other holdings we have in our Emerging Europe Fund (EUROX). Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. Holdings in the Emerging Europe Fund (EUROX) as a percentage of net assets as of 6/30/2014: Powszechna Kasa Oszczednosci Bank Polski SA (4.55%), Powszechny Zaklad Ubezpieczen SA (2.86%), Energa SA (2.73%). Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. By investing in a specific geographic region, a regional fund’s returns and share price may be more volatile than those of a less concentrated portfolio. The Emerging Europe Fund invests more than 25% of its investments in companies principally engaged in the oil &amp; gas or banking industries. The risk of concentrating investments in this group of industries will make the fund more susceptible to risk in these industries than funds which do not concentrate their investments in an industry and may make the fund’s performance more volatile. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. FREE AppDownload
McKessonLast night, Alcoa kicked off second quarter earnings season with a beat.  Over the next several weeks, earnings reports will roll in with 72% of the S&amp;P 500 set to announce quarterly results over a three-week period beginning July 14.  In a note to clients ahead of earnings, Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider highlights 22 companies the firm expects to beat expectations. Many of the expected beats are just by a penny or three, but there are a few companies Sneider expects to soundly beat street estimates.  Goldman sees healthcare giant McKesson reporting a profit of $2.65 per share against Wall Street's current expectations for $2.36. In the energy sector, Goldman also sees a number of companies beating expectations, notably CONSOL Energy, which the firm expects to report earnings per share of $0.37 against Street estimates for $0.26.  By sector, Goldman sees the most earnings beats coming from the Information Technology, Consumer Discretionary, Financial, and Energy sectors.  Here's the full table.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrea ComasA man walks past a newspaper kiosk advertising Spanish wireless network provider Gowex in Madrid July 7, 2014. Over the weekend, Spanish company Let's Gowex, which provides free WiFi for public spaces like malls and town centers, filed for voluntary insolvency. The company's CEO, Genaro Garcia, also resigned after telling the company's board that its financials over at least the last four years were falsified. The same day as the company's statement that it would file for insolvency, Garcia tweeted, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly." Garcia has subsequently tweeted that he made a deposition and confession in court and is willing to accept the consequences. On its own, news that a company is going out of business because it was cooking the books for several years is a big deal, but there is an added wrinkle for Let's Gowex: They got found out first. Gotham City Research published a research report on Let's Gowex on July 1 that said Let's Gowex's shares were worthless and that more than 90% of the company's revenues were made up. Gotham City is an independent research firm that focuses on special situation investing and typically publishes short theses on companies.  At the time of Gotham's report, Let's Gowex's market cap was €1.43 billion. Let's Gowex's 2013 revenues totaled €182 million, and Gotham believes that more than 90% of these didn't exist. Gotham said that it believed Let's Gowex's 2013 revenues actually totaled just €8 million. Gotham City's report, which it published after eight months of diligence on Let's Gowex, was initiated after the firm found a number of red flags at the company, among them that Let's Gowex failed a basic "smell test" of investing: performance relative to peers. On that basis, Let's Gowex's double-digit revenue growth far outpaced peers like Towerstream, Boingo, and iPass that also provide wifi services.  Following Gotham's initial report, Let's Gowex said the report, "has major factual inaccuracies and false statements which the Company considers defamatory." On July 4, Let's Gowex said it hired PriceWaterhouseCoopers to examine the company's financials. Two days later, the company declared itself insolvent.  The collapse of Let's Gowex should see Gotham City not only turn a financial profit but a reputational one as well. Gotham City, like Muddy Waters Research, Citron Research, and The Street Sweeper, publishes independent research on publicly traded companies online, often outlining what they perceive to be major flaws in a company's business model or accounting practices. Research from these publications is divisive. Some in the market describe it as unfair "hit pieces" on companies, while others would say this work is important because it keeps companies honest; Gotham, Muddy Water, and Citron are open about their potential to profit from a stock move following the publication of their report. These reports can often move stocks, but a company going out of business almost as soon as a skeptical report is published is unheard of.  The collapse of Let's Gowex also has some bigger market implications. A Bloomberg report on Let's Gowex's demise noted that the company was one of the best performers in Madrid's MAB stock index, an index for small companies in Spain that Bloomberg called, "an alternative funding source for small companies in line with a government drive to promote financing options for businesses." Let's Gowex, however, isn't the only company that has recently come under scrutiny from Gotham City. In April, Gotham said that Quindell, a U.K.-based software and consulting company, had 92% downside. In February, Gotham City published a report critical of Blucora, formerly Infospace, which provides online search solutions with Gotham saying its shares are worth no more than $5.  Last year, Tile Shop and Ebix were among the companies targeted by Gotham City reports.  FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Brent SmithBack when I was in college, a good friend of mine owned a large Michigan sod farm with his father – acres and acres of putting green quality sod. They wanted to upgrade their big tractor so I joined him on his visit to the local tractor dealership – International Harvester (my parents tell me I am a distant – really distant – relative of John Deere). The tractor they were looking at included air conditioning and a surround sound stereo system. It was impressive. The salesman said that if they bought the tractor that month the dealership would throw in an International Harvester truck. My friend’s comment to me under his breath was something along the lines of “looks like we are actually buying the truck too.” Jhoanna Robeledo’s New York Magazine piece on the guy who throws in a Tesla if you buy his condo talks about this marketing technique.  Using a Tesla is buzz worthy as a well thought of brand – after all marketing is about getting eyeballs on the listing – but is it effective?  Does this technique actual sell properties? In my view throwing in such a large concession is a red flag signifying the property is over priced enough to cover the seller’s cost of the “gift.” Econ 101:  There is no such thing as a free lunch. We’ve seen this marketing gimmick attempted with other cars such as a Prius, a Porsche, a Cadillac and Ferrari. The funny thing is, you never read a follow-up article that shows how this marketing technique/gimmick was successful. AP Photo/Ng Han GuanA buyer for the condo in Jhoanna’s article would have the financial wherewithal to buy their own Tesla and likely isn’t thinking about buying a car during their visit to the property. We don’t see these extreme marketing gimmicks tried with low margin properties. “If I buy this $75,000 condo I get a free Tesla!” Of course not – the condo seller in this “Tesla” story is telegraphing to a potential buyer the listing is over priced. Yes, in a typical suburban transaction, a seller may throw in a used lawnmower to close the sale, but this is not something that is usually promoted during the actual marketing of the property. NEWSFLASH Buyers are a lot smarter than this Tesla-giving away seller is giving them given credit for. This article originally appeared at Miller Samuel Inc..  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sometimes, stocks will go up even when literally everything looks bad. Stocks will even rally when the earnings prospects of their underlying companies are falling. The biggest sin, however, for investors is to believe that U.S. stocks have a one-to-one relationship with U.S. GDP. This is true in the short run as well as in the long run. All this brings us to this fantastic chart from Bloomberg LP Chief Economist Michael McDonough. It tracks the progressions of revisions for economists' GDP forecasts for each year since 2011. As you can see, those estimates have largely been negative for the past four years. See the blue, yellow, red, and black lines. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 (the green line) has only been going up. There's a thousand ways to explain what's happening here (see here, here, here, here, and here). But the bottom line: stocks don't move like the economy. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
The Swedish krona and the Japanese yen were surprisingly strong.  The former gained 1% against the dollar, recouping about 2/3 of what it lost the prior week in response to the unexpectedly large (50 bp) rate cut.  Higher than expected inflation (doubling of the underlying rate to 0.8% year-over-year and a rise of 0.2% at the headline line on the same basis, up from -0.2%).  The yen rose about 0.75%.  It was bolstered by several considerations:  the drop in US Treasury yields, the jitters emanating from the Portuguese bond market, and the weakness in equities.  For the past five months, the dollar has been largely confined to the 2-yen range (JPY101-JPY103).  There have been four exceptions, three of which took place in early February and then again on May 21.  It only closed below JPY101 once and that was on February 3.  The most interesting technical development is that for the first time since December 2012, the dollar's 50-day moving average is set to fall below the 200-day moving average.  This cross is sometimes referred to as the "golden cross" or the dead man's cross, perhaps depending on what side of the trade one is on.    That said, we think the dollar is a better buy than sale against the yen.   The four-month trading range should be assumed to remain intact until proven otherwise.  In addition, we think that the US Treasury yields have eased to the lower end of their range as well (10-year ~2.50%). The rebound of Portuguese bonds warns that the immediate safe haven bid may slacken.   The euro has gravitated around the middle of its two-cent trading range ($1.35-$1.37) that has dominated the price action since May 22.  It was effectively unchanged over the course of the week.  Technical indicators are not generating strong signals.   The 50-day moving average broke below the 200-day moving average on July 4 for the first time since last July.  Within that two-cent range, there is an even narrower range that may be in play in the coming days:  $1.3575-80 on the downside and $1.3650-65 on the topside.   After appreciating by about five cents in five week, the British pound has spent the past two weeks in a cent range--$1.7080 to $1.7180.   The RSI is flat, though elevated, but the MACD is rolling over.  Given the extended market positioning, the risk seems asymmetrical to the downside.  The UK reports the June inflation and employment figures next week that may help shape interest rate expectations.  We suspect that the combination of factors, including the strength of sterling, more moderate data, macro-prudential measures, some signs of stabilization of the housing market will deter the BOE from hiking rates this year, even though we recognize risks of dissents coming.  A break of the $1.7050 area would be a warning sign that the consolidation may give way to a more proper correction.  Below there, the $1.6970-$1.7000 would beckon.  At the same time, given that the BOE is still seen to be the first of the major central banks to hike rates, we suspect buyers will emerge on pullbacks.  The US dollar staged an outside up day against the Canadian dollar before the weekend by first trading below the previous day's low and then on the back of what appeared to be a weak jobs report, rose through the previous days high and closed above it.  We read the data to be more mixed.  The unemployment rate did tick up and there was a net loss of 9.4k jobs.  However, the economy grew 33.5k full-time positions, which would be the equivalent of more than a 300k increase in US non-farm payrolls.  However, technical indicators had warned that the Canadian dollar's advance was stalling.  Recall that the US dollar fell 3.2% against the Loonie between June 5 and July 3.  The downside momentum had stalled and the late longs were vulnerable.  For the first time in over a year, the net speculative position in the futures market swung to the long side in early July.    Corrective targets for the dollar are CAD1.0750 and CAD1.08.  The technical signals from the Australian dollar are not as clear.  The Aussie is gravitating around the $0.9400 level.    It continues to hold up well despite the fact that the market now is leaning toward another rate cut after previously pricing in a chance of a hike.  The 10-year bond has drawn interest.  The yield has fallen 43 bp over the past month, but at 3.4% is still well above any other AAA sovereign yield.  In fact, the yield is comparable to Poland, which is an A- credit.   Resistance is seen near $0.9450 and support is about a cent below there.    The head and shoulders pattern we had identified in the peso appears to be been nullified by the recent price action.   Over the past two week, the dollar has moved in less than a 1% range against the peso.    The immediate range appears to be MXN12.96-MXN13.04.    Mexico 10-year dollar bonds pays essentially the same as the 10-year Australian dollar bond, but the cost of not taking on currency risk, means accepting Mexican credit risk.   In January the US 10-year yield fell from 3.0% to below 2.6%.  It generally traded in a 2.60%-2.80% range through mid-April, when it entered a slightly lower range of roughly 2.50% -2.70%.  In the second half of May, the yield spent a few days below 2.50%, but by early June it moved back to the 2.50%-2.70% band.  Although we recognize that as the Fed tapers, other economic agents have picked up the slack and they include reserve managers and other private sector asset managers, we do not expect the 10-year yield to spend much time below 2.5%.  Lastly, we turn to the CRB index.  This broad measure of commodity prices has collapsed.  It has fallen nearly 5% since the June 27.  Half of that was recorded over the past five sessions.    With the losses seen before the weekend, the CRB has retraced 38.2% of the 35% rally from the January low (~272.04) to the late June high (~313.25).   The CRB index has fallen for twelve consecutive sessions through July 11.  The technical indicators are stretched and the index finished the week below its lower Bollinger Band for the first time on weekly basis since last November.  Weak commodity prices hurts producers and is an additional headwind for countries that are face the risk of deflation.  Observations based on the speculative positioning in the futures market:   1. There were two significant position adjustments in the latest CFTC Commitment of Traders report for the week ending July 8.   The first was a 13.3k-contract reduction of gross sterling longs.  AT 86.6k contracts still, it is still the largest gross long position among the currency futures.  In fact, it remains larger than the combined gross long position of the euro, yen and Swiss franc.  The second  was a 13.5k contract increase in gross long Canadian dollar futures to 58.2k contracts.   This is the largest gross long Canadian dollar position in nearly 18 months.    The gross long position has more than doubled since late May.  These late longs are vulnerable as we saw before the weekend as the Canadian dollar sold off despite a jobs report that saw the most full-time positions increase in five months. 2.  The 9.9k contract cut of gross long speculative Australian dollar position to 66.7k contracts was jsut shy of our subjective 10k threshold.  This is a modest pullback from the 15-month high seen in the prior period.  Gross long yen positions were cut by 7.6k contracts to stand at 11.2k.  This is the third lowest in ten years and the other two were recorded this year.    In terms of positioning, what would cause the greatest distress is for sterling-yen to sell-off. 3.  There was a clear bias in cutting longs currency futures positions.  The Canadian dollar was the sole exception. 4.  During the five day reporting period, the US 10-year yields moved from 2.54% to 2.69% and then fell back to 2.55%.  In the futures market, it was the gross longs that felt the pain.  They were cut by 27.8k contracts and stood at 376.7k contracts at the end of the reporting period.  The shorts were virtually unchanged at 473.4k contracts   Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Trappist PunksI recently came across the headline “Number of U.S. Brewers Exceeds 3,000“, a level suspected last seen in the 1870's. This statistic is another piece of anecdotal evidence that beer’s heyday–in the U.S.–occurred well before prohibition, followed by its dark ages in the 60's, 70's and 80's. With the American beer industry now entering its age of enlightenment, I wanted to find a simple way to tell the whole story that wasn’t a one-off statistic. Enter the Beer Institute. The Beer Institute publishes an annual brewers almanac chock full of raw data dating all the way back to the late 1800's.  Using this resource I was able to produce a chart that I think clearly shows the trends in the U.S. beer industry since 1887. In 1887 the U.S. had 2,269 brewers producing on average 10,190 barrels of beer per year.  I suspect there were a large number of small local brewers producing  a lot of great beer. Even before Prohibition the number of brewers in the U.S. began to slide. I imagine there were many reasons for this including improved shipment methods, allowing some of these smaller brewers to extend their reach, acquiring or putting less successful brewers out of business.  What this means is while Prohibition was a catalyst to moving beer toward its Dark Ages, it was not the cause.   This trend rapidly worsened and by 1979 we had just 44 brewers in the U.S. producing on average over 4 million barrels of beer per year.  Beer production shifted from quality to quantity: good for the brewers, but terrible for the consumers. Lucky for us today, beer was about to enter its Renaissance. Beer Advocate has a fantastic timeline illustrating how this Renaissance was born, but some key events include the legalization of home brewing in 1978, the first ever Great American Beer Festival in 1981 and the birth of the brewpub in 1982.   Today, while craft beer still makes up a relatively small amount of market share there has been an obvious shift back to quality.  As of 2012–the most recent almanac data–there are 2,751 breweries operating in the U.S., producing on average 71,152 barrels of beer; 98% below the 1979 level.  While we will never know what we missed in the late 1800's, if you are a fan of beer, now isn’t a bad time to be alive. This article originally appeared at Trappist Punks.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Oppenheimer & Co.The Dow crossed 17,000 for the first time on Thursday after a monster U.S. jobs report. "Six months into the year it’s become clear to us that 2014 is likely to be remembered in market history books as a year of big surprises," writes Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. "From our vantage point on the market radar screen it confirms that indeed the economy is getting better, that stocks continue to gather a following among investors after many years of being ignored, untrusted and unloved by more than a few." Stoltzfus believes that investors and traders will be watching the upcoming earnings season closely. "Market participants will be looking for further improvements in revenues and earnings growth that along with financial engineering in the form of share buybacks have helped move the market higher through the recovery since 2009," he said. "Guidance as to what corporate leadership sees ahead will likely carry increasing weight." As the Federal Reserve continues to let up on its easy monetary policy, Stoltzfus warns that the market could experience a ramp up in volatility. Stoltzfus just published a 35-page presentation putting every corner of the financial markets into perspective. Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Yellen smiles at the inaugural Michel Camdessus Central Banking Lecture in WashingtonBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Investors shift focus this coming week from trouble spots such as Portugal's biggest listed bank to a marathon testimony by the U.S. Fed chair that could help chart a global path towards post-crisis "normalization". Concerns about losses associated with the founding family of Banco Espirito Santo had threatened to rattle euro zone markets, but by Friday traders had decided that BES was unlikely to disrupt Portugal's financial system or revive broader worries about the bloc's weaker economies. In any case, Janet Yellen's two-day appearance in the U.S. Congress from Tuesday will dominate global markets, which want above all to know how long the Federal Reserve will leave interest rates low after an unprecedented period of cheap money since the financial crisis. While October is likely to mark the end of the central bank's money printing, investors are looking for hints of an interest rate hike early next year, which would signal a return to normality after the Great Recession and its aftermath. But much depends on the health of the U.S. economy and its ability to bounce back from a disastrous first quarter. The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits for the week ended July 5 fell to one of its lowest levels since before the 2007-09 recession, more evidence of a strengthening labor market. The consensus has been for a rate hike in late 2015, but many economists are bringing forward their forecasts, with European-based banks including BNP Paribas expecting the Fed to hike near the middle of next year. Others expect U.S. interest rates to rise sooner. "There's a pessimistic view of the economy among some in the market, but a stronger jobs picture and rising inflation will prompt the Fed to act," said Julian Jessop, chief economist at Capital Economics in London, who sees a rate rise in March. Worries about soft growth will keep the Bank of Canada from hiking interest rates until late next year, economists say, but rising prices are expected to temper expressions of concern about low inflation in its policy statement on Wednesday. Most investors expect the Bank of England to be the first major central bank to raise rates since 2007 as the economy recovers from a long period of stagnation.   CHINA'S TEST The British central bank held rates at record lows last week but is expected to raise them late this year or in 2015. Investors will hear from Governor Mark Carney and his deputy Andrew Bailey on Tuesday at the British parliament when they face the Treasury Committee, while jobs data for June due out on Wednesday will give the market crucial signals. In China, the success of authorities' efforts to keep the economy growing at around 7.5 percent will be tested by the second quarter gross domestic product (GDP) reading due on Wednesday, with other data including retail sales for June. Economists polled by Reuters expect the first quarter's 7.4 percent GDP reading to be repeated in the second. Premier Li Keqiang said last week the Chinese economy still faced risks and he will further fine-tune policies. June new house price data will also give a sense of how far China's housing slowdown is dragging on growth.   NO 'MATERIAL STRESS' The European Central Bank's President Mario Draghi faces a different challenge in trying to revive the euro zone economy. While losses on loans will not put Banco Espirito Santo at risk of running short of capital, ripples of concern forced Spain's Banco Popular to call off a bond issue and Greece managed to place just half of its debt issue. Portugal's government assured investors that the country's financial system was sound, steadying markets, although questions remain about the Espirito Santo business empire. "If this uncertainty about BES continues, then peripheral debt looks likely to underperform and more investors will look to reduce their exposure," said Peter Chatwell, an interest rates strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, referring to countries such as Italy, Spain and Ireland. "But I don't think is going to put material stress ... on other peripheral countries," he said. Draghi will speak at the European Parliament on Monday evening in Strasbourg and will face questions on issues such as the slowdown in the German economy. Investors will look to the July ZEW survey on economic sentiment on Tuesday to see how great the impact of the crisis in Ukraine has been on confidence in Germany after the mood deteriorated following a strong start to the year. "The last few weeks, with the numbers out of Germany, have made me more pessimistic," said Carsten Brzeski at ING. "The picture across the euro zone countries is not encouraging with France in a mess and Spain still struggling with unemployment."   (Writing by Robin Emmott; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFalcone, the head of Harbinger Capital Partners, which owns LightSquared, arrives at the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in ManhattanWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Phil Falcone's governmentPartners has filed suit against the U.S. government, accusing it of reneging on an agreement regarding bankrupt Harbinger-backed wireless company LightSquared LP, the Wall Street Journal reported. Harbinger, in a suit filed on Friday in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, said global positioning systems companies unlawfully used spectrum owned by LightSquared, the Journal said. The GPS companies and advocacy groups warned that LightSquared's network could interfere with GPS. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission's decision in 2012 to heed those warnings and stop LightSquared from deploying its network was a breach of the regulatory agency's agreement to allow Harbinger to buy LightSquared, according to the lawsuit. "Harbinger has lost most of its approximately $1.9 billion investment, despite having made that investment in specific reliance on the government's agreement to permit it to build, deploy, and operate a nationwide broadband network using LightSquared's spectrum," Harbinger lawyers said in the filing, according to the Journal. Harbinger on Tuesday also sued Dish Network Corp and its chairman, Charles Ergen, in a Colorado federal court for at least $1.5 billion, accusing them of trying to strip the hedge fund of its control of LightSquared. That lawsuit said Ergen had engaged in fraud and violated a federal anti-racketeering law. LightSquared filed for bankruptcy protection in 2012. Its Chapter 11 case has been marred by a long-running battle between Ergen, who became LightSquared's largest creditor during the bankruptcy, and Falcone's Harbinger, which spent billions of dollars building the company's wireless network.     (Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPackages of Diva chocolate truffles of Swiss chocolatier Lindt & Spruengli are displayed during the company's annual news conference in KilchbergWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Swiss-based chocolate maker Lindt &amp; Spruengli &lt;LISP.S&gt; is in advanced discussions to acquire family-owned U.S. candy business Russell Stover, and the two companies could announce an agreement as early as next week, the Financial Times reported on Saturday. Quoting unnamed sources close to the matter, the Financial Times said that while it is unclear whether an exact price had been agreed upon, a figure of $1.4 billion is being discussed. The newspaper reported that talks were ongoing and no deal was certain. Russell Stover, known for its boxed chocolates, is the third-largest U.S. candy company by sales. Lindt is the Swiss-based maker of Lindor chocolate balls and gold foil-wrapped chocolate bunnies. A deal with Russell Stover would enable Lindt to diversify further beyond the European market, where it gets a big chunk of its revenues, and get a strong presence in the U.S. market. Russell Stover has annual sales of about $600 million, the Financial Times reported. The Ward family put Russell Stover up for sale earlier this year and has been working with Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, to find a buyer, the newspaper reported. The company has won the attention of a number of private equity firms as well as strategic buyers including Hershey Co &lt;HSY.N&gt; and Godiva, the newspaper said. The company also produces Whitman's brand chocolates and has its products in more than 70,000 drug stores, card and gift shops, grocery stores, department stores and retail stores throughout the United States and in more than 20 countries worldwide, it says on its website.   (Writing by Will Dunham; Editing by Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCars drive on the Three Ring Road amid the heavy haze in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's capital city, Beijing, will enforce the use of cleaner low-sulphur coal from Aug. 1 in a bid to tackle the soaring levels of air pollution that frequently clog the country's major cities, the official Xinhua media agency said on Saturday. Beijing will implement strict controls and targets for airborne sulphur from coal, Xinhua said, citing the Beijing Municipal Administration of Quality and Technology Supervision. This is the first time China has enforced the use of low-sulphur coal across all industries to tackle pollution. Air quality in cities is of increasing concern to China's stability-obsessed leaders, anxious to douse potential unrest as a more affluent urban population turns against a growth-at-all-costs economic model that has poisoned much of the country's air, water and soil. A Xinhua editorial earlier on Saturday called for China's population to "rein in their craze" for excessive consumption to help solve the country's growing environmental issues. Beijing has previously established an array of laws and rules to battle the environmental consequences of three decades of unchecked growth, but weak monitoring and punishment make it tough to get powerful industrial interests to comply. China unveiled plans at the end of last year to slash coal consumption and close polluting mills, factories and smelters to cut air pollution. Beijing has also been pushing the country's steelmakers and power plants to buy higher-quality raw materials to meet tougher pollution targets.   (Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
