Thomson ReutersJapan's Economics Minister Akira Amari arrives at Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's official residence in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari said on Monday that the government should deploy fresh fiscal stimulus to prop up the economy if third-quarter preliminary gross domestic data due on  Nov. 17 turns out weak, public broadcaster NHK reported. Amari also said the stimulus steps should be taken regardless of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's decision by year-end on whether to proceed with a second sales tax increase planned for next year aimed at reining in massive public debt. The comments came days after a shock move by the Bank of Japan to expand its massive monetary stimulus raised speculation that Abe would go ahead with the next tax hike in October, if it were followed by promises of added fiscal steps to offset a tax pain. Amari said additional fiscal stimulus should be aimed at stimulating private consumption, particularly low-income groups and families with children, hit hard by April's tax hike to 8 percent from 5 percent. The government plans to raise the levy to 10 percent in October next year. But April's tax hike triggered the deepest economic slump since the 2009 global financial crisis, when the economy contracted an annualised 7.1 percent in the second quarter, and a weak recovery in the following quarter cast doubt about the next tax hike. Amari, speaking at a seminar, noted some private-sector economic forecasts for July-September are said to be short of an annualised 2 percent, compared with an initial projection of above 4 percent growth, according to NHK. Analysts polled by Reuters expect an annualised 2.9 percent bounce in July-September. "If figures turn out to be bad, (government) support would be needed. Consumption has fallen a lot among low-income groups and child-rearing generations, and it would likely be that steps should be taken by pinpointing" the target, Amari said. Speaking to reporters after the seminar, Amari added: "It should not be mistaken that "support" (for the economy) means support for the sales tax hike. I think the prime minister will think of the two as separate matters." Abe is expected to make a final decision on the tax hike after revised July-September GDP data is published on Dec. 8.  (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hong Kong police have charged a 29-year-old British banker with two counts of murder after authorities found the bodies of two women in his apartment, including one that had been hidden in a suitcase on a balcony. In a statement, police said the man, who was not identified, would appear in a local court on Monday to be formally charged. Hong Kong media said the victims were prostitutes from Indonesia. A spokesman for Bank of America Merrill Lynch told Reuters on Sunday that the U.S. bank had, until recently, an employee bearing the same name as a man local media have described as the chief suspect in the double murder case. Bank of America Merrill Lynch would not give more details nor clarify when the person had left the bank. Police arrested the man on Saturday at his apartment in Wan Chai, a central city district known for its night life. They have declined to give his name. The grisly murders have shocked Hong Kong, a city with a low homicide rate. Britain's Foreign Office in London said on Saturday a British national had been arrested in Hong Kong, without specifying the nature of any suspected crime. While one of the victims had been stuffed in a suitcase on the balcony, the other had been found lying inside the apartment with wounds to her neck and buttocks, police said. Local media quoted police as saying the body in the suitcase had been there for three or four days. The charged man had called police in the early hours of Saturday and asked them to investigate the case, police have said. Hong Kong's Apple Daily newspaper said the suspect had taken about 2,000 photographs and some video footage of the victims after the killings including close-ups of their wounds. Thomson ReutersA policeman checks the crime scene in which the bodies of two women were found in a flat at Hong Kong's Wanchai district The apartment where the bodies were found is on the 31st floor in a building popular with financial professionals, where average rents are about HK$30,000 (nearly $4,000) a month. "It's very shocking because we never expected something like this to happen in Hong Kong, especially in the same building that I'm living in," said banker Mina Liu. Another woman who lives down the corridor from the flat where the bodies were found said she had seldom seen anyone come and go from the apartment. There were 14 homicides in Hong Kong, a city of seven million people, between January and June, down from 56 in the same period last year, according to government crime statistics. In one of Hong Kong's most talked-about killings, the so-called "milkshake murder", a Merrill Lynch banker was clubbed to death in 2003 by his wife, who drugged him beforehand by serving him a milkshake full of sleeping pills. (Additional reporting by Farah Master, Gregory Torode and Lisa Jucca; Writing by Lisa Jucca and Dean Yates; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo shows Chung Eui-sun, vice chairman of Hyundai Motor Company, addressing the audience during a ceremony at Hyundai Assan car plant in IzmitSEOUL (Reuters) - When he attended design preview meetings for the Genesis luxury sedan, Hyundai Motor heir-apparent Chung Eui-sun suggested features he'd seen on high-end European rivals, such as a pop-up navigation screen and a gearshift that rises and retracts. But the ideas faced opposition from engineering chief Yang Woong-chul, who was worried about the technology, and Chung did not insist, said a person who sat in the monthly meetings. The features did not make it into the car, launched late last year. The story neatly illustrates the challenge facing the design-loving, consensus-building "E.S.", the only son of group chairman Chung Mong-koo, in driving change at the company when he eventually succeeds his famously autocratic father. "M.K. orders this and that. But that is not the way E.S. does business," said the person present at the meetings. "E.S. wants to take Hyundai's design to the next level. But he has faced a lot of hurdles." "M.K." Chung, who turned a once obscure Asian also-ran into the world's fifth-largest car maker, gives no sign, at 76, that he plans to step down soon. But investors are increasingly preparing for the transition to the third generation of leaders of the family-run conglomerates, or "chaebol", that dominate Asia's fourth-largest economy. Having spent his career in his father's considerable shadow, E.S. Chung must still prove his mettle as a leader, some company watchers say, and will be challenged to modernize a corporate culture regarded as among the most hidebound in South Korea. Despite a successful four-year stint as president of Kia Motors &lt;000270.KS&gt;, during which the Hyundai affiliate grew faster than its parent and won kudos for making attractive cars, E.S. Chung, who as the 44-year-old vice chairman of Hyundai Motor &lt;005380.KS&gt; is the third-youngest of its 258 top executives, is a relative unknown. Like his contemporary Jay Y. Lee, who is in line to take the reins at rival Korean export powerhouse Samsung Electronics , E.S. Chung will also be challenged to turn his company from fast-follower to trendsetter as it tries to sell better and more expensive products to differentiate from an expected wave of cheaper Chinese models. "As Kia president, E.S. was in the spotlight and exposed and trained more than Samsung's Jay Y," said Park Yoo-kyung, a director in Hong Kong for Netherlands-based APG Asset Management, which holds shares in Hyundai companies. "But investors all share jitters that they do not know much about these third-generation leaders." Chung, who has avoided giving interviews, declined to speak with Reuters for this article. Hyundai also declined to comment. REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji Hyundai Motor Group chairman Chung Mong-koo speaks during the company's new year ceremony in Seoul January 2, 2014. The elder Chung is known for his obsession with quality. About a decade ago, he ordered that 500 of Hyundai's first NF Sonata sedans be sold only to employees at bargain prices, Lee Hyun-soon, a former Hyundai vice chairman, told Reuters. The reason: the engines made a slight noise when they were cold. "The sound - smaller than a mosquito buzzing - went away 20 seconds after the engine was started, but he did not tolerate it," Lee said. M.K. inherited that forceful style from his father, Chung Ju-yung, who turned a small auto repair business into a sprawling chaebol that, as much as any, helped lift South Korea from post-war poverty into an industrial powerhouse within a generation. He did not take over the business until he was 58, but made up for lost time with a hard-charging approach and attention to detail that enabled Hyundai to improve quality even as it rapidly grew output in the past decade, sometimes cutting three to four months off the time needed to build factories. "The chairman said, 'Just do it'. And executives made it," Lee said. "He is a bulldozer." E.S. Chung is different, those who know him say. While he has a serious demeanor and rarely smiles in public, in private he is said to be warm and approachable. "While the chairman is capricious and spontaneous, E.S. is the opposite," Lee said. "E.S. is a nice guy, but at the same time he is very rational, meticulous and calm." A long-time friend of the sports-loving younger Chung, who earned an MBA at the University of San Francisco before working at the New York office of Japanese trading house Itochu Corp, described his approach on the basketball court. "E.S. is not a ball-hog like other people; he passes the ball around," the friend said. Unlike the stereotype of the workaholic Korean executive, E.S. is known to try to spend weekends with his wife and three children, enjoys skiing, and sometimes communicates with colleagues using the local KakaoTalk chat app. He succeeded his father as chairman of South Korea's powerhouse national archery association and is a regular attendee at major competitions. Kim Ki-chan, a management professor and a director of Hyundai Mobis &lt;012330.KS&gt;, the group's auto parts affiliate, recalled a dinner several years ago when E.S. circulated around the room to drink with each of the 20-plus Kia staff present. "It was not a traditional Korean drinking scene where the CEO is sitting at the center and not moving around," said Kim.  During a visit to the Detroit auto show shortly after taking charge at Kia Motors, E.S. admired the stylish and expensive Land Rovers and Porsches. "We have to make cars like this," Chung told his entourage, a person who was there recalled. "I thought: if he is the successor, he should be more realistic," the person said, declining to be identified. "At the time, I thought he was clueless." Confounding that first impression, E.S. Chung's time at the helm from 2005 to 2009 saw sales at Kia, which had been losing money, jump 70 percent while its operating profit doubled. In a pivotal 2006 hire, he poached Audi and Volkswagen designer Peter Schreyer to lead a design revival at a brand known for bland "econoboxes" that sold at cheaper prices than their Hyundai stablemates. Starting with the boxy Soul, Kia began cranking out cars that were stylish and cool. Kia engineers teamed with designers to give a sporty coupe-like makeover to its Optima mid-sized sedan, with a longer hood and a shorter rear deck. Schreyer, who now heads design at both Hyundai and Kia and declined to be interviewed, said in 2012: "E.S. is open-minded. He understands our important creativity." REUTERS/ Jason Lee While no one will mistake a Kia or a Hyundai for a Porsche, Chung has followed through on the group's styling and brand push. Returning to the Detroit show in 2011, he announced Hyundai's new brand direction, called "modern premium". "Our goal is not to become the biggest car company. Our goal is the most-loved company," he said. Boosting the brand image would enable Hyundai to charge higher prices - a transition that company watchers say could take years for a car maker known for lower-priced offerings. "There is nothing wrong, in my opinion, with having a premium image, but not everyone can do that," said Dave Sullivan, analyst at consultancy AutoPacific. "The DNA of the brand - most car for the money backed by the best warranty - has disappeared." While both father and son tend not to participate in annual shareholder meetings, quarterly results calls or union wage talks, E.S. Chung has been known to reach out to shareholder activists and is said to be mindful of labor relations. Park Tae-ju, a professor at the Employment &amp; Labour Training Institute who has advised Hyundai on its shift system, said E.S. Chung met with labor experts over drinks to seek advice on industrial relations, and expects a more cooperative labor environment with the young executive at the helm. Hyundai's labor relations are among the most acrimonious in the country, with near-annual strikes. E.S. Chung also initiated meetings with shareholder activist Kim Sang-jo before Kim's group in 2008 sued M.K. Chung for unfairly subsiding Hyundai Glovis &lt;086280.KS&gt;. "E.S. is a very reasonable person," said Kim, an outspoken critic of governance at South Korea's big family-run chaebol. "Most of all, he understands very well that the world has changed from his grandfather's or father's generation." (Additional reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu in BEIJING; Editing by Tony Munroe and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
The University of Pennsylvania has produced more billionaire undergraduate alumni than any other school in the world, according to a recent report from Wealth-X. 25 current billionaires received their bachelor's degrees at Penn, the most of any school on Wealth-X's list. The only other colleges to produce similar numbers were Harvard University — with 22 undergrad alum billionaires — and Yale University — with 20. Although UPenn is home to the Wharton School, which is considered to be a top business school for both undergraduate and graduate students, Wealth-X president David Friedman told Business Insider that the school's powerhouse reputation doesn't have a huge impact on its ultra-wealthy alumni base. "On the surface I think that's a contributing factor, but it's definitely not a core driver" of UPenn's high number of billionaires, Friedman said. Rather, Friedman noted, UPenn's billionaires represent successes in an array of fields, which suggests that the university isn't focused entirely on channeling students into financial services or technology. To this point, Friedman mentioned three billionaires who got their undergraduate degrees at UPenn — Tory Burch, Elon Musk, and Steven Cohen — who made their money in fashion, technology, and finance, respectively. Other UPenn billionaires include Donald Trump, Charles Butt, Jon Huntsman Sr., Ronald Perelman, George Lindemann, and Leonard Lauder. Whatever you attend school, Friedman emphasized the importance of actually finishing college and getting a bachelor's degree. "There's this myth that if you want to be a tech billionaire, you drop out of school," Friedman said. "This kind of dismantles that myth. It's about people, relationships, networks." Additionally, Friedman highlighted something that he believes is not being discussed enough on college campuses — encouraging students to take a risk and fail. "Most entrepreneurs have failed multiple times ... I think it's a very critical element, because emotional endurance is one of the most critical attributes for entrepreneurs," Friedman said. Here are the 20 universities with the most billionaire undergraduate alumni and how many alumni they have, via Wealth-X: 1. University of Pennsylvania — 25 2. Harvard University — 22 3. Yale University — 20 4. University of Southern California — 16 5. Cornell University — 14 5. Princeton University — 14 5. Stanford University — 14 8. University of California, Berkeley — 12 8. University of Mumbai (India) — 12 10. London School of Economics (United Kingdom) — 11 10. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia) — 11 12. Dartmouth College — 10 12. University of Michigan — 10 12. University of Texas — 10 15. Duke University — 9 15. New York University — 9 17. Brown University — 8 17. Columbia University — 8 19. Massachusetts Institute of Technology — 7 20. Eth Zurich (Switzerland) — 6 FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesShanghai has risen from the ground in just 20 years. China has the highest income growth potential for expats. It ranks first in the Expat Economics league tables, with nearly a quarter (24%) of expats earning more than US $300,000.  And Australians working in Asia are the highest-earning expatriates in the world, according to HSBC’s global Expat Explorer survey. “Asia is becoming the salary sweet spot for expats, and Australians are there en masse,” HSBC says. The in-demand jobs are in banking, finance, education, and Information Technology. The results of the survey, conducted by the research company YouGov, are classified into Economics, Experience, Raising Children, and Expenses. Nearly 9,300 individuals from 100 countries shared their insights about life as an expatriate. More Australian expats are choosing to live in Asia than expats from other countries, according to Expat Explorer. HSBC Elsewhere, 31% of Australians currently reside in the UK and 9% in North America. Asia’s higher salaries and lower living costs means that expats there earn the highest income. According to the survey, there are more expats in Asia in the higher-income bracket than expats in other markets — 14% in Asia compared with 5% in Europe — and the higher proportion of Australians in Asia compared with those there from other countries has resulted in Australians being the top earners globally. The survey shows 30% of Australians boasting remuneration packages in excess of US$200,000 a year. compared with the global average of 21% for expats. Graham Heunis, head of retail banking and wealth management for HSBC in Australia, says people go where the growth is. “With benign economic conditions in the UK and US over the past few years, it’s no surprise that career-oriented Aussies are flocking to fast-growing markets in Asia,” he says. “Swapping London and New York for a life in Shanghai and Singapore is certainly paying off for Australians abroad.” Of the Australian expats surveyed, 6% are in China compared with 1% of expats globally.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/FileSaudi men chat outside the Saudi Stock Exchange in Riyadh on December 5, 2009Riyadh (AFP) - A share offer by Saudi Arabia's National Commercial Bank was 16 times oversubscribed late Sunday, in what one financial analyst called "the mother of all IPOs". The initial public offering by the NCB, which was hoping to raise $6 billion, is one of the largest in the world this year and the biggest in the kingdom's history. In preliminary figures on the final day of the offer, NCB said subscribers had reached 1.166 million for a value of 215.76 billion riyals ($57.54 billion). Beginning on October 19, NCB offered 300 million shares to the Saudi public at 45 riyals each. Final figures from the offer will be released within a few days, the bank said in a statement obtained by AFP. "This is the mother of all IPOs," said Beshr Bakheet of the privately held Osool and Bakheet Investment Company. But he cautioned that the value is exaggerated because banks offered generous loans to people wishing to buy the shares. They are expected to begin trading on the country's Tadawul All-Shares Index, the largest Arab bourse, within one or two weeks. Bakheet said the shares were sold at a discount and he expects their price to double from the offered 45 riyals when trading starts, potentially valuing the public portion of the issue at $7.2 billion. An additional 200 million shares are allocated to the state pension fund. While the value was unprecedented, the number of subscribers was slightly below normal for the kingdom. That figure could still rise to two or three million when final figures are in, Bakheet said. NCB is the last of 12 Saudi banks to go public. Only three of them are fully compliant with Islamic sharia laws. The investor interest came despite a ruling from the kingdom's top Muslim cleric that the share offer is forbidden under Islam, which bans usury. Chinese online giant Alibaba, which made its market debut in September, broke the record for the largest IPO offering when it raised $25.02 billion. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda points to a placard showing BOJ policy decisions during a news conference in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda does not need to convince Japanese people like Kazue Shibata that deflation brings problems, but getting them to believe that higher prices will make things better is proving to be a harder sell. Shibata, 65, who runs a small dress shop in central Tokyo, worries the BOJ's mission to hit a 2-percent inflation target could end up driving business away unless people also have more money in their pockets. "If prices rise, people might not buy as much," she said, echoing a concern of many private-sector economists. On Friday, Kuroda's BOJ doubled down on a high-stakes bet that the central bank can shake Japan's consumers from a defensive set of expectations hardened by a decade and a half of era of falling prices, lower incomes and stop-and-go growth. "It's important for the BOJ to strongly commit to achieving its price target to get that price target firmly embedded in people's mindset," Kuroda said at a news conference on Friday, after the BOJ stunned markets with an unexpected expansion of its monetary stimulus program. "It won't do much good in trying to shake off the public's deflation mindset if you just say inflation will reach 2 percent some day," Kuroda said. At the core of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's "Abenomics" agenda is the assumption that the outlook for sustained inflation will prompt consumers to anticipate rising prices, and that consumption will rise as a result. That represents a sea change for a country used to deflation, where clinging to cash today meant greater buying power tomorrow, a set of expectations that has proven hard to shake a year-and-a-half into an unprecedented easing by the BOJ. Japan's economy, which has been hit by four recessions since 2000, is now on track to grow just 0.5 percent in the year to March, according to a revised projection by the central bank. Shibata, who has run a shop in Tokyo's Higashi Azabu neighborhood offering ready-to-wear attire and custom-made items for about three decades, has seen the pain from that kind of slow growth - and falling prices - on her business. "The prices people were willing to pay for order-made clothes fell, until they were almost the same as ready-to-wear," said Shibata, sitting in a cushioned chair next to her sewing machine. Wikimedia Commons In announcing its program of expanded asset purchases, the BOJ stuck with projections that it could hit Kuroda's 2-percent inflation in the fiscal year beginning next April. But Japan's annual core consumer inflation slowed for a second straight month in September, adding to scepticism among economists that goal is within reach. Moreover, the UTokyo Daily Price Index, a gauge maintained by economists at the University of Tokyo that tracks point-of-sales data for as many as 200,000 food items and daily necessities, has trended downwards after a spike in spring linked to a hike in the sales tax. That means that the falling prices people see every day reinforce the kind of "deflation mindset" that Kuroda hopes to break. Kaoru Sakai, 65, who runs a hair salon in Tokyo's Nakano district, did not raise prices even after the national sales tax was raised to 8 percent to 5 percent in April, worried the sticker shock could scare away business. "The fact is that people don't feel confident about the future," Sakai said. "Our society and economy has tilted people toward lower-end options. For example, it's like people choosing to eat at fast-food places, or standing-only soba shops even when they could, realistically, eat at proper restaurants." Unless Japanese people see real progress in solving fundamental problems, such as lack of wage growth, a shrinking manufacturing base, and an unsustainable welfare system, many might prefer the problem they know to the one Kuroda hopes will replace it. Classical economics would argue that consumers should welcome deflation, because it increases their purchasing power, an argument some consumers echo. "Deflation reflects the underlying economy. Our population is decreasing, production is low and we're not seeing innovation. We are losing power compared with other countries," said Yohei Tanaka, 33, an accountant in Tokyo, who said his salary has not risen since Abe took office in December 2012. "I don't think this is the time to drive the economy to inflation. I don't think inflation is the end solution. Deflation, in a certain way, is good." (Additional reporting by Mari Saito; Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
The outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa has been tragic and the outlook remains frightening. Because of the region's importance as a supplier of commodities, investors and economists also worry about what a disruption in production could mean for prices. "So far the impact on global commodity markets has been relatively contained," Deutsche Bank's Anna Mulholland said in October. "This most likely reflects the fact that Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea combined represent less than 2% of global production/exports of cocoa, coffee, cotton, rubber and palm oil." "However, a more widespread outbreak to other countries in the region would hold significant implications for cocoa production since West Africa accounts for over 70% of world production." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
 To say that Warren Buffett has a deep understanding of business — training himself with critical thinking exercises and a rigorous reading program — is a bit of an understatement. The proof is in the profits. His Berkshire Hathaway holding company has amassed a market cap over $300 billion. His personal fortune is upwards of $68 billion. So when he starts doling out career advice, we listen.  In a series on Fortune in which CEOs offer their best advice, the Sage of Omaha counseled young women on how to advance their careers.  But we think it applies to everybody.  "You do the same thing a male will do," Buffett said. "You follow your passions. You find something you love." By doing that, the logic goes, you'll bring more energy to your work than everybody else.  "The truth is, so few people really jump on their jobs, you really will stand out more than you think," Buffett said. "You will get noticed if you really go for it.” In this way, Buffett's advice parallels what comedian Steve Martin says to people who want to break into show business: "Be so good they can't ignore you." For five strategies for doing just that, go here.     FREE AppDownload
Cliffs NaturalCliffs Natural CEO Lourenco Goncalves. On Cliffs' earnings conference call on Tuesday morning, Goncalves told Wells Fargo analyst Sam Dubinsky that he wouldn't answer Dubinsky's questions because "you already know everything about my company." "You have a $4 price target and you think we can't sell assets, so I'm going to take the next question, I'm not going to answer you," Goncalves said.  It is a jarring exchange. Here's the audio.  In a note to clients following the report, Dubinsky wrote that Goncalves was "pretty bold" on the earnings call. It was also Goncalves' first earnings call as CEO since being named to the position on Aug. 7.  And the exchange, or really just the shutting down of Dubinsky's questions by Goncalves, shows some of the complications inherent in the relationship between companies and analysts.  It is Dubinsky's job, as a research analyst, to publish his assessment of the companies in his coverage area and, based on this work, publish a recommendation on how he believes the stock will perform going forward.  But as for his assessment of the company's quarter and outlook, Dubinsky wrote: "Cliffs reported upside to Q3 estimates and set a pretty high bar across the board when discussing the outcome of Canada, cost reductions, and dividend safety. We're cautious on shares due to our bearish stance on iron ore pricing, skepticism over asset sales, and the high debt load." He added that there was "too much uncertainty in both the macro backdrop and Cliffs' strategy to change our rating." Dubinsky has an "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on the stock, though he did raise earnings estimates for Cliffs' fourth quarter. In broad strokes, Wall Street recommendations break down into Buy, Sell, and Hold ratings, which are pretty much exactly what they sound like. And while lots of firms have different names for these ratings, the spirit is the same.  But again, this is just an outline. These recommendations are also usually — but not always! — about a stock's performance relative to a benchmark that isn't uniform across all stocks. But at any rate, this is basically what we're looking at when we're looking at "analyst recommendations." Sometimes analysts also put price targets on shares of a company, which is the price an analyst expects a stock to trade at in 12 months. But this target could also be for more or less than 12 months, which the analyst will specify in a note. (And again, for technicalities sake, Dubinsky's "Underperform" rating and valuation range of $4 to $7 on shares of Cliffs is essentially a "Sell" rating and $4 price target on the stock, but not exactly. Either way.)  A nice example of how this all gets sort of confusing and occluded is from Jay Yarow's recent post on how analysts see Alibaba, which includes a thrice-qualified scenario from analysts at Morgan Stanley.  From Jay's post: JPMorgan Chase put out a 158-page report on Alibaba. It thinks Alibaba has the potential to blast to the moon. In a "best-case scenario" it thinks Alibaba could be worth $178/share. In the "worst case" it could be $60. For now, it has a $114 price target. So, again, this is tricky territory for both analysts and companies. How is Alibaba or Cliffs supposed to feel when an analyst thinks its stock could either: rise 100%, fall 50%, or go nowhere? The idealist answer is that the company is supposed to be focused on its business and let the Wall Street analysts do their Wall Street analyzing. But part of what these Wall Street analysts get, as much as anything else, is access to company management that shareholders (and journalists) can't really get.  Analysts usually get an individual call with company management after their quarterly report, or even more often, and can meet with management during investor meetings, etc.  The idea is that these analysts, because of their expertise, training, and access, are then able to make the best possible assessments of a company.  This paper from March 2013 gives a good overview of how the whole analyst thing works (or doesn't).  But executives are still people, too. And being the CEO of a public company is a hard job with a lot of public visibility and a lot of public stress, and if you look at the stock price of Cliffs over the past year, it probably hasn't been the most fun thing to be in charge of. (The stock is down about 58% year-to-date.) Google Finance So imagine that you're answering to your employees, your shareholders, your suppliers, customers, other executives and board members, and on top of this there is an equity analyst who thinks your company is worth about one-third of its current stock price. Under this outline, it seems easy enough to understand why Goncalves was comfortable dismissing Dubinsky's question in public.  But also, he was dismissing an analyst's question in public.  And while no analyst is ever expected to be a "cheerleader" for a company, or for management, there is also a somewhat tenuous relationship between analysts and companies. In the aforementioned academic report looking at the relationship between companies and sell-side research analysts, one analyst told the researchers that, "We're sort of like a megaphone [for company management]." And so if part of your value, as an analyst, is to let the market know what a company is thinking, wouldn't it be in the best interest of that company that the message be not, you know, terrible? But read any research report and there will be a few pages of disclosures and legal stuff that says, basically, as an analyst this report reflects my view of the company and I won't be paid based on the recommendation made in this report.  For better or worse.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jacky Naegelen Chris Viehbacher, Chief Executive Officer of Sanofi, attends the company's 2012 annual results presentation in Paris February 7, 2013.THE once-familiar line-up of bosses at France's largest firms is getting less familiar all the time, as one after another is moved, fired or quits.  This week it was the turn of Christopher Viehbacher, the German-Canadian chief executive of Sanofi, a drugs giant, who was sacked mainly due to poor relations with the company's board (or so the board said). Sanofi's board promises to continue Mr Viehbacher's policy of global expansion. But many believe it was the recent decision by the firm's first non-French boss to move his office to Boston--closer to much of the research on which Sanofi relies--that provoked the rupture. The row, plus news that the firm's important diabetes business was struggling against its competitors, had knocked 16% off the value of Sanofi's shares by mid-week. Until then it had been France's largest quoted firm by value. It has yielded that place to Total, the world's fourth-biggest oil company. It was no boardroom row but a fatal aviation accident that removed Christophe de Margerie from its executive suite. For varying reasons, the bosses of the three other companies that dominate the French energy sector are on their way out. Last month, a day after the National Assembly passed a law to cut France's dependence on nuclear power, officials made it known that Henri Proglio, the staunchly pro-nuclear boss of EDF, a state-controlled power utility, would not be staying on. Shortly thereafter, Luc Oursel, the boss of Areva, a state-owned nuclear-engineering firm, announced his early departure for health reasons. And GDF Suez, another giant utility, consecrated an heir apparent, Isabelle Kocher, to take over in 2016 on the departure of its current chief, Gérard Mestrallet. Other bosses saying adieu include Baudouin Prot, who leaves the chairmanship of BNP Paribas after the huge fine the American authorities imposed on the bank for sanctions-busting.  AFPBaudouin Prot Vivendi, a media conglomerate and Danone, a food-maker, have just changed bosses; Pernod Ricard, a drinks company and Safran, a defence giant, will do so soon. The precise reasons for the moves are different. But there are some common themes. In several cases--those of EDF, GDF, Pernod and Safran--it is about a generation of high-flying executives, born in 1949-50 and graduates of France's most prestigious higher-education institutes, hitting retirement age. Another is the tension between the increasing globalisation of French industry and a centuries-old principle that business should serve the narrow national interest. France's big firms have gone out into the world, in part to escape high taxes, strict labour laws and low growth at home. Vivendi seems to be embracing globalisation by choosing as its new boss a Frenchman who has been running an American publisher's British operations. But the decision by Sanofi's board to drop the international-minded Mr Viehbacher suggests that it shares the nervousness of French politicians, and indeed many voters, when such corporate jewels come loose from their settings and start to lose their Frenchness. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru Hanai Men walk near a logo of Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo July 16, 2014.Germany's flagship bank is in trouble. Some is of its own making. HAMLET, Shakespeare's Danish prince, may blame "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" for his plight, but those watching often conclude that indecisiveness lies at the root of his troubles.  Deutsche Bank, Germany's biggest financial firm, faces lots of slings and arrows: a never-ending barrage of fines from American regulators, tough new rules on bank capital, a stagnant European economy and listless financial markets. Together, they have pummeled its prospects and punctured its share price.  But the modern-day audience of investors, clients and policymakers are beginning to ask themselves whether Deutsche's biggest problem is its failure to make difficult decisions. The EconomistDeutsche's story, thus far, is hardly a tragedy. But the bank is in an oddly fragile position. It is barely profitable, having earned only EUR681m ($901m) last year on assets of EUR1.6 trillion--a return of just 0.04%. Its shares are priced at 0.6 times the value of its tangible net assets, half the level of American titans such as JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, to which it considers itself a potential rival (see chart 1). Investors, it seems, do not. It is Europe's third-biggest bank by tangible assets, but only its thirteenth-biggest by market capitalisation. It is almost 25 years since Deutsche started its transformation from sleepy German lender to global investment-banking powerhouse. It got into the trading of bonds, currencies and commodities (known in the jargon as "FICC") so that it could offer services such as the issuing of bonds or the hedging of foreign-exchange risks to its corporate clients, notably the midsized manufacturers of Germany's Mittelstand. Plugging into global markets also gave Deutsche's bankers the chance to speculate for the bank's own account. In the go-go years such "prop trading" made profits fizz: Deutsche's shares traded at twice the value of its tangible net assets. An outsized FICC business now seems like a liability, however. These days the higher the share of a bank's income that comes from trading, the lower its share price. The industry's profits from FICC are tumbling, from $200 billion in 2009 to less than half that this year, according to the Boston Consulting Group, a consultancy. Other European banks such as UBS and (to some extent) Barclays are retreating from FICC. Deutsche, however, is sticking to the argument that a bank needs trading floors to serve corporate clients. Sentimentality may be a factor: Anshu Jain, the bank's co-chief executive with Jürgen Fitschen since 2012, was for over a decade before that the principal architect of Deutsche's push into FICC. The investment bank generated EUR14 billion of Deutsche's EUR32 billion in revenues last year. But it is struggling. Having regularly claimed a spot as one of the world's four biggest investment banks by revenue (alongside Goldman, Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan), it has fallen short in every quarter for the past two years. Some of Deutsche's problems are universal. Thanks to low and stable interest rates, markets for bonds and currencies have seesawed far less than usual. Such calm conditions deprive trading desks of business from clients rejigging their holdings. In Deutsche's case these challenges are compounded by its heavy exposure to Europe's faltering economy (around 70% of its nearly 100,000 employees are based there). Europe's weakness has sapped its corporate clients' demand for both loans and more esoteric financial products. Another shared woe is the sudden barrage of fines meted out to banks by regulators, notably in America. Deutsche has already paid $4.5 billion and set aside a further $4.1 billion to settle various lawsuits and investigations, according to Morgan Stanley, which expect $5 billion more to be paid out by 2016. Much of the activity concerned happened on Mr Jain's watch. Both Deutsche and Mr Fitschen personally also face legal troubles at home. REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski A technician watches a monitor showing Juergen Fitschen, Co-CEO of Deutsche Bank AG as he speaks during a shareholders meeting in Frankfurt May 23, 2013.  The third big drag on global banks is the heavy burden of new regulation intended to avert future financial crises. They are now required to hold much more equity (the money shareholders have put into the business) and other loss-absorbing buffers relative to their assets (mainly loans and investments), by various different measures. Each of these has meant more costly funding for banks, especially "systemically important" ones such as Deutsche. The introduction of a blunt leverage ratio, which sets a minimum buffer banks must hold against assets irrespective of their perceived riskiness, is particularly taxing for European banks, which have long had bigger but more conservative holdings than American ones and have also raised less capital since the crisis. Deutsche puts its leverage ratio at 3.2%, just above the incoming minimum of 3%, which itself may well rise. American rivals do much better, and even by European standards Deutsche is lagging. Mr Jain admitted this week that "litigation, regulation, coping with all that has been more challenging than we thought". Further provisions for fines drove the bank to a loss in the third quarter, although FICC did better thanks to more volatile markets. From next week, the task of supervising Deutsche will pass from BaFin, the German regulator, to the European Central Bank (ECB). BaFin has long been seen as a complaisant ally reluctant to hobble a national champion. The ECB is expected to be more demanding. Next year Deutsche will face additional scrutiny in America, too, as rules imposed on domestic lenders will be extended to big foreign banks. Regulators last year privately excoriated it for having "low quality, inaccurate and unreliable" reporting; they might limit payouts from its American unit to the German parent. The EconomistWorse, the assault of new regulations has targeted FICC in particular. Prop trading is now banned or strictly curtailed in most places. Some lucrative activities, such as trading derivatives, are being forced onto exchanges, dramatically lowering margins (see chart 2). The rules about the sort and amount of capital needed to back a FICC business are especially exacting. By sticking with the bond traders, however, Deutsche is in effect betting that FICC's troubles are mainly cyclical. That could be a reasonable wager. European policymakers, after all, have promised to foster capital markets, in particular asset-backed securities peddled by big investment banks. Plenty of politicians fret about having four American firms acting as sole gatekeepers to global markets. Moreover, Deutsche has few other options. Its retail business in Germany, which generated almost EUR10 billion in revenues last year, commands only an 11% share of a heavily fragmented, unionised market in which myriad state-backed rivals depress returns. Barclays, in contrast, has a lucrative domestic market to fall back on, plus a profitable credit-card operation. UBS is focusing on asset management, an historic strength. Deutsche tried to offload its asset-management arm as recently as 2012, although it has since invested heavily in it. Other businesses such as trade finance are reliably profitable but also weighed down by heavier regulation. Yet competing in FICC requires scale: the big profits are made by the top two or three banks. Hefty investments in technology and compliance (Deutsche is spending $1 billion in America alone, taking on 500 new staff) are in essence sunk costs more easily absorbed by the titans in the field. Deutsche's relatively weak balance-sheet will limit such investments. Although it raised EUR8.5 billion of new equity in June, and EUR3 billion a year before, much of that will be absorbed by fines or higher costs, sending it back near minimum levels. Some question whether it will be able to continue paying its annual dividend of EUR0.75 a share, which was not fully covered by earnings of EUR0.67 per share last year--down from over EUR7 in the glory years. Its stronger American rivals, meanwhile, can offer cheap loans or credit lines to firms in the hope of winning investment-banking business from them, for example. Deutsche has diluted existing shareholders twice in two years by issuing new equity. Another round seems unlikely. "Anshu cannot raise capital and keep his job," says one observer. Instead, Deutsche is improving capital ratios by shedding assets: at end-June it held around $600m less than it did before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, a 27% drop. More cuts can always be found, its senior managers say. REUTERS/Luke MacGregorWorkers sweep leaves outside Deutsche Bank offices in London December 5, 2013.  That has not been enough to allay concerns about its leverage (Barclays and Credit Suisse have gone further, trimming assets by 36% and 39% respectively), but it is also raising fears that Deutsche is harming the very businesses that it will need to escape from its rut. It has cut back drastically on the trading of Japanese shares, for example, and, like other banks, pulled out of commodities altogether. Some suggest a new model is emerging: taking more risk. They reckon Deutsche has started buying riskier investments (or issuing loans to riskier counterparties, such as property developers) to pep up profits. It has ramped up "junk" lending to companies backed by private-equity, one of the areas where it lost money in the 2008 crash. "They have a different view of risk than the rest of us," says one banker, who says Deutsche has plumped for deals his firm considered too dicey. (Higher-ups at Deutsche say they adapt their risk appetite to market conditions, but deny a wholesale change in strategy.) So far, Deutsche's approach has not paid off. It is now the 36th biggest bank in the world by market capitalisation. All 35 above it bar one have delivered positive shareholder returns (taking in dividends and share-price movements) since the beginning of 2012. Deutsche has not. REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA statue is pictured in front of the former head quarters of Germany's largest business bank, Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, January 28, 2013. Nonetheless, it is just possible that there might be a happy ending. If regulators stop tightening the ratchet on profits through ever more stringent capital requirements, for example, and markets turn in its favour, Deutsche might thrive. Profits could reach around EUR6 billion a year as early as 2016, analysts reckon, close to the glory years pre-2007. Even muddling through could see its shares trade closer to net asset value. But many German banks--Dresdner, Commerzbank, WestLB and others--have briefly built themselves into a global force in investment banking, only to retreat again. If events continue on their current trajectory, Deutsche's strategy of being neither out of FICC nor quite able to compete with the biggest banks could lead to a similar outcome. With capital tight, but with the current management unable to raise more, further cuts loom. Like Hamlet, it may eventually succumb to its wounds. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Andrew Kelly/ReutersJeff Bezos of Amazon.There are no guarantees in the world of investing, but it's no mystery why so many tenured investors strongly consider the quality of a company's CEO before buying its shares. To be sure, the effective leadership — or lack thereof — of any given CEO is arguably one of the biggest influences of a company's ability to create shareholder value. In our short-term-oriented world, it's especially important to see such value created over long periods of time, considering those shares are, first and foremost, small slices of the underlying business. How do you go about quantifying that performance? Consider the latest issue of Harvard Business Review, which did exactly that through its annual "Best-Performing CEOs in the World" report. For this year's list, HBR started by taking the names of the current CEOs of every company in the S&amp;P Global 1200, which covers 70% of the world's stock market capitalization and consists of firms from North America, Europe, Asia, Latin America, and Australia. Next, they excluded CEOs who had been arrested or convicted of a crime. Then, to ensure they had data that was both reliable and long-term in nature, they excluded CEOs who started in their role before 1995 or after April 30, 2012. That left them with 832 top CEO candidates from 827 companies (several had co-CEOs). Finally, to come up with a truly objective measure — which meant ignoring any perceived celebrity status, reputation, or popularity — HBR ranked them from 1 (best) to 832 (worst) based on shareholder returns and market capitalization from the start of their tenure through April 30, 2014. For this, they used a combination of three metrics: Of course, the post-1995 requirement notably eliminates Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett, who many consider to be both the most effective investor and CEO alive today. From the time Buffett took the helm of Berkshire in 1965 through the end of 2013, Berkshire's per-share book value gained an astounding 693,518%. At the same time, consider that between the beginning of 1995 and HBR's April 30, 2014, cutoff, shares of Buffett's Berkshire returned 847% — not too shabby considering the S&amp;P 500 simultaneously returned around 491%. According to HBR, however, the top 50 CEOs in their list delivered even greater total shareholder returns averaging 1,350%.  But in the end, one CEO's performance stood far above the rest: Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com. Bezos technically founded Amazon back in 1994, but the company only went public in 1997. Based on HBR's calculations as of April 30, 2014, Bezos achieved a country-adjusted total shareholder return of 15,189% and an industry-adjusted return of 14,917%, and he grew Amazon's market cap by $140 billion in the process. What's so remarkable is how Bezos has gone about creating that value — namely, by eschewing profits in the traditional sense in favor of consistently investing Amazon's cash back into the growing the business itself. But that doesn't mean Amazon.com couldn't churn out profits based on generally accepted accounting principles if it so chose. As HBR's Daniel McGinn put it: The other big misconception: that Bezos doesn't care about profitability. By all accounts Amazon's mature businesses (such as online retail) are profitable; it's his deep investments in new businesses that create accounting losses, which he regards as a false measure of performance. Bezos' unorthodox approach has also remained static from the beginning. Take his first letter to Amazon shareholders in 1997 — seriously, it's worth a read — where he wrote, "We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market leadership considerations rather than short-term profitability considerations or short-term Wall Street reactions." He also insisted, "When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we'll take the cash flows." Never have those words been more applicable than today. Just last week, shares of Amazon fell 8% after it announced that net sales for the third quarter increased 20% year over year to $20.58 billion. The trouble, in Wall Street's eyes, was that those sales somehow translated to a net loss of $437 million. Meanwhile, operating cash flow for the trailing 12 months jumped 15% to $5.71 billion, while free cash flow nearly tripled over the same period to $1.08 billion. And sure enough, Amazon's consolidated cash flow statement shows nearly $1 billion in net cash used in investing activities over the past three months alone. And no, Amazon's recent drop still wouldn't affect Bezos' position at No. 1. In fact, at around $290 per share as of this writing, shares of Amazon currently sit only slightly below their April 30 closing price. Further, HBR says Bezos would have still maintained his top rank even if Amazon stock had dropped all the way to $250 per share. As a long-term-oriented investor myself, I can only hope our fickle market provides such a buying opportunity. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettTHE "Lucky Sperm Club", as Warren Buffett likes to call it, is still going strong in the commanding heights of business.  On opposite sides of the Atlantic, Ana Botín and Abigail Johnson have recently succeeded their fathers in filling two of the most powerful jobs in finance, as chairman of Banco Santander and chief executive of Fidelity Investments, respectively. Founding dynasties run, or wield significant clout at, some of the world's largest multinationals, from Walmart to Mars, Samsung to BMW. Half a century ago management experts expected the hereditary principle to fade fast, because of the greater ability of professionally-run public firms to raise capital and attract top talent. In fact, family firms have held their ground and, in recent years have increased their presence among global businesses. Family-controlled firms now make up 19% of the companies in the Fortune Global 500, which tracks the world's largest firms by sales. That is up from 15% in 2005, according to new research by McKinsey, a consulting firm (which defines such firms as ones whose founders or their families have the biggest stake, of at least 18%, plus the power to appoint the chief executive). Since 2008 sales by these firms have grown by 7% a year, slightly ahead of the 6.2% a year by non-family firms in the list. McKinsey sees these trends continuing for the foreseeable future. This is largely because of rapid growth in big developing economies where family ownership is the norm among large businesses. Since 2005 the countries that have most increased their share of the Fortune Global 500 are Brazil, China, Russia, South Korea and Taiwan. By 2025, McKinsey forecasts, there will be more than 15,000 companies worldwide with at least $1 billion in annual revenues, of which 37% will be emerging-market family firms. In 2010 there were only 8,000 firms worldwide of this size, and only 16% of them were family-controlled and from emerging markets. Around 85% of $1 billion-plus businesses in South-East Asia are family-run, around 75% in Latin America, 67% in India and around 65% in the Middle East. China (where the proportion is about 40%) and Sub-Saharan Africa (35%) stand out for their relatively low share of family firms, because in both cases many large firms are state-owned. The Economist However, even in the rich world, big family firms are defying expectations of their demise. The tendency for founders and their heirs to abandon control to faceless institutional shareholders seems to have reached a limit. Of the American firms in the Fortune Global 500, 15% are family ones, only slightly less than in 2005. Among them is the world's largest family firm, Walmart, in which the children of the late founder, Sam Walton (pictured, third from left) are still big shareholders. His eldest son, Rob, is the chairman, another son, Jim, is also on the board and their sister, Alice, also inherited a huge stake. In Europe, 40% of big stockmarket-listed companies still have a controlling family. Until recently many emerging economies lacked the large, liquid capital markets that rich countries enjoy. So local firms could not rely on them to provide funds for expansion, and depended instead on founding families reinvesting their profits. As such firms' access to domestic and global stock and bond markets continues to improve, it is possible to imagine this situation changing; family owners could seize the opportunity to make a lucrative exit, as happened for a time in the rich world. However, one reason why the experts' predictions of 50 years ago have proved wrong is that stockmarkets and regulators have been so accommodating in letting founding families retain a fair degree of control despite selling large stakes to outside investors. One way they have done so is through special classes of shares--a trend that has lately featured in a number of technology-firm flotations: who knows, perhaps in future Facebook will be controlled by the Zuckerberg dynasty and Google by the Page and Brin clans. Rick Wilking/ReutersFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan Investors have accepted such arrangements as the price of getting a slice of these firms' profits, but they rarely like them. Some institutional investors were unhappy, for example, when a deal struck years ago by her father allowed Ms Botín to succeed him in the chair at Santander shortly after his death in September, even though the family owned only 2% of the bank. Besides being able to access capital markets without losing control, there are at least four other reasons why so many big firms have defied expectations and stayed under family control. One is that they are often the product of a superbly talented entrepreneur like Sam Walton. While such founders are alive and on form, the combination of their abilities and the freedom they have as controlling shareholder to run by their own rules often gives them a strong competitive advantage. Even after they are gone, their heirs can keep up the firm's success, simply by continuing to follow the founder's successful principles. Whether private or public, family firms also tend to take a longer-term perspective. As Heinrich Liechtenstein of IESE business school in Barcelona observes, this is true both relative to non-family-controlled public companies, which tend to be obsessed with meeting the demands of investors to maximise short-term profits, and companies owned by private-equity firms, which although able to take a longer view than public firms must still cater to investors who want to sell up for a juicy profit within a few years. Family firms are also less likely to load up on debt. An obvious exception, and an illustration of why most family capitalists fear debt, is the recent collapse of Espírito Santo. Massive debts turned the family-owned Portuguese financial conglomerate into one of Europe's largest corporate failures, ending in a state bail-out of the bank at the group's core. A reluctance to borrow may limit growth in good times, but it can make family firms more resilient when the going is tough. REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroA man walks in front of a window of the headquarters of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon July 21, 2010. They also tend to have better labour relations, according to studies by Holger Mueler and Thomas Philippon of New York University's Stern business school. This may be because workers are readier to believe promises that they will be rewarded for delivering in the long run, if such pledges are made by founding families rather than outsider bosses who may be gone in a few years. And in situations where businesses have to push through efficiency improvements, family owners may be more willing to act firmly when dealing with labour unions, because of their significant stake in the business, than salaried outsider bosses, the studies suggest. These are advantages especially in countries with generally hostile relations between workers and management, say the two economists. Overall, those family firms that get big tend to have a superior corporate culture to their non-family peers, reckons Heinz-Peter Elstrodt of McKinsey. The firm has applied its index of "organisational health" to 114 family firms and around 1,200 other large companies. Family firms scored significantly higher on their culture, worker motivation and leadership, though they lagged slightly on innovation and being too internally focused. The presence of a founding family seems to be good for a business's image. In a recent survey in 12 big economies by Edelman, a (family-run) PR firm, 73% of people said they trusted family-owned companies, compared with 64% who trusted publicly-traded companies in general, and 61% for both private-equity-owned and state-owned firms. This is no doubt why S.C. Johnson, a household-products maker, has as its slogan, "A Family Company". There is evidence of a positive "family effect" on financial performance, according to a new study by Cristina Cruz Serrano and Laura Nuñez Letamendia of IE business school in Madrid. They calculated that EUR1,000 invested in 2001 in a portfolio of publicly traded family firms in Europe, weighted by market capitalisation, would have generated EUR3,533 by the end of the decade, compared with EUR2,241 from a portfolio of non-family firms. The difference is equivalent to five percentage points of extra return per year. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri Howard G. Buffett, chairman and CEO of the Howard Buffett Foundation, stands next to his son Howard W. Buffett, lecturer in International Public Affairs at Columbia University, and father Warren Buffett, chairman and CEO of Berksire Hathaway, as they pose for a portrait in New York October 22, 2013.All this may be why, for all his professed disapproval of the Lucky Sperm Club, Mr Buffett wants his son, Howard to succeed him as chairman, and guardian of the firm's culture. The elder Mr Buffett is such a big fan of family firms that he likes to buy them: in October he bought Van Tuyl Group, America's largest family-owned car dealership chain. As with LVMH and Kering, two family-run French luxury-goods giants that have bought a number of European fashion houses, Mr Buffett's spiel to founding families is: if you want to sell up but want your business's culture preserved, it will be in safe hands with us. Ultimately, whether big family firms will continue to defy expectations of their demise will depend on their ability to negotiate the rocks on which family businesses have a unique propensity to founder. One is the risk of squabbles among relatives. This summer, for example, a family feud nearly destroyed Market Basket, an American supermarket chain. Workers went on strike when their popular boss, Arthur T. Demoulas, was fired at the behest of his cousin, Arthur S. Demoulas. Disaster was only averted after pleas to the family by the governors of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. No issue is potentially more toxic than the transition from one generation of a family to the next. In India, an epic feud began in 2002 after Dhirubhai Ambani, the founder of Reliance Industries, died without naming a sole heir. The battle between his sons, Mukesh and Anil, eventually led to the group being split in two. In some cases even strong and successful firms can implode soon after a generational succession, which is why so many countries have some variation of the saying, "from shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations" (clogs to clogs, kimono to kimono). Edelman's survey found that the public's trust in family firms falls once the baton is passed from the founder to the next generation. Alarmingly, a study of 2,400 family firms in 40 countries published last month by PwC, a consulting firm, found that only 16% of them had a "discussed and documented" succession plan in place. REUTERS/Seo Jae-hoonSamsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-Hee's daughters, president and chief executive of Hotel Shilla Lee Boo-jin (C), vice president at Cheil Industries and Cheil Worldwide Lee Seo-Hyun (L) and his only son Samsung Electronics' chief operating officer Jay Lee are seen after the Ho-am prize award ceremony in Seoul June 1, 2012. The families that do best are those which understand that their interests and those of their business can diverge, and put in place processes to manage the consequences of these differences, says John Davis of Harvard Business School, the author of several books about family firms. Some families are adept at training the next generation to work in the family firm. Illycaffé, a coffee-maker now run by a third-generation Illy family member, has a pact setting the rules for when an Illy can go into the business: competence for the job is paramount. Sweden's Wallenberg business empire is run by a fifth generation of the founding family: two cousins, Jacob and Marcus Wallenberg, were groomed from an early age to run the group's industrial and financial sides respectively. However, sometimes children do not want to join the family business, or turn out not to have inherited the entrepreneurial genes of the founder. It may then be in the best interests of the firm for a professional to run it, rather than a reluctant or incompetent scion, even if the family retains some control. Letting professionals take over can make a lot of sense. Talented managers are more likely to join a firm where there is a chance of getting to the very top, or at least where they do not have to work under a useless heir. Some 40% of the family firms interviewed by PwC said that professionalising their business was among the main challenges they face in the next five years. Even when they have agreed to let an outside manager run their businesses, families sometimes find it hard to keep their hands away from the wheel. Luxottica, an Italian maker of sunglasses, was well run by a professional chief executive for ten years, but recently lost him, and six weeks later his successor, reportedly following differences of opinion with the founder, Leonardo Del Vecchio, and his wife, Nicoletta Zampillo. Even when independent outsiders are brought in to serve on a family company's board, they can often fail to make the impact they should, notes Mr Davis. Outsiders often refuse to get involved in managing tensions within the family and assume their job is just to oversee the running of the business, when in reality they may be the last line of defence against a family breakdown destabilising the firm, he says. In the rich world there is a strong contingent of firms which have demonstrated an ability to get the best out of being both family-controlled and professionally run. In some emerging markets, however, things are not so clear. Many of their big firms are still run by a founder with strong links to those in power, and only time will tell if they have what it takes to survive the passing of either the founder or the regime. However, the positive examples of Tata in India and Samsung in South Korea suggest that it is possible, even in places with a strong tradition of crony capitalism, for world-class, professionally run family firms to emerge. WikipediaDon Michael CorleoneAs big emerging-market firms pass from the founders to their heirs, the challenge will be, as it has been in the rich world, to reconcile the family's needs and desires with the demands of running a successful business. They will need to learn that when it comes to company matters, as Michael Corleone put it in "The Godfather", that great study of a family firm, "It's not personal...it's strictly business." Click here to subscribe to The Economist   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettTHE "Lucky Sperm Club", as Warren Buffett likes to call it, is still going strong in the commanding heights of business.  On opposite sides of the Atlantic, Ana Botín and Abigail Johnson have recently succeeded their fathers in filling two of the most powerful jobs in finance, as chairman of Banco Santander and chief executive of Fidelity Investments, respectively. Founding dynasties run, or wield significant clout at, some of the world's largest multinationals, from Walmart to Mars, Samsung to BMW. Half a century ago management experts expected the hereditary principle to fade fast, because of the greater ability of professionally-run public firms to raise capital and attract top talent. In fact, family firms have held their ground and, in recent years have increased their presence among global businesses. Family-controlled firms now make up 19% of the companies in the Fortune Global 500, which tracks the world's largest firms by sales. That is up from 15% in 2005, according to new research by McKinsey, a consulting firm (which defines such firms as ones whose founders or their families have the biggest stake, of at least 18%, plus the power to appoint the chief executive). Since 2008 sales by these firms have grown by 7% a year, slightly ahead of the 6.2% a year by non-family firms in the list. McKinsey sees these trends continuing for the foreseeable future. This is largely because of rapid growth in big developing economies where family ownership is the norm among large businesses. Since 2005 the countries that have most increased their share of the Fortune Global 500 are Brazil, China, Russia, South Korea and Taiwan. By 2025, McKinsey forecasts, there will be more than 15,000 companies worldwide with at least $1 billion in annual revenues, of which 37% will be emerging-market family firms. In 2010 there were only 8,000 firms worldwide of this size, and only 16% of them were family-controlled and from emerging markets. Around 85% of $1 billion-plus businesses in South-East Asia are family-run, around 75% in Latin America, 67% in India and around 65% in the Middle East. China (where the proportion is about 40%) and Sub-Saharan Africa (35%) stand out for their relatively low share of family firms, because in both cases many large firms are state-owned. The Economist However, even in the rich world, big family firms are defying expectations of their demise. The tendency for founders and their heirs to abandon control to faceless institutional shareholders seems to have reached a limit. Of the American firms in the Fortune Global 500, 15% are family ones, only slightly less than in 2005. Among them is the world's largest family firm, Walmart, in which the children of the late founder, Sam Walton (pictured, third from left) are still big shareholders. His eldest son, Rob, is the chairman, another son, Jim, is also on the board and their sister, Alice, also inherited a huge stake. In Europe, 40% of big stockmarket-listed companies still have a controlling family. Until recently many emerging economies lacked the large, liquid capital markets that rich countries enjoy. So local firms could not rely on them to provide funds for expansion, and depended instead on founding families reinvesting their profits. As such firms' access to domestic and global stock and bond markets continues to improve, it is possible to imagine this situation changing; family owners could seize the opportunity to make a lucrative exit, as happened for a time in the rich world. However, one reason why the experts' predictions of 50 years ago have proved wrong is that stockmarkets and regulators have been so accommodating in letting founding families retain a fair degree of control despite selling large stakes to outside investors. One way they have done so is through special classes of shares--a trend that has lately featured in a number of technology-firm flotations: who knows, perhaps in future Facebook will be controlled by the Zuckerberg dynasty and Google by the Page and Brin clans. Rick Wilking/ReutersFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan Investors have accepted such arrangements as the price of getting a slice of these firms' profits, but they rarely like them. Some institutional investors were unhappy, for example, when a deal struck years ago by her father allowed Ms Botín to succeed him in the chair at Santander shortly after his death in September, even though the family owned only 2% of the bank. Besides being able to access capital markets without losing control, there are at least four other reasons why so many big firms have defied expectations and stayed under family control. One is that they are often the product of a superbly talented entrepreneur like Sam Walton. While such founders are alive and on form, the combination of their abilities and the freedom they have as controlling shareholder to run by their own rules often gives them a strong competitive advantage. Even after they are gone, their heirs can keep up the firm's success, simply by continuing to follow the founder's successful principles. Whether private or public, family firms also tend to take a longer-term perspective. As Heinrich Liechtenstein of IESE business school in Barcelona observes, this is true both relative to non-family-controlled public companies, which tend to be obsessed with meeting the demands of investors to maximise short-term profits, and companies owned by private-equity firms, which although able to take a longer view than public firms must still cater to investors who want to sell up for a juicy profit within a few years. Family firms are also less likely to load up on debt. An obvious exception, and an illustration of why most family capitalists fear debt, is the recent collapse of Espírito Santo. Massive debts turned the family-owned Portuguese financial conglomerate into one of Europe's largest corporate failures, ending in a state bail-out of the bank at the group's core. A reluctance to borrow may limit growth in good times, but it can make family firms more resilient when the going is tough. REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroA man walks in front of a window of the headquarters of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon July 21, 2010. They also tend to have better labour relations, according to studies by Holger Mueler and Thomas Philippon of New York University's Stern business school. This may be because workers are readier to believe promises that they will be rewarded for delivering in the long run, if such pledges are made by founding families rather than outsider bosses who may be gone in a few years. And in situations where businesses have to push through efficiency improvements, family owners may be more willing to act firmly when dealing with labour unions, because of their significant stake in the business, than salaried outsider bosses, the studies suggest. These are advantages especially in countries with generally hostile relations between workers and management, say the two economists. Overall, those family firms that get big tend to have a superior corporate culture to their non-family peers, reckons Heinz-Peter Elstrodt of McKinsey. The firm has applied its index of "organisational health" to 114 family firms and around 1,200 other large companies. Family firms scored significantly higher on their culture, worker motivation and leadership, though they lagged slightly on innovation and being too internally focused. The presence of a founding family seems to be good for a business's image. In a recent survey in 12 big economies by Edelman, a (family-run) PR firm, 73% of people said they trusted family-owned companies, compared with 64% who trusted publicly-traded companies in general, and 61% for both private-equity-owned and state-owned firms. This is no doubt why S.C. Johnson, a household-products maker, has as its slogan, "A Family Company". There is evidence of a positive "family effect" on financial performance, according to a new study by Cristina Cruz Serrano and Laura Nuñez Letamendia of IE business school in Madrid. They calculated that EUR1,000 invested in 2001 in a portfolio of publicly traded family firms in Europe, weighted by market capitalisation, would have generated EUR3,533 by the end of the decade, compared with EUR2,241 from a portfolio of non-family firms. The difference is equivalent to five percentage points of extra return per year. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri Howard G. Buffett, chairman and CEO of the Howard Buffett Foundation, stands next to his son Howard W. Buffett, lecturer in International Public Affairs at Columbia University, and father Warren Buffett, chairman and CEO of Berksire Hathaway, as they pose for a portrait in New York October 22, 2013.All this may be why, for all his professed disapproval of the Lucky Sperm Club, Mr Buffett wants his son, Howard to succeed him as chairman, and guardian of the firm's culture. The elder Mr Buffett is such a big fan of family firms that he likes to buy them: in October he bought Van Tuyl Group, America's largest family-owned car dealership chain. As with LVMH and Kering, two family-run French luxury-goods giants that have bought a number of European fashion houses, Mr Buffett's spiel to founding families is: if you want to sell up but want your business's culture preserved, it will be in safe hands with us. Ultimately, whether big family firms will continue to defy expectations of their demise will depend on their ability to negotiate the rocks on which family businesses have a unique propensity to founder. One is the risk of squabbles among relatives. This summer, for example, a family feud nearly destroyed Market Basket, an American supermarket chain. Workers went on strike when their popular boss, Arthur T. Demoulas, was fired at the behest of his cousin, Arthur S. Demoulas. Disaster was only averted after pleas to the family by the governors of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. No issue is potentially more toxic than the transition from one generation of a family to the next. In India, an epic feud began in 2002 after Dhirubhai Ambani, the founder of Reliance Industries, died without naming a sole heir. The battle between his sons, Mukesh and Anil, eventually led to the group being split in two. In some cases even strong and successful firms can implode soon after a generational succession, which is why so many countries have some variation of the saying, "from shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations" (clogs to clogs, kimono to kimono). Edelman's survey found that the public's trust in family firms falls once the baton is passed from the founder to the next generation. Alarmingly, a study of 2,400 family firms in 40 countries published last month by PwC, a consulting firm, found that only 16% of them had a "discussed and documented" succession plan in place. REUTERS/Seo Jae-hoonSamsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-Hee's daughters, president and chief executive of Hotel Shilla Lee Boo-jin (C), vice president at Cheil Industries and Cheil Worldwide Lee Seo-Hyun (L) and his only son Samsung Electronics' chief operating officer Jay Lee are seen after the Ho-am prize award ceremony in Seoul June 1, 2012. The families that do best are those which understand that their interests and those of their business can diverge, and put in place processes to manage the consequences of these differences, says John Davis of Harvard Business School, the author of several books about family firms. Some families are adept at training the next generation to work in the family firm. Illycaffé, a coffee-maker now run by a third-generation Illy family member, has a pact setting the rules for when an Illy can go into the business: competence for the job is paramount. Sweden's Wallenberg business empire is run by a fifth generation of the founding family: two cousins, Jacob and Marcus Wallenberg, were groomed from an early age to run the group's industrial and financial sides respectively. However, sometimes children do not want to join the family business, or turn out not to have inherited the entrepreneurial genes of the founder. It may then be in the best interests of the firm for a professional to run it, rather than a reluctant or incompetent scion, even if the family retains some control. Letting professionals take over can make a lot of sense. Talented managers are more likely to join a firm where there is a chance of getting to the very top, or at least where they do not have to work under a useless heir. Some 40% of the family firms interviewed by PwC said that professionalising their business was among the main challenges they face in the next five years. Even when they have agreed to let an outside manager run their businesses, families sometimes find it hard to keep their hands away from the wheel. Luxottica, an Italian maker of sunglasses, was well run by a professional chief executive for ten years, but recently lost him, and six weeks later his successor, reportedly following differences of opinion with the founder, Leonardo Del Vecchio, and his wife, Nicoletta Zampillo. Even when independent outsiders are brought in to serve on a family company's board, they can often fail to make the impact they should, notes Mr Davis. Outsiders often refuse to get involved in managing tensions within the family and assume their job is just to oversee the running of the business, when in reality they may be the last line of defence against a family breakdown destabilising the firm, he says. In the rich world there is a strong contingent of firms which have demonstrated an ability to get the best out of being both family-controlled and professionally run. In some emerging markets, however, things are not so clear. Many of their big firms are still run by a founder with strong links to those in power, and only time will tell if they have what it takes to survive the passing of either the founder or the regime. However, the positive examples of Tata in India and Samsung in South Korea suggest that it is possible, even in places with a strong tradition of crony capitalism, for world-class, professionally run family firms to emerge. WikipediaDon Michael CorleoneAs big emerging-market firms pass from the founders to their heirs, the challenge will be, as it has been in the rich world, to reconcile the family's needs and desires with the demands of running a successful business. They will need to learn that when it comes to company matters, as Michael Corleone put it in "The Godfather", that great study of a family firm, "It's not personal...it's strictly business." Click here to subscribe to The Economist   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVByron WienA booming stock market and a recovering property market has been great for Americans exposed to those parts of the economy. Unfortunately, only around half of US adults are exposed to the stock market. And at 64.4%, homeownship rates in the US are at a 19-year low. For these other Americans, expenditures are largely covered by their wages, which haven't really been going anywhere. "For the average worker in the United States real median family income has not increased since 2008," Blackstone's Byron Wien said. "Household net worth is at an all time high but this is because of the rise in the stock market and expensive real estate." Business Insider recently asked Wien for what he considered to be the "Most Important Chart In The World." He responded with this depressing chart of stagnant incomes. "For most Americans drawing a paycheck every two weeks life is a struggle," he said. "This is the heart of the inequality problem and it's going to get worse." Blackstone FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
JPMorgan Vice Chairman Jimmy Lee is a legendary dealmaker on Wall Street.  We caught up with Lee on the phone this week before Bloomberg's "The Year Ahead" summit and he shared his keys to success.  "I think it's just a few things that you have to do every day," Lee told us.  Here they are:  1. Work hard.  "You have to work really hard. There's just no getting around that."  2. Become an expert. "You have to know each of the major products exceptionally well. You've got to know high-yield debt. You've got to know investment grade debt. You've got to know loan syndication. You've got to know M&amp;A. You've got to know IPOs and follow-ons, i.e. the equity business. You have to have a deep vertical experience and expertise."   3. Don't be afraid to give honest, objective advice. "You have to be unafraid of just telling the truth, especially with respect to CEOs. A lot of bankers are always looking to please the CEO, and in doing so they please them, but they may not give them, you know, objective advice. So I think it's being honest, open and giving your best objective advice, and being unafraid as to what can happen from that so long as you've thought it through."  4. Don't underestimate the importance of working well with people. "The most successful people tend to have relatively high IQs and relatively high EQs [the emotional quotient]. So having strong EQ and just fundamental working well with people I think is very, very important. Because investment banking at the end of the day—it's very technical, it's very complicated, but once you've learned all those skills it's really just about people." 5. Learn from mistakes.  "In a long career, a gazillion mistakes get made. And I've made my share of mistakes... When you make a mistake you A.) You have to acknowledge it and be fully accountable and then B.) You have to figure out what made you make the mistake and figure out how to not make the same mistake again."  On November 13-14, Lee will be speaking at Bloomberg's "The Year Ahead" summit where he'll talk about industry and economic issues going into 2015 along with other top executives.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Philip TaylorSurvey says... a lot of American millionaires would support higher taxes. PNC Wealth Management did a survey of millionaires* and found that 44% of them would either strongly or somewhat support "raising taxes on the top income earners" as a way to address inequality.  This answer had the lowest support out of the four options, but still comes out to nearly half of this group of wealthy people supporting higher taxes on themselves (assuming of course they recognize that they are, in fact, the top income earners). Nearly 70% support giving to charities focused on poverty or hunger. 64% support scholarship opportunities for children from low income families, and 49% support raising the minimum wage.  Here's the slide from PNC's presentation:  PNC Wealth Management   * Defined as adults who have investible assets over $1 million. Also note that there is a +/- 6% margin of error in the sample. FREE AppDownload
BloombergTrish Regan, Bloomberg TV anchor and host of "Street Smart." There have been a number of changes to the Bloomberg Media line up since we last familiarized you with their team. So allow us to reintroduce you to the ladies of Bloomberg TV and Radio. The group is nothing to sneeze at. One of these reporters was a double major in neuroscience and media studies at MIT, before she bagged an MBA from Harvard.  And another is a famous voice that announces the stops and transfers in New York City's subway system to millions everyday. FREE AppDownload
NASHUA New Hampshire (Reuters) - Long viewed as an ally by Wall Street, likely 2016 presidential contender Hillary Clinton has increasingly been taking banks and big business to task while on the campaign trail for Democrats across the country. Many Democratic strategists see the sharper rhetoric as an effort to win over liberal critics, such as supporters of Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. It comes days before Tuesday's midterm elections and as Clinton ramps up her political activity ahead of a probable White House bid. "Al has pushed for more and better oversight of the big banks and risky financial activity," Clinton said in support of Senator Al Franken in Minnesota in late October. "There's a lot of unfinished business to make sure we don't end up once again with big banks taking big risks and leaving taxpayers holding the bag," she said, in the starkest example yet of her populist turn. This is a change of tone for the former New York senator, who faced criticism for her Wall Street ties as recently as September, after appearing with Goldman Sachs chief executive Lloyd Blankfein. Allies and analysts see it as an effort to find the balance between populism and her familiar centrism that Clinton may need in order to broaden her appeal in a potential 2016 Democratic primary contest. "What she's trying to do, really, is find her message. This is something that she struggled with in 2008 (while losing the Democratic nomination battle to Barack Obama), and she really didn't have to do it as secretary of state," said Brookings Institution campaign expert John Hudak. "She's trying to thread the needle, to say to progressives, 'I'm your candidate,' but also say to Iowa Democrats, 'I'm your candidate, too.'" Clinton, who was secretary of state from 2009-2013, has not declared her candidacy, although supporters have built a national campaign structure to await a presumed run. She says she will decide whether or not to run early next year and for now she is campaigning for others, largely in states where Obama is unpopular. Sunday's New Hampshire swing comes after Saturday stops in Louisiana and Kentucky. But supporters of Warren, who says she does not plan to run for the White House, are still wary of Clinton, who ran as a centrist in 2008. Clinton leads Warren 60 to 17 percent in an October Reuters/Ipsos poll of Democrats in Iowa, which holds the first contest of the presidential nominating race. Warren, a former Harvard Law School professor who spearheaded the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau after the 2008 financial crisis, has gained solid backing from liberals in the party for her steady criticism of Wall Street and big banks. REUTERS/Jason Reed Clinton campaigned with Warren in October for Massachusetts governor candidate Martha Coakley, praising the bank regulation advocate for "giv(ing) it to those who deserve to get it." That despite the fact that she is personally close with some high-profile bankers who know her from her time representing them in the Senate, and from her experience as first lady during Bill Clinton's years as president. In Minnesota, Clinton expanded on her economic priorities, saying that before the financial crisis "a lot of us were calling for regulating derivatives and other complex financial products, closing the carried-interest loophole, getting control of skyrocketing CEO pay." It was a line that raised eyebrows given the deregulatory policies of Bill Clinton's administration. But progressive activists, who have criticized Hillary Clinton's practice of giving highly-paid speeches to groups including financial firms, welcome such statements. "It's baby steps in the right direction after $200,000 speeches at Goldman Sachs," said Adam Green of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. There are pitfalls to the appeals to liberals. Critics pounced after Clinton told voters in Boston last month not to "let anybody tell you that it's corporations and businesses that create jobs." Clinton later explained that she meant to criticize the idea that the economy grows because of corporate tax breaks, but Republicans across the country, including a pair of potential Republican 2016 opponents - Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush - have since used the line against her. (Reporting by Gabriel Debenedetti; Editing by John Whitesides and Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
ReutersArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.After a whipsaw summer that included the close of a decade-long lawsuit, a technical default, the most dramatic of political theatrics, and a contempt ruling from a US court — things have been relatively silent out of Argentina. But some rumblings out of Wall Street indicate that there could be a change afoot. One word — "acceleration" — threatens to force an end to the stalemate between Buenos Aires and its creditors that has been in place since the country went into default this summer. Acceleration is the nuclear option. It is the ultimate expression of the collective belief that Argentina will not pay bondholders. With acceleration, all bondholders call in their entire debt immediately. In its fullest expression, that amount in the tens of billions of dollars — far greater than what Argentina, with only $28 billion in its central bank reserves, can pay. The country went into default this summer for refusing to pay a group of holdout bondholders led by Paul Singer of Elliott Management. For years the holdouts insisted on being paid 100 cents on the dollar for Argentine bonds dating back to the country's 2001 default. They argued that all bondholders, regardless of whether they had accepted a haircut on their debt, should be paid equally. That argument won, but Argentina did not care. And in not caring, Argentina made it impossible to pay the bondholders who had restructured their debt, the exchange bondholders. That is, until January, when the country says it can finally legally negotiate with the holdouts. It is the frustrated exchange bondholders who are now dangling the threat of "acceleration" in Argentina's face. After default, Argentina set up a mechanism for exchange bondholders to get paid in Buenos Aires, instead of New York, but it hasn't worked. The country missed an interest payment due at the end of October. The money, $161 million deposited last month, still sits in custody and the government won't talk say whether or not anyone has collected. That is why exchange bondholders have been talking about acceleration — a move that could lead to yet another protracted legal battle with The Republic. "We were asked in very theoretical terms what our thoughts were on acceleration," one bondholder told Reuters. "It was something intermediated by an investment bank. The shop leading the offer did not want to be identified." In August, exchange bondholder hedge fund Owl Creek Asset Management gave a presentation about Argentina, Bloomberg says. In it, the fund detailed how it could use the threat of acceleration to get a better seat at the negotiating table in January. Owl Creek said the bondholders had "the right to accelerate and have their principal immediately payable in full ... This would lead to a seat in settlement negotiations in January, likely resulting in an exchange into new bonds which trade closer to par." For that to happen, Owl Creek would have to get 25% of bondholders holding debt maturing in 2038 to agree to acceleration. Argentina, for its part, has said these exchange bondholders should blame the holdouts for their troubles — and US judge Thomas Griesa, who ruled in the holdouts' favor. So what could actually happen? If no one accelerates, the saga between the holdouts continues into next year. Exchange bondholders have said that they're looking to January to see if Argentina actually negotiates with the holdouts. But, of course, there is the potential that enough bondholders do agree to accelerate. "That's actually a win situation for Argentina," said David Fernandez, a public finance lawyer at Buchanan, Ingersoll &amp; Rooney. "There is a strategy there that could force a settlement." Because Argentina could not pay all the exchange bondholder debt at once, it would have to restructure. This could take negotiations out of the country's hands and place them in the hands of a court and bondholders. That would save face for Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who has said that her hands are tied as long as the holdouts, which she calls "vultures," will not allow her to make any payments to anyone. "Here you're talking about a sovereign nation that definitely has assets, so right now you have a stalemate created by the circumstance," the lawyer Fernandez said. "This gives you the possibility of other bondholders coming in and assuming a position of authority and direction ... Then Argentina can still stand there on the sidelines and wave their hands and say it's unfair but also look they accomplished something without doing anything." Of course, Elliott Management's Singer and the holdouts may not like the terms they get in this type of restructuring. Argentina might not like them either, and another legal battle could ensue — if Argentina has the stomach for it. "It's a very explosive, high-risk type of strategy," said economist Claudio Loser, a founder of the Centennial Group.  "I don't understand what they [the exchange bondholders] are trying to get unless they just want to put fear into the hearts of the Argentines so that they negotiate." Given how Argentina has behaved through this entire drama, it's not crazy to think The Republic may in January continue to resist negotiating with holdouts. It could be that this threat of acceleration is one way exchange bondholders ensure that they do. "It is very scary because what is clear is that the Argentines can't pay that [accelerated debt]," Loser said. "If they accelerate, the Argentines have to call for a restructuring of the whole debt and everyone will end up in a worse position, especially now that Argentina is not doing so well economically." That worsened economic situation means that Argentina is running out of time. It is hard to read the signs out of Buenos Aires, but the president and her administration may have been waiting for a new government to deal with this issue — one that would not take power until December 2015. Now that option is gone. Low commodity prices, capital flight, inflation, and inclement weather have all wreaked havoc on the country's economy, Argentina doesn't have time to waste. Dollar reserves are low, and to continue to pay the debt it is servicing, those reserves could dwindle down to $15 billion by the middle of next year. "The most time they have is through the end of summer vacation in Argentina, which is February," Loser said. Now, it seems, the vultures are truly starting to circle. FREE AppDownload
Walter Hickey/BIMathematics has little surprises that are designed to test and push your mental limits. The following 12 simple math problems prove outstandingly controversial among students of math, but are nonetheless facts. They're paradoxes and idiosyncrasies of probability.  And they're guaranteed to start an argument or two.  If you're looking for a mathematical way to impress your friends and beguile your enemies, here's a good place to start.
 Believe it or not, there's very little known about fluid flows. However, understanding this phenomena is so important that if you can solve the equations that describe what happens when smoke comes off a cigarette or when cream is stirred into a cup of coffee, you can win a million dollars.  The Navier-Stokes equations are among the Clay Mathematics Institute Millennium Prize problems, seven problems judged to be among the most important open questions in mathematics. Solving one of these problems brings with it a million-dollar prize. The Navier-Stokes equations are the equivalent for fluids of Newton's second law of motion. Newton's second law describes how objects change speed when a force is applied to them. Similarly, the Navier-Stokes equations are a set of differential equations that describe how the speed of a fluid's flow will change based on forces coming from within the fluid like pressure and viscosity and on any external forces, like gravity, acting on the fluid. The equations are thus at the heart of describing how fluids work. They are the main mathematical model for air moving over an airplane's wing, water flowing through a pipe, or smoke curling off a fire. Differential equations describe how a quantity changes over time and varies throughout space. There are many natural situations, like the fluid flows modeled by the Navier-Stokes equations, in which it is easy to mathematically describe the rate at which some quantity is changing, but in which a description of the quantity itself is not immediately apparent.  Solving a differential equation means starting with the equation, which describes how the quantity being modeled changes across time and space, and some initial conditions for the state of the system at the beginning of the simulation, and coming up with a formula for the quantity at any time and place. en.wikipedia.orgChaos. Even worse, it is not known whether solutions to the Navier-Stokes equations exist for all possible starting conditions. It may not be possible to come up with initial conditions modeling some starting state of a fluid that, after evolving for some finite period of time following the equations, ends up "blowing up": getting to a state in which at some point in space, the fluid moves faster and faster in such a way that its speed actually becomes infinite. This is the million-dollar problem: either find a method for solving the equations for any set of starting conditions (and thus model exactly any mathematically idealized fluid), or construct some counterexample starting condition in which a fluid's behavior eventually becomes infinitely turbulent. There are both physical and mathematical reasons why solving the Navier-Stokes equations is hard enough to deserve a million dollars. Physically, the problem with fluid flows is that they can behave chaotically and turbulently. This can be seen in smoke coming off a cigarette or a candle — while the smoke may initially rise smoothly and in a straight line, at a certain point it begins to curl in an intricate, complicated, and unpredictable way. Modeling this kind of chaotic behavior is extremely difficult. UCLA mathematician and 2006 Fields Medal winner Terence Tao wrote an article on his blog about the mathematical reasons solving the Navier-Stokes equations is so hard. Solving differential equations similar to Navier-Stokes frequently involves finding some large-scale quantitative property of the system being modeled that can be controlled and used to limit unpredictable behavior within the system. Pixabay via Google Images If the Navier-Stokes equations are going to be solved, then, either some previously unnoticed quantity that can control small-scale chaotic behavior needs to be discovered, or a radically new mathematical approach to solving differential equations needs to be invented. It may be the case that, instead of finding a general way of solving the equations, it would be possible to come up with some set of initial conditions for a fluid that could lead to the system's energy becoming increasingly concentrated into a smaller and smaller space over time, until the equations would indicate that the energy at a particular point would be infinite. This counterexample would show that, at least in some (probably very strange) cases, the equations can't be solved. In a more recent blog post and paper preprint, Tao constructs a set of differential equations that behave like an "averaged" version of Navier-Stokes and devises a clever model of a very abstract "fluid machine," vaguely analogous to electronic computers built out of electronic components. Tao's "machine" is designed to increasingly quickly make smaller and smaller copies of itself, until the time between reproductions is essentially zero, causing the kind of breakdown of the system that, if shown for the actual Navier-Stokes equations, would provide the negative answer to the problem, showing that in some cases the equations are unsolvable. It is worth noting that Tao's system is a complete mathematical abstraction: Any "machine" of this type would have to be made out of a mathematically ideal fluid. Actual physical fluids are made of atoms and molecules, and it would probably not be possible to build such a thing in the real world. However, Tao's result has important implications for the Navier-Stokes problem. His "averaged" version of the equations has many similarities to the actual equations. Most importantly, the "averaged" equations have basically the same large-scale energy constraint as the actual equations. Tao notes that this means that it won't be possible to find a solution to Navier-Stokes just using this large-scale structure and that any solution would need to take advantage of other fine-scale aspects of the equations.       FREE AppDownload
© AFP Patricia de Melo MoreiraThe small industrial town of Sao Joao da Madeira, Portugal's shoe capital which specialises in luxury models, has now made Mandarin compulsory for its 8- and 9-year-oldsLisbon (AFP) - Five hundred years after the Portuguese became the first Europeans to establish sea trade with China, a town in northern Portugal is counting on its youth to secure a new foothold in the Asian giant. The small industrial town of Sao Joao da Madeira, Portugal's shoe capital which specialises in luxury models, has now made Mandarin compulsory for its 8- and 9-year-olds. The aim is to give their youth the competitive tool to help sell its footwear to China. And the government, battling to put six years of debilitating crisis behind, is watching the town's experiment closely to see if it can be replicated throughout the country. "Chinese is the key which will open the doors to the world's biggest market," said Dilma Nantes, Sao Joao da Madeira's city councillor on education. China may be known as the factory of the world, and is indeed the biggest producer of footwear -- making 10 billion pairs a year -- but Portuguese shoe-makers are starting to step into the huge Asian market. Affluent Chinese with a taste for luxury are increasingly fond of handmade Portuguese footwear, which are the world's second most expensive after Italian shoes. As Portugal battles to encourage growth after a prolonged contraction that saw unemployment soar past 17 percent, the industry is key in helping the country export its way out of the slump. Exports of footwear by Portuguese brands to China soared from 10,000 pairs in 2011 to 170,000 pairs in 2013, reaching sales of 5.4 million euros ($6.7 million). If sales of footwear made in Portugal for foreign brands were included as well, 2013 revenues surpass 20 million euros -- although still a fraction of the total shoe exports reaching 1.7 billion euros that year. Google MapsSao Joao da Madeira is a long way from China. Sao Joao da Madeira, a city of only 20,000 inhabitants, wants to get ahead of that curve by training their children from young to speak Mandarin.  And the children appear to enjoy it. "I would like to see the Great Wall," nine-year-old Eduardo said. His classmate Daniela decided: "Chinese is not particularly difficult." "They are young and learning fast," their Chinese teacher Wang said, smiling. The idea is for the children -- who started the classes when they were eight -- to carry on with the language studies until the end of secondary school. In one workshop in the industrial town, the boss of the company, Mario Tavares, is convinced that the move would give the children a clear advantage over their peers in doing business with the Chinese one day. Tavares's firm Tape began selling to China in 2013, starting with just 200 pairs, but he hopes that figure will soar five times to 1,000 in 2014. Yet even that is just a drop in the ocean for the company, which exports a total of 160,000 pairs worldwide every year. "China has the potential to become our main market one day," he said, adding that the young Mandarin speakers would later on be perfect for "sales jobs or managerial posts at factories". FREE AppDownload
 Venture capitalist Peter Boyce II weighed in on whether to get an MBA in the second part of his interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade. Boyce has founded businesses without the prestigious degree. In high school, he created his first company fixing computers after helping his mom with hers. In college, he cofounded two groups that helped bring young entrepreneurs together. And today he's an early-stage investor in student startups through Rough Draft Ventures, a company he cofounded. So what does he think about investing in an MBA? "I almost feel like I'm getting my MBA on the go right now in a lot of ways. A lot of the programs are fantastically powerful, especially for helping folks understand "how do you take a company from 50 to 100 people internationally?" So that management skill is not easy to necessarily do if you've never run a company that size before. So I think it's an interesting compliment or supplement for someone that operates a company. I think for myself, being in venture [capital], you get to see early stage entrepreneurs go through those different phases and go through those different steps, and so I almost feel like I've gotten kind of a taste of it."  Watch the full interview above and subscribe to the Open Door series to receive upcoming interviews. FREE AppDownload
Michael McDonough/BloombergTexas is massive. If the Lone Star State were its own country, it would have the 13th highest GDP in the world.  Over the last 20 years, Texas has become an increasingly important part of the US economy. In 1995, it made up around 6.5% of the total US GDP, and by 2014 it was over 9% (See chart). A huge part of that growth has been attributed to Texas' bustling energy businesses. That's why the latest dropping oil prices have rattled a few nerves. Although lower gas prices are great for the average US consumer, they could mean trouble for Texas' economy. And consequently, for the larger US economy as well. With Texas in focus, let's take a quick look at what makes this major economy tick. FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin has awarded a posthumous Order of Honour to Christophe de Margerie, chief executive of France's Total oil company, killed when a business jet collided with a snow plough during takeoff at Moscow airport in October. The order was granted for de Margerie's "major contribution to Russian-French economic and cultural relations", the Kremlin said in a statement on Saturday. De Margerie was a strong opponent of Western economic sanctions against Russia over its actions in Ukraine, while his good relationship with political leaders was considered one of the main strengths of the charismatic and outspoken manager. Putin had a close working relationship with de Margerie, his spokesman said sending the president's condolences on Oct. 21. After the tragedy, Total, the world's fourth largest oil company, appointed refining boss Patrick Pouyanne as the new chief executive.   (Reporting by Polina Devitt; Editing by Elizabeth Piper and Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday he was committed to bring back funds illegally deposited in banks outside the country to avoid tax, widely referred to as "black money". In his second radio address to the nation since coming to power in May, Modi said the money stashed abroad illegally belonged to the poor of the country. "The issue is an article of faith for me," Modi said in his speech that was aired live by various public and private radio channels. Illegal deposits abroad cost India billions of dollars in lost revenue and Modi had earlier promised his government would change laws or enact new measures to bring back such funds. On taking office, he appointed a panel to investigate the matter. Modi said he did not know how much black money was deposited in banks overseas, but Washington-based think-tank Global Financial Integrity has estimated that India suffered $344 billion in illicit fund outflows between 2002 and 2011. The government has already submitted a list of people with illegal foreign bank accounts to the Supreme Court of India, which is monitoring the case. "From what I am understanding and based on the information I have, I am telling you that we are in the right direction," he said in his address, which lasted for about 20 minutes. Modi said he would take up the case of drug addiction in his next address.   (Reporting by Krishna N. Das and Nidhi Verma; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - When Prime Minister Shinzo Abe raised Japan's sales tax from April, he was betting he could break a jinx that has doomed leaders who raised the levy to losing their jobs. Now, wounded by cabinet scandals and growing doubts about his radical "Abenomics" prescription to revive an economy scarred by years of deflation, Abe must decide whether to roll the dice again. A shock move by the Bank of Japan on Friday to expand its massive asset-buying stimulus program - in the hope it will stoke inflation - could boost the chances of a rise in the unpopular levy from October, especially if followed by promises of added fiscal stimulus to help offset the pain. But concerns that his popularity has peaked and worries about the election calendar are certain to weigh as heavily as economic data when Abe decides in coming weeks whether to press ahead with a planned rise to 10 percent. "The government is indicating it is focusing on the economy ... but the truth is that after all, Abe will weigh political loss and gain in making a final decision," said Hiroshi Watanabe, a senior economist at SMBC Nikko Securities. Raising the sales tax requires a strong nerve and reserves of political capital - the issue has been regarded as the "third rail" of Japanese politics ever since it was first promoted in 1979, and a previous increase in 1997 was blamed by many for killing an incipient recovery. So for proponents of the hike, who argue it is vital to curb Japan's huge public debt and fear delay would trigger a sell-off in government bonds and a spike in long-term interest rates, the timing for a decision is hardly auspicious. For 20 months after taking power with pledges to reboot Japan's economy with a mix of hyper-easy monetary policy, spending and reform, Abe's team was mostly unscathed by the scandals that dogged his first, troubled term from 2006 to 2007. But since a September cabinet reshuffle meant to boost his ratings, two ministers have quit over funding-related misdeeds, others face scrutiny and talk persists about fresh disclosures. To be sure, the scandals themselves have not sent Abe's ratings plunging. Support remains around 50 percent, although some polls showed it falling to slightly below that for the first time since July, when Abe's cabinet took the controversial step of easing constitutional constraints on the military. But the scandals coincide with growing concerns about Japan's long-sought economic recovery after the 3-point rise in the sales tax to 8 percent in April pushed the economy into its deepest quarterly slump since the 2009 global financial crisis. "I don't think the scandals are doing all that much damage," said a ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker who declined to be identified so he could speak freely. "The problem is the economy." Abe has already faced pressure from some aides, including architects of Abenomics, to delay the tax rise. Implicitly admitting that not all was going according to plan, the BOJ said on Friday it would accelerate its purchases of Japanese government bonds, even as the government signaled a willingness to boost fiscal spending if needed and the government pension fund announced it would buy more shares. The moves pushed Tokyo share prices, closely watched by Abe as a barometer of economic sentiment, up more than 5 percent. But how much the actions will impress voters, especially those in regions feeling neglected by Abenomics, is unclear. Despite the scandals and economic doubts, there is little talk that Abe's grip on his own job is in immediate danger. The LDP trounced the main opposition Democratic Party of Japan in the 2012 election, and the opposition has been in disarray since. Strong rivals are scarce inside Abe's own party. "As the economy slows, hopes for Abe are declining but there is little sense among the public that Abe should be dumped because there is no viable alternative either inside or outside the LDP," said veteran political analyst Minoru Morita. But much of Abe's voter support rests on hopes he can lead the world's third-biggest economy back to sustainable growth, so signs that isn't happening are likely to erode his ratings. "Abenomics is nearing its 'sell-by' date," said LDP lawmaker Seiichiro Murakami, a rare outspoken critic of Abe's policies in the party. "People are watching carefully and gradually coming to realize that Abenomics was nothing." Public support could prove less robust than it looks at first glance. A recent Nikkei newspaper poll put support for the LDP at 37 percent, far outstripping that for the Democrats at 6 percent - but 45 percent supported no particular party at all. In addition, many voters oppose not only a second sales tax hike but other key policies, such as restarts of atomic reactors that went offline after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. "People are waiting for Abenomics to work .. but at some point, the fact that there are discrepancies between (support for) major policies and government approval ratings will catch up," said Tobias Harris at risk consultancy Teneo Intelligence. Complicating the situation are local elections later this year and nationwide next spring that will serve as gauge of public opinion ahead of a LDP leadership poll next September that Abe must win to secure another three-year term. Fears that his popularity has peaked could, some Japanese media have said, encourage Abe to combine a postponement of the sales tax rise with a snap election late this year or early next, although no lower house poll need be held until late 2016. Abe is expected to wait for final data on third quarter gross domestic product, due out on Dec. 8, before deciding on the tax rise, but preliminary data will be released in mid-November. Several experts dismissed the early election scenario, but some political insiders said it couldn't be ruled out. "I think there could be an election in the near future," the LDP lawmaker said. "Abe could decide to postpone the sales tax hike after looking at data due out Nov. 17 and call an election, saying he is putting the economy first."   (Writing by Linda Sieg; Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
Billionaire Mark Cuban, who slammed IBM last week, clearly isn't paying close-enough attention. Cuban said that "IBM is no longer a tech company ... they have no vision."  But IBM CEO Ginni Rometty does have a vision – to dominate the next high-profit areas of computing – and she's already launched a huge number of creative ideas to get IBM there. For instance, this week alone she signed two big cloud computing deals. On Friday, IBM announced an agreement with huge Chinese internet provider Tencent to build a new cloud for Chinese businesses. Tencent provides Internet to 1 billion users. The companies are going to build a bunch of new apps hosted on that new cloud. IBM already has multiple cloud data centers in China. Rometty could have tried to go it alone to write apps and attract Chinese businesses. But by partnering with a big, local name, she greatly increased the company's chances to be a player in the world's fastest growing economy. IBM also signed a huge partnership deal with Twitter on Wednesday. Rometty worked directly with Twitter CEO Dick Costolo to make it happen, she said. IBM and Twitter will write new business apps, hosted on IBM's cloud, that make better use of Twitter data. These apps are not just about watching for mentions in a tweet or measuring sentiment. They will use tweets to analyze information in real time, so companies can make faster, better business decisions. Imagine an app for a pharma company that uses Twitter to track the flu, so it knows when to up production of antiviral medication, for instance. IBM will also train 10,000 consultants to write custom twitter-analysis apps for companies. The Twitter deal follows IBM's landmark deal with Apple to sell more iPads and iOS phones to enterprises by writing more custom mobile apps for them. The fruits of that will begin next month, with the first dozen apps available this quarter, being tested by the first 50 customers. IBM Those deals follow a whole bunch of other interesting, creative announcements under Rometty's reign. Since January IBM has: ... committed $1 billion to turn its mind-blowing natural language analytics engine Watson into a cloud service. Watson powers everything from new cancer treatments to a personalized shopper app (you can ask Watson if you should buy that shirt). ... launched a new cloud service called Bluemix, which lets developers write and host apps in the cloud. This competes with services from Microsoft, Google, Salesforce.com, and includes access to Watson. ... expanded its partnership with SAP where SAP will offer its software via IBM's cloud internationally, a major win over competitor Amazon. ... launched a new family of hardware with the new Power 8 chip. These systems are geared toward the cloud and can quickly crunch through massive amounts of data. IBM is also giving away the Power 8 designs as a free and open source project, so any company can take them, change them. (We'll see if any of this helps Power 8 become popular, but it is a creative approach.) ... spending $3 billion to invent new kinds of microchips, possibly ones that don't use silicon. These announcements are in addition to the typical things you'd expect Rometty to do: spending more than $1 billion to build more data centers globally, launching software to help companies build clouds in their own data centers, supporting  cloud apps for the Internet of Things. IBM There's no doubt that IBM is at a crossroads right now. IBM's revenues have shrunk 10 quarters in a row as companies shift from buying expensive hardware, software and consulting to renting it all, at lower costs, from service providers (AKA cloud computing). Earlier this month Rometty had to admit that IBM's years-long promise to create $20 earnings per share profit by 2015 was not going to happen. The stock had been riding high on her repeated promise that IBM was on target to meet this goal.  It's since crashed about 10% to about $164. Steve Jennings/Getty ImagesRometty and the board had been twisting IBM into pretzels over that promise, borrowing billions of dollars to buy back shares, laying off thousands of workers and ditching underperforming business units to trim expenses. IBM even signed an unusual deal to shed its microchip business to GlobalFoundries, paying GlobalFoundaries $1.5 billion to take over the money-losing unit. But with declining revenues, IBM had to admit it wouldn't meet that goal. It hasn't, however, completely given up those tactics. The board this week said it will add another $5 billion to the share buyback program. That's in addition to the $1.4 billion it still has in the kitty to buy back shares. IBM has already spent $13.5 billion to repurchase stock in the first nine months of the year (more than double its net income), Reuters reports. Since 2000, IBM has spent $108 billion buying back shares. And that's why Cuban told CNBC last week  that IBM has no vision. "What they've evolved into is a company that does [arbitrage] on acquisitions. It's stock buybacks. Who is IBM anymore?" The jury is still out as to if and when Rometty's efforts will turn the tide. But she's definitely working all the angles. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe entrance of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena bank headquarters is seen in downtown SienaBy Pamela Barbaglia LONDON (Reuters) - Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the oldest surviving bank in the world, is working on a rights issue to fill at least half of a 2.1 billion euro ($2.6 billion) capital gap uncovered by a European review of banks, a source with direct knowledge of the matter said. Italy's third-largest bank has hired UBS and Citigroup to assess strategic options after it failed European Central Bank (ECB) check tests designed to test the solidity of the financial system. The options for the historic Tuscan lender, which raised 5 billion euros as recently as June to strengthen its balance sheet and help pay back state aid, are expected to include further asset sales and a merger. The source told Reuters the plan, which has to be presented to the ECB by Nov. 10, would include a "substantial" capital increase of at least 1 billion euros but did not give a precise figure because no decision had yet been taken. Banks that had underwritten June's capital increase remained interested in backing the new cash call, the source said, adding the advisors were also sounding out potential new investors. The plan also includes an "M&amp;A event" which was more difficult and there were various options on the table, the source, adding talks with UBI Banca and other merger candidates were under way. Combining Monte Paschi with a top Italian bank such as Intesa Sanpaolo might lead to heavy job cuts which is why a regional bank is seen as a preferred option, he added. Monte Paschi was not immediately available to comment on Sunday. Chairman Alessandro Profumo told Reuters on Tuesday week the lender could ultimately become part of a larger entity though he said there had been no talks with any potential buyers. He also said the bank might seek to delay repaying hundreds of millions of euros in state aid to help shore up its balance sheet. Monte dei Paschi shares have dropped some 40 percent since the result of the ECB stress tests were announced one week ago,  meaning the bank is currently worth less than half its value in early June when it raised 5 billion euros in new capital. ($1 = 0.7985 euro)  (Writing by Danilo Masoni; Editing by Silvia Aloisi and Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Data from both sides of the Atlantic will give clues in the coming week on just how bad the euro zone economy is and just how sustainable is its U.S. counterpart. Europe offers a rate meeting from the European Central Bank and a new slate of economic forecasts; the United States will release its influential monthly jobs data. Purchasing manager indexes for the past month will also show how businesses see things shaping up in the United States and Europe. One for China's has already come in lower than expected. For many, the ECB meeting on Thursday will be the main money event – despite the fact that it is not likely to be one of action or suspense. As usual, the attention will be on ECB President Mario Draghi’s nuances at the news conference that follows the likely non-move on rates. When it comes to the ECB, the news is often all about the journey rather than the destination. This week’s inflation data let the ECB off the hook on taking any immediate additional action to combat the threat of deflation. At 0.4 percent in October, inflation is worryingly slight, but it is higher than it was a month earlier. ECB policymakers are also in no rush to move on to something new when they have not yet seen how their targeted loans and purchases of asset-backed securities are doing. Many in financial markets would like to see the ECB move to a full quantitative easing (QE) asset-buying program like the one the U.S. Federal Reserve has just closed. But as these words from ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny suggest, it is not likely. "I don't think we should be pushed by the markets to produce a new program at every meeting we have." The bank will also be looking at the U.S. Federal Reserve's ending of QE and relatively hawkish tone for some spillover succour. The euro is down more than 1.5 percent against the dollar since the Fed meeting on Wednesday, and down more than 10 percent since May. A weaker euro not only boosts euro zone exports, it imports inflation, both of which the ECB wants to see. The nuance being sought on Thursday, however, will be whether there is any momentum towards full QE and how German opposition could be overcome. The ECB has been throwing money in various ways at the euro zone economy for a long time but dynamic growth has proved as elusive as quicksilver. This is expected to be underlined by the purchasing manager indexes. The euro zone’s manufacturing is sitting just a tad above stagnation. Data has been very lackluster. "October’s ... business and consumer survey suggests that the euro-zone economy got off to a weak start in Q4, after broadly stagnating in Q3," Capital Economics said in a note. Mid-week, the European Commission will give its latest economic forecasts and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development will issue its on the G20 economies ahead of a meeting of the group.   GETTING BETTER? Outside the euro zone, the Bank of England also looks to keep interest rates on hold at record low levels on Thursday. Three of its most senior officials have expressed staunch opposition to hiking rates over the last two weeks. Until a few weeks ago, a small but significant minority of economists expected the BoE would raise interest rates from 0.5 percent in November. Now they are unanimous in expecting no change this month, according to a Reuters poll. This is partly because the British recovery, while strong compared with elsewhere, is still tentative and is unlikely to be sustainable if Britain's main trading partners decline. The United States is one of those partners, but it seems to be relatively robust. U.S. employers are expected to have expanded their payrolls by a healthy 233,000 in October, according to a Reuters poll. That figure, if confirmed on Friday, would validate the Federal Reserve's conclusion that the job market continues to make strides toward full health.   (Additional reporting by Andy Bruce; Editing by Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A handful of toss-up U.S. Senate races next week could hold the key to whether the stock market glides through the year-end in a typical post-midterm election rally or gets hit with a fresh bout of volatility. U.S. investors appear less concerned with whether Republicans take control of the Senate, as expected, or Democrats hang on to their majority by a slim margin. They just want to know - come Wednesday morning - the actual outcome. "If we have a really uncertain situation, where the Senate is divided and candidates are threatening recounts, that's really not good," said Robbert van Batenburg, director of market strategy at Newedge USA LLC in New York. In two southern matchups - Louisiana and Georgia - polls show the races are too tight to call, raising the potential for run-off elections that could delay for weeks knowing who will control Congress' upper chamber. Louisiana's run-off election is scheduled for Dec. 6. In the market's worst-case scenario, the majority party may not be known until after Jan. 6, when Georgia will hold its run-off election if no Senate candidate wins at least 50 percent of the vote on Nov. 4. Such an outcome, while considered unlikely, nevertheless rekindles uncomfortable memories for some of the 2000 presidential election, when George W. Bush's victory over Al Gore was not confirmed for more than a month after Election Day. That uncertainty contributed to a spike of almost 11.2 percent in the CBOE Volatility index &lt;.VIX&gt; and a 7.6 percent drop in the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; from Election Day through the Electoral College vote in late December that certified the outcome. "While the reaction wouldn't be that dramatic this time, any form of risk could really jolt equities, especially since the Federal Reserve is no longer in the market," van Batenburg said, referring to the U.S. central bank's decision last week to end its massive bond-buying program, a stimulus measure which has been credited with boosting equities. U.S. stocks have roared back in the past two weeks after an early October scare fest. The S&amp;P is up more than 8 percent since its recent closing low on Oct. 15 and the VIX has tumbled some 45 percent. A clear outcome on Tuesday, then, could set the market up for additional upside into the end of the year. Historically, midterm elections correspond with market strength. Barclays noted that since 1928, the S&amp;P 500 has posted a median return of 7 percent in the 90 days after a midterm, with returns positive 86 percent of the time. Upside in mid-term election years has historically favored small-caps. Since 1990, the Russell 2000 &lt;.TOY&gt; has risen an average of 4.89 percent between Election Day and the end of the year, compared with a rise of 3.22 percent in the S&amp;P over the same period and a rise of 2.28 percent in the Dow. Those gains are close to the averages for all years, with the Russell 2000 rising 4.6 percent in the last two months of the year and the S&amp;P up 3.2 percent in the last two months, according to the Stock Trader's Almanac. Barclays Capital estimates a 64 to 90 percent chance that Republicans would win the Senate. With neither party likely to achieve a large enough majority to overturn vetoes or prevent filibusters, however, the actual party in power may not matter much on Wall Street. A "new composition is unlikely to enact changes in the near term that will alter the direction of the equity market," Barclays wrote. "If the election results are a surprise and Democrats keep control of the Senate, we believe the market reaction would still be muted." There could be outsized moves in the energy and medical device sectors, two groups with ties to Republican-driven legislation. The GOP is generally opposed to the Affordable Care Act's imposition of a tax on medical device companies to fund the healthcare program, and the party is widely in support of the Keystone Pipeline project, which would connect Canadian oil sands with U.S. refineries. "If the majority party of the Senate is in doubt, that would cause a lot of volatility for medical device names like Stryker &lt;syk.n&gt; and Medtronic &lt;mdt.n&gt;, most likely with a downward bias," said Michael Mullaney, chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust Co in Boston.   (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / mediacutts Productions(Reuters) - J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co learned about hackers who stole the bank's contact information for 76 million households and 7 million small businesses through a corporate event that it sponsors, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. According to the report, the bank discovered that the intruders had used some of the same offshore servers to hack both the bank and the website of the J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge. It was not clear when the bank might have discovered the problem had the hackers not used the same I.P. addresses to launch cyberattacks on both the bank and the Corporate Challenge race websites, WSJ reported, citing people briefed on the matter. The Corporate Challenge website, operated by Simmco Data Systems, was later taken offline after the hacking of the site was discovered, WSJ reported. According to the report, the website has been restored by the bank ahead of upcoming races in Shanghai and Singapore, but has moved the payments to a Chase website. Officials at J.P. Morgan Chase were not available for comment. The hackers had originally gained access to the bank's network by compromising the computer an employee with special privileges used both at work and at home and then moved across the bank's network to access contact data, the paper reported. Earlier this month, Reuters had reported that two U.S. states were investigating the theft of customer records in a massive cyberattack uncovered over the summer.   (Reporting by Anjali Rao Koppala in Bangalore; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
HOUSTON (Reuters) - Top U.S. oil producers, which already were reining in spending before crude prices started to slip in June, are now looking to trim more fat from their budgets while reminding investors they must spend to grow. Exxon Mobil Corp on Friday it would keep its current spending plan intact, though it is about 15 percent less than 2013. ConocoPhillips &lt;cop.n&gt; said it will spend less money next year, and Chevron Corp said it is looking for budget "flexibility." Crude oil prices have slumped 25 percent since June as global supplies grow and demand weakens. Exxon, which sets budgets using a long-term horizon, still expects to spend a little bit less than $37 billion a year from 2015 to 2017, an executive told investors on Friday on a conference call. "We always are mindful of what's happening in the near future but I keep on pulling back that we are a long-term investor," said Jeff Woodbury, Exxon's head of investor relations. Exxon tests projects "across the full range of economic parameters including price" to ensure favorable returns, he said. The Irving, Texas company saw capital spending peak at $42.5 billion last year when it was advancing projects to deliver future production growth. Exxon has spent $28 billion so far this year, down 14 percent versus the first nine months of 2013. ConocoPhillips, the largest independent oil and gas company, said on Thursday it plans to spend less than $16 billion next year, below the $16.7 billion it expects to spend in 2014. "(Capital spending) is going to be lower because of the commodity price environment," Jeff Sheets, ConocoPhillip's chief financial officer said in an interview with Reuters. "We have the flexibility in our capital program to reduce it without giving up any opportunities." ConocoPhillips has room to slow spending on some exploration projects as well on some of its less developed projects in the Permian Basin, Western Canada and the Niobrara in Colorado, said Sheets. Even with a 2015 smaller budget, ConocoPhillips still expects to grow its oil and gas output 3 percent to 5 percent. The company's capital spending plan is due in December. Chevron Corp, the second-largest oil producer behind Exxon, said Friday it was looking closely at discretionary versus nondiscretionary spending. "Obviously we are having to have some top discussions around what do we think the price outlook is going to be, what do we think the cost structure is going to be," said Pat Yarrington, Chevron's CFO. But she reminded investors that "we take a long-term view of prices because our investments last for decades." So far this year, Chevron has spent $25.7 billion. Last fall it forecast capital expenditures of $39.8 billion for this year. Exxon and Chevron shares rose more than 1 percent on Friday after they reported third-quarter earnings that topped expectations thanks to higher refining profits.  (Additional reporting by Ernest Scheyder in Williston, North Dakota; Editing by Terry Wade) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Daniel RolandThe European Central Bank is likely to hold fire on new policy moves Thursday and leave a series of radical recent measures to take their course, despite pressure over a weak economic recovery, analysts sayFrankfurt (AFP) - The European Central Bank is likely to hold fire on new policy moves Thursday and leave a series of radical recent measures to take their course, despite pressure over a weak economic recovery, analysts say. Unlike moves by the US Federal Reserve to end its stimulus spree and a surprise monetary easing plan by the Bank of Japan, ECB policymakers are expected to sit tight at their monthly meeting. The week looks set to be particularly busy for the ECB, which on Tuesday takes on its role as Europe's banking watchdog in a historic shake-up to help ward off another financial crisis. Howard Archer, of IHS Global Insight, said no new ECB decisions were likely for the time being, adding that "the bank will very probably remain in 'wait and see' mode into the New Year". Interest rates are currently at their all-time lows anyway -- 0.05 percent for its main "refinancing" rate -- and a rate hike seems unlikely at a time when the ECB is seeking to boost inflation from its stubborn lows. Inflation in the 18-nation eurozone edged up to 0.4 percent in October, official data showed Friday, far below the 2.0 percent target set by the Frankfurt-based ECB, which has a core mission of ensuring price stability. "If survey-based inflation expectations fall further, the pressure for additional ECB monetary easing will increase," Commerzbank's chief economist Joerg Kraemer said, however. Current low inflation levels have stoked fears of deflation -- when prices actually fall -- which, if it takes hold, can trigger a vicious spiral where businesses and households delay purchases, throttling demand and causing companies to lay off workers. Nevertheless, Carsten Brzeski, of ING-DiBa, said the latest "better-than-feared" economic eurozone data was one of several factors likely to allow the ECB to "to wait, at least until the December meeting before possibly deciding on new action". In addition to cutting interest rates, deflationary fears have prompted the ECB to pull out other tools, such as a series of liquidity programmes to inject cash into the economy. After its TLTRO, or targeted long-term refinancing operations scheme, to make cheap liquidity available to banks on condition they lend it on to companies, and a programme to buy covered bonds, its latest move to kickstart credit in the euro area begins this month. The ECB is launching purchases of asset-backed securities (ABS), or bundles of individual loans such as mortgages, car loans and credit-card debt sold on to investors, to allow banks to share the risk of default and free up funds to offer more lending. But the central bank's target of boosting the size of its balance sheet by one trillion euros ($1.25 trillion) has made little headway through the first TLTRO or the initial covered bonds purchases. Analysts have suggested that some banks may have preferred to hold off until after the results of the ECB's most stringent-ever audit were published. Last week, that audit awarded a clean bill of health to a large majority of eurozone banks. Investors will be watchful Thursday for any comments by ECB president Mario Draghi on the possible purchase of corporate bonds following speculation this could be on the horizon. But Jennifer McKeown, of Capital Economics, said government bond purchases -- along the lines of the US Federal Reserve's programme -- may well "ultimately be needed to ensure an expansion of the bank's balance sheet large enough to exert meaningful upward pressure on inflation". However some ECB board members are vehemently opposed, especially Germany's Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann.     FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Dale de la ReyA view of Hong Kong, taken from the Peak on August 6, 2014Hong Kong (AFP) - Hong Kong police were Sunday questioning a 29-year-old British man who works for Bank of America Merrill Lynch after the grisly discovery of two female corpses, including one in a suitcase, in his upmarket apartment. The women were found dead on the 31st floor of the residential block in the popular expatriate district of Wanchai in the early hours of Saturday morning -- when many revellers were out celebrating Halloween.  Police were called to the scene where they found a naked woman with knife wounds to her neck and buttock in the living room. The other woman was decaying inside a suitcase on the balcony. Police said that a man remained in custody but had not been charged. He works for Bank of America Merrill Lynch as a securities trader, a source familiar with the matter told AFP.  The woman found in the living room, described by police as a foreigner aged between 25 and 30, was declared dead at the scene, with the cause thought to be a cut to her throat. The victims are believed by police to be sex workers of Southeast Asian origin, local reports said.  One of the victims was thought to be a 25-year-old Indonesian, the government in Jakarta said, adding that its consulate in Hong Kong was coordinating with the police to identify her. A resident described the smell that had been emanating from the building as "disgusting". "It was the smell of a dead body. Maybe the police were moving it," the man, who lived on the 11th floor and refused to give his name, told AFP on Sunday.  Police said the man they were questioning lives in the apartment, and that it was he himself who had called officers to the scene. Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that a British national had been arrested in the southern Chinese city. "We are in touch with the local police and stand ready to provide consular assistance," it said. Briefing reporters late Saturday, police assistant district commander Wan Siu-hung said: "There was a female that was unconscious, with knife injuries and was naked."  Police then discovered the body of the second woman on the apartment's balcony, he said. "From what we can see it was intentionally hidden because it was put in a travel suitcase," the officer said, adding that maggots were found in the corpse.  "This body belonged to a person who has passed away for quite some time." Hong Kong, a city of seven million, has low crime rates and only 14 cases of homicide were reported in the first half of the year.  But in recent years the public was gripped by a lurid case dubbed the "Milkshake Murder" in which American housewife Nancy Kissel killed her banker husband. Kissel, now serving a life sentence, was convicted of drugging her husband -- a senior executive at Merrill Lynch -- with a sedative-laced strawberry drink before clubbing him to death with a lead ornament at their luxury home in 2003. FREE AppDownload
