 The historic drop in crude-oil prices is poised to give a clear boost to President Barack Obama both in the US and abroad. "Even President Barack Obama likely would agree that 2014 has been a tough year for him—and he doubtless would welcome a sign that he will catch a break or two in 2015," Gerald Seib, the Washington bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, wrote on Monday. "Well, here’s one: Low oil prices ... are shaping up as a win-win for the president." Earlier on Monday, the price of both Brent and WTI crude hit a five-year low. Prices have fallen more than 30% since peaking in June, and the decline has accelerated since OPEC declined to cut production at its November meeting. Declining global demand and rising US production have led to a glut in supply this year. Seib argued this price drop has both domestic and international benefits for the Obama administration. High gasoline prices, which result from high oil prices, are widely detested among American consumers. And many of the countries hurt by low oil prices could be on a who's-who list of US geopolitical foes. "It's hard to imagine a single development that carries so many upsides and so few downsides. The domestic economic benefits are obvious," Seib wrote. "It just happens that the countries hurt most by the oil-price decline are on the current U.S. naughty list, from Iran and Syria to Russia and Venezuela. Meanwhile, many obvious economic and strategic beneficiaries—Jordan, Egypt, Israel and Japan among them—are on the nice list." A senior administration official told the Journal the impact would be "very profound" in Russia, an oil exporter that has repeatedly clashed with the US over its recent annexation of Ukrainian territory. "They may be heading into a recession," the official remarked, suggesting the Russian government may need to curtail its financial support for Ukrainian separatists. "There are going to have to be tradeoffs." Seib said Obama would also see benefits in the Middle East, where the White House is hoping to negotiate a deal with Iran to rein in its nuclear program in exchange for ending economic sanctions. The jihadists of the Islamic State, or ISIS, also use oil sales to partially self-fund their military in Iraq and Syria. "Iran’s predicament is similar and, from the American point of view, particularly well timed," Seib wrote. "The Obama administration has perhaps three months to pressure Iran into a long-term deal restricting its nuclear program. Only economic pressure has brought such a deal into view, and the pinch on Iranian oil revenues now will escalate the pressure at precisely the right time."    FREE AppDownload
 Remember when OPEC was a cartel that attempted to stabilize oil prices by manipulating its production? No longer. Saudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum Ali Al-Naimi made a surprising statement at a UN climate-change meeting in Lima, Peru. "Why should I cut production? You know what a market does for any commodity. It goes up and down and up and down,” Al-Naimi said, according to Bloomberg. This is interesting, as Al-Naimi is ostensibly the most powerful man in the cartel that has been manipulating the global oil market since 1960. The whole point of OPEC is to use collective action, through tightly controlling the world's oil supply, to counteract the market forces that Al-Naimi is now saying should be allowed to move freely. This comment came on the same day that OPEC lowered its demand expectations for next year to 28.9 million barrels a day, a cut of about 300,000 barrels. It's the lowest the forecast has been since 2002. OPEC gave two reasons: The first is increased production around the world (mostly coming from shale production in North America). The second is reduced demand. As technology is improving for oil extraction, it's doing the same for energy efficiency. In November, OPEC decided not to cut production despite these market forces, to the detriment of the economies of many of its poorer member countries like Venezuela, Ecuador, and Nigeria. The price of oil has been falling since June, when it was roughly $105 per barrel, with particularly steep drops in October and November. No one is sure exactly why the price slid so rapidly, but it's now down to around $60 per barrel and doesn't show any signs of recovering.  The price of oil hit new relative lows this morning. Here's the chart for WTI crude: Finviz This new stance by Al-Naimi is likely a political tactic. Saudi Arabia wants the price of oil to go low enough that American producers in the newly drilled shale basins aren't making any money. Then they might stop flooding the market, giving Saudi Arabia back its position as the world oil leader. Saudi Arabia's tactics are working, too. The US Energy Information Administration (EIA) recently reduced its forecast for production growth in 2015 by 100,000 barrels a day.     FREE AppDownload
I live in Houston, which has been a huge economic beneficiary of the sustained increases in oil prices, drilling, refining and related processes. As such, the amount of wealth created in energy-related investments has been enormous and, not surprisingly, a vast majority of individuals have overweighted portfolios in energy with the expectations that"oil prices can only go up."  Of course, this sentiment is certainly understandable when you look at the performance of the energy sector versus the S&amp;P 500 since the turn of the century. (Annualized return, capital appreciation only: S&amp;P 500 3.24% vs Energy 17.71%) StreetTalk LIVE Strongly rising asset prices, and in this case commodity prices, have driven investor exuberance in the sector leading many to ignore deteriorating fundamentals, excessive leverage, and other financial diseases. However, when prices deteriorate rapidly, investment mistakes are quickly revealed. It is important to remember that we are not investors. We are speculators placing bets on the direction of the price of an electronic share. More importantly, we are speculating, more commonly known as gambling, with our "savings." We are told by Wall Street that we "must" invest into the financial markets to keep those hard-earned savings adjusted for inflation over time. Unfortunately, due to repeated investment mistakes, the average individual has failed in achieving this goal. With this in mind, this is an excellent time to review 10 legendary investment lessons from legendary investors. These time-tested rules about "risk" are what have repeatedly separated successful investors from everyone else. (Quote Source: 25iQ) 1) Jeffrey Gundlach, DoubleLine "The trick is to take risks and be paid for taking those risks, but to take a diversified basket of risks in a portfolio." This is a common theme that you will see throughout this post. Great investors focus on "risk management" because "risk" is not a function of how much money you will make, but how much you will lose when you are wrong. In investing, or gambling, you can only play as long as you have capital. If you lose too much capital but taking on excessive risk, you can no longer play the game. Be greedy when others are fearful and fearful when others are greedy. One of the best times to invest is when uncertainty is the greatest and fear is the highest. 2) Ray Dalio, Bridgewater Associates "The biggest mistake investors make is to believe that what happened in the recent past is likely to persist. They assume that something that was a good investment in the recent past is still a good investment. Typically, high past returns simply imply that an asset has become more expensive and is a poorer, not better, investment.” Nothing good or bad goes on forever. The mistake that investors repeatedly make is thinking "this time is different." The reality is that despite Central Bank interventions, or other artificial inputs, business and economic cycles cannot be repealed. Ultimately, what goes up, must and will come down. Wall Street wants you to be fully invested "all the time" because that is how they generate fees. However, as an investor, it is crucially important to remember that "price is what you pay and value is what you get." Eventually, great companies will trade at an attractive price. Until then, wait.  3) Seth Klarman, Baupost “Most investors are primarily oriented toward return, how much they can make and pay little attention to risk, how much they can lose.”  Investor behavior, driven by cognitive biases, is the biggest risk in investing. "Greed and fear" dominate the investment cycle of investors which leads ultimately to "buying high and selling low." StreetTalk LIVE “You don’t get rewarded for taking risk; you get rewarded for buying cheap assets. And if the assets you bought got pushed up in price simply because they were risky, then you are not going to be rewarded for taking a risk; you are going to be punished for it.”  Successful investors avoid "risk" at all costs, even it means underperforming in the short-term. The reason is that while the media and Wall Street have you focused on chasing market returns in the short-term, ultimately the excess "risk" built into your portfolio will lead to extremely poor long-term returns. Like Wyle E. Coyote, chasing financial markets higher will eventually lead you over the edge of the cliff.   5) Jesse Livermore, Speculator “The speculator’s deadly enemies are: ignorance, greed, fear and hope. All the statute books in the world and all the rule books on all the Exchanges of the earth cannot eliminate these from the human animal….” Allowing emotions to rule your investment strategy is, and always has been, a recipe for disaster. All great investors follow a strict diet of discipline, strategy, and risk management. 6) Howard Marks, Oaktree Capital Management “Rule No. 1:  Most things will prove to be cyclical. – Rule No. 2:  Some of the greatest opportunities for gain and loss come when other people forget Rule No. 1.” As with Ray Dalio, the realization that nothing lasts forever is critically important to long term investing. In order to "buy low," one must have first "sold high." Understanding that all things are cyclical suggests that after long price increases, investments become more prone to declines than further advances.  7) James Montier, GMO "There is a simple, although not easy alternative [to forecasting]... Buy when an asset is cheap, and sell when an asset gets expensive.... Valuation is the primary determinant of long-term returns, and the closest thing we have to a law of gravity in finance." "Cheap" is when an asset is selling for less than its intrinsic value. "Cheap" is not a low price per share. Most of the time when a stock has a very low price, it is priced there for a reason. However, a very high priced stock CAN be cheap. Price per share is only part of the valuation determination, not the measure of value itself. 8) George Soros, Soros Capital Management “It’s not whether you’re right or wrong that’s important, but how much money you make when you’re right and how much you lose when you’re wrong.” Back to risk management, being right and making money is great when markets are rising. However, rising markets tend to mask investment risk that is quickly revealed during market declines. If you fail to manage the risk in your portfolio, and give up all of your previous gains and then some, then you lose the investment game. 9) Jason Zweig, Wall Street Journal “Regression to the mean is the most powerful law in financial physics:Periods of above-average performance are inevitably followed by below-average returns, and bad times inevitably set the stage for surprisingly good performance.”  The chart below is the 3-year average of annual inflation-adjusted returns of the S&amp;P 500 going back to 1900. The power of regression is clearly seen. Historically, when returns have exceeded 10% it was not long before returns fell to 10% below the long-term mean which devastated much of investor's capital. StreetTalk LIVE “The biggest investing errors come not from factors that are informational or analytical, but from those that are psychological.”  The biggest driver of long-term investment returns is the minimization of psychological investment mistakes. As Baron Rothschild once stated: "Buy when there is blood in the streets." This simply means that when investors are "panic selling," you want to be the one that they are selling to at deeply discounted prices. The opposite is also true. As Howard Marks opined: “The absolute best buying opportunities come when asset holders are forced to sell.” As an investor, it is simply your job to step away from your "emotions" for a moment and look objectively at the market around you. Is it currently dominated by "greed" or "fear?" Your long-term returns will depend greatly not only on how you answer that question, but to manage the inherent risk.  “The investor’s chief problem – and even his worst enemy – is likely to be himself.” - Benjamin Graham This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
"MythBusters" cohost Adam Savage was left cold with the plot from "Interstellar." However, his knowledge of mechanics leads him to conclude that T.A.R.S. is the perfect robot.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Lucas Jackson/ReutersCast member Norbert Leo Butz, depicting former Enron president Jeffrey Skilling, performs during a dress rehearsal of the play "Enron" in New York April 7, 2010.No endorsement carries more weight than an investment by Warren Buffett. He became the world's second-richest man by buying safe, reliable businesses and holding them for ever. So when his company increased its stake in Tesco to 5% in 2012, it sent a strong message that the giant British grocer would rebound from its disastrous attempt to compete in America. But it turned out that even the Oracle of Omaha can fall victim to dodgy accounting. On September 22nd Tesco announced that its profit guidance for the first half of 2014 was £250m ($408m) too high, because it had overstated the rebate income it would receive from suppliers. Britain's Serious Fraud Office has begun a criminal investigation into the errors. The company's fortunes have worsened since then: on December 9th it cut its profit forecast by 30%, partly because its new boss said it would stop "artificially" improving results by reducing service near the end of a quarter. Mr Buffett, whose firm has lost $750m on Tesco, now calls the trade a "huge mistake". No sooner did the news break than the spotlight fell on PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), one of the "Big Four" global accounting networks (the others are Deloitte, Ernst &amp; Young (EY) and KPMG). Tesco had paid the firm £10.4m to sign off on its 2013 financial statements. PwC mentioned the suspect rebates as an area of heightened scrutiny, but still gave a clean audit. PwC's failure to detect the problem is hardly an isolated case. If accounting scandals no longer dominate headlines as they did when Enron and WorldCom imploded in 2001-02, that is not because they have vanished but because they have become routine. On December 4th a Spanish court reported that Bankia had mis-stated its finances when it went public in 2011, ten months before it was nationalised. In 2012 Hewlett-Packard wrote off 80% of its $10.3 billion purchase of Autonomy, a software company, after accusing the firm of counting forecast subscriptions as current sales (Autonomy pleads innocence). The previous year Olympus, a Japanese optical-device maker, revealed it had hidden billions of dollars in losses. In each case, Big Four auditors had given their blessing. Flickr/Alexander BaxevanisAccounting sheets.And although accountants have largely avoided blame for the financial crisis of 2008, at the very least they failed to raise the alarm. America's Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is suing PwC for $1 billion for not detecting fraud at Colonial Bank, which failed in 2009. (PwC denies wrongdoing and says the bank deceived the firm.) This June two KPMG auditors received suspensions for failing to scrutinise loan-loss reserves at TierOne, another failed bank. Just eight months before Lehman Brothers' demise, EY's audit kept mum about the repurchase transactions that disguised the bank's leverage. The situation is graver still in emerging markets. In 2009 Satyam, an Indian technology company, admitted it had faked over $1 billion of cash on its books. North American exchanges have de-listed more than 100 Chinese firms in recent years because of accounting problems. In 2010 Jon Carnes, a short seller, sent a cameraman to a biodiesel factory that China Integrated Energy (a KPMG client) said was producing at full blast, and found it had been dormant for months. The next year Muddy Waters, a research firm, discovered that much of the timber Sino-Forest (audited by EY) claimed to own did not exist. Both companies lost over 95% of their value. Of course, no police force can hope to prevent every crime. But such frequent scandals call into question whether this is the best the Big Four can do--and if so, whether their efforts are worth the $50 billion a year they collect in audit fees. In popular imagination, auditors are there to sniff out fraud. But because the profession was historically allowed to self-regulate despite enjoying a government-guaranteed franchise, it has set the bar so low--formally, auditors merely opine on whether financial statements meet accounting standards--that it is all but impossible for them to fail at their jobs, as they define them. In recent years this yawning "expectations gap" has led to a pattern in which investors disregard auditors and make little effort to learn about their work, value securities as if audited financial statements were the gospel truth, and then erupt in righteous fury when the inevitable downward revisions cost them their shirts. The stakes are high. If investors stop trusting financial statements, they will charge a higher cost of capital to honest and deceitful companies alike, reducing funds available for investment and slowing growth. Only substantial reform of the auditors' perverse business model can end this cycle of disappointment. Auditors perform a central role in modern capitalism. Ever since the invention of the joint-stock corporation, shareholders have been plagued by the mismatch between the interests of a firm's owners and those of its managers. Because a company's executives know far more about its operations than its investors do, they have every incentive to line their pockets and hide its true condition. In turn, the markets will withhold capital from firms whose managers they distrust. Auditors arose to resolve this "information asymmetry". Early joint-stock firms like the Dutch East India Company designated a handful of investors to make sure the books added up, though these primitive auditors generally lacked the time or expertise to provide an effective check on management. By the mid-1800s, British lenders to capital-hungry American railway companies deployed chartered accountants--the first modern auditors--to investigate every aspect of the railroads' businesses. These Anglophone roots have proved durable: 150 years later, the Big Four global networks are still essentially controlled by their branches in the United States and Britain. Their current bosses are all American. As the number of investors in companies grew, so did the inefficiency of each of them sending separate sleuths to keep management in line. Moreover, companies hoping to cut financing costs realised they could extract better terms by getting an auditor to vouch for them. Those accountants in turn had an incentive to evaluate their clients fairly, in order to command the trust of the markets. By the 1920s, 80% of companies on the New York Stock Exchange voluntarily hired an auditor. Unfortunately, Jazz Age investors did not distinguish between audited companies and their less scrupulous peers. Among the miscreants was Swedish Match, a European firm whose skill at securing state-sanctioned monopolies was surpassed only by the aggression of its accounting. After its boss, Ivar Kreuger, died in 1932 the company collapsed, costing American investors the equivalent of $4.33 billion in current dollars. Soon after this the Democratic Congress, cleaning up the markets after the Great Depression, instituted a rule that all publicly held firms had to issue audited financial statements. Britain had already brought in a similar policy. Just what that audit should entail, however, remained an open question. Some legislators proposed that the newly formed Securities and Exchange Commission should conduct audits itself. However, Congress decided to let accountants determine for themselves what their reports would contain. That ill-fated choice paved the way for a watering-down of the audit report that plagues markets to this day. Even in the age of voluntary audits, accountants were rarely held accountable for their clients' sins. As a British judge declared in 1896, "An auditor is not bound to be a detective...he is a watchdog, not a bloodhound." The advent of mandatory audits exacerbated this hazard, because auditors no longer needed to provide value to investors in order to induce companies to buy their services. Without any external rules on what the profession had to verify, it quickly began reducing its own responsibility. Having once offered a "guarantee" that statements were correct, auditors soon moved on to mere "opinions". The modern audit does not even provide an opinion on accuracy. Instead, the boilerplate one-page pass/fail report in America merely provides "reasonable assurance" that a company's statements "present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of [the company] in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)". GAAP is a 7,700-page behemoth, packed with arbitrary cut-offs and wide estimate ranges, and riddled with loopholes so big that some accountants argue even Enron complied with them. (International Financial Reporting Standards--IFRS), which are used outside the United States, rely more on broad principles). "An auditor's opinion really says, 'This financial information is more or less OK, in general, so far as we can tell, most of the time'," says Jim Peterson, a former lawyer for Arthur Andersen, the now-defunct accounting firm that audited Enron. "Nobody has paid any attention or put real value on it for about 30 years." Although auditors cannot hope to verify more than a tiny fraction of the millions of transactions their clients conduct, in order to comply with the standards they physically count inventories, match invoices with shipments and bank statements, and consult experts on the plausibility of management's estimates. Most firms' records are at least tweaked during the process. And even though private businesses do not have to undergo audits, most mid-size firms buy one anyway, because banks rarely lend to unaudited borrowers. The recent spate of frauds in China, where auditing practices are far laxer, shows that markets are right to assign a premium to companies that receive a Western accountant's approval. Even so, the misaligned incentives built into auditing all but guarantee that accountants will fall short of investors' needs. The beneficiaries of the service--current and prospective shareholders--pay for it indirectly or not at all, while the purchasers buy it only because they are required to. As a result, companies tend to select auditors who will provide a clean opinion as cheaply and quickly as possible. Similarly, accountants who discover irregularities may be better off asking management to make minor adjustments, rather than blowing the whistle on a mis-statement that could embroil their firm in costly litigation. The audit industry cites four main factors that counteract this conflict of interest. One is the separation of the audit committee from management. Ever since the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate-governance reform of 2002, American auditors have been chosen not by CEOs or CFOs but by a subcommittee of the board of directors. In theory, this should ensure they are selected and compensated with shareholders' interests in mind. In practice, audit committees are easily captured by management. One academic study found that companies with a senior executive previously employed by a member of the Big Four are far more likely to be audited by that firm than its competitors. The head of Tesco's audit committee once worked at PwC. via The EconomistAnother potential defence against conflict is reputation: an auditor known for shoddy work will lose business, because investors will not believe its reports. That may have been true long ago, when companies could choose among many accountants. But today only the Big Four have the scale to audit giant multinationals; together, they audit firms that make up 98% of the value of American stockmarkets. And since all of them have approved statements later revealed to be incorrect, none enjoys a reputation much above the others. Companies do not drop Big Four auditors just because the firm failed to catch an error at a different client. A potentially stronger deterrent is legal risk. Ever since a 1969 Supreme Court case found auditors liable for failing to detect fraud, accountants have feared litigation from shareholders. Those concerns were vindicated when Arthur Andersen, a peer of the Big Four, was brought down by lawsuits related to the Enron scandal. But it took the biggest accounting failure in history to overcome the legal protections auditors enjoy. Short of an Enron-scale disaster, the Big Four have generally beaten back suits or settled them for affordable sums. In America, plaintiffs have to demonstrate intentional recklessness by the accountants in order to reach trial. And in 2005, the Supreme Court ruled that shareholders must prove a direct causal link between a defendant's activity and a declining stock price in order to claim damages. Despite the auditors' abysmal performance before the financial crisis, legal claims against them have been modest: this April an arbitration council ruled that EY was not at fault in Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. That leaves only one truly effective force: regulation. In 1933, during a hearing on a law that helped establish mandatory audits, an industry spokesman told Congress that auditors were fully independent from the accounting staffs of their clients. "You audit the controllers?" a sceptical senator inquired. "Who audits you?" "Our conscience," came the meek reply. If there was any doubt that this was an insufficient safeguard, the Enron scandal eliminated it. In response, the Sarbanes-Oxley act limited the consulting work American accounting firms could do for audit clients, and set up the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), a non-profit intended to play Big Brother to the Big Four. James Doty, its chairman, says that "We see [auditors] as professional people subject to pressures to compromise their independence." In 2004 Britain established a similar watchdog, which is part of the Financial Reporting Council. These bodies have audited the auditors with gusto. They check the most delicate sections of risky audits; prepare reports on each accounting firm; and levy multimillion-dollar fines when displeased. Last month the PCAOB announced that of the 219 audits of financial statements for 2013 it had reviewed, 85 required more work and should not have been approved. Since the board's creation, restatements have declined significantly. The PCAOB "is what's on the mind of the everyday auditor today", says Joe Ucuzoglu of Deloitte. "Their work is going to have to stand up to inspection scrutiny. High-quality work is rewarded, but lapses can have severe consequences for their compensation." via The EconomistThe PCAOB is rightly proud of the improvements in audit quality on its watch. But the regulators themselves admit that though government inspections may help reduce gross negligence, they cannot convert auditors into the trusty allies against rogue management that shareholders need. For that, only structural reform will do. The easiest improvement would be an expansion of the audit report. Britain has already replaced the single-page pass/fail statement with a more detailed summary of auditors' activities and areas of focus. Bob Moritz, the chairman of PwC's American arm, says that reports would be more useful if accountants audited a wider range of "value drivers", such as drug pipelines for pharmaceutical companies or oil reserves for energy companies. Another help would be greater competition. Because the Big Four specialise in different industries in each country, many companies have only two or three candidates to audit them. High concentration has also hamstrung the courts: in 2005 America's Justice Department agreed not to prosecute KPMG for marketing illegal tax shelters, largely because the government feared that a conviction would destroy the firm and further reduce the numbers in the oligopoly. But antitrust action against the Big Four would make matters worse: breaking one up would leave even fewer firms with the necessary scale. Ironically, the way to increase competition would be for a group of weaker networks to consolidate into a new global player. However, even KPMG, the smallest of the Big Four, is larger than the next four firms combined. Proposals to modify how auditors are chosen or paid invariably involve trade-offs. The simplest would be to shield the audit committee even more from management influence, by having it nominated by a separate proxy vote rather than the board of directors. Whether arm's-length shareholders would know enough to do so is debatable. But the change would reduce the risk of the CFO suggesting an auditor to a committee member on the golf course. Some critics suggest taking the selection of auditors away from companies entirely. One model would hand that responsibility to stock exchanges. However, exchanges might be more interested inusing lax audit rules to induce companies to list than in courting investors by marketing themselves as fraud-free platforms. To avoid that risk, many pundits suggest that government should appoint auditors instead--or even that the profession should be nationalised. "Do people panic when the IRS descends on them, or when your friendly neighbourhood auditor that you pay does?" asks Prem Sikka of the University of Essex. "Companies should be directly audited by an arm of the regulator." Small-government types hate either prospect. The most elegant solution comes from Joshua Ronen, a professor at New York University. He suggests "financial statements insurance", in which firms would buy coverage to protect shareholders against losses from accounting errors, and insurers would then hire auditors to assess the odds of a mis-statement. The proposal neatly aligns the incentives of auditors and shareholders--an insurer would probably offer generous bonuses for discovering fraud. Unfortunately, no insurer has offered such coverage voluntarily. New regulation may be needed to encourage it. Finally, the answer for free-market purists is to scrap the legal requirement for audits. Today accountants enjoy a captive market, and maximise profits by doing the job as cheaply as possible. If clients were no longer forced to buy audits, those rents would disappear. In order to stay in business, the Big Four would then have to devise a new type of audit that investors actually found useful. This approach would probably yield detailed reports designed with shareholders' interests in mind. But it would also allow hucksters to peddle unaudited penny stocks to gullible investors. Whether government should protect people from bad decisions is a question with implications far beyond accounting. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
The U.S. Air Force considered trying to detonate a nuclear device on the moon during the late 1950s. A physicist who worked on the project said a single explosion would have been "microscopic," with little impact. But what if the plans had been bigger—do we have enough nuclear weapons to push the moon out of orbit? This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
520 Park Avenue520 Park Avenue will one day house a $130 million penthouse.Back in September, it was revealed that New York City’s new most expensive condo will be a $130 million triplex penthouse in the yet-to-be-completed 520 Park Avenue building. And though the city’s real-estate community was all abuzz, there were no renderings available of what the aforementioned penthouse will look like. Until now. BuzzBuzzHome reports that the 520 Park Avenue website is now live, giving all of us regular people a look at how the world’s billionaires will live. 520 Park AvenueThis mansion in the sky will have over 12,000 square feet, a 1,257-square-foot terrace, and gorgeous views of Central Park. It will go on sale with other units beginning early next year, according to Bloomberg, and will be completed with the rest of the building in 2017. The 54-story tower is being designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) and developed by Zeckendorf Development Co., the same firms behind the celebrity haven 15 Central Park West and 18 Gramercy Park. 520 Park AvenueIt will be nearby other luxury high-rises on the so-called Billionaires' Row, sitting between 60th and 61st Street. That makes it close to all of the things wealthy New Yorkers love to visit, from the Metropolitan Museum of Art to Barney's. 520 Park AvenueThere will be a total of seven duplexes in 520 Park Avenue, with over 9,000 square feet each and starting at $67 million. Twenty-three single-floor units will make up the rest of the building's condos and will be priced at a more modest $16.2 million with 4,600 square feet, according to the company press release. 520 Park AvenueNeedless to say, the residences will have only the finest marble, wood, and appliances. 520 Park AvenueAnd the view will be incredible. 520 Park Avenue The building itself will also have plenty of amenities, including a swimming pool, bi-level health and fitness center, sauna, children’s playroom, and screening room. 520 Park AvenueThere will also be an airy "salon" for residents to relax in, and a garden area. 520 Park AvenueBoth locations will be perfect for socializing with your wealthy neighbors. 520 Park Avenue The $130 million triplex will join the Woolworth Building’s $110 million penthouse and the $118 million trio of penthouse apartments at Battery Park City’s Ritz-Carlton Residences as some of the most expensive homes ever listed in New York City. Looks like 520 Park Avenue will fit right in. 520 Park Avenue FREE AppDownload
Gareth Cattermole/GettyVirgin chair Richard Branson released his book "The Virgin Way" in September.Whether you're looking for the perfect gift or to catch up on your reading, there were plenty of blockbuster business books in 2014. We've collected our favorites of the year — from billionaire Richard Branson's leadership insights to media mogul Arianna Huffington's thoughts on success — which are guaranteed to not only educate but entertain. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia commonsMohamed El-Erian, Chief Economic Adviser of Allianz, at the World Economic Forum Summit on the Global Agenda.The U.S. Federal Reserve’s proposal for a new capital surcharge on “global systemically important banking organizations” (or GSIBs) has triggered lots of speculation on how individual institutions will respond over time. From JPMorgan, which some say could face a shortfall of $22 billion on account of the suggested regulation, to other major banks whose seemingly-adequate capital cushions would need to be revisited, analysts will be busy calculating what this could imply over time for earnings, capital raises and balance sheet management. As important as these factors are in influencing stock and bond valuations, investors would be well advised to take note of the broader message associated with this new proposal.  In opting for a surcharge that exceeds what is being called for by international regulatory initiatives, the Fed is exploiting the relative strength of the U.S. economy and its banking system to target greater financial soundness. It is proposing a phased-in implementation process that would start on January 1, 2016 and be fully effective by January 1, 2019. And to the extent that there could be an efficiency loss, this is considered a cost of nudging banks further away from excessive risk-taking and towards greater safety for them and for the system as a whole. If the Fed’s risk-based capital surcharge proposal is adopted, bank asset valuations would need to reflect over time this secular reality, including in the relative pricing of stocks versus and bonds. Herded by regulators who know that there is no appetite in society for another round of bank bailouts, the banking sector is now firmly on a multi-year path towards more of a “utility model;” and it is one that could well involve higher bond creditworthiness, more pressure on capital returns, and lowered (and less volatile) equity valuations. FREE AppDownload
Shane FerroGoodbye, debit card. A decade later, I found myself still banking at what has become Chase. There were a couple of reasons for this: I've lived in New York since I was 18, and there are branches everywhere. Even though Chase charges you to use a non-Chase ATM, it rarely presented a huge problem because there's generally one within a few blocks. I don't really use my bank account or debit card that often. Anything I can pay for with a credit card, I do, so that I can rack up airline miles (I pay off my balance in full at the end of every month). My checking-account transactions are basically limited to paying off my credit card, paying my rent, and paying my utility bills. So I only really think about my bank when I need cash. Justin Sullivan/GettyThere's a $2 fee to use any non-Chase ATM. My mom never lost access to it, so my parents could send me money automatically without having to wait for an ACH transfer or a check in the mail. This was helpful in college, when she would send me money every once in a while, but isn't really anymore — woo-hoo, adulthood! (For Christmas, I'll teach my mom to use Venmo.) The point is that Chase was, at one point, minorly convenient for me. But it's majorly inconvenient in a variety of ways: There's a $2 fee to use any non-Chase ATM, on top of whatever that machine charges you. Plus, the interest rates on my checking and savings accounts were terrible. I had always just been too lazy to close my account. Then, over the weekend, Reuters reporter Lauren LaCapra tweeted this: So Chase now charges $5 to take cash out of a non-Chase ATM. Is that aggressive or am I crazy? It turned out to be not quite true — she later clarified that this fee applies only to ATMs outside of the US. But it annoyed me at just the right time, and I decided it was time to break up with my bank. It took me a total of about 20 minutes over a couple of days. Here's how to do it, for anyone fed up with any of the big banks' hidden fees, horrible customer service, and paltry interest rates. This is a helpful list if you don't have any idea where to turn. Definitely consider a credit union. I didn't really have to choose. I've had a savings account with Ally for several years, because it has one of the best interest rates around for savings accounts (currently 0.9%). I'd already opened a checking account there as well, for some money I had wanted to segregate a while back. If you don't have an extra account, call or go to the website of the bank you choose and open one. It takes about five minutes. I like Ally because there aren't monthly maintenance fees or account minimums. Annnnd ... there are no ATM fees. None. What you get charged by other ATMs, Ally reimburses you for. Screenshot ally.com The downside is there are no physical branches, so depositing checks can be a pain (you take a photo of the check with your phone, then it takes a couple of days to clear). But at this point I deposit maybe five checks a year. It's helpful to wait until you get your new debit card in the mail before moving on to Step 2. My rent and my utility bills automatically come out of my bank account, but that's about it, so it was really easy to go onto those websites and change my direct-deposit settings. Speaking of direct deposit, don't forget how you get paid. I also had to go into Business Insider's HR site and change my payment allocations. One click and it's over! Wait on this until the other steps above are done, though, if your bank requires a minimum balance in your account. They will ask you why. They will try to persuade you to stay. Stay firm. I found that when I said "I'm leaving because I found a higher interest rate elsewhere," there was nothing they could come back at me with. The sales associate smiled. He asked me what interest rate I was getting at my new bank — was it close to 1%? I said yes, and he got to work. Some typing on a keyboard for about a minute, and it was over. I folded my debit card in half, and I was done! Instagram/videofyme      FREE AppDownload
Business Insider recently caught up with Mark Cuban at our IGNITION 2014 event. We asked the billionaire entrepreneur about his approach to sleep, and how many hours a night he tries to get. Produced by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook.
Get Rich Slowly conducted an online survey of about 2,000 randomly selected individuals on the subject of investing recently, and I found the insights from the results quite interesting. Some of the highlights of the findings of the survey are: 1. Over 40% of all respondents do not invest at all at the present moment. 2. Despite investing being more advantageous to the young, the highest proportion of respondents not investing were also the youngest. 3. Using index funds is not a primary investing strategy by any age group. 4. The older people get, the more active they become in their investments. The first question on the survey was: What best describes your investment strategy? Six possible answers were provided for respondents to choose from: By a large margin, most respondents selected option number two, i.e., "I don't invest right now." Get Rich Slowly This result is in line with numerous reports which have documented in many ways how Americans are under-investing for their retirement, some even stating that up to 60% of Americans don't have either mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). The general lack of investing activity could turn out to be a time bomb when those folks want to but find they are unable to retire. It would be bad enough if, say, two out of every ten people were unable to support themselves as they grow older, but the results of this survey suggest the magnitude of the problem could be much greater than that, with almost half the respondents reporting that they are not investing at all. Another surprising result is that index funds, regarded by many as the safest and most profitable long-term investment strategy, is not the most-followed investment strategy. It is not even the second-most popular. This is true across all age groups. Only 20% of those respondents who actually do invest use index funds as their primary investment strategy. The most popular strategy, in contrast, was "I let others invest for me." Given overall investing industry data, that shouldn't be surprising: The Investment Company Institute reports that about 80% of assets invested in mutual funds are invested in managed funds, not index funds. Why aren't index funds used by more people? The reasons were not probed by the survey, but a possible explanation is that individuals who do invest do so through their employers' 401(k) and similar retirement plans. Those plans tend to be managed by outside investment firms who encourage participants to invest in the stock market through their captive managed mutual funds by various means, but most 401(k) plans don't even offer index funds as an option, or, when they do, they give those funds no prominence because the fees those plans generate are far lower than the fees they get from their managed funds. The survey didn't explicitly ask each respondent to state their age, but it is possible to guess their approximate age from their response to this question: How many recessions have you survived? The number of recessions survived can be considered a proxy for age because nothing influences the answer other than age. In the chart below, the survey's responses reveal how the investment strategies of respondents correlate with their ages: Get Rich Slowly The first, and most glaring, conclusion from the long red bar in the chart above is that the youngest among the respondents overwhelmingly do not invest. Given that the last recession has been officially over for not much more than five years, that would place the group who haven't survived a single recession yet in their mid-twenties or younger. It is easy to take the glass-half-empty view, i.e., that young people don't see investing as a way to make money at this point in their lives. However, there is another view, a more encouraging one — almost 30% of young people, i.e., those earning the lowest wages of their careers, have taken responsibility for their futures and do see investing as a viable way to prepare for their later years. Either way, this is the group which stands to gain the most by getting an early start with their investing. Getting them to engage in any form of investing at all — even if it were only to hold funds in certificates of deposit — would benefit them. If history is to repeat, more people from the younger cohort can be expected to start, or increase, their investing. However, that is by no means a certainty. In order to get a better grasp of investing strategies, as compared with respondents' ages, it is possible to group the investing strategies into the following three categories: Get Rich Slowly There seems to be a clear relationship between age and the degree of active involvement in investing. To test this, it is possible to construct a somewhat crude index of active involvement in investing strategy out of our results, by assigning a numeric value to the degree of passivity/activity in investing, as follows: Using those numbers, it is possible to create an "index of active involvement." A value of 1 would signify a completely passive approach to investing, and a maximum value of 100 would apply to investors with no passive elements in their strategy. Using that definition, the following chart highlights the correlation between age and active involvement in respondents' investing habits: Get Rich Slowly The survey didn't explore the reasons why younger people tend to prefer a more passive approach, but a few potential reasons could be: 1. Older people have gained more knowledge and experience in their lifetimes, which would give them the confidence needed to take a more active role in their investing. 2. Younger people are earlier in their earnings cycle and the amount they have invested doesn't justify the expense of employing a paid financial adviser. 3. Younger people's investments tend to be dominated by employment-related retirement funds, which lend themselves to simple and passive investing strategies. Often, older people have acquired other monies, such as inheritances, settlements, proceeds from the sale of homes, and other sums which exceed the statutory limits for retirement funds. Consequently, they may feel the need to take a more active role in their investments. That said, it is significant to observe that around 15% of the oldest group, i.e., those who have survived the 1987 stock market crash, do not invest at all. These are people who have been in the workforce for more than 25 years, which would put them in their 40s or 50s today. Those tend to be peak earning years, and one would think that the urgency of the approaching years and higher incomes would lead almost everyone in that age bracket to be investing. That, however, is not the case. The survey didn't probe the reasons the older group chooses not to invest, but it could be due to people depleting their retirement accounts because of illness, job loss, child-related emergencies or other misfortunes. Whatever the reasons, the fact that around 15% of those soon to retire have no investments has to be of concern. Consistent with what other surveys show, more than 40% of all respondents reported that they don't invest at all. This was most pronounced in the youngest age group, but not insignificant in the oldest age group. Among those who invest, the most popular strategy is purely passive, i.e., letting others do their investing for them. A noteworthy observation is that, across all age groups, index fund investing is nowhere near the most popular strategy. An interesting observation is that, as people get older, they tend to move away from passive to more active investing strategies. This article originally appeared at Get Rich Slowly.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Oil is crashing. On Thursday, WTI crude oil was falling again, moving back below $61 a barrel.  Much has been made of the "breakeven" oil price for the world's drilling projects. This is the level at which the price of oil covers the cost of extracting the oil. A simpler way to look at when the biggest oil players will start feeling the squeeze from lower prices is the "cash cost." "Without OPEC action, an outage, or other response, cash cost is the only true floor," Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Longson said. Cash cost is basically what it takes to keep oil production going, not what it takes to make oil production profitable or for a government to hit its budget projection. If you drop below your cash cost on a project, you've got to turn out the lights. As you can see on the far right, the Canadian oil sands and the US shale basins are very expensive to tap. Meanwhile in the Middle East, the Saudis, the Iraqis, and the Iranians basically stick a straw in the ground, and oil comes out. Morgan Stanley The recent story in the market has been that a supply glut has pressured oil prices, and in response some expected OPEC to announce a production cut at its Thanksgiving meeting. That didn't happen, and Longson notes that it isn't as simple as slashing production to combat low prices. "Simply slowing supply growth is usually not enough to balance an oversupplied market in the short run," Longson writes. "In commodities without a cartel, existing production must be shut-in. If true, marginal cost of investment is not the relevant metrics, it's variable operating cost, which is closer to $35-$40/bbl on the high end." Longson's mention of a commodity without a cartel also comes as Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi said on Wednesday that the market — not the OPEC cartel – was in control of the oil market.  And these comments imply that this chart from Morgan Stanley, showing cash costs for oil projects around the world, might be the place to find out when things will really ugly in the oil market.   FREE AppDownload
   Joel Benjamin Henry Blodget: Let’s jump right in. What the hell happened with the Fire phone? Jeff Bezos: First of all, it’s really early. We’ve had a lot of things we’ve had to iterate on at Amazon. You may remember something called Auctions that didn’t work out very well. Z Shops morphed out of that. Then we launched Marketplace, which became our third-party seller business, which now represents 40% of units sold on Amazon. That’s a great business. If you look at our device portfolio broadly, our hardware team is doing a great job. The Kindle is now on its seventh generation. The Kindle Voyage, the new premium product, is just completely killer. Fire TV, Fire TV Stick — we’re having trouble building enough. Amazon Echo, which we just launched. So there’s a lot of activity going on in our device business. With the phone, I just ask you to stay tuned. HB: What was the mistake with the phone? Or are you saying there is no mistake? Jeff: I think it takes more time to analyze something like that. Again, one of my jobs is to encourage people to be bold. It’s incredibly hard.  Experiments are, by their very nature, prone to failure. A few big successes compensate for dozens and dozens of things that didn’t work. Bold bets — Amazon Web Services, Kindle, Amazon Prime, our third-party seller business — all of those things are examples of bold bets that did work, and they pay for a lot of experiments. What really matters is, companies that don’t continue to experiment, companies that don’t embrace failure, they eventually get in a desperate position where the only thing they can do is a Hail Mary bet at the very end of their corporate existence. Whereas companies that are making bets all along, even big bets, but not bet-the-company bets, prevail. I don’t believe in bet-the-company bets. That’s when you’re desperate. That’s the last thing you can do. HB: We should stay tuned for an evolution of the phone. For how long? JB: Who knows? Ask me in some number of years.      Skye Gould JB: Yes. We do a lot of unusual things there. We don’t meet with our biggest investors. We meet with investors who have low portfolio turnover. Many investment funds have very high portfolio turnover. They’re not really investors — they’re traders. There’s nothing wrong with that: It’s just a different thing. Where you are going to spend your time and your energy is one of the most important decisions you get to make in life. We all have a limited amount of time, and where you spend it and how you spend it is just an incredibly levered way to think about the world. If you’re going to spend time explaining the company, you should do it with people who are long-term investors, rather than traders. That’s our point of view. HB: How dependent is Amazon on you these days? You famously had a terrifying experience in a helicopter. And last year you had a terrifying experience in the Galapagos. JB: The kidney stone was just painful — I don’t recommend that. Stay hydrated ... Anyway, my opinion is that I can do some things at Amazon that would be hard for other people to do, only because of my history with the company. As the company has grown, of course my job has changed very much. My main job today: I work hard at helping to maintain the culture. A culture of high standards of operational excellence, of inventiveness, of willingness to fail, willingness to make bold experiments. I’m the counterbalance to the institutional "no" who can say "yes." I’m not going to be here forever. Many of the traits that make Amazon unusual are now deeply ingrained in the culture. In fact, if I wanted to change them, I couldn’t. The cultures are self-reinforcing, and that’s a good thing. We sometimes have people come to the company and they find Amazon very boring, because we don’t have enough competitive zeal. With annual planning processes, some companies literally start with, "Who are our three biggest enemies? Here’s how we’re going to hold them at bay or defeat them." We don’t have such a list at Amazon. It’s not how our annual planning process works. The Smoking GunCLOSE CALL: Jeff Bezos was a passenger when this helicopter went down in a remote area of Texas in 2003. He escaped without serious injury. I still run into work, by the way. I took my family on a vacation to France. My wife’s whole family — there are about 20 of us. We had an unbelievably good time. Great food, everything. We were there for a week. I got back to Seattle, and I ran into the office. I'm having so much fun. HB: Is there a succession plan? JB: Yeah, there is a succession plan for me, and for all of our senior executives. HB: There is somebody who would take over? JB: Yes, absolutely. HB: Who? JB: Secret. HB: Let's turn to Hachette. You just had a very famously public bitter fight with them over the price at which you were allowed to sell their books. First of all, were you surprised with the amount of animosity that was directed at Amazon?   JB: My view is that in this incident and actually in our entire history, I think we have been treated extraordinarily well by the press and the media — certainly by customers. I have no complaints. I think we have been treated way above average over time and and I’m grateful for that. Retailers negotiating and fighting with suppliers is not a new phenomenon. Rarely does it break through into a public fight and mostly it's not. It’s an essential job of any retailer to negotiate hard on behalf of customers. It's what we do. HB: If there was no negotiation, and you could dictate to everybody exactly what the terms were going to be, what would the future be for authors? JB: The most important thing to observe is that books don’t just compete against books. Books compete against people reading blogs and news articles and playing video games and watching TV and going to see movies.Books are the competitive set for leisure time. It takes many hours to read a book. It’s a big commitment. If you narrow your field of view and only think about books competing against books, you make really bad decisions. What we really have to do, if we want a healthy culture of long-form reading, is to make books more accessible. Part of that is making them less expensive. Books, in my view, are too expensive. Thirty dollars for a book is too expensive. If I'm only competing against other $30 books, then you don’t get there. If you realize that you’re really competing against Candy Crush and everything else, then you start to say, “Gosh, maybe we should really work on reducing friction on long-form reading." That’s what Kindle has been about from the very beginning. In the internet era, almost all of the tools for reading have been reducing the friction of short-form reading. The internet is perfect for delivering three paragraphs to your smartphone. The Kindle is trying to reduce friction for reading a whole book. It’s working. The vision for Kindle is every book, every imprint, in any language, all available in 60 seconds. That’s a multi-decade vision. We’ve been working on it for a decade now, and we’ve made huge progress. We’re making books easier to get, more affordable, more accessible. It’s a fantastic mission. The Kindle team is very dedicated to it, and they’re doing a great job. You are getting more reading. HB: Which sounds great. Until it comes to the author who wants to write a book but can’t quit their job unless they have the nice advance from the big, rich publisher who you are quietly demolishing. JB: No, but the facts are wrong. Publishers are having unparalleled profitability, and the book industry is in better shape than it ever has been, and it’s because of e-books. The Kindle team deserves a significant amount of credit for that, because they were early, they got ahead of it. There’s been very little piracy in e-books, unlike other digital media. This is a good-news story for publishers and for authors. It’s very difficult for incumbents who have a sweet thing to accept change. It’s just very difficult. It’s very easy, but almost always incorrect, to glamorize the past. It’s easy to do. We all have these fake memories of how great things used to be. Right, before penicillin things were awesome. There are exceptions. But mostly things have gotten better, and we live in a world where I hope things continue to get better. Surely making reading more affordable is not going to make authors less money. Making reading more affordable is going to make authors more money. Skye Gould JB: Yes. HB: Any changed outlook on life? JB: No, not really. I’m still dancing into the office. I love my life. I have four kids. My wife still claims to still like me. I don’t question her aggressively on that. I do the dishes every night, and I can see that actually makes her like me. It’s a very odd thing. HB: I do that, too. JB: I’m pretty convinced. It’s like the sexiest thing I do. [Laughter] HB: There was a book written about you recently, on Amazon. ["The Everything Store" by Brad Stone.] Have you read it? JB: Yes, I read it. HB: And? Jeff: I’m not going to say many things, but I’ll say the first half of the book does an extraordinarily good job of capturing the culture of Amazon in the early days. Very, very good. I would also say that I get way too much credit in the book. There are a lot of people who have played huge roles in Amazon’s history, and they’re almost completely left out, or just barely mentioned. Maybe someday I’ll write that book and make sure that those people get their credit. HB: Your wife reacted to the book with a long defense on Amazon as a comment — incredibly well written — and in it she said, “This is not my husband.” Who is right? It sucks to have stuff written about you. JB: You don’t think I’m going to sit up here on stage and tell you my wife is wrong. HB: Here we go. JB: Henry, that’s … I don’t even know where you’re going. HB: What was she objecting to? JB: She was there in the early days. You’ve been a public figure, and you still are, but you had more public figureness in your earlier stock-analyst days. I’ve been a public figure. You get used to everything being wrong about you. Anytime you think you know a public figure from their media … You really don’t. I’ve gotten to know several public figures. You can’t tell that Bill Gates is an amazing dad. I know that. It’s very hard. Other people, like my wife, she doesn't have so much experience with this. I’m like, “It doesn’t matter.” HB: Fair enough. What are you like as a dad? JB: Me? Let’s see ...  HB: Boring? Work all the time? JB: No. I have three boys and a girl. The oldest is 14. He was the last person in his class to get a smartphone. He reminded me of this frequently. When the second-to-last person got a smartphone, he sent an email message to all of his classmates that said, “Then there was one.” All of my kids are very, very different. It’s pretty amazing. We spend a lot of time travelling, though I don’t travel very much for work. One of the reasons I do so little of what I’m doing here today, on stage, is that I like to be at home. I like to be in the office. I feel disconnected from the office if I’m traveling a lot. I travel less than 20% of the time, maybe less than 10% of the time. I organize my life that way, because it’s a personal preference. I told our most senior executives at Amazon: "Because you’re a senior executive, you have more control over your environment, and you should have less stress." If senior executives are stressed out, I tell them, “Look, you shouldn’t be stressed out. Figure out what's causing it. Bring someone on your team who is good at that or who likes doing it, and have them shore you up in that regard.” Amazon.com via Academy of AchievementJeff Bezos, age 5, with his grandfather, Lawrence Preston Gise, on the ranch at Cotulla, Texas, in 1969. "We did everything together, just the two of us," Bezos has said of his grandfather. "We would fix windmills and repair fences and work the cattle, vaccinate them and so on. It really was an incredible experience. I think you learn a lot on a ranch in the middle of nowhere. And one of the things I think I learned from my grandfather was a kind of self-reliance." Her dad had to fight to keep her in high school. Having a pregnant mother in high school in the 1960s in Albuquerque, New Mexico, that's a difficult situation. My dad was hardworking. He worked for Exxon for 33 years. In life, we get a lot of rolls of the dice. One of the big rolls of the dice is who are your early role models, so I try to do that for my kids. HB: Drones. You had this amazing "commercial" on "60 Minutes" last year, about this fantastic future when drones are going to fly out and bring me my package, and it’s going to be right there. Immediately, everybody in the country, and probably around the world, was saying, “Great — when?” JB: That’s a difficult question to answer. Technology is not going to be the long pole. The long pole is going to be regulatory. I just went and met with the primary team and saw the 10th- or 11th-generation drone flying around in the cage. It’s truly remarkable. It’s not just the physical airframe and electric motors and so on. The most interesting part of this is the autopilot and the guidance and control and the machine vision systems that make it all work. As for when, though, that is very difficult to predict. I'd bet you the ratio of lawyers to engineers on the primary team is probably the highest at Amazon. HB: Is this a situation where everyone else in the world except Americans is going to get drone deliveries? JB: I think it is sad but possible that the US could be late. It’s highly likely that other countries will do it first. I may be too skeptical. I hope I’m wrong. HB: In addition to everything else we’ve talked about, you make rockets. You want to go into space. This is a proclivity that you share with fellow billionaires such as Elon Musk and Richard Branson. First of all, what is it about space that captivates you? Second, what are you doing that’s different? Third, just talk about how hard it is when you saw Richard have an accident that has set everybody back a long time. Talk about space. What’s the vision there? Wikimedia CommonsNeil Armstrong was mission commander of Apollo 11 when he landed on the moon in July 1969. Bezos has never forgotten it. I think it’s probably a survival skill that we’re curious and like to explore. Our ancestors, who were incurious and failed to explore, probably didn’t live as long as the ones who were looking over the next mountain range to see if there were more sources of food and better climates and so on and so on. We are really evolved to be pioneers. For good reason. New worlds have a way of — you can’t predict how or why or when — but new worlds have a way of saving old worlds. That’s how it should be. We need the frontier. We need the people moving out into space. My vision is, I want to see millions of people living and working in space. I think it’s important. I also just love it. I love change. I love technology. I love the engineers we have. They’re brilliant. We have about 350 people there. We’re building a vertical takeoff, vertical landing vehicle. It takes off like a regular rocket, and it lands on its tail like a Buck Rogers rocket. The initial mission is space tourism. We’re also designing an orbital vehicle. We just won a contract to provide the new engines for the new version of the Atlas 5, which is the most successful launch vehicle in history. That’s a Boeing-Lockheed joint venture. That vehicle uses Russian engines, and because of all the things that are happening in Ukraine and so on, that supply of engines has become less certain, so they want to switch away from a Russian-made engine and they chose [us] to provide that engine. It’s a very exciting endeavor. Great team. They’re just doing a wonderful job, and it’s fun. HB: When are you going? JB: I don’t know. When we’re ready. I like our architecture. The vehicle can fly autonomously. Throughout the entire test program, it flies all by itself and comes and lands all by itself, so we don’t need test pilots, which is good during the development phase. The crew capsule uses a full-envelope escape architecture. If you go back in time, all rockets had escape systems, Apollo and Soyuz. The space shuttle was really the first human-rated vehicle not to have an escape system. That was a mistake. It needed an escape system. Our vehicle has a full-envelope escape system. I like the architecture we’re building. I’m excited about it, but this is not a business where you can rush things or cut corners. Our motto is, "Gradatim Ferociter." It stands for step-by-step ferociously. One step a time. HB: Thanks, Jeff. It's a privilege and a pleasure to talk to you.  NOW WATCH THE FULL INTERVIEW: It includes additional discussion on the criteria Amazon uses to expand into new businesses, the pay and perks of employees, and why Jeff Bezos bought The Washington Post:        Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Some blocks and neighborhoods in New York City are so full of rich people that the Census Bureau can't reveal exactly how rich they are. The US Census Bureau recently released data from the 2009-2013 American Community Survey. The survey provides an amazingly comprehensive look at the demographic, social, and economic makeup of the country. In this data set, the Census Bureau has released ACS estimates at the block-group level, which for an urban area is essentially a block, small group of blocks, or a small neighborhood.  One of the many variables the ACS investigates is household income. In New York City, there were a handful of block groups with populations of at least 500 where the median household income is higher than $250,000 per year. One was in Brooklyn, and the rest were in Manhattan. Here they are: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from US Census Bureau    FREE AppDownload
Martin Enlund/Twitter Oil prices have been tumbling for months, and historically, GDP tends to pick up following these drops. You can see the relationship in this chart from Nordea Markets' Martin Enlund. Enlund sees thing being particularly good in the second half of 2015. And with a nod to the popular TV show "Game of Thrones," he sums it up nicely: "summer is coming." From the macro point of view, major energy importers like Japan, China, and India really benefit from lower prices because they have to spend less on oil. "China is the world's second-largest net importer of oil. Based on 2013 figures, every $1 drop in the oil price saves it an annual $2.1 billion," according to The Economist. And Citi's Robert Buckland wrote in a note that "the decline in oil prices, along with moderate growth in nominal per-capita wages and employment is likely to boost the real purchasing power of Japanese consumers." As for India, "the lower oil prices help [the] government deal with some of those challenges by taking some of the financial burden off the oil subsidies. Cheaper oil also introduces a trickle-down effect on inflationary pressure on food and other commodities," Jeff Benjamin writes. To put it briefly, lower oil prices are great for energy importers. Even the US, which is increasingly becoming a gas exporter, sees a net benefit from lower prices. It's a huge win for consumers, who can now spend that money on other things. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders writes "the net is that lower prices are good for both US consumers and many US businesses. The Brookings Institute recently noted that the decline specifically in gasoline prices thus far represents a $500 'tax cut' per household." So unless you're an oil exporter, plunging oil prices are great news. Below is a chart from M&amp;G investments highlighting how major events related to oil price spikes negatively affected global growth. Bond Vigilantes/Twitter   FREE AppDownload
Inflation is rampant in Russia, and the collapsing value of the rouble has triggered panic-buying and food-hoarding among ordinary Russians. Food prices in Russia will have shot up by 25% over 2014 as Russian's confidence in the country's future starts to evaporate, according to the Association of Retail Companies (ACORT). The prices are reacting to pre-emptive food hoarding by worried Russians, our sources say. It's not that there's an actual shortage of food. Rather, the price of food is so unstable that Russians are worried that their neighbours are going to start hoarding it — so they're hoarding it first. One Muscovite resident told Business Insider that ATMs in the city are being routinely emptied by people eager to withdraw as much cash as they can either to change into dollars or purchase goods with before the value falls even further. He said the mood there is unlike anything he had ever seen "including during the crash of 2008-9". Pork and sugar have risen by 25%, while the price of fish and seafood has also leapt up by more than 15%, according to Russian newspaper Nezavisimaya Gazeta. The latest data from the official Russian statistics service Rosstat showed that in the first week in December the price of Russian staples continued to rise. Buckwheat, a Russian staple, leapt up by 5.7% while eggs, tomatoes, cucumbers and cabbages rose by between 4.3-6.2% over seven days. Food prices are helping to drive headline inflation in the country even higher, hitting 9.4% last month according to the Russian central bank. While the press have been focused on a leap in Russian purchases of high-end cars — a not terribly surprising trend considering that the falling rouble effectively means that rich Russian with large stacks of dollars can now purchase them at a discount — they have overlooked the real story: Buckwheat. Buckwheat is something of a leading indicator of Russian consumer sentiment. The grain is used to make bread, porridge, pancakes and local delicacy cutlets. Fears over the future can (and has) resulted in panic buying. Indeed such is the concern that the Russian state has frequently considered building up strategic buckwheat reserves to try to mitigate acute shortages. Yet these efforts have not been sufficient to hold down the price as it rocketed by 65% this year. And it's having a massive impact on Russian people's confidence in the future. A study conducted by VTsIOM in late November found that only 51% of those surveyed felt confident in the future, compared to 58% in the third quarter of the year and 61% between April and June. Around 7% of respondents said that they could no longer tolerate the situation. BloombergDollar vs the rouble.Falling confidence and sharply rising prices of staples could be a worrying sign that Russians are losing faith in the authorities' ability to protect the value of the currency. The central bank hiked interest rates again on Thursday by 1%, following a 1.5% increase at the end of October as it seeks to halt further rouble falls. However, following the announcement the rouble shifted lower again with $1 now buying just under 56 roubles compared to 33 at the start of the year. The price rises are predominantly being driven by a 40% collapse in the rouble, according to ACORT executive director Andrey Karpov. Russia imports a significant amount of its food from abroad and these have become much more expensive due to a combination of the falling rouble and tit-for-tat sanctions imposed by the Russian government against imports from the European Union. In 2013, Russia imported $6.7 billion (£4.3 billion) worth of meat and meat products in total, with more than 20% purchased from countries now on the blacklist. USDA With no end of the sanctions in sight and inflation continuing to rise it seems as if the Russian consumer is set to be squeezed even further over the next few months. If sentiment turns even more against the rouble on the street, the central bank may have a much harder task on its hands than it currently expects.
This morning, I reiterated my belief that long-term stock returns from today's level will be lousy. This assumption is based in part on long-term valuation analysis and in part on my two-and-a-half decades of market experience, during which I have learned many searing lessons about how markets behave.  As one reader was quick to point out, it is also "just a guess." By pointing that out, the reader reminded me of a profoundly important point about investing, one that many casual observers often don't fully understand. Every market outlook is "just a guess." Every one. Some guesses are more informed than others, of course. But no one knows the future. Everyone's just guessing. As a stock analyst in the 1990s, I assumed for many years that somewhere there was someone who knew what the market was going to do. Over the course of my career, I met ever more sophisticated and talented market players, including a handful of the most sophisticated investors and traders in the world. All of these folks were brilliant, confident, persuasive, and astoundingly well informed. They had made billions of dollars in the market. They had decades of experience. They knew everything it was legal to know, and often considerably more. And, as the future eventually made clear, not a single one of them knew what the market was going to do. It wasn't until I realized this firsthand that I fully "got it." No one knows what the market is going to do. We're all "just guessing." That realization was one of several that helped me develop the investing strategy I use today (indexing.) There is no question that this is the best strategy for me and almost every other investor. When you index, you save pots of money on fees and mistakes, the latter usually caused by the assumption that you or someone else knows what the market is going to do. And this pot of money that you save will help you achieve returns that are better than about 90% of other investors, especially after tax. And that's without any work or worry or heartache at all. Even if you don't yet understand why indexing wins, however, please at least understand this: No one knows what the market is going to do. Everyone's just guessing. SEE ALSO: This Week Was A Stark Reminder Of How Quickly Good Markets Can Turn Bad  FREE AppDownload
Stack CommerceThis year is going to be dominated by personal drones. Why? Because they’re incredibly fun to fly, and becoming increasingly affordable.  We're bringing prices down even further — here’s a roundup of deals not to miss. We and our friends at Stack Commerce put together four drones that will make it easy to take to the skies.     Stack Commerce Despite weighing just over an ounce, the Extreme Micro Drone 2.0 (46% off) is impressively equipped with gyro-based stabilization and a camera — in fact, this is the only micro drone in the world with a swiveling lens. Being so compact means it can fly indoors and out, and it can pull 360º flips. A really nice all-rounder that is forgiving on newbies and ships globally for free. Get 46% off the Extreme Micro Drone 2.0 ($74.99 incl. global shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.    Stack Commerce The Code Black (55% off pre-orders) looks like it emerged from the Batcave, and it has the kind of features the Dark Knight would demand. It is a great out-of-the-box flyer, with a HD camera on board, and it is small enough to fly anywhere.  Plus, it can perform the all-important flips. If you order by Dec. 1, the Code Black will ship in time for Christmas, but the price will rise come mid December. Get 55% off the Limited Edition Code Black drone + HD Camera ($89 incl. shipping; pre-order) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.    Stack Commerce Panther Spy drone (55% off), which uses its size for durability. The rotors are surrounded by protective foam, but given that it has gyro stabilization, those guards shouldn’t be needed all that often. It also has a 720p camera, 2.4GHz transmission for good range, and 360º flips in its tricks locker. Get 55% off the Panther Spy drone with HD camera ($110 incl. shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.    Stack Commerce There’s a reason why Richard Branson backed the 3DRobotics IRIS+ (3% off) — it is an incredible machine. Along with nice manual controls, this thing has a GPS to pilot itself along any flight paths you designate, and it can even intelligently track objects.  With a GoPro mounting, that means the IRIS+ is ideal for capturing your sporting exploits hands free, and a flight range of 16-22 minutes is unusually long. Get 3% off the 3DRobotics IRIS+ ($750 incl. shipping) Don't forget to use the code droneinsider10 for an extra 10% off.  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
The number of oil rigs in operation is falling. Last week, the number of oil rigs in use in the US fell by 27 — to 1,893 from 1,920 the prior week — according to the latest weekly rig count from Baker Hughes.  This was the biggest single weekly drop in rig count in two years, according to Bloomberg.  In a report Friday, Bloomberg's Lynn Doan cited comments from an oilfield services analyst who said simply: "It’s starting." Analyst Robert Mackenzie told Bloomberg, "We knew this day was going to come. It was only a matter of time before the rig count was going to respond." On Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled at around $57.45 a barrel, the lowest since May 2009, and WTI crude is now down more than 40% from its highs made earlier this summer. The decline in oil prices has been blamed on a glut of international supply, as US crude oil production is at its highest level since 1986 and OPEC has said it won't move to curb production.  Meanwhile, both the International Energy Agency and OPEC recently reduced their oil demand forecasts for next year. The charts of oil's decline are stunning. And while the drop in oil rigs has been less pronounced so far, this is a chart you have to keep an eye on. Business Insider, data via Baker Hughes FREE AppDownload
AeroMobil 3.0, the flying car, is the core product of the Slovakia-based company AeroMobil. It has been in development since 1989. In flight, it can reach 124 mph and fly for 430 miles on a full tank of gas. Owners could park it in normal parking spots and fill up its gas at normal gas stations. It gets 29 miles per gallon in driving mode.Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of AeroMobil.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
 It seems Russian President Vladimir Putin just found an ally. On Thursday, Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met in New Delhi to improve the energy, military, and trade alliances between their two nations. For starters, Russia and India will be exploring a stronger relationship in the energy sector. The two countries will build at least 10 nuclear power plants in India over the next 20 years, and will have a joint venture in exploring hydroelectric power projects in Asia. Additionally, Russia's state-owned Rosneft signed a preliminary agreement to supply India with 10 million tons of oil over the next 10 years. And the most eyebrow-raising move of all is that Russia invited India to "work on projects" in the Arctic. "Rosneft and Gazprom, our biggest companies, together with their Indian colleagues, are preparing projects for the development of Russian-Arctic shelf [and] the expansion of liquefied gas," Putin said. Why is this point important, exactly? In September, Rosneft discovered a huge amount of oil in the Arctic — an amount that's comparable to the resource base of Saudi Arabia. But there was also a huge problem: Russia doesn't have the ability to drill in cold offshore conditions without Exxon's expertise. But because of the ongoing sanctions, Exxon can't drill there anymore. And “as Russia’s existing fields in Siberia run dry, the country needs to develop new reserves as it vies with the US to be the world’s largest oil and gas producer,” Bloomberg reported in September. So Russia really needs that oil in the Arctic. The partnership was also key for Exxon. Since Russia is the company's second-biggest exploration area, this is a critical loss. Wikimedia CommonsThe red area is where Rosneft found oil. Putin and Modi didn't just cover energy agreements. The two countries strengthened their military alliance. The leaders signed a document allowing Indian military to train in Russian military training camps, and Modi said that Russia will remain India's top arms suppler. While the West is punishing Russia with the ongoing sanctions, India just agreed to double its trading with Russia, up to $20 billion in 2015.  All this is part of Russia's larger strategic plan called "turning to the East," according to Vesti, as the country looks to establish partnerships outside of the eurozone and US. Over the past few months, Russia has strengthened its relationship with China. Putin and President Xi Jinping signed a 30-year contract for a gas pipeline in May. Additionally, the two nations have started to work toward building a stronger military alliance. If that weren't enough, Putin announced that he's interested in having closer ties with North Korea. Given Russia's economic woes, it'll be interesting to see how, exactly, Russia's turning East plays out.    FREE AppDownload
The fact that Saudi Arabia produces nearly 10 million barrels of oil a day is not the only reason it’s been called “the central bank of oil.”  The desert kingdom has earned that designation by using that massive output to have a singular influence on the oil market for decades. Most recently, it has used its heavy hand to help keep the average annual price of Brent crude hugging $110 for each of the past three years.  With oil prices plummeting of late, then, it was reasonable to assume that Saudi Arabia would respond to the rout by encouraging its fellow members of OPEC to slash production at their meeting late last month.    That didn’t happen. OPEC’s decision to keep its production target unchanged sent oil prices even lower, and Brent hit a five-year low of $66.84 per barrel and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) closed at $63.05 on Monday. But the long-term implications of the decision may be far more significant than the short-term ones. It’s quite possible that the cartel has decided to abandon its long-held role as a swing producer that could dictate the direction of the market, says Credit Suisse oil analyst Jan Stuart.    In doing so, it’s effectively handing that responsibility to non-OPEC suppliers such as the U.S., Russia and Canada. U.S. shale producers will play a particularly important role in setting prices, Stuart says, because their output is growing fast—so much so that they helped the U.S. overtake Saudi Arabia as the world’s largest oil producer this year.  It’s hard to predict exactly how U.S. shale will handle this role, especially since the industry is made up of hundreds of independent oil companies rather than a small cartel of nations that is used to making collective decisions. “It’s going to be a messy and uneven affair and will take a while,” Stuart says.    The U.S. shale companies will surely be reluctant to put new projects on hold or cut production right away, especially since many are used to the boom times and have promised shareholders rapid growth. But eventually they’ll have to: Credit Suisse estimates that the price of WTI needs to be about $75 per barrel for the industry to keep funding its growth shale fields. But supplies cannot fall all that fast.  Industry inertia means that all else equal, the need to build inventory in the first quarter will most likely keep WTI prices at an average of $62 a barrel in the first quarter, according to Credit Suisse. As companies begin to curtail growth, WTI should rebound to $70 per barrel by the second quarter. The only saving grace for U.S. producers, Stuart says, would be a major disruption in global supply or a pick-up in demand. The former is not exactly the kind of thing a serious management team would count on and the latter is doubtful given sluggish growth in China, Japan and Europe.    Nobody wants to be a swing producer in down times, either. If WTI averages $70 per barrel in 2015, cash flow for shale producers will fall by 20 percent next year and capital expenditures will drop 18 percent, according to Credit Suisse. The likely result, according to Stuart, is that shale production will only grow by 400,000 barrels a day next year, compared to a forecasted increase of 1.1 million barrels this year. Some companies in North Dakota’s Bakken formation will be especially vulnerable because the region has been picked over to a greater degree and resource rocks in the Eagle Ford formation or Permian Basin tend to perform better.    All that said, the end of U.S. shale is not nigh. Sustained lower prices will surely force the industry onto a slower growth path. New drilling projects will be put on hold and there will be layoffs, and Stuart sees total cash flows falling from $170 billion a year to $140 billion. But those companies with strong balance sheets should be able to withstand the impending pressure, and some that need it may still have access to debt markets. “This is not an industry that’s getting into a crisis from a position of weakness, but a position of strength,” Stuart says. “You can’t kill the U.S. shale industry.”  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider, data via Bloomberg This missed analysts' expectations for a 1.7% decline. In the US, the story was even worse for the fast-food giant as same-store sales fell 4.6%. To the right is the staggering chart showing the collapse in US same-store sales over the past five years. Same-store sales represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants open at least 13 months, including those temporarily closed.  On Monday, McDonald's also announced that its fourth-quarter results would most likely be affected by the continued negative top-line performance, as well as a $0.07 to $0.10 per-share earnings impact because of a supply issue in China and a $0.07 to $0.09 per-share earnings impact because of the strength of the US dollar.  In a statement, McDonald's said it was "diligently working to enhance its market, simplify the menu, and implement a more locally driven organizational structure to increase relevance with consumers." The disappointing numbers from McDonald's come as the chain faces increasing competition from restaurants like Chipotle. Last week we noted that even the Federal Reserve's fieldwork on the US economy showed the consumer shift toward outlets like Chipotle and away from chains like McDonald's.  Business Insider's Ashley Lutz reported that McDonald's CEO Don Thompson noted the shift in consumer attitudes that have plagued the company, and almost exactly described what it's like to eat at Chipotle.  "Customers want to personalize their meals with locally relevant ingredients," Thompson said. "They also want to enjoy eating in a contemporary, inviting atmosphere. And they want choices — choices in how they order, choices in what they order, and how they’re served." There are more than 600,000 ways to order food at Chipotle. In the third quarter, Chipotle's same-store sales rose 19.8%. McDonald's same-store-sales fell 3.3% over the same period.    FREE AppDownload
Bill Gates recently called out a staggering fact from the historian Vaclav Smil: This might be the most mind-blowing fact I learned this year: http://t.co/jJB3cEoq7j pic.twitter.com/Dr34RLeJbU The significance of cement can't be understated. A powdery substance made with calcined lime and clay, it is a binder that enables the creation of concrete (along with water and gravel or sand). Concrete, according to Smil (whom Gates calls his favorite author), is the most important man-made material in history. It has been used in everything from the Pantheon to the Hoover Dam to China's incredibly big Three Gorges Dam. Where there's cement consumption, there's growth, and there's never been anything like what's happening in China. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Sheila RooneyAs regular readers know, for the past year, I have been worrying out loud about US stock prices. Specifically, I have suggested that a decline of 30% to 50% would not be a surprise. I haven't predicted a crash. I also haven't made a timing call: I have no idea what the market will do over the next year or two. But I do think it is likely that stocks will deliver way below-average returns for the next seven to 10 years. So far, these concerns have just made me sound like Chicken Little. The S&amp;P 500 is up strongly from last fall's level. That's good for me, because I own stocks, and I'm not selling them. But my concerns haven't changed. I've described them in detail below. For what it's worth, this week, we got a reminder of how fast market sentiment can turn. A market that was seemingly unstoppable suddenly dropped 4% this week. This reminded everyone of a similar "air pocket" in October that took us down about 8%. And it followed another sharp dip in August. These "air pockets" may mean nothing. They may just be, as many suggest, "buying opportunities." But it should not surprise anyone if they turn out to be the first warnings of a far deeper pullback. And they also serve as a healthy reminder about the way markets crash. Specifically: Markets do not just suddenly "crash." Rather, one day, they just stop going up. Then they go down a bit. Then they go down a bit more. Then, just as a few confident bulls are starting to question their convictions, they rocket upwards, reassuring everyone that the party will go on. But then they lurch downward again, erasing all those gains. And then they drop a bit more. (In other words, they behave just the way the market did this week.) Soon, after a few weeks or months of declines interrupted by violent rallies, investors find themselves down a meaningful percent from the top. Say, 5%. Or 10%. Or 20%. Then, more worried, they begin to ask themselves whether it might be time to "take profits." But they also worry that the pullback might just be the usual "buying opportunity," and they know they'll feel like boneheads if they sell at the bottom. So they hang on. Then, the economic fundamentals often begin to deteriorate — revealing the "trouble ahead" that a handful of early observers saw. Meanwhile, the market drops some more. And then it rallies violently again. And then drops more.  Soon, we're down 20%-30%. Investors are now significantly down from the top, so far down that they think they can't possibly sell now, because they will have given up so much ground. And also, the bottom can't be much farther down, right? And the last thing they want to do is be the idiot who sells at the bottom. Then the market drops some more. Then it rallies sharply, triggering a great sigh of relief that the bottom is finally in. Then it drops some more. And so on. Soon, we're down 30%-40%. Now, everyone who hasn't sold feels like an idiot. Now, some people who considered themselves long-term investors begin to panic about how bad the crash is going to get ("I might lose everything!") Now, the fundamentals look distinctly bad. Now, lots of investors decide that selling at the bottom would be preferable to losing more. And then the rate of selling accelerates. Then, we're down 40%-50%. And it will still be anyone's guess where we'll go from there. But at least stocks will be much cheaper and, therefore, likely much better investments over the long term. Not that anyone will care. That's how markets crash. The light does not just turn from green to red one day and tell everyone it's time to sell. So here's hoping this week's action is just another "air pocket." As I said above, I have no idea what the market will do over the near term. But there are two reasons I think long-term stock performance will be lousy: Below, I'll discuss those concerns one at a time. Before I do, though, a quick note: Sometimes people are confused by my still owning stocks while getting increasingly worried about a sharp price decline. If I think the market might drop, they ask, why don't I sell? Here's why I don't sell:  Yes, if stocks drop 50%, and then we enter a Japan-like scenario in which they continue to drop for two decades, I'll feel like an idiot (and poor). But otherwise, I'm OK with sharp price declines. I'm a long-term bull. And crashes create the opportunity to buy stocks with much higher likely future returns. Here's more on those two big concerns... In the past year or two, stocks have moved from being "expensive" to "very expensive." In fact, according to one historically valid measure, stocks are now more expensive than they have been at any time in the past 130 years with the exception of 1929 and 2000 (and we know what happened in those years).  The chart below is from Yale professor Robert Shiller. It shows the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 for the past 130 years. As you can see, today's PE ratio of 26X is miles above the long-term average of 15X. In fact, it's higher than at any point in the 20th century with the exception of the months that preceded the two biggest stock-market crashes in history. Robert Shiller Does a high PE mean the market is going to crash? No. Sometimes, as in 2000, the PE just keeps getting higher for a while. But, eventually, gravity takes hold, and the rubber-band snaps back violently. And in the past, without exception, a PE as high as today's has foreshadowed lousy returns for the next seven to 10 years. But is it "different this time?" Now, it's possible that it's "different this time." The words "it's different this time" aren't always the most expensive words in the English language. Sometimes things do change, and investors clinging to old measures that are no longer valid miss decades of market gains before they realize their mistake. It's possible that it's different this time, too, that Professor Shiller's PE ratio is no longer valid. Professor Shiller's friend Professor Jeremy Siegel from Wharton thinks that several things have changed and that stocks are still undervalued.  It certainly seems possible that the future average of Professor Shiller's PE ratio will be significantly higher than it has been in the past 130 years. But it would take a major change indeed for the average PE ratio to shift upward by, say, 50%. While we're at it, please note something else in the chart above. Please note that, sometimes — as in the entire first 70 years of the past century — PEs (blue line) can be low even when interest rates (red line) are low. That's worth noting, because today you often hear bulls say that today's high PEs are justified by today's low interest rates. Even if this were true — even if history did not clearly show that you could have low PEs with low rates — this argument would not protect you from future losses, because today's low rates could eventually regress upward to normal. But it's also just not true that low rates always mean high PEs. And in case some of your bullish friends have convinced you that Professor Shiller's P/E analysis is otherwise flawed, check out the chart below. It's from fund manager John Hussman. It shows six valuation measures in addition to the Shiller PE that have been highly predictive of future returns. The left scale shows the predicted 10-year return for stocks according to each valuation measure. The colored lines (except green) show the predicted return for each measure at any given time. The green line is the actual return over the 10 years from that point (it ends 10 years ago). Today, the average expected return for the next 10 years is slightly positive — just under 2% a year. That's not horrible. But it's a far cry from the 10% long-term average. John Hussman, Hussman Funds And, lastly, lest you're tempted to dismiss both Shiller and Hussman as party-pooping idiots, here's one more chart. This one's from James Montier at GMO. Montier, one of Wall Street's smartest strategists, is also very concerned about today's valuations. He does not think it's "different this time." Montier's chart shows that another of the common arguments used to debunk Professor Shiller's PE chart is bogus. Bulls often say that Professor Shiller's PE is flawed because it includes the crappy earnings year during the financial crisis. Montier shows that this criticism is misplaced. Even when you include 2009 earnings (purple), Montier observes, 10-year average corporate earnings (blue) are well above trend (orange). This suggests that, far from overstating how expensive stocks are, Prof. Shiller's chart might be understating it. Jamies Montier, GMO In short, Montier thinks that all the arguments you hear about why today's stock prices are actually cheap are just the same kinds of bogus arguments you always hear in the years leading up to market peaks: Seemingly sophisticated attempts to justify more buying by those who have a vested interest in more buying. So, go ahead and tell yourself that stocks aren't expensive. But be aware of what you're likely doing. What you're likely doing is what others who persuaded themselves to buy stocks near previous market peaks (as I did in 2000) were doing: Saying, "it's different this time." One reason many investors think stocks are reasonably priced is that they are comparing today's stock prices to this year's earnings and next year's expected earnings. In some years, when profit margins are normal, this valuation measure is meaningful. In other years, however — at the peak or trough of the business cycle — comparing prices to one year's earnings can produce a very misleading sense of value. Profit margins tend to be "mean-reverting," meaning that they go through periods of being above or below average but eventually — sometimes violently — regress toward the mean. As a result, it is dangerous to conclude that one year of earnings is a fair measure of long-term "earning power." If you look at a year of high earnings and conclude these high earnings will go on forever, for example, you can get clobbered. (It works the other way, too. In years with depressed earnings, stocks can look artificially expensive. That's one reason a lot of investors missed the buying opportunity during the financial crisis. Measured on 2009's clobbered earnings, stocks looked expensive. But they weren't. They were actually undervalued.) Have a glance at this recent chart of profits as a percent of the economy. Today's profit margins are the highest in history, by a mile. Note that, in every previous instance in which profit margins have reached extreme levels like today's — high and low — they have subsequently reverted to (or beyond) the mean. And when profit margins have reverted, so have stock prices. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. Now, again, you can tell yourself stories about why, this time, profit margins have reached a "permanently high plateau," as a famous economist remarked about stock prices just before the crash in 1929. And, unlike that economist, you might be right. But as you are telling yourself these stories, please recognize that what you are really saying is "It's different this time."  For the past five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping more and more money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. And if you limit your definition of "tightening" to "raising interest rates," the Fed is not yet tightening. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not immediately. And not always. But often. Here's a look at the past 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. Just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, lets zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening is now likely to lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. I think stocks are priced to deliver lousy returns over the next seven to 10 years. I also would not be surprised to see the stock market drop sharply from this level, perhaps as much as 30% to 50% over a couple of years. None of this means for sure that the market will crash or that you should sell stocks (Again — I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) It does mean, however, that you should be mentally prepared for the possibility of a major pullback and lousy long-term returns. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote  FREE AppDownload
Barry Bland/Barcroft Media/Getty The global housing market is a diverse one. Some are red-hot and others are ice-cold. According to the Global Property Guide for Q3: "While house prices have continued to rise in the United States, as in several Asian countries, Brazil, and New Zealand, momentum in almost all of these countries has weakened, and China's housing markets have entered a downturn, as has Singapore's." We've put together a list of the bottom seven markets based on year-over-year, inflation-adjusted price performance as of the third quarter. The chart accompanying each slide shows the year-over-year percentage change in house price. FREE AppDownload
Jeff Bezos spoke with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's IGNITION 2014. Jeff explained the importance of inputs, and why he doesn't put much weight in stock prices. Produced by Devan Joseph Follow BI Video: On Facebook   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
 Warren Buffett could never stand school.  He was a pain to teachers in grade school, and just as bad in high school.  As a teen, he was already a hustling businessman, raking in $53,000 by age 16. So while he didn't see the need to go to college and study business, he dutifully attended the University of Pennsylvania when his parents told him to.  But in the spring of 1950, when he was just a few credits away from graduating, he found something to love about formal education.  Its name was Harvard Business School, minter of tycoons, US presidents, and oligarchs. By this time, Buffett already knew what he wanted to do with his life: become ridiculously wealthy, ridiculously quick. He wanted to be a millionaire by age 35, with all the security and freedom that comes with that kind of dough. Alice Schroeder writes in her biography, "Snowball," that HBS offered Buffett things he couldn't get by teaching himself: connections and prestige. So he took the train from Omaha to Chicago, where he'd have his Harvard interview. It felt like a sure thing — Buffett had already told a friend, "Join me at Harvard." But the certainty was, in Schroeder's account, misplaced. She writes: Warren was relying on his knowledge of stocks to make a good impression in the interview. So far his epicureans had been that whenever he started talking about stocks, people could not help but listen. His relatives, his teachers, his fellow students — all wanted to hear him discourse on this subject.  But he had misunderstood Harvard's mission, which was to turn out leaders. Buffett, a 19-year-old whiz kid obsessed with a single subject, was not ready to be one. "I looked about 16 and and emotionally was about nine," Buffett recalled. "I spent 10 minutes with the Harvard alumnus who was doing the interview, and he assessed my capabilities and turned me down."  Yet this might have been the most helpful spurning in business-school history. Schroeder says that Buffett would "later come to consider his rejection by Harvard as the pivotal episode of his life."  Barred from Cambridge, he was forced to look elsewhere.  Leafing through the catalog for Columbia University, his eyes fell upon a life-changing name: Benjamin Graham. "I had just read Graham's book," Buffett recalled. That book was the "The Intelligent Investor," a guide to stocks analysis. Buffett would later say that finding that book at age 19 was one of the luckiest moments of his life, since it gave him the framework for his investing.  All of a sudden, Buffett could go meet the teacher whose insights had already changed his life. If he went to Columbia, he could surely convince Graham to become his mentor. "It was like [Warren] had found a god," said his housemate at the time.  So he applied to Columbia.  Thankfully for Buffett, it was a written application, allowing him to tailor the way he presented himself. Even better, Columbia wasn't trying to create mature leaders of society; Graham and his colleagues taught the craft of investing. And Buffett was a young craftsman of exceptional ability.  He got in.  Now he's worth an estimated $74 billion, making him the second-richest man in America.      FREE AppDownload
HerschelThe modern lady knows how to hustle, so chances are, you've already got the holidays under control. But there's always that one person in your life who's tough to shop for – the dad who never asks for anything, or the new friend you only met this year. Fear not, ladies. We're here to inspire. Business Insider made a list of unique, useful gifts for everyone in your life. Go check them out. FREE AppDownload
Thomas Sanders is a vine star with over 4.5 million followers, and the winner of Ryan Seacrest's "Favorite Vine Celebrity" contest. In this compilation Sanders narrates the lives of unexpected people. Follow Thomas Sanders: On Vine and On YouTube Produced by Devan Joseph. Video edited by Topcompilation.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
America's population is growing, and should continue to grow for the next several decades. The US Census Bureau recently released updated projections of the makeup of the US population over the next few decades. Using those projections, Business Insider put together this animated population pyramid showing how the US will develop. The horizontal bars show how many men or women of a particular age are projected to be alive in a particular year: 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Business Insider/Andy Kiersz/Mike Nudelman, data from US Census Bureau				 (As a side note, the numbers to the left of the vertical axis; representing the number of women, are negative as a side effect of how we made the charts.) The US population is expected to keep growing through at least 2060, the last year of the projections. By that time, the Census Bureau predicts that the US will have around 417 million people, up from the about 319 million Americans today. The US is also going to continue aging, though to a less extreme extent than other developed countries. The median age in 2060 is projected to be about 43, as opposed to being about 37 in 2014. This still puts America in a better place than countries like Japan, whose median age is projected to be 56 by 2050. FREE AppDownload
The rift at the top of the ECB is dangerous Will the European Central Bank introduce a quantitative-easing programme involving big purchases of government bonds? At a press briefing on December 4th Mario Draghi, the ECB's president, had little new to convey other than a semantic change to the ECB's plan to increase the size of its balance-sheet by EUR1 trillion ($1.2 trillion), which is now "intended" rather than "expected". Nonetheless, the tweak was controversial: six or seven members of the 24-strong council, including three of the six people on the executive board, are reported to have opposed it. Mr Draghi (pictured, right) insists that a majority on the council can overrule dissenters. That is no more than a statement of fact. But Mr Draghi's readiness to highlight it contrasted with his more emollient tone just a month earlier. Then, he was at pains to paint a picture of a council united in its determination to ensure that inflation, currently a mere 0.3%, does not stay too low for too long. This had followed some unfavourable press coverage about Mr Draghi's reported high-handedness towards fellow council members. Mr Draghi undoubtedly has a very different style of leadership to that of Jean-Claude Trichet. His French predecessor had at times to override opposition on the council, notably over the ECB's first foray into government-bond buying in May 2010. But he was assiduous in trying to build a consensus that he then presented. By contrast, Mr Draghi is more willing to strike out on his own, putting pressure on the rest of the council to follow, notably with his most famous intervention, the impromptu pledge at a conference in London in July 2012 to do "whatever it takes" to save the euro. But Mr Draghi was aided then by a sense of emergency, as the euro area teetered on the brink. The problem of worryingly low inflation that the ECB now faces is grave but it is not existential. Some speculate that Mr Draghi may be in a hurry to get on with quantitative easing because he would like to move on to a new job next year, as president of Italy, when Giorgio Napolitano (pictured, left) is expected to retire. (Mr Draghi has dismissed the idea that he might leave the bank.) Whatever he does, the in-fighting on the council does not bode well for the ECB's ability to lift inflation. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
APIsraeli soldiers at a ceremony in Jerusalem in 2007.Israel owes Iran a lot of money over a commercial partnership that was severed decades ago and a legal case is slowly moving through European courts to force its government to pay out its debt. While the ruling is still preliminary, Israel may have to pay up to $100 million in compensation to its worst enemy, according to a preliminary decision handed down by a Swiss arbitrator following a legal dispute that's already lasted two decades. That ruling, which was actually handed down nearly two years ago, was only recently brought to the attention of the Israeli public after Israeli newspaper Haaretz got its hands on the court's documents. The dispute dates back to a time likely forgotten by many Israelis and Iranians alike, when the two countries were not only not at verbal war with each other, but actually business partners. In 1968, when Iran was still under the rule of its last Shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the two countries joined hands to create the Iran Eilat Ashkelon Pipeline Company — a pipeline today better known for a massive spill that saw 600,000 gallons of crude oil flow along the Jordanian border in early December. The deal allowed for Iranian oil to be shipped to the Israeli port of Eilat on the Red Sea, and then trucked overland to Ashkelon, a shortcut to bypass Egypt's costly Suez Canal. From Ashkelon, the oil was shipped off to buyers in Europe and across the world — a profitable deal for both Israel and Iran. But the 1979 revolution, which overthrew Iran's shah, effectively put an end to both the deal and the partnership between the two countries. Iran cut all diplomatic ties with Israel and some 800,000 tons of Iranian oil remained in the pipeline and unpaid for — worth about $400 million in today's prices. For the past three decades, Iran has been trying to get that money back — with interest — and in 2013, a Swiss court ruled that it should.  Until recently, few Israelis knew of the arbitration, but those who did said the country won't have it. "We have a situation in which Iran calls for the destruction of Israel, sees Israel as an enemy, and supplies terrorist organizations against Israel, but on the other hand, it takes Israel to court for a commercial dispute," Yoav Harris, an Israeli maritime lawyer who came across the Swiss ruling and became interested in the multi-decade history of the dispute, told VICE News. "It cannot be both ways." Harris said the case is hardly discussed in Israel, but that the Israeli government could answer in kind. "Obviously Israel's counter argument can be loss of profit because the party that ended this cooperation was the Iranian regime," he noted. "They could ask for the damages caused to the state of Israel by Iran." Instead, Israel has rejected outside arbitration — by France first, and then Switzerland — because of a clause in the original contract stipulating that the two partner countries should first try to work it out on their own. The 1968 agreement, cited in the Swiss ruling reviewed by VICE News, stipulated that, should a dispute arise, and "failing any agreement to settle it by other means," the two countries could resort to appointing arbitrators. Failed that, the Paris-based International Chamber of Commerce could be asked to step in and appoint a third arbitrator. But the current Iranian regime, which does not recognize the legitimacy of the state of Israel, skipped the "other means" part, and went straight to arbitration. In the mid 1980s, when Iran first started its attempt to recoup the money, then minister of energy Moshe Shahal agreed that Israel should pay its debt, and suggested sending a representative to Iran — an unheard-of proposal. In 1994, Iran proceeded to appoint its own arbitrator, but Israel refused to do the same, citing the fact that the contract determined direct negotiations should have been tried first. Finally, in 2004, Iran filed a claim against Israel for $800 million, half the value of the assets connected to the 1968 agreement, plus damages. Lawyers representing Israel repeatedly appealed, but their claims were rejected in 2013, and Israel was ordered to pay $250,000 in court fees. As for the settlement itself, that's likely years away — if it ever happens. The National Iranian Oil Company, which filed the claim and operates under Iran's Ministry of Petroleum, did not respond to VICE News' requests for comment. According to the Swiss ruling, Israel filed a series of counterclaims, which so far have been rejected. "It's a very strange situation because the arbitration clause on which the Iranians rely on says that both parties will try to resolve the dispute amicably, in a friendly way, and if it fails each side will nominate its own arbitrators and if these arbitrators will not reach an agreement the head of the International Chamber of Commerce will nominate a third arbitrator which will be the decisive one," Harris said. The Iranians, he added, skipped "all the amicable parts." "You can't call someone your enemy and also ask them to give you money," he said. But a debt is a debt, others say — though the level to which relationships between Israel and Iran have become strained may make it almost impossible to settle. "I think people in Israel don't want their country to pay Iran, even though many people believe that a deal is a deal," Meir Javedanfar, an Iranian-Israeli analyst, told VICE News. "And in the current climate, I don't think there's any politician that would dare pay $100 million of public money to the current rulers of Iran. "Israel owes Iran money, full stop, there's no dispute about that: there's Iranian oil that Israel used and according to the contract Israel needs to pay Iran," he added. "But according to the same contract, it needs to be done through direct negotiations. If they are not even willing to sit down with Israel bilaterally to negotiate this thing, that kind of negates the contract." After some thwarted attempts at an overture in the early 2000s, Israel-Iran relations have been on a downward spiral for years, but despite some politicians' attempts to make the issue a national priority, most Israelis don't really care, Javedanfar added. "In Israel the most important issue is that it's too damn expensive to live here," he said. "Nobody here wants Iran to have nuclear weapons but I think in some cases some Israeli politicians have tried to use it to divert attention." Iran, for its part, is hardly in this for the sake of winning a political victory, he suggested. "It's a bit bizarre that Iran wants a country to pay which it believes shouldn't exist," he said. "They just want the money back, they're under sanctions, they need money badly." FREE AppDownload
APA customer makes a purchase with a MasterCard using Apple Pay on the iPhone 6.The mobile wallet was pitched as an innovation that would entirely replace the countless credit cards and loose change in your pocket or purse. And earlier this year, it seemed that the promise might be fulfilled with the release of Apple Pay in October. But even with Apple’s market clout, the adoption rate of mobile payments has been slow, according to a survey by Infoscout on Black Friday. Of shoppers who had the iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, both of which include Apple Pay, only 9.1 tried the service on the year’s biggest shopping day. And only 4.6 percent intended to use it for future purchases. Meanwhile, a number of competing platforms are racing to the market, potentially making it more confusing and fragmented for consumers and retailers alike. Toward the end of 2014, the mobile wallet market exploded with dozens of new apps and services. And with the development of smart credit cards such as Coin, which aims to combine multiple credit cards into one smartcard independent of your phone, it wasn’t limited to smartphones. Adoption Remains Slow Did the concept of the mobile wallet promise too much? Or is it just slightly ahead of its time? “I think the expectations are way too high,” Roger Entner, Recon Analytics lead analyst, said. “We’re looking at a profound shift in consumer behavior, and those are always glacial -- slow but unstoppable.” That can be an understatement. Mobile wallets were barely a blip on the radar before Apple Pay’s debut, despite efforts from Google Wallet and Softcard to spur adoption in past years. Research firm Gartnerlast year reduced its forecast of payments through near-field communication technology by 40 percent, citing poor performance. The firm said that NFC-based payments accounted for 2 percent of $235 billion in mobile transactions in 2013 and would grow to just 5 percent in 2017. Though Apple Pay had led the pack in spurring mobile wallet adoption, with a staggering 1 million credit cards registered in 72 hours, according to Apple CEO Tim Cook, one weakness is already apparent: its limited user base. The company has sold millions of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus units since their launch in September, yet Apple Pay is currently limited to the U.S., making it impractical for frequent travelers. On the merchant end, Apple Pay has seen resistance, especially from members of CurrentC, a competing platform consisting of retailers such as Walmart, Rite Aid, CVS Health and many more. Rite Aid and CVS have blocked Apple Pay, Google Wallet and Softcard in anticipation of CurrentC’s launch next year. Baby Steps Toward Widespread Acceptance On the document side there’s been more progress. Thirty states now accept digital insurance cards, andIowa is set to begin issuing digital driver’s licenses through a mobile app. The mobile wallet may not be everything promised in 2014. But Entner believes it will eventually find its footing. It took years for the mobile phone to gain widespread acceptance, and it may take a few years for the mobile wallet to get to the same point. Mobile payments are expected to grow to a $142 billion industry in the U.S. by 2019, according to Forrester. For now, swiping a credit card is likely to remain the choice method of payment due to its ease of use. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Sarah BuckleyDid you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts, both short and long, from the last week that make for good weekend reading: Today in the Wall Street gender gap — Ben Walsh Why America's middle class is lost — Jim Tankersley The first woman to chair a big British bank will be Shriti Vadera of Santander UK — FT Venezuela is in deep trouble — Katia Porzecanski "Needham, the smallest bank, was also the thirstiest, but everyone else wanted in too." — Matt Levine "Neither the protectionist incumbent nor the anti-regulation upstart is pro-consumer. Both are pro-profit." — Catherine Rampell You are almost certainly working too much — The Economist Self promotion: The US economy will be playing by new rules in 2015 — Akin Oyedele Here's where the highest paid New Yorkers live — Andy Kiersz Putin took another sharp turn away from the West— Elena Holodny Oil is not the biggest story in markets right now: It's about bonds — Myles Udland A World Cup gambling sting snared alleged Chinese mafia dons in Las Vegas — Linette Lopez The most bullish chart you'll see has a big stock market crash in the middle of it — Sam Ro This is what GDP growth looks like around the world — Me FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsAll year, Jeffrey Gundlach has nailed what would happen with interest rates and the US dollar. In a new presentation titled, "This Time It's Different," Gundlach outlines the challenges he sees facing the Federal Reserve and the global economy right now.  Gundlach also highlighted some of the complications that the crash in oil prices could pose for the global economy. And of course, Gundlach staged a defense of his presentation's title.  "It's always different," Gundlach said. "The one thing that is constant in the world of investing is change... Things are always changing." Go through all 60 of Gundlach's slides and you'll see what he's talking about.  FREE AppDownload
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's Tencent Holdings Ltd &lt;0700.HK&gt; has been given approval to start its banking operations, the banking regulator said, making the internet firm the first of five recently approved private banks to open its doors to clients. The launch of Tencent's private bank marks a gradual opening of China's closely guarded banking sector that is currently dominated by state giants. As part of broader efforts to channel more loans to the country's cash-starved small businesses, the banking regulator has so far approved the development more than 10 private lenders in Tianjin, Shanghai, Zhejiang and Guangdong. Shenzhen Qianhai Weizhong Bank, funded by Tencent, Shenzhen Baiyeyuan Investment Co. and Shenzhen Liye Group, had a registered capital of 3 billion yuan ($484.93 million), the China Banking and Regulatory Commission said in a statement late on Friday. Also known as Webank, the lender would focus on loans to individuals as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, the regulator said. Local business daily Caixin said Webank would officially start its banking operations on Dec. 28. Prior to the launch of Webank, China Minsheng Bank was the country's sole private lender.     (Reporting by Fayen Wong; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Civil rights leader Reverend Al Sharpton will meet next week with Sony Pictures Entertainment Co-Chairman Amy Pascal and decide whether her emails about President Barack Obama's race warrant calling for her resignation. Pascal is under pressure after her private emails were exposed by hackers who attacked the computer network of the Hollywood movie studio, a unit of Sony Corp &lt;6758.T&gt;. In exchanges with producer Scott Rudin, Pascal guesses that Obama might be a fan of "Django Unchained" or other films with black actors or themes. The emails were published by Buzzfeed and Reuters has not confirmed them. In a statement on Thursday, Sharpton said Pascal's statements reflected a "lack of diversity" in Hollywood. He said Sony needed to take steps "to respect the African American community and reflect that respect in their hiring and business practices." Pascal and Sharpton had a "candid conversation" when she phoned him to apologize on Thursday, said Sharpton's spokeswoman Jacky Johnson. But Sharpton "made clear he has not accepted her apology," she said. Sharpton is "inclined" to call for Pascal's resignation, "but has agreed to hear her out in person" in New York before making a decision, Johnson said. A Sony spokeswoman had no comment. Pascal, in a statement on Thursday, apologized and said her emails were "insensitive and inappropriate." She told the Hollywood Reporter she reached out to Sharpton and Reverend Jesse Jackson and wanted to start "a healing process." "I'm being proactive," she said. "And I want to accept responsibility for these stupid, callous remarks." White House spokesman Josh Earnest, at his daily news briefing on Friday, said "the decision that Ms. Pascal made to apologize was the appropriate one." Aaron Sorkin, who wrote Sony hit "The Social Network," defended Pascal on Friday. "Amy knows more than a lot of people what it's like to battle stereotypes," Sorkin told The Hollywood Reporter. "She's a woman at a large corporation who worked her way from assistant to the chairman's office. No one in the world feels worse than she does right now."   (Reporting by Lisa Richwine; Additional reporting by Steve Holland in Washington; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - "Will they or won't they?" is the question on investors' minds as the Federal Reserve policy-setting committee meets next week for the last time this year. Markets have followed Fed speakers closely in recent weeks for clues on whether the U.S. central bank will change key language in its post-meeting statement regarding how long it will keep benchmark interest rates near zero. Some expect the Fed to remove the reference to "considerable time" when setting a time frame for near-zero rates and maybe replace it, as it did ahead of the 2004-2005 monetary policy tightening cycle, with a nod to being "patient". But that belief has been complicated somewhat by the slump in oil prices that has pulled inflation expectations lower and caused the S&amp;P stock index &lt;.SPX&gt; to post its first negative week in eight on Friday. The expectation of lower inflation could prevent the Fed from changing its current stance. Client notes from Goldman Sachs, Citi and Bank of America/Merrill Lynch this week deal with expectations for the removal of the wording, roughly agreeing that however close the call is, it is more likely than not that the phrase will go away. "They are going to remove it; I don’t think (Fed Chair Janet Yellen) is going to keep it in there just because of what we are seeing with the energy sector," said Sean McCarthy, regional chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank in Scottsdale, Arizona. "All the other data has been strong, whether you are looking at construction, at the ISM numbers, and especially the jobs data that she cares about most." Indeed, recent statements from Fed officials suggest the language could be changed. Goldman Sachs, in a note, pointed to "widespread use of the word 'patient'" as a signal that "some participants would prefer to revise the current language." The lack of consensus on the Fed's move all but guarantees that whatever the Federal Open Market Committee's statement says on Wednesday the stock market will be volatile, as it usually is on Fed decision days. "The goal," said the BofA/Merrill note, "will be to smooth the market’s reaction. The Fed does not intend to signal a fundamental shift in policy, and we expect chair Yellen’s press conference remarks to reinforce this point." The FOMC meets on Tuesday and Wednesday with a statement and forecasts expected Wednesday at 2:00 p.m. EST (1900 GMT), followed by Yellen's press conference half an hour later. Markets are pricing in a disinflationary environment in the next few years. Short-term inflation expectations as measured by the yield gap between five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) &lt;us5ytip=tweb&gt; and regular five-year Treasuries &lt;us5yt=rr&gt; fell to 1.16 percent on Friday, the lowest in nearly 4-1/2 years, Tradeweb and Reuters data showed. "There is no pressure out there to get ahead of inflation because there is no inflation out there," said Terry DuFrene, global investment specialist at J.P. Morgan Private Bank in New Orleans. Yellen is seen as erring on the side of being too dovish rather than risking a move that comes in too soon and, compounded with the soft data out of the euro zone, Japan and China, adds to the risk of a slowdown in the U.S. economy. However fed funds rate futures also show that the market expects a rate hike at some point in the third quarter of next year. The Fed is faced with the need to be slightly more hawkish in order to marginally move towards starting the tightening cycle.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos Additional reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
