Thomson Reuters A customer uses a petrol nozzle to fill up his tank in a gas station in NiceBy Henning Gloystein SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices fell on Tuesday, with Brent mired near a 5-1/2 year low close to $60 per barrel, as Chinese factory activity slowed and concerns rose over the health of emerging market economies and their currencies. Oil prices have almost halved since June amid rising output and cooling demand, but producer club OPEC has so far resisted calls to cut production to shore up prices. Data showing activity in China's factory sector shrank for the first time in seven months in December, adding to a slew of reports showing more fatigue in the world's No.2 economy, further dragged on oil prices. Brent for January delivery  was at $60.81 a barrel at 0420 GMT (11:20 p.m. EST), down 25 cents and close to the 5-1/2-year low of $60.20 hit on Monday. U.S. crude for January delivery  was at 55.58 a barrel, down 33 cents, off a low of $55.02 reached on Monday - the weakest since May 2009. "The oil market is experiencing a cost re-basement which makes determining when the market is oversold extremely difficult," U.S. bank Goldman Sachs said. "For the market to be oversold, it requires prices to be far below costs, (which) are falling nearly as fast as the price, which means oil producers can spend less to get the same or potentially even more in terms of production," it added. Analysts said that weakening emerging market economies and their currencies were also weighing on oil prices. In Russia, the central bank raised its key interest rate to 17 percent from 10.5 percent early Tuesday in an emergency move to halt a collapse in the rouble, triggering sell-offs in other currencies where the economies rely on commodity exports. "Further, the sharp decline in nearly all commodity prices and the weakening in commodity currencies creates headwinds for oil demand in the commodity producing emerging markets in Latin America and the Middle East. Historically these regions didn’t contribute much to oil demand, today they do," Goldman Sachs said.   (Editing by Himani Sarkar) FREE AppDownload
The results of yesterday’s snap election in Japan came in largely as expected — with a decisive win that maintains, and potentially increases, the super-majority for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). Abe called the election two years early and, despite extremely low voter turnout, his gamble appears to have paid off. The victory now gives him a fresh, four-year mandate to implement his pro-growth policies, known as Abenomics, at a time when the country has slipped back into recession and struggles to escape deflation. It is also a clear message to the spending hawks in Japan’s Lower House (or Diet), who are looking to tame the nation’s astronomical debt sooner rather than later. Corporate reforms should now continue We’ve been bullish on Japanese stocks for some months, and the LDP’s win only strengthens our case. Despite a run-up in price this fall, we think Japan remains a relative bargain in the developed markets. Of course, cheapness can also result in a value trap without a catalyst to turn things around. We see three such catalysts, essentially corresponding to the three arrows in the Abenomics quiver. We’ve seen the first two already at work in the form of unprecedented monetary easing by the Bank of Japan – one of the few major central banks still injecting liquidity – and a flexible fiscal policy via government spending. The third – pro-growth policy leadership and structural reforms – may be the most important one going forward. Prime Minister Abe should now have enough political support to implement pro-growth policies, such as lowering corporate taxes, reforming the labor market and deregulating energy and farming. In addition, there are other positive catalysts for stocks going forward. Japan’s giant pension fund has committed to doubling its allocation to stocks, which should result in a strong boost to flows. Companies are focusing more on raising shareholder return and are aggressively deploying cash — buying back shares and raising dividends to their highest level in six years. In addition, there is more merger and acquisition activity, better earnings, improved corporate governance and more women on the payrolls. At the same time, promised labor market liberalization should increase wages — and consumer spending. While Abe and his party now have the time and the mandate to implement their agenda, they will need to navigate the path ahead with care. I’m keeping my eye on two things. The first is the potential for “bad” inflation brought on by the plunging yen and rising import costs, which could curb spending. The second is Japan’s massive national debt, currently around two times GDP. Rates need to stay low, and the recovery to continue, in order for the country to service its debts. (See our interactive chart for more detail on the economy.) That said, we think these risks are low, with more potential upside than downside. If you’re looking for a way to access the Japan market, consider iShares MSCI Japan ETF (EWJ) or its currency-hedged sibling, the iShares Currency Hedged MSCI Japan ETF (HEWJ). Carefully consider the Funds’ investment objectives, risk factors, and charges and expenses before investing. This and other information can be found in the Funds’ prospectuses or, if available, the summary prospectuses which may be obtained by visiting www.iShares.com or www.blackrock.com. Read the prospectus carefully before investing. Investing involves risk, including possible loss of principal. International investing involves risks, including risks related to foreign currency, limited liquidity, less government regulation and the possibility of substantial volatility due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks often are heightened for investments in emerging/developing markets and in concentrations of single countries. HEWJ’s use of derivatives may reduce the Fund’s returns and/or increase volatility and subject the Fund to counterparty risk, which is the risk that the other party in the transaction will not fulfill its contractual obligation. The Fund could suffer losses related to its derivative positions because of a possible lack of liquidity in the secondary market and as a result of unanticipated market movements, which losses are potentially unlimited.  There can be no assurance that the Fund’s hedging transactions will be effective. The Funds are distributed by BlackRock Investments, LLC (together with its affiliates, “BlackRock”). The iShares Funds are not sponsored, endorsed, issued, sold or promoted by MSCI Inc., nor does this company make any representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Funds. BlackRock is not affiliated with MSCI Inc. This material represents an assessment of the market environment at a specific time and is not intended to be a forecast of future events or a guarantee of future results. This information should not be relied upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding the funds or any security in particular.   ©2014 BlackRock, Inc. All rights reserved. iSHARES and BLACKROCK are registered trademarks of BlackRock, Inc., or its subsidiaries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. FREE AppDownload
China has lost it. HSBC's purchasing managers index (PMI) came in at 49.5, analysts expected a read of 49.8.  That's problematic, as any reading below 50 indicates that China's manufacturing sector is contracting. This is the worst reading the country has had in seven months. If that does happen it's the continuation of a trend. Last month HSBC's read came in around 50. The question is, ultimately, will China ease and back away from its commitment not to juice its economy with stimulus — to let it rebalance naturally on the purchasing power of its own people? But that isn't happening fast enough, and the economy is slowing much, much faster. China has asked banks to boost lending already, but analysts don't think that's enough. What China really needs is a full scale restructuring of its weak debt-laden corporate sector. If that happens, it will take pressue off China's banks. They're the ones holding all this debt — and likely they're wary of taking on any more. That's why, when the government asks them to lend more, they'll likely do whatever they can to take on as little debt as possible (which ends up helping borrowers little as well). "For commercial banks, short-term lending carries less credit and liquidity risk and long-term lending," Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao told Business Insider last week. "Because they are more risk averse nowadays, they would prefer to lend short term if they have to lend. But that does not meet Beijing's wish of supporting investment demand." This is bad, people. FREE AppDownload
High-yield bonds are selling off.  On Monday, we highlighted a report that said Josh Birnbaum, the ex-Goldman trader who made big bets against subprime mortgages during the financial crisis, was now targeting high-yield bonds.  But the concern surrounding the high-yield bond space is really about one thing: energy bonds.  The energy sector comprises about 15% of the high-yield bond market, and amid the decline in the price of oil, concerns around some of this debt have increased as companies see oil fall below what may be their "breakeven" price of production. In a note on Monday, Kevin Horan at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices highlighted the following chart, showing that while there is weakness in the high-yield bond space, this weakness is really about high-yield energy bonds.  Through Friday, high-yield bonds as a whole were down about 3% this month but still up 1% this year.  Meanwhile, high-yield energy bonds were down more than 8% this month and more than 9.5% this year.  S&P Dow Jones Indices FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Michael DorauschPut down the Bud and try something new.With more than 3,000 craft breweries in the US alone and countless others around the globe, the world of craft beer can be intimidating, and so can trying something different from your usual brew. Recently launched personalized beer and wine suggestion app Next Glass helped us round up 12 craft alternatives to the most commonly ordered beers. Next Glass takes user ratings to create an algorithm that suggests similar wines or beers, taking the question of "will I like it?" out of the equation. Kenya Breweries makes its Tusker Premium Lager from locally sourced ingredients around the Savannah and the Maasai Mara. Light and biscuit-y, Tusker is a top-selling beer in Kenya, and available around the US. Based in Ewing, New Jersey, River Horse Brewing Company's Summer Blonde Ale is crisp and easy to drink. Like Bud Light, its low alcohol content (4.5%) means it's great if you plan on having more than one. Blue Moon is known for its citrus notes and light body. Coronado Brewing Company, in Coronado, California, brews its Orange Avenue Wit with orange zest, like Blue Moon, but also incorporates coriander and orange blossom honey for sweetness. Lightly malty with the pleasant hoppiness of a traditional lager, Birra Moretti is the Italian version of Heineken — and in fact, is brewed by Heineken Italia, so it won't be a huge jump in making the switch. Pittsburgh Brewing Company's Iron City Beer is an American lager with sweet corn and wheat aromas. It's lightly hopped, and light in body. Charlottesville, Virginia's Starr Hill Brewing Co. earned multiple gold medals at the Great American Beer Festival for its Dark Starr Irish Dry Stout. Velvet-y, like Guinness, this beer features the roasted flavors of coffee and dark chocolate. Miller Lite is a light, drinkable lager which, at 96 calories, is a great beer for those watching their waistlines. Japan's Kirin Brewery Co.'s Kirin LIGHT is comparable, at 95 calories, with an enjoyably hoppy taste. One of Sam Adams' most popular beers is its Boston Lager. Heavy Seas Beer, from Halethorpe, Maryland, makes its Cutlass Amber Lager uses some of the same hops, and has a warm, toasted quality. The Lion Brewery Crisp and dry, Lionshead Premium Lager from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania's The Lion Brewery is thirst-quenching, with just a hint of sweetness in the finish. Based in Cleveland, Ohio, Great Lakes Brewing Co.'s Eliot Ness Amber Lager is a classic example of a Vienna-style lager: malty from the grains and crisp and a little bitter from the hops. Westminster, Massachusetts' Wachusett Brewing Co.'s Nut Brown Ale is rich and nutty. A light body and low alcohol content keep the beer from being overpowering. Sierra Nevada is one of the original craft breweries, but its large production volume — about 1 million barrels a year — makes it widely available and has people wondering, "what else?" Highland Brewing Co., in Asheville, North Carolina, makes Little Hump Spring, an American pale ale brewed with three different kinds of hops that finishes nice and dry. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovRussia's Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina. Russia just raised interest rates to 17% from 10.5%. According to a statement from Russia's central bank, Russia has taken its key interest rate to 17% from 10.5% in a stunning decision made after the collapse of the ruble on Monday. The Bank of Russia's statement said the decision was driven by the need to limit significant devaluation in the ruble and inflation risks.  The announcement was made at 1 a.m. local time in Moscow. Last Thursday, Russia hiked rates to 10.5% from 8% in an effort to combat inflation, which rose 9.1% year on year in November. This surprise announcement from Russia comes after the ruble got absolutely crushed on Monday, losing more than 10% of its value against the US dollar, as the ruble fell to below 64 against the dollar on Monday; earlier this year, one dollar bought about 35 rubles. Russia's Micex stock exchange also fell by about 10% on Monday as the financial situation in that country continues to deteriorate amid the declining price of oil and the devaluation of its currency.  And earlier this month, Russia's economy ministry projected GDP would contract by 0.8% in 2015. In other words, Russia is falling into recession. Here's the almost unbelievable chart of the ruble's decline over the last year: Bloomberg.com    FREE AppDownload
Business Insider reader Jim Laird created this animated chart tracking Treasury yield curves compared to the actual yield on a three-month Treasury. The yield curve is a line that plots a set of forward-looking interest rates at a given point in time. A US Treasury yield curve would connect today's yields for three-month, six-month, 12-month, two-year, five-year, one-year, and 30-year Treasury securities. "I wrote a script that figured out the yield curve at every date from 1982 to present and compared the results to the actual yield on a three-month Treasury," Laird said. "Then I turned it into a movie. The red parts are overestimates, the blue are underestimates." An inverted yield curve, when long-term yields are lower than short-term yields, has a long track record of occurring before recessions.   Edited by Matthew Stuart
REUTERS/Yehuda Ben ItachCrude oil streams through the desert in south Israel, near the village of Beer Ora, north of Eilat, Dec. 4, 2014. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. It was oil. Again. West Texas Intermediate crude-oil futures fell to within a dime of $55 on Monday, falling more than 4% over the last 24 hours after crude staged a brief rally overnight. On Sunday, oil futures opened lower and rallied to as high as $58.50 a barrel overnight, but forfeited these gains during the day and made fresh lows throughout the afternoon. US stocks also opened the day higher, with the Dow up as much as 122 points early in the session before giving back all of these gains and then some. As the decline in oil continues, the equity market is starting to take notice, and in an afternoon email, the New York Stock Exchange's Rich Barry wrote, "If you want to know where stocks are going to close today, ask the smartest oil trader you know." 2. The financial situation in Russia keeps getting worse. On Monday, the ruble fell to another all-time low of less than 64 against the US dollar. Earlier this year, one dollar bought about 35 rubles. On Monday alone, the ruble lost more than 10% of its value against the dollar, and Russia's Micex stock index also took a beating, falling 10%. Meanwhile, former White House Press Secretary Jay Carney's recommendation that investors short Russian stocks back in March keeps looking better.  3. It was a mixed morning for manufacturing data, as the Empire State manufacturing report from the New York Fed was a big disappointment, while the Federal Reserve's latest report on industrial production topped estimates. The Empire State report came in at -3.6, widely missing expectations for a reading of 12, and marking the first negative reading for the measure in almost two years. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro, however, was quick to discount the report, writing in a note that the negative print "flies in the face of almost all other macro data." 4. The Federal Reserve's latest industrial production report showed production rose by 1.3% in November, better than the 0.7% that was expected by economists and up from 0.1% in October. Capacity utilization also rose to 80.1%, the highest since March 2008. In a note to clients following the report, economists at Capital Economics wrote, "November’s industrial production figures build on the message from the recent retail sales data, with both showing that economic activity is unambiguously strong. This may well set the tone for the Fed’s policy meeting, which starts tomorrow." 5. Apple shares fell more than 1% on Monday. As Business Insider's Jay Yarow noted, it's been a stealth decline for the iPhone maker over the last month, as its stock has fallen more than 8% since the end of November.  6. It's been a terrible year for mutual funds. In a note to clients over the weekend, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin noted that in 2014, only 12% of large-cap mutual funds have outperformed the S&amp;P 500, the lowest share since 1997.  7. We also got data on homebuilder sentiment on Monday, which declined slightly in December to 57 from 58 in November. "After a sluggish start to 2014, the HMI has stabilized in the mid-to-high 50s index level trend for the past six months, which is consistent with our assessment that we are in a slow march back to normal," National Association of Home Builders Chief Economist David Crowe said. "As we head into 2015, the housing market should continue to recover at a steady, gradual pace." Don't Miss: The Ex-Goldman Trader Who Correctly Shorted Subprime Mortgages During The Financial Crisis Has Made A New Bet »      FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn artist's rendering shows the Urban Death Project facility in this handout photo illustrationSEATTLE (Reuters) - Ashes to ashes, dust to dust - and corpses to crops? In Seattle, a local nonprofit group wants to become the world's first organization to offer as a service human composting, in which the departed are turned into nutrient-rich soil that can be used to grow flowers, trees or food. Getting there might not be easy. The Urban Death Project is the brainchild of Seattle architect Katrina Spade, who came up with the concept in 2011. Spade calls composting a meaningful, sanitary and ecological alternative to burial and cremation. “The idea is to fold the dead back into the city,” she said. “The options we currently have for our bodies are lacking, both from an environmental standpoint, but also, and perhaps more importantly, from a meaning standpoint.” Spade said she hopes to get the service up and running in three years. But the project has significant legal and regulatory hurdles to surmount before it can get under way. While the Urban Death Project has developed architectural designs for a human composting facility, the group still has to complete fundraising and find a site to build its facility. Beyond that, the project would need to obtain a license to operate a funeral home, according to the Washington state Department of Licensing. It would also have to tackle local zoning restrictions, which require composting facilities to be outside populated areas. But before those issues can be addressed, the group and its proponents would have to push through a change to state law, which requires that all human remains be buried, cremated, donated to science or transferred out of state. "For this project to work in Washington state, at a minimum there would need to be a change in state law," said James Apa, a spokesman for Public Health - Seattle and King County. Spade said she is undeterred by the obstacles. "There will be some regulatory work to do, but I'm confident," she said. "People want this option." The Urban Death Project's plans call for a three-story-high polished concrete composting structure called "the core," which would be surrounded by contemplative spaces for visitors. Bodies would be refrigerated on site for up to 10 days. No embalming would be necessary, since decomposition is the goal. After a ceremony - religious or not - friends and family would help insert the body into the core. Over several weeks a body would turn into about one cubic yard of compost, enough to plant a tree or a patch of flowers. The compost could be taken by the family or left for use or donation by the Urban Death Project. “In this system, we transform from being human to being something else,” Spade said. “And at the end, what’s coming out, the material that we use – it’s special and it’s sacred, but it’s not human.” Spade said human composting uses the same process as animal composting, in which deceased cows, horses and other animals are buried under wood mulch, sawdust and wood chips. Thomas Bass, a livestock environmental associate specialist at Montana State University, agreed. “The science follows,” he said, adding that livestock composting has grown in popularity because it is less expensive than incineration and is more ecological. The prospect of feeding an apple or avocado tree in her post-life appeals to Grace Seidel, 55, a Seattle artist who has announced to friends and family her desire to be composted after she dies. “The idea of being reduced to dirt and being able to be put under a tree sounds lovely to me," she said. Spade said the reception to the idea has been positive - mostly. “People love the idea of growing trees,” she said. “They get really squeamish with tomatoes.”  (Editing By Cynthia Johnston and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Wealthy Americans Are Spending More This Holiday Season Than Before 2008 (Financial Advisor Magazine)  Americans are planning on spending more on gifts, travel, and entertainment this year. On average, they're planning on spending $10,525, according to a BMO Private Bank study. And 43% of respondents stated that they are planning on selling more than they did before 2008.  Respondents said that they would be spending at least $100 per person. Additionally, some wealthy Americans are going to be increasing their holiday donations this season: 28% plan on donating more, 66% plan on staying the same, and only 6% are planning to donate less. On average, Americans with a net worth of $1 million or more will be donating over $3,600. Merrill Lynch Is Cutting Compensation On Small Accounts So That Advisers Drop Them (The Wall Street Journal) Merrill Lynch keeps trying to push its advisers to drop smaller accounts, or those with $100,000 to $250,000 in assets. In its latest move, Merrill Lynch will be cutting compensation on these smaller accounts, reports Michael Wursthorn. "We're really encouraging [advisers] because of a lack of capacity in their book," John Hogarty, chief operating officer of global wealth and investment management at BAML, told the WSJ. "They have a tendency to spend time with their more meaningful clients and the clients below $250,000 aren't getting the right level of service according to their needs." Passive Is Going Strong Into 2015 (Morningstar)  "It's been the year of passive US equity," says Tim Strauts. "Just over the last 12 months, there has been $156 billion that has gone into passive US equity funds. But $91 billion has left active US equity funds. So, a good portion of the money is just moving from one side to the other — selling their active US equity and buying the passive." Even in international space, where active managers are traditionally seen as more likely to outperform, is starting to see a drift toward passive. "Last month, the flows were very strongly toward passive — $12.5 billion to passive international and only a $100 million inflow into active international," added Strauts. There Could Be Some Obstacles, But 2015 Is Looking Really Good (Charles Schwab)  "At this point, we have little reason to doubt these [positive] trends will continue into 2015, supported by improving US economic growth," write Liz Ann Sonders, Brad Sorensen, and Jeffrey Kleintop. Traditionally, stocks tend to do well in the third year of a presidential term — now that midterms are out of the way. Additionally, the drop in oil prices is expected to cause a net positive effect on the US economy. However, there are still some risks: Other economies are diverging from the US, there's ongoing geopolitical unrest, and there is increased volatility. SEC Chairwoman Is Going To Get Way More Tough On Mutual Funds (Think Advisor)  SEC Chairwoman Mary Jo White announced that the SEC will be getting tougher on the asset management in general, and mutual funds in particular, reports Emily Zulz. "The financial crisis only underscored the importance of the careful management of risk by funds and their advisors, including portfolio composition and operational risks in particular," White said at The New York Times DealBook Opportunities for Tomorrow Conference. "A broader set of proactive initiatives is require to help ensure that our regulatory program is fully addressing the increasingly complex portfolio composition and operations of today's asset management industry," she added. FREE AppDownload
CNBCBill Gross. Jeff Gundlach thinks TIPS are for losers.  In an interview with CNBC on Monday, Janus Capital's Bill Gross said that TIPS, or Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, are an investment that looks particularly attractive right now.  TIPS are inflation-protected because though their yield is considerably lower than a regular 10- or 30-year Treasury bond, the principal paid back at maturity is inflation-adjusted. The comment from Gross, however, presents an interesting juxtaposition with an opinion offered last week by another bond guru, Jeff Gundlach. On his latest webcast, Gundlach said bluntly: "TIPS are for losers." Basically, TIPS are a bet that inflation will rise, thus making the receipt of paltry interest payments worth it in order to receive a larger, inflation-adjusted repayment upon the bond's maturation.  Gundlach doesn't see inflation anywhere, and so his view that TIPS are a pointless investment would be sound under that framework. Earlier this month, Bill Gross wrote on Twitter that Treasury bonds might be overpriced. Jeff Gundlach had said just a week earlier that Treasuries still looked cheap. And now there is the disagreement over TIPS.  Gross and Gundlach met about potentially joining forces as Gross got prepared to leave PIMCO, which he left for Janus back in September, and maybe it's for the best they didn't. FRED      FREE AppDownload
On October 10, 2002, after a 30-month selloff caused by the dot-com bust and the 9/11 attacks, the Nasdaq composite finally hit rock bottom. I was there. It closed that day at 1108, a 78% drop from the market peak in March 2000. For many investors who bought technology stocks in the late 90s, the damage was even worse than the Nasdaq showed. The best-performing US stock of the bubble, EMC, which still led an industry under no threat of obsolescence, had fallen 95%. For financial advisers, those catastrophic losses were almost incomprehensible. I spent months stupefied by the carnage in my clients' holdings, asking myself over and over again: What have I done? It was a turning point in my life and the market's, and it led me to an inescapable conclusion. By failing so to anticipate or mitigate the effect of the crash, my employer and almost every other brokerage firm had proven themselves and their entire business model to be useless.   In the years before the crash, my co-workers and I were told that the substantial annual premium our venerable firm required to manage assets was justified, because we delivered even more: great returns during bull markets and solid defensive advice before bear markets arrived. In the wake of the "tech wreck," I had a lot of time to think about the advice we had given before, during, and after the downturn. At the beginning of the bust, our advice was consistent, albeit trite. We had daily data points and interminable white papers to support a strategy (whose ulterior motives were patent): "You'll look back on these days as the buying opportunity of a lifetime"....."It's only a loss if you sell"..... "These are high-quality stocks and they're on sale right now." But in the summer of 2002, just a few months before the Nasdaq bottomed out, we changed course. The firm's Chief Investment Strategist decided, more than two years into a bear market, that the severity of growth- and tech-stock losses would take years to repair. Clients should sell them and buy more attractive publicly traded stocks. It was a cruel joke, selling at the bottom of the bottom of the bust, and it crystallized a series of intuitions slowly building in me over years. Active management almost never delivers value. Flickr / Alex ProimosAccording to Dolan (not pictured here) volatility is the only thing clients can expect in their annual returns. The only thing that the well-heeled clients of the nation's best investment firms can expect is volatility in their annual returns, higher trading fees, and slower bottom line growth for their accounts. The same goes for the millions of shareholders in actively traded mutual funds.   While it is not too hard to outperform the major stock market indexes for a year, the chances of doing that for many years, let alone an investor's lifetime, are minute. The true growth factor is minimizing the volatility of annual returns and avoiding the steep fees cleverly obscured by actively managed funds. 'Expense ratio' is the fund industry euphemism for fees. That's just what you pay for the privilege of having advisers lose your money. Expense ratio excludes one of the largest such expenses: trading costs. To determine a fund's trading costs, a shareholder must ask for a 'Statement of Additional Information.' There is one remedy to the poor growth that comes from chasing performance: a globally diversified portfolio spread across many asset classes, constructed entirely of low-cost ETFs. The views expressed herein are not intended to serve as a forecast, a guarantee of future results, investment recommendations or an offer to buy or sell securities by FutureAdvisor. Differences in account size, timing of transactions and market conditions prevailing at the time of investment may lead to different results, and clients may lose money. Past performance is not indicative of future results. This article originally appeared at FutureAdvisor.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Garrett ParrishGarrett Parrish furthers the music industry using technology. Less than 8% of applicants are admitted to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which means getting in is an impressive feat by itself. We found 14 students who stand out at this esteemed university. MIT is known for its top notch engineering and computer science programs, and some of these students are certainly breaking ground in these areas, but others are dancers, firefighters, and Olympic archers. The semester may be wrapping up, but their work certainly isn't. FREE AppDownload
Through a montage of stories with a variety of women media company Vocativ shows the dangers of street harassment.  Vocativ interviewed Miss DC Jen Corey, Jennifer Pozner, Executive Director for Women in Media &amp; News, and several members of Hollaback, the organization behind the 10 Hours of Walking In NYC As A Woman video. Follow Vocativ: On Facebook and Twitter.
The oil rally didn't even last a full day. Late Sunday, oil futures gapped lower after markets reopened, with West Texas Intermediate crude prices falling below $56.50 a barrel. Overnight, prices rallied, with WTI futures gaining more than $2 a barrel.  And now that rally has completely disappeared. Around 3:30 pm ET on Monday, WTI futures were flirting with $55, falling as low as $55.09 after a more than 4.5% sell off in the last 24 hours as global markets resumed the selloff seen on Friday. In the US, stocks were giving up all of their premarket gains, while the Russian ruble was completely collapsing, falling to below 63 against the dollar.  Earlier this year, the ruble was worth about 35 against the dollar. Crude oil has been the biggest story in markets over the last six months, and the charts showing crude's collapse are just stunning. And so after a short-lived glimmer of hope for stablizing oil prices, we are sliding lower yet again. FinViz      FREE AppDownload
CarboneThere's no shortage of Italian food in New York City: In some neighborhoods, there's a pizza place on every corner. So how do you separate the excellent from the merely passable? We asked the restaurant experts at The Infatuation for a list of New York City's very best Italian spots. Try one for your next client dinner or date night. And don't forget your after-dinner mints. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithLOS ANGELES (Reuters) - The union for 20,000 dockworkers and a group of their employers at 29 U.S. West Coast ports say they are making slow but steady progress in months-long contract talks seen by the shipping industry as a contributing factor in chronic cargo backups. However, neither side has ventured to say how much longer it might take to reach a settlement, and both parties continued to abide by a news blackout on the details of their talks and the issues that divide them. The International Longshore and Warehouse Union and the Pacific Maritime Association, representing terminal operators and shipping lines at the ports, opened their talks in May and mutually agreed to keep negotiating after their old contract expired June 30. The parties said in August they had reached a tentative deal on healthcare benefits, "but apart from that everything else remains on the table," association spokesman Steve Getzug said. Since resuming talks after a hiatus in November, negotiators have met on a fairly regular basis, they said. "Both sides are working hard, and every day they get a little more done, and every day they get closer to a settlement," union spokesman Craig Merrilees said. "Any time you're meeting and talking, that's progress," Getzug said. Ninety union delegates from all 29 ports were expected to review the status of talks when they convened on Monday in San Francisco for a caucus, Merrilees said, adding that the session may be adjourned early to allow negotiations to resume.  Management sees an eventual settlement as key to easing severe cargo delays that began in mid-October at several container ports that account for nearly half of U.S. maritime trade and over 70 percent of imports from Asia. The congestion has been most pronounced at Los Angeles and Long Beach, the nation's two busiest shipping hubs, which together handle 43 percent of all container cargo entering the United States. The number of freighters stuck waiting at anchor for berths to open in Los Angeles and Long Beach has ranged from about a half dozen to 18 on any given day since backups began. Seven ships were waiting at anchor on Monday, down from 13 on Friday, port officials said. Management has accused the union of orchestrating some slowdowns to bolster leverage at the bargaining table. Union officials deny organizing delays but acknowledge some dockworkers may be acting on their own out of frustration over the pace of contract talks. They point to other factors that port officials cite as the main causes of gridlock. Chief among them is a shortage of tractor-trailer chassis used for hauling cargo from the ports to warehouses, a situation created when shippers decided to sell off their chassis to third-party equipment-leasing companies. Union and port officials also point to record import levels, rail service delays and the advent of super-sized container vessels delivering greater cargo volumes all at once. The port slowdowns, coming just after the peak holiday shipping season, have nevertheless rippled through the commercial supply chain, with prolonged days in the delivery of goods ranging from apparel to apples and grain. Cargo that normally takes two to three days to clear the ports now faces lag times of up to two weeks, and shipments of some goods, such as coffee, are being diverted from the West Coast to other ports, like Houston. Los Angeles port spokesman Phillip Sanfield said congestion was starting to ease and that the backlog hopefully will be cleared before the next heavy cargo season in February. Insisting that labor tensions are distracting from efforts to ease the cargo crunch and could lead to a worsening situation, the National Retail Federation has urged the White House to appoint a federal mediator to help settle the talks. The union has opposed mediation, Merrilees said, because the two sides are still making headway. Getzug said management was open to the idea.   (Reporting by Steve Gorman; Additional reporting by Josephine Mason; Editing by Eric Beech) FREE AppDownload
Michael Seto/Business InsiderMark Cuban.You are what you read, and if your goal is to build a massively successful company where you call the shots, you might want to start with the following books. We asked wildly successful entrepreneurs and VCs, including Mark Cuban and Peter Thiel, for their top book recommendation. Here's what they said.  Bianca Male, Aimee Groth, and Alison Griswold contributed to this article. FREE AppDownload
Dawn/Flickr*We are as convinced as ever that equities have a significant advantage over other asset classes based on valuation. *Managing the risk of simultaneous drawdown across asset classes requires a process to actively de-risk portfolios and a methodology for diagnosing the conditions to trigger such a step. *To manage risk and stabilize portfolio values in case equities do not perform well, we favor non-traditional diversifiers, explicit downside hedges and a methodology for active risk reduction. The other day, my teenage daughter asked how my passion for music began. I described for her my first record player, a Kenner “Close ’n Play.” This aptly named device would play your chosen 45 rpm record when you closed its cover and stop playing when you opened it. I loved my Close ’n Play, and I would listen to songs like “Can’t Buy Me Love” over and over again on it. It even had a handle, so I could carry my music from one room to another, like an iPod. Unlike an iPod though, the Close ’n Play would travel with only one song. “Can’t Buy Me Love” in the kitchen. “Can’t Buy Me Love” in the basement. In the early 1970s there was no Pandora or Spotify or Rhapsody. As I sit down to compose an outlook for 2015, it occurs to me that since 2009, the financial markets have been more like a Close ’n Play than an iPod — low expected returns from safe assets and stocks offering the best chance of any meaningful investment gains. Just like last year and the year before. As stationary as market conditions have felt lately, circumstances are always evolving. For 2015, while the essential elements of our outlook remain in place, we highlight two important changes in the market environment: In this article, I will detail the implications of these conditions for investment strategy. In our view, while equities will most likely continue to dominate, the complex interactions of today’s conditions elevate the role of dynamic risk management. We argue that investors will need a cross-asset surveillance methodology to detect tactical threats. For several years, we have argued that equities have a significant advantage over other asset classes based on valuation. With short-term interest rates near zero and government bond yields around the world at historic lows, the comparison between stocks and bonds based on forward-looking expected returns has been very lopsided. Market returns in 2014 underscore the valuation advantage that equities offer. (Exhibit 1) Exhibit 1: In 2014, equities outperformed bonds again Columbia ManagementFor this comparison, we use global returns to represent equities but only U.S. returns to represent bonds. This is an unfair comparison because the equity index reflects a loss of return due to currency translation effects, while the domestic bond index does not. We make the comparison to emphasize that today, a margin of safety exists in favoring stocks over bonds. When we analyze these returns closely, we find significant evidence of this margin of safety. With respect to bonds, the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index offered a yield-to-worst of 2.5% as 2014 began. This means that investors could have expected roughly a 2.5% return for the year if bond prices had stayed constant. The fact that the index has returned more than double its promised yield reveals that bond prices have not stayed constant, they have risen. Few investors expected bond prices to rise in 2014. Therefore, bonds (represented by the Barclays Aggregate) delivered more return than expected. Global stocks, on the other hand, delivered less than expected. Exhibit 2: Equity returns lagged the change in corporate earnings Columbia ManagementExhibit 2 breaks down global equity returns into the portion attributed to corporate earnings growth and the portion attributed to changes in the price/earnings (P/E) multiple (the multiple of earnings that investors have paid for equities). For 2014, returns for the MSCI All Country World Index (MSCI ACWI) lagged the change in corporate earnings for the year. The green bars below the X axis illustrate that P/E multiples actually contracted in 2014 for the first time in years. These comparisons reveal the powerful valuation advantage that equities enjoy today. Our proxy for equities, the MSCI ACWI, outperformed our proxy for bonds, the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, even though: This is what we mean by the phrase “equity hegemony.” With the relative valuation so favorable for equities, they have delivered superior returns even when a variety of influences conspired against them. Exhibit 3: Equity markets offer higher expected risk-adjusted returns than bonds Columbia ManagementExhibit 3 depicts our valuation landscape for selected global assets as 2015 begins. The graph plots the expected return vs. risk for selected assets around the world, based on Columbia Management proprietary estimates. For each asset, the expected return (proxied by yield-to-maturity for bonds and by implied cost of equity capital for stocks) is plotted against the product of volatility and correlation to world equities. By incorporating correlation, we give credit to assets that offer a diversification benefit by adjusting the asset’s volatility downward as long as it has a correlation of less than one to world stocks. We believe this adjustment helps in the direct comparison of stocks and bonds from a risk-adjusted return standpoint. The chart also shows a “line of best fit” through all of the points, which visually represents the compensation that investors get for adding risk by increasing allocations to the assets on the right of the zero point. Today, that line is quite steep, indicating a high marginal reward to investors willing to increase portfolio volatility. For the past several years, the best-fit line has been notably steeper than its typical level. This is noteworthy, as our adjusted volatility measure, in effect, gives an advantage to bonds and should serve to flatten the line of best fit. This cross-asset analysis was key to our assessment that global equities enjoy a valuation advantage. Exhibit 4: The steeper 2014 best-fit line suggests higher expected returns for stocks Columbia ManagementExhibit 4 removes all of the individual markets and simply plots our line of best fit against the same line as it stood at the beginning of 2014. This visual reveals the surprising way relative valuation has evolved over the past year. The left side of the line has dropped, indicating that the expected returns from bonds have fallen, while the right side of the line has risen, indicating an increase in expected returns for global stocks*. Amazingly, in this era of equity hegemony, the comparison has become even more favorable for equities going forward. The Fed has given strong signals that economic growth in the United States has reached self-sustaining momentum and no longer needs unconventional efforts to support the expansion. The withdrawal and suspension of large-scale asset purchases was only the first step in the evolution toward policy normalization. In 2015 we expect to see a change in forward guidance and, most likely, the first interest rate increase in years. These actions stand in stark contrast with the direction of the monetary policies of other central banks as they double down on efforts to support growth and avoid deflation. The Bank of Japan has announced its intention to increase both qualitative and quantitative easing on an enormous scale, expanding purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs). They intend to coordinate this with government pension investment fund purchases by shifting into riskier assets through sales of JGBs. With evidence of deterioration on both the economic and inflation front, the European Central Bank also plans to take bolder actions. These include increased purchases of asset-backed securities and covered bonds in both the primary and secondary market, together with the long-term refinancing operations that will steer the ECB’s balance sheet higher by €1 trillion. The latest to jump on the bandwagon was the People’s Bank of China (PBOC), which cut its benchmark interest rate for the first time in over two years to support private sector investment, as targeted liquidity injections have had minimal effect on sinking economic growth. Markets reacted very positively to the announcements from BOJ, ECB and PBOC, as the rush of liquidity from these actions will undoubtedly be felt across global markets and provide a counterbalance to tighter policy in the United States. However, this newfound asymmetry in monetary policy also creates pressure for a stronger dollar. As we detailed in our third-quarter Investment Strategy Outlook, a strong dollar can be a headwind for risk assets. We believe that markets can withstand a gradual appreciation of the U.S. dollar, but a concentrated and intense move in currency markets represents one of the key market risks for 2015. This tension between the tailwind that global monetary policy brings to asset prices and the potential headwind of currency volatility complicates the investment strategy challenge for 2015. While valuation strongly suggests an equity-dominated portfolio strategy, a portfolio concentrated in risk assets remains vulnerable to volatility spikes, such as those we observed during early autumn 2014. As we argued in our fourth-quarter Investment Strategy Outlook, the real loser in the face of ongoing dollar strength may be diversification. With so many assets proving vulnerable to currency movements, we believe investors must expand their search for diversifiers. Non-traditional holdings in areas like liquid alternatives, alternative beta exposures** and absolute return strategies can broaden an investor’s palate for diversification. While adding new diversifying strategies can help stabilize portfolios, we believe diversification alone may be inadequate to protect portfolio values from future drawdowns. Looking at two recent episodes of market volatility, the taper tantrum of 2013 and the September setback of 2014, we discover a troublesome commonality. During both of these events, nearly the full array of asset classes posted negative returns. (Exhibit 5) Exhibit 5: During two recent periods of market volatility, nearly all asset classes declined in value. Columbia ManagementWhile these two episodes proved to be only temporary, we think they foreshadow the risk management challenge that investors face when so many market prices are connected by interventionist macro policies. If all assets can rise together, then surely they can fall together. We believe managing the risk of simultaneous drawdown across asset classes requires a willingness to actively reduce portfolio risk and a methodology for diagnosing the conditions to trigger such a step. Over the past two years, the Global Asset Allocation team at Columbia Management has conducted significant research on precisely this challenge. We have concluded that effective risk analysis requires a cross-asset perspective. By cross-asset, we mean that bond market conditions can be very influential to our equity market outlook, and vice versa. A methodology for simultaneously analyzing market conditions across asset classes can bring meaningful insights to discern favorable from unfavorable market conditions. The Columbia Adaptive Risk Allocation (CARA) process offers such a methodology. This approach combines logical diagnoses of bond and stock market conditions. By design, the approach is agnostic on market conditions most of the time, as we base our analysis on thresholds of unusualness. In the case of bonds, unusualness is triggered when government bond yields become too low***. In the case of equities, unusualness is triggered by a combination of low realized volatility, favorable price momentum and reasonable valuation. These thresholds create four unique combinations of market state as depicted in Exhibit 6. Exhibit 6: The Columbia Adaptive Risk Allocation process simultaneously analyzes conditions across assets. Columbia ManagementOur research reveals important insights from using these market thresholds in combination. For example, when equities satisfy their exceptionally good criteria, they deliver more efficient performance. However, they become a negative influence on bond returns if bond yields are too low. When equities are not in this sweet spot, downside risk management becomes more important. And if bond yields are high enough, this can be accomplished through risk-balanced investing. On the other hand, if bond yields are too low, then not only is their diversifying power weakened, but they might be signaling greater headwinds for the economy. For example, our research finds that when bond yields are too low and equity market conditions are not exceptionally good, the probability of a recession is significantly higher. In other words, the bond market can tell us that risks for equities have risen. Under such circumstances, active de-risking makes sense, and capital preservation becomes a priority. During 2014, this methodology produced useful results. Exhibit 7 shows the month-by-month market state classification. Notice that as yields fell and equity volatility rose through the summer, our framework recognized that market risks were rising, culminating in a capital preservation market state for September. While no approach to market forecasting can capture every nuance of prevailing market conditions, we think this simple approach can help to identify the very thing that our investment strategy requires for today’s markets — a prudent and timely indication for when to reduce portfolio risk. Columbia Management We are as convinced as ever that relative value favors stocks over bonds, even though stocks outperformed in 2014. Therefore, like a child with a Close ’n Play, you will hear the same recommendation from us for 2015. Equities remain the most important asset class for generating returns. Within equities, the currency-based advantage of U.S. stocks is offset somewhat by the valuation advantage from overseas equities, notably in Japan. Indeed, economic growth in Japan and Europe are essential ingredients for equities to continue to perform well. If Japanese and European stocks cannot produce gains, then the global economy will probably be stuck in a near recessionary funk. Devising a strategy to manage risk and stabilize portfolio values in the event that equities do not perform well remains complicated. Bond yields are low enough that they are not likely to offer powerful diversification benefits. We affirm our recommendation for three additional sources of portfolio stability: How many times can we play the same song before we must change the record? Our overall stance for investment strategy is likely to remain in place until the valuation advantage for equities has been priced away, or until the healing process for the global economy reverses.   Note: Look for Jeff in the December 13 edition of Barron’s for comments on his 2015 outlook. For the pdf of this article click here.  *The steepening of the line also results in part from the drop in equity volatility experienced over the past 36 months. **For more information, see “Using Alternative Betas in the Management of Investment Portfolios” within our Annual Perspectives. ***Our technical definition of “too low” includes a comparison of bond yields to prevailing inflation, as well as a measure of the yield curve slope. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index is a market value-weighted index that tracks the daily price, coupon, pay-downs, and total return performance of fixed-rate, publicly placed, dollar-denominated, and non-convertible investment grade debt issues with at least a $250 million par amount outstanding and at least one year to final maturity. The MSCI All Country World Index (ACWI) is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure equity market performance in the global developed and emerging markets. Past performance does not guarantee future results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. Diversification does not assure a profit or protect against loss.   This article originally appeared at Columbia Management Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. Follow Columbia Management Perspectives on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
It seems Republican Chuck Grassley (R-IA) may be joining Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) in her crusade to keep one Wall Streeter out of the Treasury. Other Republicans, however, have voiced support for the nominee. The Massachusetts populist has long-opposed banker Antonio Weiss' nomination for the number 3 position in the Treasury. Now, Grassley appears to be leaning her way, according to Talking Points Memo. "I haven't made up my mind but if I had to tell you how I'm leaning it would be I'm leaning 'no,'" TPM reported Grassley as saying. "I think the issue of dealing with the domestic finances that he does for the Treasury Department ought to be done by someone that's more removed from Wall Street." Five Democrats and Independent Bernie Sanders (I-VT) have joined Warren in opposing the Lazard investment banker, while most Republicans remain undecided, TPM reported. But other Democrats like Michael Bennet (D-CO) have come out in support of the President's nominee, which could indicate a growing rift amongst the Democratic caucus between populist progressives and the more centrist members. Several Republicans have also voiced support for Weiss, including Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah and Senator John Thune of South Dakota, who is on the Senate Finance Committee.  Last week, four former Treasury undersecretaries for domestic finance wrote a letter backing Weiss for that job. They disputed Warren's concerns that Weiss is not qualified for the position, stating, "No candidate's background can be expected to align precisely with every duty of the position." The senator, who was promoted to a newly-created leadership role in the Democratic party last month, has inspired thousands of people to sign petitions opposing Weiss. And the speech she made on Friday on the Senate floor, which stated again that "enough is enough" with Wall Street cronyism in government, has reached more than 250,000 views on YouTube. She made that speech in an effort to prevent Congress from passing the "CRomnibus" spending bill, which would loosen certain provisions in the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law, allowing banks to more easily trade potentially risky derivatives. Those provisions were largely written by a group of lobbyists from Citigroup, and Warren used the opportunity to speak more broadly about Wall Street's – and Citigroup's – dominance in government. (That's something she's written about before.) Here's what she said on Friday: Enough is enough with Wall Street insiders getting key position after key position and the kind of cronyism we have seen in the executive branch. Enough is enough with Citigroup passing 11th hour deregulatory provisions that nobody takes ownership over but that everybody comes to regret. Here's the full speech:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi Many on Wall Street are confident that the rally in equities will continue through 2015. And when investors bet that certain stocks will fall, it can be hard to tell because they are not required to disclose their short positions. But SunGard, one of the largest financial technology companies in the world, has a product called Astec Analytics, that tracks securities lending data — a proxy for short selling. Short sellers borrow stocks and they don't purchase them until the end of the trade. SunGard shared its data on the most shorted stocks in 2014 with us, broken down by sector. It includes the number of shares borrowed and the cost to do this over a year ("annualized borrowing cost"), to show how big a bet investors were willing to make on these companies. The stocks are ranked by the total amount of borrowing fees collected. SunGard then picked the most interesting stocks from the top end of the list of stocks shorted by volume. FREE AppDownload
Socks (or, as some of the fancier brands still call them, “hose”), evolved from practical need. Human feet sweat heavily, and a covering of cloth, hair, or hide helps absorb that sweat and draw it out toward the air, where it can evaporate. This sweating can also damage the more expensive outer footwear, thus socks serve the purpose of extending the life of our shoes. That was the goal back when humans first started tying animal skins around their feet in bundles, and it’s still a practical consideration today. A good sock should not just absorb sweat but also allow it to distribute perspiration through the material toward the outer surface (a process called “wicking”). This is important so that the foot stays dry and sweat evaporates before smell-producing bacteria have a chance to start feeding on it. To fit in with a contemporary, well-dressed look, however, especially at business-appropriate levels of formality, a good sock needs a little more than just function. The following are not just desirable sock qualities, but essential ones. Sock Wicking – As described above, socks should “wick” moisture away from the foot, toward the exterior surface of the sock. Sock Padding – The sock should cushion the foot from impact with the ground, and prevent the skin from rubbing against the inside of shoes. Snug Sock Fit – A loose sock bunches, which is unsightly, and rubs, which can cause blister. A good sock should pull snug against the skin from top to toe. Slim Sock Fit – Dress shoes also tend to be fitted snugly, meaning you can’t cram a big, bulky sock into one. Dress socks should be as thin as comfort permits, both to fit in shoes and to avoid looking bulky around the ankle or distorting the trouser cuff. Appropriate Sock Color – For a while now the default dress sock has been black, but there are several options for the sharp dresser. A good sock should fit neatly and unobtrusively into its outfit in most cases — and stand out boldly and proudly in the less-frequent cases where that’s the goal. Needless to say, that’s a long list of sweet notes. Very few socks manage to hit every single one. If you find a brand that fills all five key needs for you, treasure it and buy a lot of back stock. So now you know what the perfect dress sock should look and feel like. Now let’s talk about some of the ways socks get there. Sock Color Forget the conventional wisdom of suburban dads. Black isn’t the automatic go-to dress sock color, although it’s usually an acceptable one. Savvy dressers have a whole range of options, depending on how much contrast they want in their outfit. The most basic, play-it-safe, grain-of-salt rule for socks is this: when in doubt, match the color of the sock to the color of the trouser leg. That means if you’re wearing charcoal gray trousers, a charcoal gray sock is best. Light gray trousers, light gray sock. Khakis, well, you get the idea — throw on some light tan socks to go with those babies. You may have noticed that black socks don’t actually meet that standard very often, except for men who wear a lot of pure black pants. The idea of black dress socks evolved from an easier but less-attractive rule: matching the color of the sock to the color of the shoe, which for most men in business dress is black. That works, in a pinch. It’s not awful. But it’s not great, either. It makes the feet look big and draws attention to your ankles any time the trouser cuff rides up. It also shaves some perceived height off your body, by making your legs look shorter, which might be acceptable for very tall men but isn’t particularly desirable for anyone. So what are the alternatives? The most common we mentioned above: match the sock to the trouser leg. But daring dressers can take it a notch further with a contrasting sock, so long as the contrast looks deliberate. That’s a very important caveat. White gym socks and gray sharkskin trousers isn’t going to look deliberate; it’s going to look like you’re insane. But those same gray trousers with a pair of bright red socks that just so happen to have a matching gray diamond pattern (argyle or a close cousin, say) running through them? Now we’re talking. If you go for bright socks, go for ones that are in a comfortably contrasting color, or that have a pattern that references colors elsewhere in your outfit (your pocket square, for example), or both. Even then you’ll want to save it for social rather than business occasions, unless you’re in a relaxed or fashion-forward industry like the tech sector. For conventional business dress, socks that match the trousers are still best, followed by socks that match the shoes. For situations where a little more playfulness is permissible, socks that match the trousers are still fine, but carefully-selected contrasting socks are an acceptable alternative. Sock Length Socks, as you may recall, sometimes go by their more archaic name: hose or hosiery. That comes from the days when exposed skin was considered not just unsightly but downright scandalous. Tastes have relaxed quite a bit — but not so far that anyone wants to see a scraggly bit of hair-covered ankle sticking out between the top of the sock and the cuff of the trousers. A good sock for business dress and other high-formality purposes should come at least midway up the calf. All the way to the lower edge of the knee is great, if you find that comfortable, but at least halfway up the calf should be your minimum. Much lower than that and certain positions (one foot flat while seated with the other slung up and across the knee, for example) risk exposing a flash of skin that will clash with your sock and your trousers, looking very unsightly indeed. Since the cost of manufacturing socks comes mostly from the material, length is where a lot of brands look to save. You’ll end up with a lot of “calf” socks that really only come up to the top of the ankle, or maybe an inch beyond if you’re lucky. Save those lengths for your light, summertime socks worn with casual trousers, and hunt around until you find proper over-the-calf socks for dress occasions. Specialized menswear stores and the more upscale department store sections are more likely to fit your needs here than Target, Walmart, and other big-box retailers. Sock Material Last but by no means least, the stuff the sock is actually made out of has a huge impact on its performance. Common base materials include cotton, wool, nylon, polyester, and a whole range of other synthetics, some trademarked and others known simply by their chemical names. Cotton on its own is absorbent, which is good for soaking sweat off the skin, but it doesn’t wick moisture towards its surface and it doesn’t allow wetness to evaporate quickly. That makes it good for short periods of high sweat intensity, like a quick cardio workout, but problematic for a full day’s wear. Wool, unlike cotton, breathes easily and lets wetness evaporate, and it offers much more warmth in cold conditions. It’s also bulky, however, and like cotton lacks specific wicking properties for speeding moisture away from the body. Synthetics have been the answer for most manufacturers. Acrylic, olefin, polyester, and polyethylene can all be shaped into fibers that encourage wicking. On their own, these materials are thin and provide little cushioning or snugness, but they can be blended with thicker and stretchier materials to make an excellent sock. So what’s the ideal sock material? There is no one right answer, and a lot of companies will use their own trademarked blend, the exact properties of which are secret. But a good dress sock might look something like this: Since those considerations are more associated with outdoor sports and active wear than business dress, many business wear options will be simple 100% cotton or wool. If those are your only options, cotton will be more comfortable in hot weather and wool in cold, but it will likely be worth your while to go a little further afield and find a blended sock in the dress color you need. A final consideration is the fit of the sock on the foot itself, not just its height on the leg. Most socks are not sized like shoes (although at the very upper end of options you will find some individually sized socks, and even the opportunity to have them custom made). Brands vary, but generally speaking an off-the-rack “Medium” sock will fit up to about a size 12 in American shoe sizes. Men at or above that size will want a “Large,” or if possible a “Big and Tall” for men with long or wide feet.via Real Men Real Style Keep both the thickness of the sock and the shoe you’re going to wear it with in mind when shopping. A wool sock with a little extra padding is perfect for shoes that are a touch too big, but murder in shoes that were already tight enough to pinch. Those fractions of an inch start to add up quickly when it’s your feet in question. Tradition holds that the more formal a sock, the slimmer it needs to be — again, that’s going back to the days when they were fine silk or wool garments woven thin, like the ladies’ hose we’re all familiar with today. These days, a padded wool sock is perfectly acceptable even in business situations, so long as the bulk doesn’t distort the shoe or trousers, and there are no obvious padded sections outlined with stitching or color. Always remember the possibility of a “Japanese tea ceremony” moment — your whole sock should be business-appropriate, not just the upper part visible above the shoe. Beware of sport socks with plain black tops and colorful, patterned padding on the foot itself. So how do you take all that information and turn it into a really good sock shopping experience? A couple tips: Know what you want.  Do you need padding? Warmth? Moisture control? Ideally your sock will provide all the creature comforts, but be prepared to prioritize. Focus on what you’re unhappy with now: if your socks are sagging or showing skin, you need better elastic and a longer sock. If your feet are getting wet, you need better wicking. Figure out what you need to fix, and you’ve figured out what kind of sock you want. Splurge a little. Yeah, you can get socks cheap. No, it usually isn’t a good idea. Be willing to pay a hefty markup above the cheapest, box-store options if you want decent socks. Something made of a well-woven wool/synthetic blend costs exponentially more than a thin cotton sock because the materials cost more, and they’re worth every penny. Unless you’re on an incredibly tight budget, you can afford to upgrade your sock spending at least a little bit. Play with color. Outside of the strictest dress situations (board meetings, business presentations, funerals, etc.) you can move beyond the basic black sock. At the very least upgrade to always matching your trouser, rather than your black dress shoes. And if you’re feeling adventurous, start working some color and pattern in there. Remember to make it look deliberate, preferably by referencing color that’s also present somewhere else in your outfit. The perfect sock for your dress needs is a rare and beautiful find. Scour your local shopping options and the internet until you find the brand and model that meets all your needs — and then buy up a hefty collection, because you never know when they’re going to discontinue your favorite. FREE AppDownload
 A lot of folks are buzzing about 17-year-old Stuyvesant High School senior Mohammed "Mo" Islam, who is rumored to have made $72 million from trading. New York Magazine's Jessica Pressler profiled him in a recent issue. But some people who know Islam told Business Insider that they strongly believe that the $72 million figure is just a rumor — a rumor that Islam hasn't denied. In the article, he acknowledged to Pressler over caviar and apple juice that his net worth was in the "high eight figures." A source familiar with the story told Business Insider that Islam is not worth $72 million. The source believes it's a rumor started by Islam's friends or partners that was perpetuated by the New York Magazine article.  Pressler has defended the story on Twitter. She claimed she saw a bank statement with the eight figures and is comfortable with what's in the piece. She also noted the story appeared in New York Magazine's "Reasons to Love New York" issue and pointed out the magazine "is not a financial publication." Business Insider actually featured Islam on our list of the top 20 "Teen Traders Trying To Take Over The Finance World" just over a year ago. He was nominated by his peers, who made no claims about his net worth.  In a phone interview on Monday, Islam's partner Damir Tulemaganbetov, who was also in the New York Magazine article, noted the $72 million figure was described as a "rumor."  "Let me put it this way ... it's stated as a rumor," Tulemaganbetov told us when we asked him if he would deny the $72 million figure. He was with Islam in a car headed to CNBC's studios in New Jersey. "All the hype, [Islam] deserves it," Tulemaganbetov said, adding that he is "pretty sure" Islam is a "a great trader" and a "genius." Business Insider asked for audited numbers or profit-and-loss statements to prove that Islam's net worth is close to $72 million. Tulemaganbetov refused.  Islam himself did not respond to our email this morning requesting the numbers. He also would not get on the phone when Business Insider learned he was riding in the car to CNBC.  The investment club for young traders, of which Islam is a member, sent Business Insider this statement regarding the $72 million figure: It has been brought to the attention of the Leaders Investment Club that Mohammed Islam has been rumored to have made $72,000,000 through making trades in the stock market. After performing due diligence and talking with Mohammed Islam himself, we have determined that these claims are false and simply been blown up by the media in the interests of sensationalism. Islam's partner Tulemaganbetov, however, would not be that clear in his conversation with Business Insider. "We can't just talk about the numbers. It's not just about the money," Tulemaganbetov said. "We're on the verge of a lot of great things in our lives so we can't just focus on providing you the statements. We're on the verge of a lot of great things. We are going to talk to CNBC." Again, Business Insider pressed the issue of the P&amp;L statements.  "All those statements ... that's good for you. We know what we're doing. We're managing this whole hype and everything. We are trying to work with it. We were never expecting it and never denied. You have no proof." Tulemaganbetov told us that Islam didn't expect all the attention. He just expected a magazine article.  "The guy became famous all over the world in 24 hours," he said. "He's all over the world. The next thing we wake up and he's famous. This guy is a celebrity all over the world right now."  Tulemaganbetov told us that they were going to "make it clear on CNBC."     FREE AppDownload
The Russian rouble dropped over 10% on Monday, crashing through 64 roubles to the dollar for the first time on record. The country's Micex stock index was also down by 10%. The falls marked the biggest crash since the 1998 Russian crisis and are likely to trigger further concerns over the Russian central bank's efforts to prevent rouble weakness from affecting the country's financial stability. BloombergDollar vs the rouble. Earlier Monday, Russia's benchmark international dollar bond yield climbed another 14 basis points to 6.75%. That is higher than the equivalent borrowing costs of Rwanda, the Financial Times reported. The central bank increased interest rates by 1% to 10.5% last week in an effort to slow the pace of rouble falls. It has also spent over $70 billion of Russia's foreign-currency reserves in 2014 buying up roubles in the market to prop up the currency. However, the currency has continued to track the oil price downward, with WTI crude falling below $60 a barrel (down from $107 a barrel in June). However, the development of concern to Russia this time is that the rouble began tumbling despite a rise in oil prices in early trading on Monday. This disconnect could suggest the currency is now being driven by declining domestic sentiment rather than, as some have claimed, algorithmic trading that automatically sold roubles whenever the oil price declined. Wells FargoWhile the country still has about $416 billion in reserves and low government debt equal to only 9.2% of GDP, concerns have been focused on Russia's corporate sector. In particular numerous Russian businesses borrowed heavily in dollars over the past few years, and repaying those loans is quickly becoming a much more expensive prospect. Russian corporates are set to repay some $35 billion in December and over $100 billion in 2015. As the rouble continues its slide, that bill increases in size for companies that conduct most of their activities in Russia. News broke last week that the Russian state-owned oil company Rosneft, which faces a $6.88 billion loan repayment on Dec. 21, sold 625 billion roubles ($10.8 billion) of six- and 10-year notes into the local market at yields below those on equivalent Russian gov securities. Bloomberg reported that the debt sale was a back-door refinancing of the company by the Russian central bank, as it simultaneously announced that exchange-traded Rosneft bonds would be eligible to be used as collateral in an unprecedented 700 billion-rouble liquidity auction Monday. The move was unusually swift, according to analysts, and is indicative of the problems facing even some of Russia' s largest companies. The recent falls could prove even more costly for companies in more parlous positions. It looks as if the Russian central bank might have attempted to intervene again to defend the currency. Russian broker BCS speculates that the move could have cost the Bank of Russia as much as $350 million. What is certain is that it failed to halt the slide. BloombergThe dollar versus the rouble. FREE AppDownload
Another year in the books and I’ve updated my Investing Fads and Themes by Year guide accordingly. It begins with 1996 because that was my first summer working on The Street and my earliest exposure to the market. I do this every December because I agree with the eminent philosopher Bob Marley in that “If you know your history, then you would know where you’re coming from.” If we don’t document and learn from the lunacy that grips us from year to year, how can we truly say that we’ve grown as investors? By documenting this stuff, it becomes a permanent part of my knowledge base, a reference to draw from in times to come as similar trends play out and the great wheel spins past an endless parade of fear and greed. So what was 2014 about? I would point to four major fads and themes that each captivated the investment community and had some overlapping influence on each other: General economic weakness in the European economy along with the continued China slowdown and a surprise mid-year technical recession in Japan helped drive prices and demand for commodities. This led to a push back of inflation expectations across the board and the resumption of yield-chasing among investors. Treasury yields hit astounding new lows – the exact opposite of what all of Wall Street’s strategists predicted as the year started. Consumer discretionary stocks and consumer staples stocks were big beneficiaries, as were bond funds and utilities. The US stock market – specifically the S&amp;P 500 – outperformed almost every other investable asset class in the universe this year. Investors piled into US large cap stocks as this trend became more and more apparent. The S&amp;P 500’s year-to-date’s total return of 10.5 percent beat the Barclays Aggregate Bond index by 40 percent in 2014 and doubled the return of the Nikkei. In the meanwhile, MSCI EAFE (developed markets ex-US) was down 7.75 percent this year and the MSCI World Index has barely squeezed out a positive gain of less than 1 percent. Removing US stocks from the world index and its a loss of 7.65 percent for global stocks. One global market that did manage to perform well was a market that almost no one can participate in – the Shanghai Composite of mainland Chinese stocks. The Shanghai Comp rose 40 percent this year, outperforming Hong Kong, India and the rest of the Asian markets after having underperformed for years. This awakening was brought about through a combination of renewed Bank of China stimulus along with the China Stock Connect (or Through train) plan that linked Hong Kong’s brokerage firms and markets with their mainland counterparts to allow for easier flow of funds back and forth. With foreign investors getting an expanded entrance to the Chinese bourses, the large discount between valuations narrowed a great deal. The bright spot for China bulls, however, took place on the New York Stock Exchange in September, as Alibaba listed it’s shares in the largest US IPO in history. Jack Ma led his company’s coming-out party on The Street and virtually every major hedge fund jumped in to play the theme. In some way, the incredible strength of the US dollar figured into virtually all of the popular investment themes in the market this year. The dollar rose some 12% versus the yen this year and appreciated all year against the basket. It was on everyone’s lips, skewed the returns of investors in foreign asset classes and informed a great deal about how we went about allocating assets. *** So those were the big stories of the year that investors and traders bought into. Below is my updated guide to the Investing Fads and Themes by Year, 1996 – 2014.  Enjoy! The Reformed Broker See previous years below!20132012201120102009 FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderFinding the perfect gift for a coworker in your office Secret Santa pool can be tricky.  You have to stay under a set price limit while buying a gift for someone you may not even know. We found 25 office-appropriate gifts under $25 to accommodate every type of coworker. FREE AppDownload
 Jay Carney is a stock market soothsayer. Carney, then the White House press secretary, said in March that the only thing to do as an investor in Russia was to short stocks, or bet that the price of stocks would fall.  Here's the exchange, via the White House: Q: The Russian stock market is soaring the last couple days. Is this a sign that the sanctions that we've taken are ineffective if they're not really paying a cost? In reality, it's up about 8, 9% in the last couple days, their main stock exchange. MR. CARNEY: I think it's down for the year and I think the ruble has lost value. And I think that the long-term effect of actions taken by the Russian government ... will have an impact on their economy all by themselves. They will also incur costs because of the sanctions that we and the EU have imposed, and there will be more actions taken under the authorities that exist with the two executive orders that the president has signed. So I wouldn’t, if I were you, invest in Russian equities right now — unless you’re going short. In June, we pilloried Carney for his call, which looked terrible at the time. But now Carney looks like a genius. Earlier this month, we noted that Carney's call had completely turned around, with the ruble and the Russian stock market collapsing through the summer as the price of oil cratered. At that time, WTI crude oil was around $68 a barrel, and the "RSX" ETF that tracks the Russian stock market was down about 18% from the time of Carney's call. And now it looks even better for Carney and even worse for Russia. On Monday, WTI was below $58, and the RSX was down more than 34% from the time of Carney's call. On Monday alone, the RSX dropped more than 8%.  Meanwhile, the ruble was down more than 8% on Monday, with one US dollar buying more than 63 rubles. Earlier this year, one dollar bought about 35 rubles.  Google Finance   FREE AppDownload
Some mutual funds try to track their benchmarks. Others try to beat their benchmarks. Unfortunately, most mutual funds have historically lagged their benchmarks. According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, 2014 has been a particularly challenging year for large-cap equity mutual fund managers. "Market swings and shifting volatility regimes have compounded the performance difficulty for fund managers this year," Kostin wrote on Friday. "Only 12% of large-cap core mutual funds have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 YTD, the lowest share since 1997. Following the 7% S&amp;P 500 sell-off in October, the index rallied sharply by 11% during the course of two months to new record highs, before the past week’s turbulence." This only adds to the case for choosing passively managed index funds over actively managed funds. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Recently, we went to a McDonald's and ordered off the "secret menu." This time, we wanted to try the "secret menu" at Chipotle. Specifically, the mythical "Quesarito." Here's what happened. Produced by Will Wei. Camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERSStocks have given it all back, and now the losses are accelerating. Near 11:30 am ET, the Dow was down 100 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 12 points, and the Nasdaq was down 45 points. Earlier in the morning, stocks opened higher with the Dow briefly trading above 100 points. On Monday, the S&amp;P 500 is back below the 2,000 level for the first time since Halloween.  And on Twitter, some have noted that the S&amp;P 500 is now approaching a key technical level at its 100-day moving average of 1,988. The early drop in stocks comes after what was the Dow's worst week in three years last week.  Crude oil futures were also paring some of their gains from earlier in the session, as West Texas Intermediate crude was back near $57 a barrel. On Sunday night, WTI opened sharply lower, but made its way back to above $58 overnight but is softening some on Monday morning. The biggest move on Monday was coming out of Russia, where the ruble was again making new lows against the dollar, crashing through 60 against the dollar to 62, a new record.  Stateside, we got a mixed bag of economic data on Monday morning. The Empire State manufacturing report from the New York Fed disappointed, going negative for the first time since January 2013.  Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve's latest report on industrial production blew away expectations, as production rose 1.3% in November against expectations for a 0.7% increase.  Homebuilder sentiment missed expectations, with the NAHB housing market index falling to 57 in December from 58 last month.  FREE AppDownload
YouTubeThe video has 1.5 million views.Last week, a group of Columbia Business School students posted a video to YouTube in which a young woman sings – and raps – about getting ahead in the workplace by acting like a "b--ch."  It's already reached 1.5 million views. The video, which parodies Meghan Trainor's "All About That Bass,"  has its critics – some see it as a lame attempt to combat real biases and career obstacles for women. But the students' initial objective in creating the video was simply to entertain. They put it together in their spare time – shooting most of it in a single day – for the CBS Follies, a student-run sketch-comedy group that holds a show at the end of each semester. (It's the same group that released this viral "Single Ladies" parody back in 2010.) "There are particular pieces of performance feedback that women receive that would virtually never be given to a man (“warmth” “nurturing” “abrasive”)," wrote co-director Wes Citti in an email. "We thought this would be a fun idea to explore for a comedy video, to depict women embracing the label 'b--ch' that comes with acting in a hyper-masculine fashion played to the level of absurdity." It's basically a younger, more fun version of the ultra-feminist Pantene commercial that came out in the Philippines a year ago and highlighted male-versus-female stereotypes in the workplace. With a few more swear words. Watch the full Columbia Business School Follies video here:  FREE AppDownload
Barneys Everyone needs a great everyday wallet — and this Lotuff Leather black billfold wallet is where it's at. Now that everyone's using huge smartphones, no one wants (or needs) to carry around a huge wallet. That's why this small and sleek 4" by 3" wallet is the perfect option. It comes with two slots for credit and debit cards, as well as a billfold so that you can carry some cash around, too. The black vegetable-tanned grained leather gives the wallet a simple, classic look. And, it'll feel really nice in the hand.  You can get yourself one here for $89.00. — It's 41% off. However, if you prefer something a bit larger, you should check out the  Serapian Evolution Wallet for $179 — Right now, it's 39% off. But, if all you need is a card holder (just to hold a couple of business and credit cards), here's the Smythson Panama Card Case for $99 — 39% off. And finally, a pro-tip! Take your wallet out of your back pocket when you sit down on chairs. The wallet adds just enough volume to mis-align your posture, which can intensify back problems. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungJoshua Birnbaum, the former managing director of structured products group trading for Goldman Sachs. Now he's betting against something else: high-yield bonds. From The Wall Street Journal: Joshua Birnbaum, the ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader who made bets against subprime mortgages during the financial crisis, now has more than $2 billion in wagers against high-yield bonds at his Tilden Park Capital Management LP hedge-fund firm, according to investor documents. On Monday, The Journal published a big report on the worries facing investors in the junk bond space amid the sharp decline in the price of oil. Bonds tied to the energy sector make up about 15% of the high-yield space.  A few weeks ago, investment adviser Josh Brown wrote: "The question now is whether or not the slide in crude can do enough damage in the high yield market to set off a chain reaction of de-risking, default, and outflows." As The Journal reports, junk bonds this year have returned less than 1% after gains of about 7% last year and 15% in 2012.  On Friday, the effective yield for high-yield bonds closed at multiyear highs, topping 7% and also topping the yield seen during the "taper tantrum" in spring 2013. A rise in bond yields implies that investors are worried about the ability of borrowers to repay their obligations. In the event of a default, those who hold junk bonds are often the first to take a "haircut" (in which they do not get the full value of their investment back). The rise in the yield for junk bonds also comes amid a rally, or decline, in the yield on Treasury bonds, as investors seek safety amid unsettled markets.  Here's the crazy spike in high yield.  FRED   FREE AppDownload
Homebuilder sentiment deteriorated a tiny bit in December. The NAHB housing market index unexpectedly fell to 57 in December from 58 in November. Economists had expected a 59 reading. Still, sentiment is near a 9-year high. “After a sluggish start to 2014, the HMI has stabilized in the mid-to-high 50s index level trend for the past six months, which is consistent with our assessment that we are in a slow march back to normal,”NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe said. “As we head into 2015, the housing market should continue to recover at a steady, gradual pace.” Here's some more color from the NAHB:  ...The index gauging current sales conditions fell one point to 61, while the index measuring expectations for future sales dropped a single point to 65 and the index gauging traffic of prospective buyers held steady at 45. Looking at the three-month moving averages for regional HMI scores, the West rose by four points to 62 and the Northeast edged up one point to 45, while the Midwest registered a three-point loss to 54 and the South dropped two points to 60. “Members in many markets across the country have seen their businesses improve over the course of the year, and we expect builders to remain confident in 2015,” NAHB Chairman Kevin Kelly said. FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyIf oil prices stay as low as they are now, they will have profound affects on the global economy.  The effects, however, differ for developed markets (DM) and emerging markets (EM). In a note on Sunday, Morgan Stanley estimated how various oil price scenarios will alter inflation expectations around the world. In the text, MS says: Global inflation should be 0.24% lower for every 10% decline in oil. On our base case forecasts, this means a 0.48% decline in global inflation and on our bear case this means a 0.96% decline. DM benefit more than EM on both (better) growth and (lower) inflation, although Russia skews the EM results. There is considerable divergence within EM. While MS may say that developed markets are benefiting more on growth and low inflation , this seems like bad news for Europe, which is already struggling to stay ahead of deflation. It also raises questions for the US Federal Reserve about tightening monetary policy if inflation is dragged down by oil prices.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIndustrial production had a huge rebound in November. Industrial production rose 1.3% in November according to the latest report from the Federal Reserve. Expectations were for the report to show industrial production rose by 0.7% in November, better than October's 0.1% contraction. October's number was revised up to 0.1% from -0.1%.  Capacity utilization also rose sharply, to 80.1% from a revised reading of 79.3%. Capacity utilization was expected to rise, to 79.4% from 78.9%.  This rate of capacity utilization is now equal to its long-run average spanning 1972-2013 and hit its highest level since March 2008.  Industrial production in all major market groups advanced in November, headlined by a 2.5% increase in production of consumer goods, the largest increase since August 1998.   This report comes after a disappointing New York state manufacturing report showed activity in the northeast unexpectedly contracted. In a note to clients following the report, Paul Dales at Capital Economics wrote that the report, "shows that the strengthening in domestic demand is offsetting the effects of the weakening global backdrop and the stronger dollar ... Looking ahead, the survey evidence has been very mixed. But we suspect that stronger domestic demand will ensure that manufacturing output continues to grow by around 5% a year."  FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank says the 10-year yield is going under 2%.  On Friday, the 10-year yield hit a new low for the year, closing at 2.1%. In early trade on Monday, yields were backing up some, but after a worse-than-expected Empire State manufacturing report, the 10-year was back near its closing level from Friday. In a note to clients over the weekend, Dominic Konstam and his team at Deutsche Bank wrote: "We think we are in risk off again. It may seem a little less dramatic than in October but that might be a cause for greater concern. We think investors should focus on hedging credit longs through buying volatility and low strike receivers. A near-term break of 2 percent in 10s seems quite likely."  Steve Feiss, government rates strategist at Government Perspectives, alerted us to figures noting that Treasury speculators are net short 10-year futures by the most they've been since April... of 2012. So some in the market are betting that rates are going higher.  Except all they've done this year is go lower.  And Deutsche Bank doesn't think the bottom is in yet.  Business Insider, data via Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
We spend the whole week with the same people, so it's only natural that a deeper relationship may develop. But the wisdom (and ethics) of the office romance are hotly debated. One of the cohosts of "Shark Tank," Barbara Corcoran, tells us to go for it — but remember the breakup could get messy. Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Shutterstock.comFirst-time buyers will make a comeback into the housing market next year. That's according to Realtor.com, which forecasts strength in the US housing market in 2015. "The residual financial effects of recession-driven job losses and subsequent unemployment have impeded millennials' entry into the home-owning market," writes Jonathan Smoke, chief economist for Realtor.com. "In 2015, increases in employment opportunities will empower younger buyers to return to the market and fuel the continued housing recovery." Realtor.com recently released its list of "Top 10 Markets for Housing Growth in 2015." These cities have a great deal of new construction, and their job markets are attractive to young professionals. They range from large metros like Los Angeles, forecast to see increased home sales, to small and affordable cities like Des Moines, Iowa.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary HershornThe manufacturing report was much worse than expected. The latest Empire State manufacturing report from the New York Federal Reserve came in at -3.6. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 12, up from November's 10.2 reading.  This was the first negative reading for the measure in almost two years. According the Fed's latest report, "Overall, readings for the headline index during the fourth quarter of 2014 mark a significant downshift in activity from the levels seen during the five-month period from May through September." The report said that 19% of respondents said business conditions improved over the last month, while 23% of respondents said conditions worsened. The new-orders index also fell into negative territory, tumbling eleven points to -2.0, and the shipments index fell to -0.2. Labor-market conditions were mixed, with the index for number of employees holding steady at 8.3 and the average-workweek index declining to -11.5. The six-month outlook for business conditions was lower, but "nevertheless conveyed considerable optimism about future business activity." Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said in a note to clients, "In one word: Inexplicable ... Baffling, hard to take seriously ... The is the first sub-zero reading since January 2013, but it flies in the face of almost all the other macro data." Here's the chart: NY Fed      FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via YouTubeRay Dalio.Ray Dalio is warning that a dynamic capitalism is based on is crumbling. Speaking at The New York Times Dealbook conference last week, the head of the hedge fund Bridgewater Associates said that what lies ahead could be a real challenge for central bankers and the global economy.  But right now, we're in the good part of the economic cycle.  "Now, I think it's a good environment," Dalio said. "We’re long equities and we're holding those positions and it's a relatively good time. What I worry about is if we were to take it a year or two in the future, what the effectiveness of monetary policy will be, particularly in a deflationary environment." Now, when Dalio talks about a "deflationary environment" he is basically talking about this chart, highlighted by Gerard Minack back in our latest Most Important Charts feature:  The idea behind Minack's chart and Dalio's "deflationary environment" is that the peaks and troughs in interest rate cycles since 1980 have been falling steadily. Those trends are headed toward zero. Then what? Dalio, at least, is skeptical about how much more we can get out of our economic status quo. "We are almost at the end of the ability to squeeze more out of it," Dalio said. And by "it," Dalio is talking about "spread," which is basically how much you are compensated for taking risks.  "If you look at capitalism," Dalio said, "it's the spread that is the transmission mechanism: everybody's looking for spread. And it's that spread that makes lending go through.  "And then there's lowering interest rates, which lowers debt service payments. That dynamic that capitalism is based on is going to become decreasingly effective in the longer-term future." And so the predicament facing central banks like the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of Japan is that interest rates have been at zero as credit spreads have narrowed. For Dalio, this means that going forward, it will be harder for these central banks to enact effective policies because they can no longer use interest rates as a policy tool, and they may no longer be able to rely on the existence of "spread" in the economy. As Dalio said: "I think it will be a big difference in the world economy." FREE AppDownload
Oil prices are recovering a little from their multi-year lows as markets open in Europe, and oil stocks are seeing some recovery. At 1 p.m. GMT, WTI crude oil is up 0.35% to $58.29, after falling below $57 late on Friday. Brent crude fell below $61 per barrel at the same time, but is now back up 1.06% to $62.81. Here's how the rise looks, erasing some of the decline seen at the end of last week: investing.com, Business Insider But in the context of the recent fall, it's a pretty small jump.  The slide is just going on and on, after OPEC, the cartel of oil-trading nations, refused to agree on a cut in production this November. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil producer, still seems pretty relaxed with just letting the price slide. This weekend, the oil minister of the United Arab Emirates suggested that OPEC would still not increase output even if oil dropped to $40 per barrel. Here's the slide since the summer put in context: investing.com, Business Insider Oil stocks are following the climb and leading the FTSE 100 today.  Tullow Oil: +2.45% BG Group: +0.86% Petrofac: +0.74% Royal Dutch Shell: +0.35% Oil got hammered last week, helping towards the worst week that lots of major equities indices have seen in years, with major energy stocks sinking around the world. It's looking more positive at the start of this week, but there's no telling yet how far prices could fall.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog With the benefit of hindsight, it now appears that the energy boom of the past few years might have been a bubble, not just in the US, but worldwide. Booms have a tendency to turn into bubbles when they attract too much equity and debt capital, which leads to excess capacity. When the bubbles inflate, so do the prices that attract all the capital. When the resulting excess capacity leads to falling prices, the bubble bursts as capital dries up. The key characteristic of tulip and other bubbles is expectations that tulip prices will continue to rise even as more tulips are produced.  During the second half of the 1800s, we had the railroad boom in the US. During the early 1900s, the booms were in autos and appliances. The Great Depression ended with the defense spending boom of World War II. During the 1950s and 1960s, the expansion of the highway system stimulated the growth of suburbs. The resulting housing boom ended in a big bust at the end of the previous decade. The IT revolution stimulated the US economy during the 1990s. The energy industry was energized by the technological revolution, resulting in the fracking boom.  Again, with the benefit of hindsight, it now seems that the fracking boom was a bubble financed by investors desperately seeking better returns available from high-yield bonds issued by energy companies and countries. The chart of US plus Canadian oil production looks a bit like the chart of asset-backed commercial paper outstanding prior to the financial crisis of 2008.  The high-yield bond market has been hard hit by the sudden risk aversion of investors, particularly those who bought energy-related bonds. Many have been seeking safety in lower-yielding US Treasuries. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch US high-yield corporate bond yield rose from the year’s low of 5.15% on June 24 to Friday’s 7.04%, the highest since July 27, 2012. The spread over 10-year Treasury yields widened over this period by 237bps from 257bps to 494bps. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Energy Bubble. (1) Worrying about the Middle East in the Midwest. (2) Too much of a good thing? (3) US consumers are happy shoppers. (4) Widespread shopping spree. (5) Consumers of last resort. (6) Definition of a bubble fits oil’s boom/bust. (7) High-yield market highly stressed. (8) Capital is drying up for drillers. (9) Submerging oil economies. (10) Fed in 2015: None and done? (11) Can US offset all the rest? (12) Iranian surrogates threatening Saudis. (13) Still bullish. (14) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Retailers. (More for subscribers.)   FREE AppDownload
Andy Wolfe/US NavyLockheed Martin makes F-35s, the most advanced jets in the world.The sale of weapons is big business, especially for the US and Russia, and the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute has compiled a list of the biggest weapons companies in the world.  The SIPRI Arms Industry Database, created in 1989, contains financial and employment data on arms-producing companies worldwide. Chinese companies are excluded because of "the methodological difficulties posed by the lack of transparency about China's arms sales." American companies dominate the list. Lockheed Martin, which makes some the most ambitious weapons projects in history, is at the top. Here are the top 25 arms-producing and military-services companies in the world in 2013, excluding those in China. SRPRI Here's a look at the breakdown by country (Russian arms sales have soared over the past year): SIPRI Skye Gould/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown behind security barriers in WashingtonNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures rose on Monday, following the worst week for the S&amp;P 500 in more than two years, with investors focused on a rebound in crude oil prices which earlier hit a fresh 5-1/2-year low. * Stocks in the energy sector are likely to rise as Brent  and U.S. crude  prices rebounded. The Select  Sector Energy SPDR exchange-traded fund  gained 1.2 percent in light premarket trading. * U.S. data on tap includes the New York Federal Reserve's survey of manufacturers for December at 8:30 a.m. EST and the Fed's gauge of industrial output and capacity utilization at 9:15 a.m. . * Shares of pet supply retailer PetSmart  rose 4.2 percent in premarket trading after it agreed to be bought by a private equity consortium led by BC Partners Ltd for $8.7 billion, in the largest leveraged buyout of the year. * Workers at Amazon  warehouses in Germany began a three-day strike for better pay and work conditions as the online retailer raced to ensure holiday orders are delivered on time. In early New York trading, Amazon shares were bid slightly higher than the stock's close on Friday. * Traders will keep an eye on Sydney, where Australian police locked down the city's downtown area after an armed man walked into a busy cafe, took hostages and forced them to display an Islamic flag, igniting fears of a jihadist attack. * Separately, four gunmen took a hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of Ghent on Monday, the state prosecution service said, adding it had no indication whether it was a terrorist act. Futures snapshot at 7:27 a.m. EST: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were up 14.5 points, or 0.73 percent, with 143,336 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were up 33.25 points, or 0.79 percent, in volume of 10,419 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were up 109 points, or 0.63 percent, with 10,607 contracts changing hands.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images / Andy LyonsWillie Cauley-Stein #15 of the Kentucky Wildcats grabs a rebound.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has this morning's trader buzz.. Good Morning!  With the DJIA Biggest weekly loss in 3 years behind us - US Futures are rebounding into Fed week, up 80bp as flows come in from Treasuries and Bunds.    Europe is mostly green, as with Greece bouncing 2% (Elections this week, Syrza losing ground?) – but the FTSE is only up 30bp and DAX 25bp as miners remain in the red.   With the Focus on Oil equities – still no real recovery in Dubai’s market, off 15% the last 3 sessions and closing near session lows.   Over in Asia, Elections strengthened Abe’s hand in Japan, but it was a “Sell the News” as the Nikkei lost 1.5% in light volume.   While Shanghai managed a 50bp pop, much of emerging Asia was under sharp pressure, with Malaysia and Thailand off 2%.    Miners and Financials weighed in Aussie, and the Hostage Situation in Sydney smacked the A$ to 4Y lows.   The US 10YY is up 4bp to 2.12%, while Bund yields are just off session highs as Friday’s sharp rotation into Credit unwinds.   No real impact from the French downgrade, and Greek Yields are 11bp tighter.   The Euro is retreating from 1.25, and the Greenback is gaining against Yen, trying to get upside 119 in earlier trade.   Equities like the stronger DXY, and even Commodities are higher despite the $ headwind.    WTI was off 2.5% in early trading as UAE sees no cuts down to $40, breaking as low as $56.25 before rallying on headlines Libya and Nigeria are seeing supply disruptions – Brent up 1.5%, WTI 80bp ($).   Natty Gas is popping 2%, and AG commodities all higher as well.   Gold, however, is in the red as German Inflation metrics make new lows (5Y Breakeven at -12bp!), and Indian Inflation comes in the lowest in 5+ years.     Light on the Calendar today  – We have Empire Manufacturing at 8:30, Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization at 9:15, NAHB Housing Market Index at 10.  At 4pm today we get Net Long-term TIC Flows from the Treasury.   Finally, it’s the 15th of the month, so is it a “Good Harbor” Day? FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerShi'ite Muslim pilgrims reach out to touch the tomb of Imam al-Abbas located inside the Imam al-Abbas shrine to mark Arbain in the holy city of Kerbala, southwest of Baghdad, on Saturday.Good morning! Here are the major stories you need to know about in markets on Monday.  Senate Passes A Very Big Deal. On Saturday, the US Senate passed a $1.1 trillion spending bill, which means we won't be experiencing another government shutdown anytime soon. "Not only was a government shutdown averted, not only did Congress show that it's not totally dysfunctional, but Saturday night's budget deal was one of those rare events that was memorable both for substance and politics," Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere said. "The enduring memory from this budget battle is the Obama-Boehner alliance; whether it resurfaces next year on immigration or trade or taxes is the great wild card of 2015." Japan's Abenomics Gets A Fresh Mandate. Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's party, the LDP, and its smaller coalition partner Komeito won 325 seats out of the 475 on offer. That's exactly the same proportion it won in 2012, and it will most likely be taken as an endorsement of Abe's economic policies, despite record low voter turnout.  OPEC Says Even $40 Oil Won't Force Its Hand. OPEC announced no cuts to oil production despite a supply-glut-driven crash in oil prices. "We are not going to change our minds because the prices went to $60 or to $40," UAE energy minister Suhail Al-Mazrouei said. "The market will stabilize itself." Oil Bounced Back A Little. After a colossal sell-off last week, oil prices are making a small recovery. Brent crude is back to nearly $63 per barrel, up nearly 2% on Sunday, when it dropped below $61. WTI is back above $58.50, up by about 1%, after falling just below $57.  Early Signs Of A Slowdown In US Oil Fields Are Emerging. After leading the US economic recovery out of recession, some of the nation's top oil states are showing early signs of a slowdown as a result of the plunge in crude prices. In Houston, the first oil industry layoffs have been announced, with realtors there predicting a sharp decline, up to 12%, in home sales next year. PetSmart Is Getting Bought For $8.7 Billion. The pet supply retailer PetSmart said Sunday it had agreed to sell itself to a private equity consortium led by BC Partners for $8.7 billion in the largest leveraged buyout of the year. Markets Are Up. US futures are rallying, with Dow futures up 121 points and S&amp;P futures up 16 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.3%. Asia closed lower, with Japan's Nikkei down 1.5% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.9%. US Industrial Data Coming. The Empire Manufacturing index will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET; economists estimated the index climbed to 12.0 in December from 10.1 in November. US figures for industrial production in November are out at 9:15 p.m. ET; analysts are expecting a 0.7% boost from October. US Housing Data Coming. The NAHB housing market index will be published at 10 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index of homebuilder sentiment climbed to 59 in December from 58 in November. Barron's Couldn't Find One Bearish Strategist. In its latest print edition, Barron's writes that of the 10 high-profile Wall Street strategists it surveyed, all 10 expected stocks to rise in 2015. FREE AppDownload
On December 15, 2013, fierce fighting broke out in South Sudan’s capital, Juba. Rebel forces loyal to Machar targeted South Sudan’s oil fields, and what started as a clash, quickly escalated to a civil war. Violence swept the country, killing tens of thousands people and displacing over one million. The UN estimates that almost a third of the population, or 4 million people, is now in dire need of humanitarian assistance. The promise of nation-building seems to be a distant memory as South Sudanese leaders viciously struggle to claim power. Months of ongoing political tensions between President Kiir and Machar has inexorably reopened deep fault lines among ethnic groups, begging the question: Can these two main tribal groups reach a common ground before they destroy the world’s youngest nation? When South Sudan became independent, it gained not only sovereignty but control of about three-fourths of Sudan’s oil production, a devastating blow to Sudan’s economy. The IMF estimates that Sudan lost roughly 55% of its fiscal revenues and about two-thirds of its foreign exchange earnings. Sudan’s crude oil export revenues were dramatically slashed from a near $11 billion in 2010 to less than $2 billion in 2012. South Sudan’s landlocked geography forces it to remain dependent on Sudan to transport its oil through Sudan’s pipelines to the Bashayer port along the Red Sea, impelling both countries into a mutually dependent relationship. Due to its dramatic loss of oil export revenue, Sudan relies heavily on the fees it charges South Sudan for using its pipelines and facilities. In January 2012, disagreement between the two countries over oil transportation fees led South Sudan to boldly shut down its entire oil production. After nearly 15 months of fruitless negotiations, both countries finally agreed on a transit fee and South Sudan resumed oil production. In late December 2013, it was armed civil conflict that once again interrupted South Sudan’s oil output. As the largest foreign investor in Sudan and South Sudan’s oil industry, China has been forced to play an unusually active role in the conflict. REUTERS/Thomas Mukoya/Pool South Sudan's President Salva Kiir attends the signing of the Standard Gauge Railway agreement with China at the State House in Nairobi May 11, 2014. Before South Sudan gained independence, several Chinese companies built pipelines from South Sudan’s oil fields to Sudan’s Port Sudan. 98% of South Sudan’s government revenue emanates from its oil production. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, South Sudan accounts for 5% of China’s crude imports. The Oil &amp; Gas Journal (OGJ) predicts that Sudan had 1.5 billion barrels and South Sudan had 3.5 billion barrels of proved oil reserves, as of January 1, 2014.  One of three companies that pump oil in South Sudan, China’s state-owned National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) holds a 40% stake in a joint venture that operates in South Sudan’s enormous oil fields. The company boasts a 1,600 kilometer export pipeline that carries crude through abutting Sudan to Port Sudan. Chinese and South Sudanese official statistics predict that about 120 Chinese enterprises currently operate in South Sudan. Over the past six years, these companies have concluded $10 billion worth of deals with the South Sudanese government. The eleven-month-old rebellion in South Sudan is posing a serious threat to China’s desire of a flourishing economic liaison with South Sudan and restoration of stability has become a priority for Beijing. Five days before violence exploded in the area, the South Sudan-China Development Cooperation Forum co-hosted by the Export-Import Bank of China (Exim Bank) and the South Sudanese Ministry of Finance, was attended by numerous industrial and commercial representatives. The Exim Bank had allegedly agreed to provide $2 billion in loans, to strengthen South Sudan’s fragile economic and social infrastructure. Moreover, on December 15, China’s Ambassador to South Sudan Ma Qiang was expected to sign the Juba airport renovation deal with the South Sudanese counterpart after the SPLM’s party conference. National Petroleum has quickly become acquainted with conflict management and promptly evacuated 97 of its employees following December’s unrest. Maintaining a minimum level of staff present on the ground to keep oil production going is proving to be quite the challenge. After December’s outburst, production has been slashed by a third, to 160,000 barrels a day. Chinese officials are working closely with Western diplomats to help regional African mediators enforce peace. Since the fighting began, South Sudan has spent at least $1 billion on weapons. Ironically, while pledging to provide peacekeeping troops that will protect thousands of civilians, China happens to be the government’s top weapons provider, calling its neutrality and true intentions into question. Norinco, China’s biggest producer of arms, confirmed selling $38 million worth of ammunition, grenade launchers, machine guns and missiles to South Sudan’s government earlier this year. A vivid supporter of the secession from Sudan in 2011, the United States is especially concerned with losing face. In a desperate attempt to curb the violence, it began imposing bilateral sanctions on South Sudanese individuals back in May. Last month, the Security Council unanimously extended the mandate for a 12,500-strong U.N. peacekeeping mission in South Sudan for six months to continue protecting civilians. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyA street performer dressed as the Statue of Liberty stands amongst light snow in Times Square in New York. Unless something really insane happens in the next few days, then, 2014 will probably be remembered as one in which the world's economies diverged. Specifically, the US economy heated up as China's growth decelerated, Europe's growth grinded to zero, and Japan's growth reversed. Meanwhile, we had crashing oil prices, which has been a net positive for the US economy. However, the US stock market just had its worst week in years. This week, all eyes will be on the Federal Reserve as it holds its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Everyone is bullish these days. Barron's surveyed 10 top Wall Street strategists and not one of them expects the S&amp;P 500 to decline in 2015. On Thursday, RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub unveiled his year-end forecast for the S&amp;P 500, which he expects will hit a high of 2325 next year. This call makes him the most bullish strategist followed by Business Insider. Golub believes corporate revenues will track GDP higher. But earnings growth will accelerate as companies clamp down on selling, general, and administrative (SG&amp;A expenses). "Going forward, we believe that SG&amp;A will be the most important driver of margins as compensation grows at a slower pace than revenues. In our view, this should provide 1-2% of upside per year," Golub wrote. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com.      FREE AppDownload
flickr, morebylessGreggs is perhaps best known for its sausage rolls, but it wants to move into lower-calorie sandwiches, too.Sales at the UK bakery Greggs have jumped 5.2% in the past 25 months, according to results published Monday morning. The bakery's shares have responded in kind, rising 4.34%.  Greggs, a cultural symbol of northern England, is known for its savory and sweet pastries but said earlier in the year that it was moving into healthier options. Greggs reported that it wanted to take on shops like Pret A Manger, which specializes in organic and freshly prepared soups, salads, and sandwiches. It has become especially popular in London.  In the summer, Greggs' finance director Richard Hutton gave some insight into the strategy change. According to The Financial Times in July: Richard Hutton, finance director, said Greggs would continue to respond to changes in eating habits and to offer lower calorie sandwiches. But when asked about the prospects for low-calorie pastry snacks, he said the company would be cautious about 'playing' with its savouries. "We would meddle with these at our peril." Sausage rolls, he pointed out, were 300 calories — and they cost 80p. Greggs sells 100m of them a year. Even so, he suggested the sandwich range had helped change the image of Greggs, in the eyes of non-customers. "Perhaps we are now giving permission to come into Greggs to people who didn't realise there was something there for them," Mr Hutton said. In a statement Monday, Greggs' chief executive Roger Whiteside hinted at successful efforts to challenge up-market sandwich sellers like Pret. He said: "There is no doubt that customers are also responding to improvements in our product and service offer and to the investment we are making in the shop environment." The businesses are still not quite targeting the same market. A Christmas sandwich at Pret will burn a larger hole in your pocket than the festive bake at Greggs, for example. But it's clear that the Newcastle-based bakery is intent on going after Pret.  FREE AppDownload
New York Magazine's Jessica Pressler reports that Stuyvesant High School senior Mohammed "Mo" Islam is rumored among his friends and classmates to have made $72 million trading the stock market.  While having caviar and apple juice with his buddies, Islam acknowledged to Pressler that his net worth was in the "high eight figures." Later that day, he was going to meet a hedge funder who "basically wants to give us $150 million."  At only 17, Islam has already rented an apartment in New York, but his parents won't let him stay there until he turns 18. He also bought a BMW even though he doesn't have his license yet.  We profiled Islam about a year ago as a member of our "20 under 20" in finance when we noticed a trend among teenagers trading the market.   Here's what he told us then:  Location: New York City Investing Style: My main markets now are Crude Oil futures and Gold futures, and I trade small- to mid-cap equities when the futures don’t present a good trade. I trade mainly based on volatility and volume. My strategy revolves around price-action trading and some macro. Favorite Book: "Reminiscences of A Stock Operator" by Edwin LefevreRole Model: "I would have to say that Paul Tudor Jones is a really big inspiration to me because of his determination and talent. Mr. Jones' personality and technique are what make him so successful, and I aspire to become even 1% of the man he is. He went through obstacles yet still came out on top."  Major Accomplishment: "When I learned that I needed discipline, a strategy that had been back tested, and enough capital, I buckled down and made sure I didn’t make one more trade until I had done that. I traded using my plan and didn’t go astray and followed the cardinal rule of minimizing losses and maximizing profits. This made me profitable, and to this day I look upon that as a major goal I accomplished." Future Plans: "My future plan consists of becoming a hedge fund manager. I plan to hopefully attend a finance-oriented college after graduating from Stuy and major in finance and economics. My main future plan is to continue trading, learn from the best, and hopefully be able to find a mentor who is a great trader." Perhaps he'll start a fund out of his college dorm room, too.  UPDATE: Business Insider has learned that the $72 million figure is a rumor.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn entrance gate to Sony Pictures Entertainment at the Sony Pictures lot is pictured in Culver CityTOKYO (Reuters) - Leaked emails reveal a cultural gulf between Japan's Sony Corp and Hollywood subsidiary Sony Pictures Entertainment, highlighting the challenge of CEO Kazuo Hirai to turn around the money-losing company under the slogan One Sony. The Japanese conglomerate is heading for its fifth net loss in six years, raising questions about its ability to hold on to businesses ranging from making television sets to movies. While activist hedge fund investor Daniel Loeb has given up his call for Sony to spin off its entertainment arm, others believe it should exit weak product lines such as TVs. Bilingual Hirai is linked to both sides of Sony, having experience at both the video games and music businesses. He is therefore widely considered one of the company's few executives capable of bringing together the manufacturing and movie-making cultures of Tokyo and Hollywood. But along with racial jokes related to U.S. President Barack Obama and disparaging remarks about top actors, leaked emails from Sony Pictures executives reveal tension between Hirai and the film studio. The emails were leaked following a cyberattack on Sony's computer systems last month by a group demanding the company pull upcoming film "The Interview", a comedy criticized by North Korea for depicting the assassination of its leader. They show Hirai ordered the film to be toned down and encountered resistance from the film's creators including co-director and actor Seth Rogen. Sony Pictures co-chairman Amy Pascal tried to mediate. The emails also show film executives viewed Hirai and Chief Financial Officer Kenichiro Yoshida with trepidation ahead of cost cuts aimed at increasing profit margins. Sony Pictures Chief Executive Officer Michael Lynton in October forwarded to Pascal an email from Yoshida, marked "confidential" and seeking "serious consideration to modifying the Entertainment executives compensation plans". "This is also what I am now dealing with," he wrote. Sony declined to comment for this article and Hirai was not made available for interview. Company sources said Sony Pictures was taking the lead in the investigation and that Hirai was briefed frequently. People close to the investigation told Reuters the North Korean state is a principal suspect. REUTERS/Toru Hanai A woman walks past a Sony Corp flat-screen TV at the company's headquarters in Tokyo January 22, 2009. The hack comes as Hirai is trying to prove Sony is better off with all of its businesses including cameras, films and insurance under one roof. Last year, Loeb called on Hirai to sell part of the entertainment business to fund restructuring in its electronics arm. That, Loeb said, would also force the market to assess the value of the entertainment business more highly. That business has recently been helping to partially offset weakness in smartphones. Last month, Hirai forecast sales at the Sony Pictures to rise to as much as $11 billion in three years, 36 percent more than current business year. "The entertainment segment has maintained profitability for 18 years straight, and as a generator of stable profit, it is a major pillar of the Sony Group," Hirai told investors on Nov. 18, days before the hack became apparent. Sony shares have risen around 18 percent this year in recognition of Hirai's turnaround efforts. In September, however, Sony cut its outlook for the sixth time on Hirai's watch. Many investors and analysts now believe Hirai should make more drastic cuts in its electronics arm. Jefferies analyst Atul Goyal said Yoshida's appointment this year spurred change, such as an exit from personal computers. Goyal said Sony could eventually sell its TV set business. Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Asset Management, said Sony should also exit the commoditized smartphone market as well. "Phones, TVs... It would be better to wind down those areas, and soon," he said. Sony should focus instead on highly-profitable products such as its image sensors which are used in smartphones including Apple Inc's iPhones, he said. "There's no reason to do everything."   (Additional reporting by Jim Finkle in BOSTON; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Yellen delivers her welcoming remarks in WashingtonNEW YORK (Reuters) - Federal Reserve officials will decide this week whether to make a critical change to their policy statement that would widen the door for interest rate hikes next year and effectively bet the United States will continue to shine in a gloomy global economy. In one of the last major wild cards for financial markets in 2014, the U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee is to issue the statement and fresh economic forecasts on Wednesday at 2 p.m., following a two-day meeting. Fed Chair Janet Yellen will then hold a news conference at 2:30 p.m. The U.S. economy has strengthened and jobs have been created at a faster-than-expected clip since the Fed's last meeting in October, when it repeated that benchmark rates were unlikely to rise for a "considerable time." Officials will have to decide whether to replace that phrase despite below-target U.S. inflation and economic weakness in Europe and Asia. Top Fed officials have suggested mid-2015 is a reasonable time to start tightening monetary policy after six years of near-zero rates, and financial markets generally agree. As investors search for clues on when and how aggressively the Fed might move, here are the key things to watch: The Fed has been toying with dropping the "considerable time" phrase since at least September. In October, it restated the pledge but made clear that rates could rise sooner if economic data were strong, and later if they weren't. If the phrase is dropped, as many Wall Street economists expect, the Fed could replace it with a pledge to be "patient" in an effort to prevent an abrupt market reaction that could throw off the economy's momentum. If it is kept, as centrist Fed policymakers Dennis Lockhart and John Williams suggested last week, Yellen would have to explain the need for such caution in the face of falling unemployment and signs that wage growth is edging up. HITTING THE INFLATION TARGET There is no question the Fed is approaching its goal of full employment after years battling the recession and its aftermath, so it will need to somehow acknowledge that in the statement. Unemployment is at a six-year low of 5.8 percent and monthly job growth has averaged more than 250,000 over the last six months. More troubling is the elusiveness of the Fed's other goal of 2 percent inflation. The Fed's preferred inflation measure stands at just 1.6 percent, and with global oil markets tanking, the dollar soaring, and the economies of Europe, Japan and China weakening, the threat is that it will slip further. "To some at the Fed that's a chasm, to others it's a crack," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at Northern Trust. Many Fed officials expect any downward pressure on U.S. prices to prove temporary. The question is where Yellen stands. The clearest hint of the Fed's plans could come in policymakers' fresh projections of how high rates should rise over the next few years. In September, they suggested the overnight federal funds rate could rise to about 1.25 percent by the end of 2015, and about 2.75 a year later. Given U.S. economic growth in the last two quarters was the strongest in more than a decade, policymakers will also probably nudge up their GDP expectations for the next two years, and lower forecasts for inflation and unemployment.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed A hostage runs towards a police officer outside Lindt cafe, where other hostages are being held, in Martin Place in central Sydney December 15, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Monday. 1. A gunman is holding an unknown number of people hostage in a cafe in Sydney and forcing them to hold up a black flag with white Arabic writing in the window.  2. For the first time, a climate change deal has been made that commits every country in the world to reducing fossil fuel emissions.  3. Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to increase wages a day after his election victory. 4. A spokesman for the French Interior Ministry said ride-booking service UberPop will be banned in France starting Jan. 1.  5. Police arrested protesters in Hong Kong as the last remaining pro-democracy site was cleared after more than two months of demonstrations.  6. Sierra Leone has banned Christmas and New Year's celebrations to prevent the spread of Ebola.  7. One of the last six northern white rhinos in the world died Sunday at the San Diego Zoo.  8. Greece's finance minister Gikas Hardouvelis said a failure by parliament to elect a president by the end of the month will hurt growth in 2015.  9. Denmark will file documents to the United Nations on Monday to claim a continental shelf in the the Arctic Ocean.  10. An executed Chinese teenager was declared innocent 18 years after being convicted of murder and rape.And finally ... The latest leaked Sony emails revealed that Jennifer Lawrence and Amy Adams were paid less than their male co-stars in 2013's "American Hustle." FREE AppDownload
STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Russian arms makers' sales soared 20 percent in 2013, bucking a slowdown in other countries' industries, largely thanks to a Kremlin push to modernize its military, the SIPRI think tank said on Monday. Russia's figures were strong enough to slow a three-year decline in global arms sales caused mainly by Washington's withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan and the economic crisis in Europe, SIPRI researcher Siemon Wezeman said. "The remarkable increases in Russian companies' arms sales in both 2012 and 2013 are in large part due to uninterrupted investments in military procurement by the Russian Government during the 2000's," Wezeman added. Russian President Vladimir Putin has increased defense spending since coming to power in 2000, seeing rebuilding of the armed forces as a central part of his attempts to restore Russia's position on the world stage. The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute's (SIPRI's) widely read survey of the world's 100 biggest arms makers, excluding Chinese firms, showed combined turnover down 2 percent to $402 billion (£255.7 billion) in 2013, slower than the 4 percent decline seen in 2012. Sales by some of the world's biggest suppliers in the United States and Canada continued to fall while the picture was mixed in Western Europe with sales up in France, steady in Britain and down in Spain and Italy. Wezeman told Reuters that some of the recent declines in Europe had been caused by a perception of a lower military threat. "In 2014, the threat perception has started to change. Russian actions have woken up many European countries ... That will probably translate into additional procurement from 2015," he added. Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimea region in March and Western powers have accused it of backing and arming separatist rebels in Ukraine's east -- a charge dismissed by Moscow. Russia's Tactical Missiles Corporation showed the country's strongest growth, at 118 percent, according to the survey. Topping the global rankings were Lockheed Martin followed by Boeing, both from the United States, and in third place Britain's BAE Systems. SIPRI recorded strong growth in some suppliers in emerging markets, including South Korea, Brazil and Turkey. China-based companies are not included because of what the think tank says is a lack of reliable data. (Reporting by Anna Ringstrom; Editing by Daniel Dickson and Andrew Heavens) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew BurtonAfter a terrible time last week, European markets are making gains again.European markets are climbing this morning, following the worst week in more than three years for stocks. France's CAC 40: +0.70% Germany's DAX: +0.62% UK's FTSE 100: +0.63% Spain's IBEX: +0.86% Italy's FTSE MIB: +0.74% Asian markets closed mixed. Japan's Nikkei dropped 1.57%, after Shinzo Abe's re-election, Hong Kong's Hang Seng was down 0.95%, and China's Shanghai Composite was up 0.52% at the trading on Monday. US futures are rising higher. The Dow is up 116 points from last week, and the S&amp;P is 15 points higher. There's no data out from Europe this morning, so we're waiting for figures from the US. At 2.15 p.m. GMT, industrial production figures are out for November, with analysts expecting a 0.7% boost from October. The NAHB housing market index comes 45 minutes later, with no change expected.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man works on the rig of an oil drilling pump site in McKenzie County outside of Williston (Reuters) - After leading the U.S. economic recovery out of recession, some of the nation's top oil states are showing early signs of a slowdown as a result of the plunge in crude prices. In Houston, Texas, the first oil industry layoffs have been announced, with realtors there predicting a sharp decline, up to 12 percent, in home sales next year. Alaska's 2015 fiscal year budget revenue forecast will have to be lowered by almost $2 billion, according to Fitch Ratings, because of the sharp drop in the state's forecast crude prices. That will widen Alaska's budget gap to almost $3.4 billion, Fitch said in a Dec. 11 report. States such as Texas, North Dakota, Alaska, Oklahoma and New Mexico are all likely to feel strains next year, Wells Fargo Securities municipal analyst Roy Eappen said in a recent report. Meanwhile, household sentiment in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Arkansas where memories of the catastrophic 1980s oil crash are still fresh, weakened in October more than any other region, according to a report by Decision Analyst Inc. The Texas-based research company surveys monthly thousands of homeowners in the Census Bureau's nine regional divisions. The West South Central division, comprising those four states, had seen the strongest growth for four years, but in October survey lagged the rest of the nation, with economic gauges improving in six regions and two recording no change. "The fact that the economic index is in decline in this region signals that the economy in these oil states is heading for an economic slowdown," said Jerry Thomas, president of Decision Analyst. Responding to a more than 40 percent drop in crude prices since June, at least a dozen U.S. energy companies have cut spending plans for next year - bad news for states that rely on jobs, wealth and tax income they provide. As a result, while most states expect a tailwind from cheaper oil and its boost to consumption, it is the oil states' turn to act as a drag on the nation's overall economic growth. Mark Thiessen/APA tug boat is seen pulling an Alyeska Pipeline barge through the port of Valdez in an oil response drill in Valdez, Alaska. Thanks to the shale oil boom North Dakota's economy grew by a fifth in 2012 and almost 10 percent last year. Texas economy expanded by nearly 7 percent in 2012 and 3.7 percent in 2013 compared with nationwide rates of 2.5 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively. That is about to change. In a sign of things to come, Houston-based Hercules Offshore Inc &lt;hero.o&gt; recently notified the authorities of planned "mass layoffs." In an Oct. 30 letter, a copy of which has been obtained by Reuters, the company said it would be permanently laying off 324 workers in its Gulf of Mexico operations due to the anticipated closure of four rigs. According to company filings, it has 2,200 employees. Hercules Offshore did not respond to a request for comment. The number of well permits fell almost 40 percent nationwide in November, according to industry data firm Drilling Info Inc., which means fewer jobs and less related business. Bud Weinstein, an energy economist at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, said the downturn in production will affect related industries such as transportation, cement, metal parts and food suppliers. For example, it takes up to 2,000 truck trips to build one new well, Weinstein said. An informal tally by Reuters of announced plans for U.S. drilling rig operations shows at least seven firms plan to cut the number of rigs they operate now by a total of more than 50 in 2015, with each rig estimated to employ 50-60 workers. Another concern is dwindling sources of funding that would help companies ride out the downturn. Prices of some of the junk-rated bonds that helped energy companies finance their expansion during boom years have been tumbling and banks in oil-producing regions are expected to curb lending to the energy sector. Russell Evans, an Oklahoma City University economist, said the 1982 oil crash has left deep scars in Oklahoma where oil and gas industry accounts for about 20 percent of all jobs and two-thirds of those created since 2008. Evans expects Oklahoma to weather the current price slide better because of a strong long-term outlook for the industry, but the history of booms and busts keeps many on edge. "There is a fair amount of anxiety here," he said. For Karr Ingham, whose firm Ingham Economic Reporting monitors rig counts, permits and the oil economy in Texas, there is no doubt that hard times are just round the corner. "A slowdown is coming, period. It's just a matter of time." (Reporting by Tim Reid in Los Angeles; Additional reporting by Edward McCallister in New York; Editing by Dan Burns and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Tengku BaharMalaysia Airlines has suspended its shares from the country's stock exchange under a government rescue plan for the flag carrier which is fighting for survival after losing two planes this yearKuala Lumpur (AFP) - Malaysia Airlines suspended its shares from the country's stock exchange Monday under a government rescue plan for the flag carrier which is fighting for survival after losing two planes this year. The airline, whose already loss-making operations took a further beating after the two tragedies, said in a notice to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange last week that trading would be suspended from Monday. A Malaysia Airlines spokesperson confirmed the stock ceased trading. Under a plan announced in August, state investment fund Khazanah Nasional, which already owned around 70 percent of the carrier, is acquiring all remaining shares, de-listing the stock, and taking the company private to deal with its problems. Malaysia Airlines has chalked up losses for years even before this year's disasters involving flights MH370 and MH17, in which a total of 537 lives were lost. Khazanah's plans include pumping $1.73 billion into the airline, cutting 6,000 jobs -- or 30 percent of its workforce -- and trimming its route network. Earlier this month it tapped the head of Irish flag carrier Aer Lingus, Christoph Mueller, to take over in the middle of next year as CEO. Mueller, who is German, initiated an Aer Lingus turnaround strategy that involved hefty job cuts. Malaysia Airlines has struggled for years, with analysts blaming poor management, unwise business decisions and government meddling. MH370, carrying 239 people, disappeared in March after inexplicably diverting from its Kuala Lumpur-Beijing course. No trace of the aircraft has been found. MH17 went down in July in rebellion-torn eastern Ukraine -- believed to have been hit by a surface-to-air missile -- killing all 298 aboard. FREE AppDownload
