Facebook/CrumbsCrumbs Bake Shop — the world's largest cupcake company — is officially closing all of its stores as of Monday night, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Upon hearing the news, a Brooklyn-based Crumbs manager told the Wall Street Journal, "I come into work today, I'm happy, I'm skipping to work, and suddenly I don't have a job."  The news came just a few days after Crumbs was delisted from NASDAQ. The once-hot bakery catapulted to fame thanks to a cupcake craze that swept across the U.S. in the early 2000s. Shortly after going public in 2011, however, Crumbs began losing money.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan listens to a job interviewer during a screening session for seasonal jobs at Coney Island in the Brooklyn borough of New YorkBENTONVILLE Arkansas (Reuters) - U.S. employers may be hiring again, but the job market's recovery is not giving ordinary consumers enough confidence to increase their spending, a top Wal-Mart &lt;WMT.N&gt; executive said on Monday. In an interview with Reuters at the retailer’s headquarters, Bill Simon, the president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart U.S., said, “It's really hard to see in our business today … that it's gotten any better.” He added: “We’ve reached a point where it’s not getting any better but it’s not getting any worse – at least for the middle (class) and down." Last week, the U.S. Labor Department reported that U.S. employment growth jumped in June, and the jobless rate closed in on a six-year low. The news, which was seen as proof the U.S. economy was finally growing briskly after years of a lackluster recovery, helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average above 17,000 for the first time ever. (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Bentonville; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Robert KradinFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 4 Lessons For Advisors From Yogi Berra (Vanguard)  Turns out investors and advisors can glean a lot from baseball player Yogi Berra quotes. Frank Kinniry at Vanguard highlights four such quotes for advisors. 1. "In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice. But in practice, there is:" Kinniry writes that advisors can help investors bridge the gap between the two, since "In theory, we’re all rational investors who make logical decisions in an efficient market. In reality, we’re rash, we chase performance, and we throw in the towel too quickly when things look dicey."2. "Ninety percent of the game is half mental:" "Advisors help clients know themselves, establish clear goals, and put safeguards in asset allocations to account for biases," writes Kinniry.3. "If you can’t imitate him, don’t copy him:" "It’s not uncommon to see old strategies tweaked and repackaged as an improvement on an old idea, such as smart beta. Trouble arises, though, when clients buy into a “better” idea under a misunderstood premise. …Advisors can help clients evaluate such investments in the appropriate context, as actively managed strategies."4. "The future ain’t what it used to be:" "When it comes to evaluating an investment, it’s more advantageous to assess a strategy based on its potential to generate excess returns rather than on its past returns," writes Berra. Those That Inherited Their Wealth Are More Like To Think They're Wealthy (US Trust) Nearly 48% of 680 high net worth individuals (HNWI), surveyed by US Trust for the 2014 Insights on Wealth and Worth report, consider themselves to be wealthy. And those who inherited their wealth are more likely to think they're wealthy than those that created their own wealth.   US TrustHow To Advise Start-Up Founders And Employees (The Wall Street Journal)  The future net worth and income of start up founders and employees depends on the success of their business, and this poses a unique challenge for advisors, writes Robert Cheney, founder of Westridge Wealth Strategies in the WSJ. "After that vesting period, advisers need to focus on getting these clients' stock liquid and reinvested in a diversified portfolio as soon as possible," he writes. "Because these clients are so concentrated in technology, a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds ensures that their assets will be ready to face any economic scenario.." "Advisers should also look for ways to minimize the tax burden for early stage tech employees and founders. They have to pay income tax on their restricted stock, which in California, where many of these companies are based, can be above 50%," he writes. Demand From Advisors For Social Security Support Is High (Investment News)  A new study by Practical Perspectives and GDC Research found that there is significant demand from advisors for support when it comes to social security. "Social Security is an increasingly important part of the discussions advisers have with clients as they approach and transition to retirement, yet advisers vary considerably in the degree to which they provide assistance on this topic," Howard Schneider, president of Practical Perspectives and author of the report told Investment News. Here's A Clear Demonstration Of How Stocks Are Not The Economy (Business Insider) The stock market isn't the best gauge of a healthy economy. RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub the growth for S&amp;P 500 earnings was higher than U.S. GDP growth. He also pointed out that analysts and economists don't always have similar opinions in what they cover. This chart looks at the trajectory of GDP growth expectations and expectations for Q1 earnings growth. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyInvestors bullish on China often point to the rise of the country's middle class and the potential of its desire to consume. But in a new book titled "Myth-Busting China's Numbers: Understanding and Using China's Statistics," Matthew Crabbe argues that most investors have a distorted view of what's really going on. Crabbe told Business Insider that the one thing foreign investors get wrong is that they think of Chinese consumers as one big market, when in fact they're smaller, regional markets. He further argues that 1. there's an over-reliance on retail sales as a measure of consumption and 2. it is difficult to define China's middle class. On the former, Crabbe argues that retail sales "substantially overstate what is truly purchased from the retail market." He points out that this data often "represents significant amounts of institutional and corporate sales and wholesale transactions." On the latter, Crabbe notes that there are various estimates on the scale of the Chinese middle class "but the situation is changing so fast that it is hard to be accurate. This is where China continues to confound even the best most informed pundits, and why making claims about the current size of China's market and its future growth is such a dangerous game." Here's an excerpt from the interview. Business Insider: Investors are bullish on the Chinese middle class consumer, but what are they getting wrong? Matthew Crabbe: A lot of advice I hear, seems to be echoing what I've been saying for a while recently, is really that you can't go to China trying to assume that you can reach 1.3 billion people. There's this lingering idea that China is this massive market, but it's not. It's a very large country with lots of small, regional markets within it, and I think it's getting that realization. You've got to really understand who your likely consumer is and build out to where they are, which cities, or which city districts they're in, and understand that you have that limited number at the moment. Sure it might grow, but you can't bite off too much. There's so much to learn about the consumers, their aspirations, their buying habits. And not just in the moment …things change so rapidly. Any wisdom you might have had from last year has probably changed this year. The key thing is really setting those limits and being realistic in those limits which I think is one of the problems that foreign companies in China have had. They've fallen into that China dream. It's that simplistic view and it's something I've been railing against for years. The other thing that surprises me, is that people try to supplant their business model on to China and I think that's one of the most common problems  you see with companies coming in to China — that because their business model worked elsewhere it'll work in China. Of course China has it's own logic or lack of logic. And I think that's one of the hardest things for companies to understand, is that problem of transmuting from one business model to one that applies to China and the Chinese consumers that they understood are the ones that would be most likely to buy their product or service, which is very difficult to grasp.  BI: How do multinationals know what to look at? MC: I was speaking to an American lady when I was in Shanghai last, who represents a very large American entertainment corporation that's building a theme park in Shanghai. She was saying that one of the problems she has, is that they've identified certain groups of consumer in China. And she's been in China for a while. She understands the difficulty of the data and the problem she has is then communicating that data back to the headquarters. They are asking for certain pieces of information and ways of expressing it and certain economic factors they need to do their planning. But her issue is that the economic data she's giving them isn't telling them the story they need to know. And I think that's one of the most important things, trying to identify the differences within China. Looking for differences in economic outlook in different parts of the country not just in terms of income. You obviously have to look at that to start with, but its the more visceral side as well. You might have fairly large, wealthy consumers in Yunnan and Heilongjiang in the Northeast, but to expect consumers in these two parts of China to act in the same way is nonsense because Yunnan is sub-tropical and it's very different cuisines, lifestyles and so on, so their whole consume patterns are different. So they might have equal levels of income but unless you understand the geography and the culture, language and history of different places, it's often the intangibles that people don't get, and that's the thing you can only understand when you spend time [there]. And I think that's where it comes in, it's granular, ground up, trying to get China as much as you possibly can. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA man reaches for a can of Japan's Asahi Breweries Super Dry beer at a liquor shop in Tokyo August 18, 2011.Growth in the emerging markets has slowed down recently as growth in the developed markets have picked up. Nevertheless, growth in the emerging markets is still higher, and they present attractive investing opportunities. Citi analysts recently published a massive report highlighting the best global companies capitalizing in these markets. "We expect that many of our companies will still be able to generate stronger rates of top line growth in emerging markets when compared to developed markets owing to (i) relatively strong economic growth in these countries, (ii) increasing per capita penetration / usage of consumer staples products by consumers in these markets and (iii) broadening geographic distribution of branded consumer staples products within these regions." In their report, Citi analysts have complied a list of their favorite companies for outsized growth in emerging markets. Click on the slide show to see the list. FREE AppDownload
This week the United States began implementing the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or Fatca. The legislation will be applied worldwide, but in many countries it has raised legal issues since Fatca can violate domestic legislation. Lebanon, whose banks have readily embraced Fatca, is one such place.  In reality, Lebanese banks didn’t have much of a choice. Fatca has been imposed by the United States on banks and other financial institutions internationally, obliging them to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on their American account holders with accounts above $50,000. If the financial institutions are deemed non-compliant, 30% of their gross payments from American payers are to be withheld. This can be onerous; hence, all financial institutions whose transactions go through the United States have no alternative but to accept Fatca.  What this means specifically is that at the end of every year banks will inform the IRS about their American clients, reporting the total sums in their account, interest, and transactions. In that way, the IRS believes, it will become extremely difficult for Americans overseas to underreport, or not report, their income in order to evade taxes.  However, there are several problems with Fatca. One involves principle. The legislation mandates hitherto-unprecedented intrusion into the private affairs of Americans overseas. Few things are more private than an individual’s personal financial accounts or business relationships, and Fatca tears away the blanket of privacy and demands that foreign financial institutions effectively spy on their American clients. There are two very clear messages in the Fatca legislation, and they are quite disturbing: the first is that the American government does not trust its own citizens, and therefore will push them into a surveillance system operated by foreign entities; and second, that no financial institution — or country — has the latitude to refuse to implement Fatca because the United States could close off their access to the American market. For anyone transacting in U.S. dollars, this is the kiss of death.    Fatca is effectively an instrument of financial imperialism, while also being a very blunt mallet against America’s own citizens. For critics of Fatca, a democracy should not be engaging in such wanton behavior, especially as the highly invasive oversight it imposes on Americans’ accounts would never be accepted by citizens in the United States. But there is also something else: Fatca forces countries to ignore their own legislation, and the IRS knows this. In many countries, reporting on bank accounts, particularly to a foreign authority, is not legal. While that may be changing in a world where governments are increasingly agreeing to an exchange of financial information on citizens and are hunting for tax revenues, it suggests there is more to Fatca than meets the eye. In Lebanon, for instance, banking secrecy remains in place, even if it has been gradually eroded over the years. There is also a legal principle known as the “right to an account,” which means that banks cannot deny an individual an account. While these principles have been imperfectly applied, they yet remain foundations of the Lebanese banking system and speak to the more fundamental liberal philosophy underpinning it.  Fatca undermines both. The reporting conditions effectively deny banking secrecy to Americans, who are obliged to waive their right to confidentiality. And if American clients refuse to waive that right, their accounts can be declared recalcitrant and banks can choose to close them. This, in turn, is contrary to the right to an account principle enshrined in Lebanese law. But Fatca also imposes extra-territorial conditions. If an American is married to a Lebanese citizen and the two hold a joint account, the financial institution must report on both account holders. That means Lebanese banks are tasked with reporting on the transactions of Lebanese clients simply because they are married to Americans. From a legal perspective this is highly dubious, and could push Lebanese to demand that the authorities apply the law and protect them from IRS scrutiny. It is to clarify such legal ambiguities that the United States has signed what are known as inter-governmental agreements, or IGAs, with foreign countries, to circumvent their domestic legislation. Many governments have gone along with this, but Lebanon has not signed an IGA. What this means is that financial institutions in the country are likely to be maneuvering in a legal gray zone for the foreseeable future.  The banks’ attitude has been realistic. Between the dire threat of American financial retaliation and the need to respect Lebanese law, they have regarded the former as the greater priority. And the Central Bank has not persuaded them otherwise, telling the vulnerable Lebanese banks to deal directly with the IRS. Given the unevenness of Lebanon’s judiciary, rare are those who go to court to challenge legislation. That’s why banks prefer to focus on the present, while waiting to address any legal challenges when and if they present themselves.  As for the American authorities, they care not at all about the effects of Fatca. Foreign banks have paid large sums of money to be compliant, and will defer most of the costs onto their clients. How strange that the US Treasury, in order to enforce American tax law, has imposed an onerous system demanding that other countries disregard their own legislation. This article originally appeared at Now Lebanon. Follow Now Lebanon on Facebook. Copyright 2014. Follow Now Lebanon on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Things are looking grim for World Wrestling Entertainment and its money-losing streaming video service, the WWE Network. In a sign of how hard the company is working to sign up new subscribers, the WWE announced Monday it will once again offer a one-week free trial to anyone who wants it. The offer, which doesn't even require people to provide a credit card number, is one of several recent indicators that the company isn't getting much closer to the 1.4 million global subscribers it needs to make the WWE Network profitable. Twitter/@VinceMcMahonWWE chairman and CEO Vince McMahon makes his pitch to fans. The WWE Network gives fans access to the WWE's monthly special events — which were previously available only on pay-per-view for a price of ~$55 each — as well as old wrestling shows and new wrestling-related programming.  The bad news for the company started in April, when it announced the WWE Network had only 667,000 subscribers after telling investors the service could have as many as 2 million subscribers by the end of the year. The following month, it released an adjusted business outlook that said the network would lose the company $50 million this year if subscription rates did not increase. That news, combined with a disappointing new TV rights contract, caused company stock to crash so badly that CEO and chairman Vince McMahon lost a third of his fortune in one day.  Read more: How Vince McMahon's plan to turn around the WWE blew up in his face &gt;&gt; Though the WWE won't release an updated subscriber count until it announces its second quarter earnings, it's evident that things aren't getting much better — even though it provided a free trial at launch and later offered a $50 gift card to any subscriber who referred a friend. Twitter/@mikethemizFormer WWE Champion and Real World housemate The Miz took to Twitter to woo potential subscribers. Last month, it fired nine wrestlers and the head writer of its most popular weekly television show, Monday Night Raw, amid rumors that it was looking to cut costs to make up for the money it's losing on the network. And it has reportedly cut budgets and delayed production on two of the WWE Network's original programs. Though the primary hook for people to subscribe to the network — April's WrestleMania supershow — has come and gone, the WWE appears to be launching an all-out offensive to gain subscribers at a crucial moment. In August, the people who signed up when the service launched will no longer be bound by their six-month commitment, making them free to unsubscribe if they're unhappy. As part of its push, the WWE put on an unusually eventful episode of Monday Night Raw this past week, one that featured the return of former champion Chris Jericho and two other prominent wrestlers who had not been on the show for months. Perhaps the biggest carrot for potential subscribers will come at August's Summerslam event, where the  WWE is expected to put on a rematch between two of its most popular wrestlers — John Cena and Brock Lesnar. If the free trial and a star-studded Summerslam show fail to get people to sign up, the WWE likely won't have another sales hook until January's Royal Rumble. FREE AppDownload
When stocks are up 20% from a low, we're in a bull market. And when stocks are down 20% from a high, we're in a bear market. But where do these names come from? According to Scottrade, these characterizations were designated because of the respective animals' methods of attack. When you get gored by a bull, your usually getting launched into the air. And when a bear attacks you, it's coming down on you from its standing position. @Scottrade FREE AppDownload
In 1784, the Bank of New York became the first bank to open its doors in New York City. Since then, countless banks have come and gone, leaving a trail of history behind. With the help of the New York Public Library's Digital Archives, we compiled some stereo photos of New York's beautiful old banks. Some of these buildings are still in use, while others are long defunct or demolished. FREE AppDownload
Larry Busacca/Getty Superstar singer Taylor Swift has just published an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal about the music industry in the era of social media. And though the idea of Swift publishing something on the stodgy WSJ edit page is inherently amusing, it would be a mistake to just ignore it, because the piece is filled with fascinating insights. For example, we didn't realize before that the celebrity autograph is all but dead: I haven't been asked for an autograph since the invention of the iPhone with a front-facing camera. The only memento "kids these days" want is a selfie. And people in entertainment are getting jobs because of their Twitter followings: A friend of mine, who is an actress, told me that when the casting for her recent movie came down to two actresses, the casting director chose the actress with more Twitter followers. And in fact, this is likely to be the future of all big deals: In the future, artists will get record deals because they have fans—not the other way around. The YouTube era is forcing artists to be more creative with their live performances: In the YouTube generation we live in, I walked out onstage every night of my stadium tour last year knowing almost every fan had already seen the show online. To continue to show them something they had never seen before, I brought out dozens of special guest performers to sing their hits with me. Something that many people might not realize is that the notion of discrete genres is dead. Everything's mixing with everything: Another theme I see fading into the gray is genre distinction. These days, nothing great you hear on the radio seems to come from just one musical influence. And while album sales are going to be tough to come by in the future, there's still a huge opportunity in musicians who can form a relationship with fans: I think forming a bond with fans in the future will come in the form of constantly providing them with the element of surprise. No, I did not say "shock"; I said "surprise." I believe couples can stay in love for decades if they just continue to surprise each other, so why can't this love affair exist between an artist and their fans? Anyway, read the whole thing! There aren't many people with her perspective. FREE AppDownload
APIt was an ugly start to the week for momentum stocks. In trading action that was somewhat reminiscent of what we saw in March and April, internet-based momentum stocks and biotechnology companies, were among the worst performers during today's session. The indexes that house a lot of these companies, the Nasdaq and the Russell 2000, also lagged the S&amp;P 500, with the Nasdaq losing 0.77% and the Russell 2000 falling 1.77%. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 lost 0.26% and 0.39%, respectively.  Shares of companies like Pandora, down 5.8%, FireEye, down 6%, and Zulily, down 6.3%, were among the internet-based companies that fell sharply today. None of the companies had any obvious piece of news associated with the tumble. Biotechnology stocks, including GW Pharmaceuticals, down 6.8%, Isis Pharmaceuticals, down 6.7%, and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, down 6.5%, were also lower on no obvious news.  The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, an exchange-traded fund that trades under the ticker 'IBB' and seeks to match the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, fell 2.6%. Recall that from the beginning of March through the end of April, some of these stocks fell more than 50%, while the IBB fell nearly 13% and the Nasdaq lost 4.5%.  In April, we chronicled the troubles of pseudonymous trader The Fly, who blogs at iBankCoin and is on Twitter at @The_Real_Fly. Following today's trade, The Fly, who said he is bullish on stocks until late August when he believes the market will top out, had a less than encouraging tweet for investors in these high-flying names: Tough day for the home gamers. I'd be slow to get back into high beta stocks if in cash. If not in cash, I'd raise some and have. We'll keep an eye out.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonInvestor Warren Buffett poses for a portrait during an interview after a luncheon to benefit the Glide Foundation of San Francisco in New York April 23, 2014. Warren Buffett once suggested that investors should try to "be fearful when others are greedy and be greedy only when others are fearful." But according to a new study by Caltech and Virginia Tech behavioral economists, only certain people's brains are capable of acting on this advice.  The researchers looked at the brain activity and behavior of people trading in experimental markets where price bubbles formed, using an fMRI scanner to track responses.  They found that only "wise" traders received an early "warning signal" from their brains, causing them to feel uncomfortable and urging them to sell.  The wiser traders had more intense activity in the insular cortex, which is associated with risk aversion — it's often activated when a person smells something rank. The much more common brain pattern the researchers found was one that made traders behave in a greedy way, buying aggressively during a bubble and even after its peak. These traders had much greater activity in the nucleus accumbens, or NAcc, which is associated with reward processing.  Here's the brain activity chart: The high earners, in green, saw significantly more insula activity as a peak approached. Meanwhile, the poorly performing traders' brains' regulation areas basically shut down. PNAS And here's the trading activity chart. The high earners, in green, curbed their trading activity significantly as they sensed peak pricing approach, then bought into the dip once it passed. The bad traders kept buying throughout the peak.   PNAS "Seeing what's going on in people's brains when they are trading suggests that Buffett was right on target," Colin Camerer, the Robert Kirby professor of behavioral economics at Caltech, said in a university release. "The high-earning traders are the most interesting people to us. Emotionally, they have to do something really hard: sell into a rising market. We thought that something must be going on in their brains that gives them an early warning signal."  "The prices were still going up at that time, so they couldn't be making pessimistic predictions just based on the recent price trend," Camerer said. "We think this is a real warning signal." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Jeremy KeithWith a Japanese restaurant on practically every street of New York City, it can be hard to navigate between the cheap all-you-can-eat spots and the overpriced yet still sub-par restaurants.  To help you out, we put together a list of the best sushi restaurants in New York City. To create this, we combined five notable rankings from food experts and New York publications, including Zagat, the Village Voice, Eater, Time Out New York, and Gothamist. We gave each restaurant a numerical ranking based on how many lists it appeared on and how high it appeared on the ranked lists. We only included restaurants that made at least two lists.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vincent WestA runner falls in front of a Torrestrella fighting bull at the Estafeta corner during the first running of the bulls at the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 7, 2014.Stocks were lower on the first day back from a three-day holiday weekend, but the Dow still closed above the 17,000 level it eclipsed for the first time last Thursday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) There were no major economic data releases today, after last week's flood of data, which was punctuated by the better than expected June jobs report. BI's Rob Wile noted, however, that despite the broad gains in the labor market since the financial crisis, those with Masters degrees or Ph.Ds have actually seen unemployment creep up.  2) Over the weekend, Let's Gowex, a Spanish company that provided free WiFi for public spaces like malls, filed for involuntary insolvency. The company's CEO Jenaro Garcia also announced his resignation, and said that some of the company's financials over the last four years were falsified. After the company's announcement, Garcia simply tweeted, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly." Let's Gowex's announcement came just a few days after independent research firm Gotham City Research said it believed more than 90% of the company's revenues did not exist and said shares were worth $0.  3) Let's Gowex, however, isn't the only company that Gotham City has been bearish on, and shares of company's that have previously found themselves in the crosshairs of a skeptical report from Gotham City fell following the demise of Let's Gowex. Shares of Blucora, Tile Shop, and Ebix all fell after the news that Let's Gowex would go under. Tile Shop shares were the biggest loser, falling more than 3.5%, while Blucora lost 2%, and Ebix was down just less than 1%.  4) Earnings season is set to kick off tomorrow, with Alcoa's report expected after the closing bell. Ahead of the frenzy of earnings that will be reported over the next month or so, here's a friendly reminder from BI's Sam Ro that the stock market does not accurately represent the health of the economy.  5) Since Eric Cantor's shocking primary defeat, the fate of the Export-Import Bank, which provides direct loans and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers of U.S.-made goods, has been very much up in the air. Over the weekend in an op-ed for the Financial Times, Larry Summers came out in support of the Ex-Im Bank, saying that failure to renew the Bank's charter would be the economic equivalent of "unilateral disarmament." 6) In corporate news, Archer Daniels Midland announced the acquisition of WILD Flavors, which offers beverage companies "full flavor and ingredient solutions," for €2.3 billion. Shares of Archer Daniels gained more than 1.5% on Monday.  Don't Miss: A Wall Street Strategist Made An Awesome Presentation Explaining Everything In Market And The Economy » FREE AppDownload
Millennials, those born between 1982 and 2004, are set to shape the U.S. economy in a big way in coming years. While Millennials are less likely to form households in their 20s, as the economy recovers many will, inevitably move out of their homes and look to rent. RealtyTrac found the 50 best markets for renting residential properties to Millennials.  "Investors leveraging demographic trends will often be able to amplify rental returns and home price appreciation, particularly when it comes to trends in the baby boomer and millennial generations, which combined account for approximately 147 million people — more than 60 percent of the U.S. adult population," RealtyTrac's Daren Blomquist said in a press release. To qualify, these markets had  to have 10% in the millennial demographic between 2007 and 2013 and the Millennial population accounted for at least 24% of the total populations in 2013. Annual gross rental yields for the top 50 millennial rental markets ranged from 5.53% to 21.32%. Rental returns were based on gross rental yield: "the average fair market rent of three-bedroom homes in the county, annualized, and divided by the median sales price of residential properties in the county." The top five markets based on annual gross rental yield:1. Baltimore City, Maryland: 21.32%2. Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania: 20.78%3. Duval County, Florida: 14.95%4. Cumberland County, North Carolina: 13.43% 5. Newport News City, Virginia: 13.20% Here's a great interactive map from RealtyTrac highlighting the 50 best rental markets for Millennials: Learn About TableauNote: For the report RealtyTrac analyzed median sales prices for residential property and average fair market rents for three bedroom properties in 370 U.S. counties with a combined population of 186 million people — 60 percent of the total U.S. population. Rental returns were calculated using annual gross rental yields: the average fair market rent of three-bedroom homes in the county, annualized, and divided by the median sales price of residential properties in the county. FREE AppDownload
MacMillanWhen assessing economic health and policies, it's helpful to reference theory and past experiences. Unfortunately, many people love to reference ideas that are just false. In Chapter 8 of his book "Pragmatic Capitalism," Cullen Roche challenges several widely accepted economic concepts that are actually harmful to our understanding of the financial world. Titled "Economic And Monetary Myths That Persist," the section identifies 11 misleading ideas that keep coming up. We paraphrase here: People have a tendency to think of the U.S. government's balance sheet as the same as an ordinary household's. This leads to the fear that the U.S. will default on its debt obligations, like Greece, and fall into a recession and crisis. Why it's false: Unlike a business or household, the U.S. government has the ability to tax, print money and borrow funds at a rate given by the central bank. It also is supported by a unified federal government, central treasury, and a central bank.The main problem with the country's deficit isn't how much it has available to spend, but the impact this spending has on the rest of the economy. The real limitation to U.S. spending is inflation, which would come from providing too much liquidity to the private sector. "This is a vastly different issue than the constraint the US media usually focus on with regard to the budget deficit and the US government's ability to afford its spending. For the public policy debate to become pertinent, we need to move from the idea of solvency to government spending's impact on the productive base of the economy," Roche said. Quantitative Easing (QE) is when the Federal Reserve uses open market operations and banking reserves to achieve lower interest rates. The idea of QE is often associated with money printing and hyperinflation. Why it's false: In QE, the actual value of net assets doesn't change, just the composition of those assets. Roche likens it to switching from a savings account to a checking account. Because the underlying assets and operations don't increase, QE doesn't lead to an increase in money or inflation. QE can cause an increase in prices and demand for private credit, private sector assets, and balance sheet health. "QE's primary mechanism is through its ability to alter psychology, thereby keeping rates lower than they might otherwise be. The magnitude of the rate effect is hotly debated and almost impossible to quantify," Roche said. "I think QE has some effect on interest rates and therefore positively impacts private investment and debt burdens. These are positive overall outcomes for the economy but difficult to quantify." The power and influence of the central bank can be overstated and misleading. The Fed's close relationship with banks has resulted in the theory that its only purpose is to serve and assist the banks. Why it's false: Over time, the Federal Reserve has taken on more monetary policy and responsibility when banks are in trouble. But its basic responsibility as a clearinghouse is making sure the payments system is functioning. Without this, there would be little to no regulation at all in banking. "The central bank exists in large part because the alternative to that setup is letting the banks run a nineteenth-century payments system in which their risk management goes largely unregulated or unmanaged by any outside body," Roche said. "This public-private hybrid system has teh appearance of a conflict of interest because the central bank serves not only the banks, but also the government. But on the whole the design is a fairly rational compromise between a purely public or purely private system. It's by no means perfect, but it's also not the conspiracy theory some make it out to be." Disasters like when the housing bubble burst are a good indicator of unstable credit-based monetary systems. However, this is exaggerated in the belief that debt is always a bad thing, and fundamentally unsustainable. Why it's false: In accounting, one person's liabilities are another person's assets. A loan from the bank means a loan liability for the borrower, and a loan asset for the bank. What determines whether this will be a good or bad liability is the value to be gained from that loan. Roche used housing as an example: If you use your loan to buy a house, that house becomes an asset worth more than what your current liquid assets could attain. This can be used to create more value now. "By allowing us to bring our future spending into the present, debt can allow us to also bring future production or a superior living standard into the present. There is a cost for this (the loan), but the overall impact of the debt really depends on how wisely you're using the debt," Roche said. When dealing with policy, some extremists will argue that letting capitalism go unchecked will inherently resolve problems in the market.  Why it's false: It's possible to have too much of a good thing. Capitalism, when left alone, will solely pursue profit maximization and naturally turn into monopolies. Unregulated monopolies mean minimized wages, employment, consumer loss, and increased inequality. A well-run government has the ability to keep capitalism from becoming corrupt and harmful. "This doesn't necessarily mean we should chain down capitalists and make it undesirable or exceedingly difficult to pursue business activities, but I think we have to be careful about the idea that unchecked capitalism with necessarily serve the best interests of a society as a whole through a purely free-market system," Roche said. Markets are rarely in perfect equilibrium, and economists often debate whose interests matters more, producers or consumers? And people have a tendency to value consumer benefits more than producers. Why it's false: It all depends on where the business cycle and credit cycle is. "The answer to this question about consumers and producers is not that one is more important than the other, but that both matter throughout the business cycle, and understanding potential policy or economic needs is mostly about understanding where we are in the cycle," Roche said. "Additionally we should view producers and consumers as two sides of the same coin. To multiply that coin we need not only health consumers but vibrant and innovative producers." The idea that savings equals investment, or S = I, is a common but oversimplified view on financial transactions.  Why it's false: Roche divides this into two different flaws. The first flaw is the idea that savings come from a set supply of loanable funds. However, banks can create loans and deposits simply by expanding their balance sheets, marking up both its assets and liabilities. "When a bank extends credit, it does not necessarily decrease its revenues, consumption, or income. It is a pure balance sheet change created from thin air," Roche said. The second flaw is thinking of savings and investment as a simple transaction, and failing to take the results of saving into account. Roche offered an example scenario: "What if, instead of consuming your $50, you purchased a $50 production line ... Then you own a productive $50 nonfinancial asset. You have not consumed your income and it has not declined; your level of investment has increased by $50. In addition the seller of the production line will experience an increase in saving. Their saving has increased without your having dis-saved. Therefore in the aggregate investment often creates saving." The IS-LM model, which stands for Investment-Saving, Liquidity-Money, is used in modern macroeconomics to understand the relationship between real output and interest rates. Why it's false: The IS-LM model incorrectly assumes that saving finances investment, and that there is a held supply of savings available for banks (addressed in Myth 7). It also assumes that if savings increases, interest rates go down and investment goes up. This leads to the false belief that lower consumption and smaller government deficit would create more loanable funds. The creator of the model has even referred to it as a "classroom gadget," even though it is still widely used in people's understanding of economics. Similar to S = I, the economic equation MV = Py is often misrepresented, where M is money supply, V is the velocity of money supply, P is the price level and y is the real GDP. According to MV = Py, increasing money supply and velocity of money spent can lead to inflation. This equation is then simplified into "growth of money equals inflation." Why it's false: The main problem with this assumption is an extremely vague definition of the word "money." Economists generally use bank reserves and cash, but these only have an indirect impact on lending because they are not limited to a set amount of reserves. M also ignores other factors that make up financial asset value aside from money. Instead, M is mainly affected by the demand for loans by credit-worthy customers.  "Could more money lead to higher inflation? Of course," Roche said. "Does an increasing money supply automatically mean we are worse off or experiencing a decline in our living standard? It most certainly could, but the assumption that 'more money equals inflation' won't really tell you whether more money and potential inflation are actually good or bad." Related to Myth 9, many people believe hyperinflation is a high rate of inflation caused by printing too much money.  Why it's false: According to Roche's research, hyperinflation's root cause is actually severe economic circumstances which resulted in an increased money supply. These include: a collapse in production, government corruption, loss of a war, regime changes, and ceding of monetary sovereignty. "While government debts and deficit spending can exacerbate a hyperinflation, they have not generally been the cause of hyperinflation but rather the result of other political and economic events," Roche said. To close, Roche warned against taking what economists have to say at face value.  Why it's false: Economic models are meant simulate reality, but are almost impossible to test on an entire economy. Therefore, much of what economists work with is theoretical and prone to guesswork. "Making matters even worse, much of modern-day economics has become politicized as economists are called on to advise on major policy using only theory and conjecture. Much of economics involves conforming a political bias with a worldview," Roche said. "Every school of economics has a specific ideology, and the political lines are clearly drawn. This doesn't even approach science. It's more like religion." Roche's book goes on sale Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderIf you want to trade the markets you have to live the markets — that means turning your trading desk into your second home. That's why we put out a call to our readers to send in pictures of their oh-so-important spaces, and the response was just awesome. The desks came in from Croatia to Chicago, Brazil to Switzerland. You sent us everything from massive desks with a bunch of screens to killer views that likely make the day go by a lot faster. Thanks. Keep 'em coming. If you would like to include your trading desk set up, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com with a photo and a brief description.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungNote from dshort: I've updated my analysis of this valuation indicator and its variants to include the 3rd estimate of Q1 GDP, the denominator in the ratio. The downward revision of GDP nudged this valuation metric fractionally higher. Market Cap to GDP is a long-term valuation indicator that has become popular in recent years, thanks to Warren Buffett. Back in 2001 he remarked in a Fortune Magazine interview that "it is probably the best single measure of where valuations stand at any given moment." The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgment of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data or extrapolate since the end of the most recent quarterly numbers. The strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 36 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website. Here is a link to a FRED version of the chart. Incidentally, the numerator is the same series used for a simple calculation of the Q Ratio valuation indicator. I've updated the GDP denominator with the Q1 Third Estimate, with its downward revision from -1.0% to -2.9%.  Click for a larger image Here is a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe using the Wilshire 5000 Full Cap Price Index divided by GDP. I've used the FRED data for the stock index numerator (WILL5000PRFC).  Click for a larger image A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). How Well do the Two Views Match? The first of the two charts above appears to show a significantly greater overvaluation. Here are the two versions side-by-side. The one on the left shows the latest valuation over two standard deviations (SD) above the mean. The other one is noticeably lower. Why does one look so much more expensive than the other? One uses Fed data back to the middle of the last century for the numerator, the other uses the Wilshire 5000, the data for which only goes back to 1971. The Wilshire is the more familiar numerator, but the Fed data gives us a longer timeframe. And those early decades, when the ratio was substantially lower, have definitely impacted the mean and SDs. To illustrate my point, here is an overlay of the two versions over the same timeframe. The one with the Fed numerator has a tad more upside volatility, but they're singing pretty much in harmony.  Click for a larger image Incidentally, the Fed's estimate for Nonfinancial Corporate Business; Corporate Equities; Liability is the broader of the two numerators. The Wilshire 5000 currently consists of fewer than 4000 companies. What Do These Charts Tell Us? In a CNBC interview earlier this spring CNBC interview (April 23rd), Warren Buffett expressed his view that stocks aren't "too frothy". However, both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is indeed at lofty valuations, now above the housing-bubble peak in 2007. In fact, the more timely of the two (Wilshire / GDP) has risen for eight consecutive quarters and is now approaching two standard deviations above its mean -- a level exceeded for six quarters during the dot.com bubble. Wouldn't GNP Give a More Accurate Picture? That is a question I've been asked multiple times. Here is the same calculation with Gross National Product as the denominator; the two versions differ very little from their Gross Domestic Product counterparts. Here is an overlay of the two GNP versions -- again, very similar.   Click for a larger image Another question I've been repeatedly asked is why I don't include the "Buffett Indicator" in the overlay of the four valuation indicators I update monthly. I've not included it for various reasons: The timeframe is so much shorter, the overlapping timeframe tells the same story, and the four-version overlay is about as visually "busy" as I'm comfortable graphing. I will, however, continue to post regular "Buffett Indicator" updates when the Bureau of Economic Analysis updates the denominators (GDP and GNP). FREE AppDownload
Andrew H. Walker/GettyThe rooftop pool at Soho House.New York's elite have long belonged to exclusive and closely guarded social clubs. But a new generation of social clubs has cropped up to replace stuffy mainstays like the Metropolitan Club and the University Club, and young people are flocking to them. From clubs centered on shared interests to social societies, these are the best private clubs in New York City for the young and fabulous.  FREE AppDownload
Torsten Slok just released a comprehensive presentation showing the state of the jobs market in 20 charts. One that he left out was the shifting trends in unemployment by educational attainment. The St. Louis Fed's FRED database can help us out here. First, here are the long-run trends. FRED FRED But here's the truly important table: unemployment rate by educational attainment by age. It shows that older workers actually have higher unemployment rates than folks just out of college. Steve Hipple an economist at BLS, told BI it is not immediately clear why this is occurring, given that younger people tend to have higher rates given their lack of experience. He hypothesized it may now be the case that only younger workers are willing to take "reservation wages," the lowest wage rate at which a worker would be willing to accept a particular job. He also said there has been anecdotal evidence of age discrimination, and that in general the long-term unemployed now tend to be older.  BLS Anyway, here's a final chart showing overall rates, along with earnings: BLS  FREE AppDownload
The unemployment rate may be falling, but it's still high relative to historical averages. And yet, the number of job openings reported by many employers is moving up. One of the issues driving this divide is a skills mismatch. In other words, those looking for jobs don't have the skills required by employers with job openings. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok recently circulated this chart breaking down industries where the number of job openings per unemployed is high and moving up. The Bureau of Labor Statistics will update these stats on Tuesday when it publishes its Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
This chart, plotting the greatest investors of all time based on their returns compared to the S&amp;P 500 over time, is getting passed around all over the finance arena on Twitter. Investors listed range from people still in the game, like David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, to legends who are no longer with us, like Walter Schloss and Benjamin Graham. U.K. publisher Harriman House made the chart. What instantly jumps out is that there are a lot of people who have beat the market big-time over the course of a few years. But, there aren't many people with a track record of beating the market over the course of decades. Both Soros and Buffett stand out as guys who crushed the market over many years. Check it out below, via @PlanMaestro and @RichardBeddard: Twitter, @PlanMaestro FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank Last Friday, we got one of the strongest BLS jobs reports of the post-recession era. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok has taken this as a cue to compile 26 charts that explain the state of the U.S. labor market. The biggest takeaway here is that we seem to be turning a corner in all the jobs areas that have been lagging for more than five years, especially government and construction. However, some measures, like gross jobs gains by company size are still lagging.   And there's one shocking statistic at the end about full-time versus part-time jobs. FREE AppDownload
On Monday, Argentina's Economy Minister Axel Kicillof will meet with a special master of the court to negotiate his country's debt with a group of hedge fund creditors, and right now that makes him — an economist with a strong Marxist ideology — the most dangerous politician in Latin America. If negotiations fail, the republic faces default and financial ruin. Still Kicillof has made no secret of his desire to maintain his country's hardline stance on negotiating with creditors. In fact, last week it was reported that he might blow off the meeting completely even though he's been in the United States for some time, making Argentina's case to international bodies in Washington. "Argentina is committed to talks [with the creditors] but it asks for equal conditions," Kicillof said in a 45-minute presentation to the Organization of American States. "We cannot do so under extorsive conditions." It remains unclear what he means by "equal conditions," but what is certain is that these are not signs that Kicillof is willing to have a productive conversation. He asked "the world and the OAS to take sides in the issue and stand with Argentina in avoiding one judge putting in danger everything Argentina has done to get back on its feet." That judge, Judge Thomas Griesa, gave his final word in a U.S. court in 2012 and last month the Supreme Court declined to hear Argentina's appeal. The word was that Argentina must immediately pay a group of hedge fund creditors, known as NML, more than $1.3 billion worth of debt dating back to its last financial meltdown in 2001 by July 30. Argentina refused to pay these so-called "vulture capitalists" because, unlike over 90% of other bondholders, NML refused to take a haircut on this debt. The republic insisted that it should be able to pay creditors that did restructure, and the holdouts, but Griesa shot that down entirely. Kicillof, economy minister since November, has been outspoken about his disdain for the holdouts.  At the core of his understanding of Argentine finance is the belief that dramatic, nationalistic action should be taken to improve the country's economy. It was he who, as deputy economy minister in 2012, spearheaded the nationalization of YPF, an oil and gas company owned by Spanish firm Repsol. That brazen move propelled Kicillof to Argentina's main stage. The former leader of a radical student group, at 42 he lives a modest lifestyle in a middle-class neighborhood and drives a 2008 Renault. Argentine media call him "Excel" because of his obsession with numbers and spreadsheets. They also say he has a special, almost hypnotic, power over President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. The son of a psychiatrist and a psychologist, Kicillof has said that he believes the dollar has too much power over the Argentine mind. He considers this a cultural, economic phenomenon that must end, one with a sort of "magic" power to cause disaster. The thing with Kicillof, though, is that he can turn back from a precipice if he has to. While he did lead the nationalization of YPF, he also led talks to pay Repsol back for the seizure. He's also negotiated paying back debts to the World Bank and the Paris Club. These are signs that he does want to make Argentina creditworthy again. Still, it has been made clear time and time again in this saga that these "vultures" occupy a special place in the minds of Argentina's leaders. To them, this debt is not the same as other debt, and Monday the government published a legal document in several national papers arguing that Judge Griesa does not have the legal jurisdiction to block its payments to other creditors as he did last month. Again, not a good sign. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vincent WestA runner falls in front of a Torrestrella fighting bull at the Estafeta corner during the first running of the bulls at the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 7, 2014.Stocks were lower on the first day back from a three-day holiday weekend, but the Dow still closed above the 17,000 level it eclipsed for the first time last Thursday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) There were no major economic data releases today, after last week's flood of data, which was punctuated by the better than expected June jobs report. BI's Rob Wile noted, however, that despite the broad gains in the labor market since the financial crisis, those with Masters degrees or Ph.Ds have actually seen unemployment creep up.  2) Over the weekend, Let's Gowex, a Spanish company that provided free WiFi for public spaces like malls, filed for involuntary insolvency. The company's CEO Jenaro Garcia also announced his resignation, and said that some of the company's financials over the last four years were falsified. After the company's announcement, Garcia simply tweeted, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly." Let's Gowex's announcement came just a few days after independent research firm Gotham City Research said it believed more than 90% of the company's revenues did not exist and said shares were worth $0.  3) Let's Gowex, however, isn't the only company that Gotham City has been bearish on, and shares of company's that have previously found themselves in the crosshairs of a skeptical report from Gotham City fell following the demise of Let's Gowex. Shares of Blucora, Tile Shop, and Ebix all fell after the news that Let's Gowex would go under. Tile Shop shares were the biggest loser, falling more than 3.5%, while Blucora lost 2%, and Ebix was down just less than 1%.  4) Earnings season is set to kick off tomorrow, with Alcoa's report expected after the closing bell. Ahead of the frenzy of earnings that will be reported over the next month or so, here's a friendly reminder from BI's Sam Ro that the stock market does not accurately represent the health of the economy.  5) Since Eric Cantor's shocking primary defeat, the fate of the Export-Import Bank, which provides direct loans and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers of U.S.-made goods, has been very much up in the air. Over the weekend in an op-ed for the Financial Times, Larry Summers came out in support of the Ex-Im Bank, saying that failure to renew the Bank's charter would be the economic equivalent of "unilateral disarmament." 6) In corporate news, Archer Daniels Midland announced the acquisition of WILD Flavors, which offers beverage companies "full flavor and ingredient solutions," for €2.3 billion. Shares of Archer Daniels gained more than 1.5% on Monday.  Don't Miss: A Wall Street Strategist Made An Awesome Presentation Explaining Everything In Market And The Economy » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex Lee Chinese investors are major players in the international real estate markets. The country's outbound property investment totaled $2.1 billion in Q1 2014, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. And now there are concerns about the quality of the loans that have fed into international property markets. "Will China's capital flight fuel property bubbles overseas or cause a collapse when China's liquidity dries up?" wrote Andrew Collier, managing director, Orient Capital Research. In an email titled "Will China's Shadow Banking Kill the International Property Market?" Collier writes that the $2.1 billion figure most likely understates true outbound Chinese property investment because it is hard to track shadow lending. "Shadow lending is about 40% of total loans so the figure for property investment could easily be double $2.1 billion — or more," writes Collier. "More important, the funds are targeted in just a few places; just three cities, Chicago (who knew?), London and Sydney account for 50% of investment. No doubt, Los Angeles and New York will catch up soon." China saw $464 million in outbound real estate investment Q1 in 2014 into Chicago. $38 million into London, $242 million into Sydney, $150 million in Melbourne and $144 million into Los Angeles. From Collier: "Let's say overseas property investment reaches $10 billion in a year or so due to capital flight. How much of that will be backed by bad loans? What will the default rate be? This is an important question of you are a hedge fund buying up hundreds of properties in key areas. If the wind is sucked out of the market by defaulting Chinese buyers, it will impact property values significantly. Official Non-performing Loan (NPL) ratios for Chinese banks are less than 1% (0.93% for Bank of China in 1H 2013). But much of the cash invested in foreign real estate will come from the shadow market. We don't have good data for NPLs in shadow loans, partly because there are many different lender including Trusts, banks through wealth management products, pawnshops etc. But a ballpark figure of 10% would be realistic. If we assume 10% of $10 billion, that's $1 billion in defaulting property loans. Half of those, or $500 million alone, will be in a few cities such as Sydney, London and Chicago." Australia raises the alarm We've already seen concerns about this in Australia. In late June, local media reported that Ed Husic, Labor MP in Australia, said that shadow banking in China is a cause for concern for Australia's property market.  "With the rise of the shadow banking system in China, where people are going outside of the banking system to be able to finance investment, there are some concerns about the quality of the loans and whether or not they will actually be durable," Husic told the ABC. In late June, local media reported that Ed Husic, Labor MP in Australia, said that shadow banking in China is a cause for concern for Australia's property market.  "With the rise of the shadow banking system in China, where people are going outside of the banking system to be able to finance investment, there are some concerns about the quality of the loans and whether or not they will actually be durable," Husic told the ABC. Husic was concerned about the quality of the loans.  "…If those loans are being used to finance development in Australia, and if they fall over, what is the exposure of the Australian banking system to that?" "I think these are things we are very keen to pursue and we will be looking to talk to the Reserve Bank further about that in due course." Chinese regulators have been moving to curb shadow banking, but it'll be interesting to see how this plays out in the international property market. FREE AppDownload
IDR seems to have already partially priced a victory by Widodo (market positive) but we think there may be more to go after the election results. Similarly, markets are expecting a positive outcome from India’s budget, but we suspect we could still see INR and local assets benefiting if Modi delivers. Beyond that, we don’t seen a big catalyst for a large move in EM asset prices this week, especially since many major currencies have been trapped in tight ranges, and the most important economic and monetary policy events (ECB, US employment report) are now behind us.  Turkey reports May IP on Tuesday, expected at 4.0% yy. It then reports May current account on Friday, expected at -$4.0 bln vs. -$4.8 bln in April. If so, the 12-month total would drop to -$53.2 bln from $56.8 bln in April. This would be the smallest total since April 2013, though most of the improvement is coming from the import side. Brazil reports June IPCA inflation Tuesday and is seen rising to 6.5% y/y from 6.37% in May. It then reports the first July preview for IGP-M on Thursday. Even though wholesale/PPI inflation measures have turned lower, targeted IPCA has not yet. This, along with deteriorating fiscal numbers and a rebound in Dilma’s popularity could keep BRL on the defensive.  Chile reports June CPI inflation Tuesday, expected at 4.5% vs. 4.7% in May.  That would still be above the 2-4% target range, and should prevent a rate cut at the July 15 central bank meeting.  Indonesia holds presidential elections on Wednesday. It looks to be a tight race between Joke Widodo (a businessman and governor of Jakarta) against the former army general Prabowo Subianto. Widodo has 47.8% support and Subianto has 44.2% according to the latest poll. Widodo is the preferred candidate for markets, being more business friendly and pledging to boost productivity. Subianto position appears more interventionist, looking to strengthen the government’s control over the economy and of foreign investment. Separately, Indonesia central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 7.5%. Price pressures are easing, and could give the central bank leeway to cut rates later in the year. CPI rose 6.7% in June, the lowest since Jun 2013. High base effects from 2013 should see the y/y fall back towards the 3.5-5.5% target range in July and August.  China data deluge begins Wednesday with the release of June CPI and PPI, expected at 2.5% y/y and -1.0% y/y, respectively. Real sector data are stabilizing, but inflation is not going to be a focus for policymakers.  Czech Republic reports June CPI Wednesday, expected to rise 0.2% y/y vs. 0.4% in May. Deflation risks persist, and recent real sector data have been coming in soft. As such, we expect the central bank to maintain the EUR/CZK floor well into 2015. Hungary central bank releases minutes from its meeting on Wednesday. It then reports June CPI on Friday, expected to remain steady at -0.1% y/y. Deflation risks persist here too, and should keep the central bank in easing mode for the next couple of months. Korea central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 2.5%. The strong won is a big concern for policymakers, but we do not expect an interest rate response. Rather, jawboning and FX intervention are likely to be relied upon. Malaysia central bank meets Thursday and contrary to the majority of market participants calling for a 25 bp hike to 3.25%, we expect them to stay on hold for now. Recall that the bank shifted the tone in the last policy meeting to suggest that the “degree of monetary accommodation may need to be adjusted,” so tightening in coming. Indeed, the economic recovery continues and CPI is elevated at 3.4% y/y, but we don’t think it is enough to suggest urgency in tightening. May IP will be reported on Thursday as well, and is expected to rise 3.5% y/y vs. 4.2% in April.  Indian Prime Minister Modi will present his first budget on Thursday. Given his landslide victory, we expect him to use his honeymoon period to try to improve the fiscal deficit by aggressively phase out costly subsidies. The problem is the forecasts for a poor monsoon season and elevated oil prices will not help. Still, this budget will be watched closely for reform efforts and as a major policy signal. We are hopeful of a strong effort by Modi. Separately, May IP will be reported Friday.  South Africa reports May manufacturing production Thursday, expected to remain steady at -1.5% y/y.  The new metalworkers strike will likely impact growth in Q3, just as the effects of the platinum strike are ebbing. Overall, the weak economic outlook should prevent the SARB from hiking rates in 2014. Peru central bank meets Thursday and is expected to keep rates steady at 4.0%. However, there is a risk of a dovish surprise, according to some analysts. We disagree, and believe that inflation of 3.5% is too far above the 1-3% target range to allow for easing now. Mexico’s central bank meets Friday and is expected to keep rates steady at 3.0%. Barring another leg lower in the economy, we do not think the central bank will be cutting rates again. Improving US growth should pull Mexico higher, and so we remain cautiously optimistic for the economy in H2. Separately, Mexico reports June CPI Wednesday and May IP on Friday.        Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Over the weekend, Let's Gowex, a Spanish company that provided free WiFi services, went out of business after independent research firm Gotham City Research published a scathing report that said most of the company's revenues were fraudulent. Monday morning, other companies that have been targeted by Gotham City previously are feeling the pressure. In February, Gotham City issued a report that said 60% of Blucora's revenue will evaporate in the coming quarters. Since that report, Blucora's shares are down more than 20%. Last year, Gotham City also published critical reports on The Tile Shop and Ebix. Gotham City said Tile Shop shares are worth no more than $3.34; shares of Tile Shop are currently trading at about $14.40, but are down more than 30% since Gotham City's report. In September, Gotham City also filed a follow-up report on Ebix which it said uncovered new accounting irregularities. In June 2013, Gotham City said Ebix shares are worth no more than $8, and are likely headed to $0. Since Gotham's first Ebix report, the stock is down nearly 30%. Let's Gowex had a market cap of about €1.43 billion. Each of Blucora, Tile Shop, and Ebix are smaller than $700 million and are relatively lightly traded and as a result could be susceptible to increasing concern from investors after Gotham nailed Let's Gowex. In morning trade, shares of Blucora were down 1.4%, Tile Shop shares were down 1%, and Ebix shares were down more than 2.5%. Here's the chart for those stocks in morning trade. Google Finance Google Finance Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasLawrence Summers, President Emeritus of Harvard University, former Director of the National Economic Council for the Obama Administration, speaks at Center for American Progress 10th Anniversary policy forum in Washington, October 24, 2013. Larry Summers on Sunday came out in support of the Export-Import Bank, the bank whose future is stirring a heated debate in Congress.  In an op-ed in The Financial Times, Summers argued the bank provides U.S. exporters the support to compete with other nations' exporters, all of whom have similar support vehicles in their nations. He said the failure to renew the Ex-Im Bank's charter without other nations dismantling their vehicles would be the economic equivalent of "unilateral disarmament." Here's Summers: At a time when authoritarian mercantilism has emerged as the principal alternative to democratic capitalism, the US Congress is flirting with eliminating the Export Import Bank that, at no cost to the government, enables US exporters to compete on a more level playing field with those of competitor nations, all of whom have similar vehicles. Only by maintaining a capacity to counter foreign subsidies can we hope to maintain a level global trading system and to avoid ceding ground to mercantilists. Eliminating the Export Import Bank without extracting any concessions from foreign governments would be the economic equivalent of unilateral disarmament. House conservatives have seized momentum on the issue after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's stunning loss in his Republican primary. Cantor was a supporter of the bank who brokered a deal in 2012 to renew its charter.  The bank's supporters, like the White House and Republican establishment-friendly Chamber of Commerce, view it as a critical tool of support for American businesses large and small abroad. Its opponents view it as a prime example of "crony capitalism" and the government waste conservatives have vowed to get rid of in Washington. Broadly, Summers' op-ed called on the U.S. to get engaged in issues of global economic consequences. In addition to highlighting his support for the Ex-Im Bank, he slammed congressional Republicans for blocking passage of reforms to the International Monetary Fund and dinged Congress for seemingly not finding the urgency to work toward a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. "A failure to engage effectively with global economic issues is a failure to mount a strong forward defence of American interests," Summers wrote. "The fact that we cannot do everything must not become a reason not to do anything." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan MedinaA sign advertising Spanish wireless networks provider Gowex is next to a tourist bus in Madrid July 6, 2014. Gowex said on Sunday it would file for bankruptcy and its Chief Executive Officer and founder Jenaro Garcia Martin had resigned after admitting he had reported false accounts for at least the last four years.Let's Gowex, a billion-dollar company that provided free WiFi services, went out of business over the weekend. On July 4, a few days after Gotham City Research published a scathing report calling Let's Gowex's revenues fraudulent, its CEO Jenaro Garcia on Twitter said, "Gooooood morning Madrid!! Perfect morning to go jogging" Gooooood morning Madrid!!!! Perfecta mañana para salir a correr One day later, Garcia admitted to the company's board that some of its financials were falsified and announced his resignation. On Twitter, Garcia offered the perfect tweet from a CEO who had just gotten busted, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly." Pido perdón a todos. Lo siento de todo corazón. Realizada mi confesion voluntaria en los juzgados Estoy dispuesto a asumir las consecuencias y colaborar con la justicia Encaro las cosas I made the deposition and confession. I want to collaborate with the justice. I face the consecuencies. Not anymore. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Charles PlatiauWhat's got 700 pages, tons of hype, and practically no readers? "Capital in the 21st Century," by French economist Thomas Piketty According to Jordan Ellenberg, a math professor at the University of Wisconsin, most readers didn't get past page 26.   Writing in the Wall Street Journal, Ellenberg pinpointed the locations of the most frequently highlighted passages in various books, using Amazon's "Popular Highlights" feature, to see how far readers were getting. He calls it the Hawking Index, because "A Brief History Of Time" is generally regarded as the least-read book ever. Here's the exact process: ...Take the page numbers of a book's five top highlights, average them, and divide by the number of pages in the whole book. The higher the number, the more of the book we're guessing most people are likely to have read.  The results for "Capital" blew all others away: readers made it through just 2.1% of the book on average, with the last highlighted section appearing on page 26. Other results: Most people have gotten through only an eighth of "Lean In" by Sheryl Sandberg, and only a fifth through "Flash Boys" by Michael Lewis. "Stephen Hawking is off the hook; from now on, this measure should be known as the Piketty Index," he says. Click here to see Ellenberg's other results on WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
It's often argued that retiring baby boomers, those born between 1945 and 1964, are slated to have a significant impact on the housing market.  This is because they tend to downsize their homes on retirement. Though the extent of this trend is unclear.  "Investors leveraging demographic trends will often be able to amplify rental returns and home price appreciation, particularly when it comes to trends in the baby boomer and millennial generations, which combined account for approximately 147 million people — more than 60 percent of the U.S. adult population," RealtyTrac's Daren Blomquist said in a press release. With that in mind, RealtyTrac identified the best rental markets for baby boomers.  The markets they identified all had a 10% or more increase in the baby boomer population between 2007 and 2013. And they had a baby boomer population that accounted for 24% of the population. The top 25 baby boomer rental markets saw annual gross rental yields  from 5.50% to 20.93%. Rental returns were based on gross rental yield: "the average fair market rent of three-bedroom homes in the county, annualized, and divided by the median sales price of residential properties in the county." The top five markets for boomers based on annual gross rental yield were all located in Florida:1. Pasco County, Florida: 20.93%2. Hernando County, Florida: 19.06%3. Marion County, Florida: 16.96%4. Citrus County, Florida: 16.43%5. Polk County, Florida: 14.59% Here's a great interactive map from RealtyTrac:   Learn About TableauNote: "For the report RealtyTrac analyzed median sales prices for residential property and average fair market rents for three bedroom properties in 370 U.S. counties with a combined population of 186 million people — 60 percent of the total U.S. population." FREE AppDownload
My hypothesis is that a new hierarchy is forming that blows away city/suburb distinctions over the long term.  If access and connectivity are becoming the key drivers for future development, places that have multiple modes available to them will be the winners and those without will be the losers.  Further, if the move away from auto use endures, places that have transit access will benefit more than those with highway access.  These could be the markers for communities in the Congealing Era.   Here's my crude, rude map showing how this might play out in the Chicago area (if any readers with GIS skills are willing to take this on, please e-mail me, and click to make big): Pete Saunders Here, green areas are those with rail and interstate access.  Darker yellow areas are those with rail access only. Lighter yellow areas are those with interstate access only, and those areas left blank have neither.  The dotted line represents roughly contiguous areas with rail and/or interstate access.  I see them as the beneficiaries of this trend.  Those on the outside of the dotted line may be faced with challenges in the new environment. A few observations: This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Microsoft Excel offers many ways for you to manipulate and organize data, including using multiple "sheets" or tabs within the same spreadsheet file. Occasionally, you may find it useful to be able to quickly add sums across tabs. Luckily, Excel has a function for this too. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Walter Hickey. Originally published in July 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Oppenheimer & Co.The Dow crossed 17,000 for the first time on Thursday after a monster U.S. jobs report. "Six months into the year it’s become clear to us that 2014 is likely to be remembered in market history books as a year of big surprises," writes Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. "From our vantage point on the market radar screen it confirms that indeed the economy is getting better, that stocks continue to gather a following among investors after many years of being ignored, untrusted and unloved by more than a few." Stoltzfus believes that investors and traders will be watching the upcoming earnings season closely. "Market participants will be looking for further improvements in revenues and earnings growth that along with financial engineering in the form of share buybacks have helped move the market higher through the recovery since 2009," he said. "Guidance as to what corporate leadership sees ahead will likely carry increasing weight." As the Federal Reserve continues to let up on its easy monetary policy, Stoltzfus warns that the market could experience a ramp up in volatility. Stoltzfus just published a 35-page presentation putting every corner of the financial markets into perspective. Thanks to Oppenheimer &amp; Co. for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
REUTERS/Andrea ComasA man walks past a newspaper kiosk advertising Spanish wireless network provider Gowex in Madrid July 7, 2014. Over the weekend, Spanish company Let's Gowex, which provides free WiFi for public spaces like malls and town centers, filed for voluntary insolvency. The company's CEO, Genaro Garcia, also resigned after telling the company's board that its financials over at least the last four years were falsified. The same day as the company's statement that it would file for insolvency, Garcia tweeted, "I apologize to everyone. Sorry wholeheartedly." Garcia has subsequently tweeted that he made a deposition and confession in court and is willing to accept the consequences. On its own, news that a company is going out of business because it was cooking the books for several years is a big deal, but there is an added wrinkle for Let's Gowex: They got found out first. Gotham City Research published a research report on Let's Gowex on July 1 that said Let's Gowex's shares were worthless and that more than 90% of the company's revenues were made up. Gotham City is an independent research firm that focuses on special situation investing and typically publishes short theses on companies.  At the time of Gotham's report, Let's Gowex's market cap was €1.43 billion. Let's Gowex's 2013 revenues totaled €182 million, and Gotham believes that more than 90% of these didn't exist. Gotham said that it believed Let's Gowex's 2013 revenues actually totaled just €8 million. Gotham City's report, which it published after eight months of diligence on Let's Gowex, was initiated after the firm found a number of red flags at the company, among them that Let's Gowex failed a basic "smell test" of investing: performance relative to peers. On that basis, Let's Gowex's double-digit revenue growth far outpaced peers like Towerstream, Boingo, and iPass that also provide wifi services.  Following Gotham's initial report, Let's Gowex said the report, "has major factual inaccuracies and false statements which the Company considers defamatory." On July 4, Let's Gowex said it hired PriceWaterhouseCoopers to examine the company's financials. Two days later, the company declared itself insolvent.  The collapse of Let's Gowex should see Gotham City not only turn a financial profit but a reputational one as well. Gotham City, like Muddy Waters Research, Citron Research, and The Street Sweeper, publishes independent research on publicly traded companies online, often outlining what they perceive to be major flaws in a company's business model or accounting practices. Research from these publications is divisive. Some in the market describe it as unfair "hit pieces" on companies, while others would say this work is important because it keeps companies honest; Gotham, Muddy Water, and Citron are open about their potential to profit from a stock move following the publication of their report. These reports can often move stocks, but a company going out of business almost as soon as a skeptical report is published is unheard of.  The collapse of Let's Gowex also has some bigger market implications. A Bloomberg report on Let's Gowex's demise noted that the company was one of the best performers in Madrid's MAB stock index, an index for small companies in Spain that Bloomberg called, "an alternative funding source for small companies in line with a government drive to promote financing options for businesses." Let's Gowex, however, isn't the only company that has recently come under scrutiny from Gotham City. In April, Gotham said that Quindell, a U.K.-based software and consulting company, had 92% downside. In February, Gotham City published a report critical of Blucora, formerly Infospace, which provides online search solutions with Gotham saying its shares are worth no more than $5.  Last year, Tile Shop and Ebix were among the companies targeted by Gotham City reports.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Morris Mac MatzenParticipants lie in the mud to break the world record for total number of 'mud angels' at the "Wattoluempiade," or Mud Olympics, in the northern German city of Brunsbuettel, July 6, 2014. During the event, participants also join in other games including football, handball and volleyball. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. There's An Enormous Typhoon Heading For Japan. A "once in a decade" typhoon is barreling toward the country's southern islands. "I can't stress enough how dangerous this typhoon may be when it hits Okinawa," wrote Brigadier General James Hecker on the base's Facebook page on Sunday per Reuters. "This is not just another typhoon." There are no nuclear plants on Okinawa, but there are two on Kyushu island and one on nearby Shikoku island. Archer Daniels Midland Buys WILD. The Illinois foods giant beat out a Japanese competitor with a $2.99 billion offer for the maker of a popular Stevia product and Capri Sun. Goldman Ratchets Rate Calendar. The investment bank now says the Fed will likely raise rates in Q3 2015 instead of Q1 2016, after stronger jobs data. Goldman joins JP Morgan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, and Capital Economics in raising this warning flag. Welcome To Q2 Earnings Week. Nothing today, but Alcoa kicks things off tomorrow after the bell. "People said the U.S. earnings would be bad for January-March but in the end the profits were up. I would expect decent results (this time)," Tsuyoshi Shimizu, chief strategist at Mizuho Asset Management, told Reuters. Repo Alarm. More trades are going uncompleted, causing short-term cash crunches, as repurchase agreement volumes fall to record lows, Bloomberg says, thanks to intense demand for U.S. notes. Failures to deliver Treasuries have averaged $65.6 billion a week this year, reaching as high as $197.6 billion late last month. Compare that with $51.6 billion in 2013, and $28.8 billion in 2012. “The effect of all the collateral issues we see now is an indication of not so much how things are, but how bad things will be when you really need liquidity,” Jeffrey Snider, chief investment strategist at West Palm Beach, Florida-based Alhambra Investment Partners LLC, told Bloomberg. “That’s when you get into potentially dire situations.” Oil Rally Fades. Brent was trading as low as $110.59 Monday, nearly 4% lower than mid-June levels, as fears of Iraq outages have been assuaged for now. Meanwhile Libya is set to open new oil terminals.  German Output Drops Again. German production data fell 1.8% in May, the third straight month of declines . “There was a little dent in the second quarter,” Jens-Oliver Niklasch, a fixed-income strategist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, told Bloomberg. “But generally speaking, the German economy is in quite good shape and there’s no reason for concern as growth rates will remain solid.” Deflation in Sweden? The kroner fell 0.2% after dropping 1.6% last week, giving the sovereign its worst run of the year. The Swedish Central Bank cut rates 5o bps to 0.25% last week as the specter of deflation spooked regulators, the FT said.  Markets. U.S. futures were lower. Stocks in Europe and Asia were both down.  No Major Economic Data. Hope you had a great 4th. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSuper Typhoon Neoguri, a "once in decades storm," is about to hit the southern Okinawa island chain with heavy rain and powerful winds before making landfall across the entire island of Japan this week. The Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) said the system, which is already producing winds up to 150 mph, may develop into an "extremely intense" storm by Tuesday as it moves north. It is expected to be as strong as Typhoon Haiyan, which killed thousands in the Philippines last year, but it is clear that Japan will have to batten down the hatches. Around two to four typhoons a year make landfall in Japan but they are unusual in July. This one is not expected to threaten any nuclear power plants.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSPetra Kvitova of Czech Republic kisses the winner's trophy, the Venus Rosewater Dish, while posing for photographers after defeating Eugenie Bouchard of Canada in their women's singles final tennis match at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in London July 5, 2014. Last Thursday's massive U.S. jobs report was so unexpectedly robust that some economists have warned that tighter monetary policy could come much sooner than expected. And while there isn't much on the economic data calendar this week, we will be hearing from a lot of Federal Reserve officials who may be able to shed more light on the path of monetary policy. "This week’s data docket will focus mainly on Fed-related headlines as five regional Fed presidents will be speaking: They are Lacker and Kocherlakota (Tuesday), George (Thursday), followed by Lockhart and Evans (Friday)," said Deutsche Bank economists. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Fedspeak Calendar Market Commentary The S&amp;P 500 continues to climb to new all-time highs. However, earnings growth expectations are lagging, causing valuations to become less attractive. Currently, the price-to-forward earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500 is at 15.7, which is above historical averages. FactSet's John Butters offers some context: The current forward 12-month P/E ratio is above both the 5-year average (13.3) and the 10-year average (13.8). The P/E ratio has been above the 5-year average for more than a year (since January 2013), while it has been above the 10-year average for the past ten months (since August 2013). With the forward P/E ratio well above the 5-year and 10-year averages, one could argue that the index may now be overvalued. On the other hand, the current forward 12-month P/E ratio is still (slightly) below the 15-year average (15.8). During the first two years of this time frame (1999 – 2001), the forward 12-month P/E ratio was consistently above 20.0, peaking at around 25.0 at various points in time. With the forward P/E ratio still below the 15-year average and not close to the higher P/E ratios recorded in the early years of this period, one could argue that the index may still be undervalued. Keep in mind, this ratio is based on analysts' forecasted earnings, which are often very inaccurate and could eventually prove to be to optimistic. Assuming the latter, stocks may actually be much more expensive than they appear. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
APNEW DELHI (Reuters) - Departing Platform One at New Delhi station last week was India's fastest train: the test run of the Delhi-Agra express - dubbed "semi-high speed" by local media - topped a record-breaking 160 kilometres per hour on its way to the Taj Mahal. But the velocity, though triple the 50 kilometres average clocked on trips across the country, is barely one-third of the top-speed of China's fastest train, showing the extent to which India's expansive but under-funded train network has failed to keep pace. "The capacity of the track is almost saturated," Anurag Sachan, divisional railway manager for Delhi, said in his office next to New Delhi's giant station. "We could go as high as 200 km but we would need to have a completely new track for higher speeds." Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who started out selling tea outside a train station, has promised to modernise India's railways and build high-speed engines befitting Asia's third-largest economy. On Tuesday, his new government will unveil its maiden railways budget, with expectations high that he will offer bold plans to improve the service - a lifeline for 23 million Indians every day. Among the goals is bringing much more private money into one of the country's largest state-controlled industries. At present, there's small private involvement in suburban services and locomotive manufacturing. In a speech last week, Modi hinted at how much of a revamp he believed the railways needed, telling an audience in Kashmir that he wanted an upgrade of stations, many of which look much as they did under the British. "Why do our railway stations need to be so old, why can't they be better than our airports?" he said, after waving a green flag to inaugurate services on a stretch of track in the mountain state. Thomson ReutersIndian PM Modi waves to a crowd at a gathering after inaugurating a train on a new stretch of railway to the town of KatraModi's government will announce plans for public-private partnerships in railway infrastructure, the Economic Times reported on Monday, citing government sources, and he is expected to update the country on plans for a high-speed rail between the financial capital Mumbai and Ahmedabad. "If the railways are to fully benefit the climate, the economy, society, the government needs to bring in more money... including from private and foreign investment" said G. Raghuram, professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad and co-author of a report about railway modernisation. Raghuram said allowing private money into freight was a simple and relatively easy shift that would boost the economy. Railways' share of freight has fallen from 90 percent of the country's cargo in 1950 to one-third today, as congested tracks and slow speeds force shipments onto roads - in turn clogging them. The tougher task for Modi will be finding a sustainable fix to the funding crunch facing the railways, including by allowing foreign direct investment into the network, a move resisted by the railways in the past. [ID:nL3N0KJ34W] By a conservative estimate, the railways need 20 trillion rupees ($334 billion) of investment by 2020, according to economist Tirthankar Patnaik at Religare Capital Markets said. That's far in excess of the 1.4 trillion rupees the sector is estimated to earn this year even after an unpopular fare-hike pushed through last month. "Though there are some areas where the private sector can play a role, the bulk of the investment will have to come from the government," said Shri Prakash, a former member of the Railway Board. Prakash said Modi needs to strike a balance between appealing to private profit-seeking investors and keeping fares affordable for the millions who depend on the network. In New Delhi, railway manager Sachan said the job of the railways was to "cater to the masses". "High speed is definitely important but it is much more important to give transport to our poor people," he said. ($1 = 59.9200 Indian Rupees) (Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
For your reference, here's a fun slide from Oppenheimer's latest strategy deck. Might want to keep this bookmarked: Oppenheimer FREE AppDownload
The Eurozone appears to be behaving in the mirror image of what it did during the crisis. Some of the hottest economies are peripheral ones, like Spain (which was an utter basket case during the crisis). While "core" Europe is weak. The latest on the weak core Europe is Germany, where today's industrial production number came in well below expectations, falling 1.3%. This chart from Pantheon shows the flagging German economy. Pantheon Conspiracy theorists might note that the German weakness just so happens to coincide with the ECB finally acting (in recent months) to ease monetary policy after a long period of doing nothing. FREE AppDownload
Getty / Justin SullivanGoogle CEO Larry Page recently participated in a fireside chat with Khosla Ventures, where among other things, he offered his view on the state of the economy and labor. People are endlessly musing on the future of the labor market these days, given the idea that robots can perform more and more jobs that were once thought to be the sole domain of humans and because tech-enabled productivity has enabled a few lucky people to reap huge fortunes with relatively few workers. In light of this, Page wonders why everyone is working so much, and he suggests that perhaps people don't need to work themselves to the bone, since it's relatively easy for a modern society to fulfill most people's basic necessities. Here's part of his comments: I totally believe we should be living in a time of abundance, like Peter Diamandis' book. If you really think about the things that you need to make yourself happy — housing, security, opportunities for your kids — anthropologists have been identifying these things. It's not that hard for us to provide those things. The amount of resources we need to do that, the amount of work that actually needs to go into that is pretty small. I'm guessing less than 1% at the moment. So the idea that everyone needs to work frantically to meet people's needs is just not true. I do think there's a problem that we don't recognize that. I think there's also a social problem that a lot of people aren't happy if they don't have anything to do. So we need to give people things to do. We need to feel like you're needed, wanted and have something productive to do. But I think the mix with that and the industries we actually need and so on are-- there's not a good correspondence. That's why we're busy destroying the environment and other things, maybe we don't need to be doing. Page goes on to say that the solution may be work sharing, basically everyone doing a little less to help ensure that everyone has a job to do. His thinking actually echoes the economist John Maynard Keynes, who envisioned this kind of future in his paper The Economic Possibilities Of Our Grandchildren. He anticipated, writing in 1930, that in the not so distant future, our absolute human needs would be easily met and that how to deal with our leisure time and relative needs would be the pressing issue of the day. He even anticipated shorter work hours as a way to deal with this "problem." Here's a key passage. You can just read the bolded parts if you want to get the point: Thus for the first time since his creation man will be faced with his real, his permanent problem-how to use his freedom from pressing economic cares, how to occupy the leisure, which science and compound interest will have won for him, to live wisely and agreeably and well. The strenuous purposeful money-makers may carry all of us along with them into the lap of economic abundance. But it will be those peoples, who can keep alive, and cultivate into a fuller perfection, the art of life itself and do not sell themselves for the means of life, who will be able to enjoy the abundance when it comes. Yet there is no country and no people, I think, who can look forward to the age of leisure and of abundance without a dread. For we have been trained too long to strive and not to enjoy. It is a fearful problem for the ordinary person, with no special talents, to occupy himself, especially if he no longer has roots in the soil or in custom or in the beloved conventions of a traditional society. To judge from the behaviour and the achievements of the wealthy classes to-day in any quarter of the world, the outlook is very depressing! For these are, so to speak, our advance guard-those who are spying out the promised land for the rest of us and pitching their camp there. For they have most of them failed disastrously, so it seems to me-those who have an independent income but no associations or duties or ties-to solve the problem which has been set them. I feel sure that with a little more experience we shall use the new-found bounty of nature quite differently from the way in which the rich use it to-day, and will map out for ourselves a plan of life quite otherwise than theirs. For many ages to come the old Adam will be so strong in us that everybody will need to do some work if he is to be contented. We shall do more things for ourselves than is usual with the rich to-day, only too glad to have small duties and tasks and routines. But beyond this, we shall endeavour to spread the bread thin on the butter-to make what work there is still to be done to be as widely shared as possible. Three-hour shifts or a fifteen-hour week may put off the problem for a great while. For three hours a day is quite enough to satisfy the old Adam in most of us! It all sounds great! Now, how to get all of society in a different mentality, where we learn to "enjoy" rather than "strive" is a harder matter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMorning commuters drive past the Federal Reserve Bank building in WashingtonNEW YORK/TOKYO (Reuters) - The world's major central banks are returning to a more opaque and artful approach to policymaking, ending a crisis-era experiment with explicit promises that they found risked their credibility and did not substitute for action. From Washington to London to Tokyo, the global shift from transparency to flexibility underscores the challenges central bankers face as they test the limits of what monetary policy can achieve. The return to a more traditional policymaking approach and nuanced statements will challenge the communication skills of central bankers who have been chastened in the last year after some too-specific messages confused and disrupted financial markets. Complicating things on the world stage, the U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of England are looking to telegraph plans and conditions for raising interest rates, while the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are heading the other way. "Central banking used to be an art," said a senior official of a G7 central bank. "It became less so once, globally, but with what's happened at the Fed and the BoE, it may be back to being an art." Both the Fed and BoE had promised to hold interest rates near zero until their jobless rates had fallen to a particular level. However, unemployment in the United States and Britain fell much more quickly than economists expected and both central banks scrambled to replace their suddenly outdated "forward guidance". "Too much transparency may sometimes be counter-productive. The balance is always tricky," the official said, requesting anonymity. The plan had been novel. After driving short-term borrowing costs to historical lows to battle the 2007-2009 financial crisis and deep recessions, western central banks began offering pledges on the future rate path in an attempt to pull down long-term borrowing costs for automobiles, homes and business expansion. Fed Chair Janet Yellen and many other policy makers routinely say the plan succeeded on that score, although other factors contributed. But Yellen, who was vice chair of the U.S. central bank before taking the Fed's reins, is leading the charge away from specific policy forecasts. "The idea of forward guidance was that by being transparent, you got a bigger effect on long-term rates," said Patrick Artus, global chief economist at French bank Natixis. "But central banks take a risk on credibility," he said. "If something unexpected happens, you have to deviate from what you have been announcing." The Fed's reputation took a hit last spring when borrowing costs shot up after then Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke talked about the prospect of the central bank reducing its stimulative asset purchases "in coming meetings." Emerging markets also sold off sharply as investors priced in an earlier liftoff for U.S. rates. Several Fed officials felt compelled to walk back the guidance in an episode that prompted criticism from around the world over the Americans' sloppy communications. The BoE, too, struggled with communication. In February it was forced to reconsider policy two and a half years ahead of schedule. With caveats about the economy, it had promised to keep rates low at least until the unemployment rate fell below 7 percent, predicting that would take three years. It took six months. A month after the BoE's reconsideration, in March, the Fed would drop a similar pledge. The experiences, keenly scrutinized and debated, led to a growing realization of the dangers of offering policy commitments, said officials familiar with discussions among global central bankers. "We have to be careful (and) certain that you do not commit to things that we're not sure we can actually produce," Alan Greenspan, Bernanke's predecessor, told the Economic Club of New York in April. "Remember, we don't forecast very well." The latest guidance from the Fed and BoE is far less specific. After Yellen's first policy-setting meeting as Fed chair in March, the U.S. central bank said rates would likely stay at rock bottom for a "considerable time" after it shelves its bond-buying program and, in a twist on qualitative guidance that leaves the Fed flexibility, it predicted rates would stay below-normal even after the economy has fully healed. Yet Yellen sent markets tumbling when she stepped out of the Fed meeting that day and told reporters rates could rise "around six months" after a bond-buying program ends. Since then, by and large, the Fed has stuck with its broader guidance, closing the book on an era in which it rolled out eight distinct messages since 2008 on when it planned to tighten policy - at times targeting dates, at other times targeting specific unemployment and inflation rates. The Fed is now moving away from "cheap talk" and toward "useful guidance," said Adam Posen, a former member of the BoE's policy-setting committee who is now president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. "It doesn't commit you to anything, or constrain you in terms of what you are responding to," he said. Similarly, BoE Governor Mark Carney has refused to give any clear indication of the timing of a rate hike in recent appearances, instead steering markets to scrutinize both the strength and uncertainties of the economy. But he too has struggled to sound the right tone: investors scrambled to adjust their bets last month after Carney said they underestimated the chance of an early rate hike. He sought to soften the comment the following week, prompting one lawmaker to compare him to an "unreliable boyfriend." The example of Japanese and European central banks show that verbal commitment could prove ineffective unless backed by bold action. The BoJ historically favored opacity over transparency, but its approach failed to pull Japan out of deflation for nearly two decades. Haruhiko Kuroda, a central banking outsider who took the BoJ's helm in March of last year, married bold action and words when he pledged to hit the bank's 2-percent inflation target in roughly two years, and the BoJ doubled its aggressive asset purchases. The double-whammy weakened the yen by 8 percent against the dollar and lifted consumer inflation about half way to the BoJ's goal. Even so, Kuroda has responded by following up with vague guidance, saying only that the BoJ will stick to ultra-loose policy until 2-percent inflation is achieved in a "stable manner." So far markets do not expect a premature change in policy. As for the ECB, it faces perhaps the greatest test as it struggles to extinguish deflation risks. After spending most of last year teasing financial markets about pending action, it had to put its money where its mouth was in June by adopting negative interest rates. ECB President Mario Draghi has said more action would come if necessary although it is uncertain how long he can wait without launching a bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing or QE, which is the last big option left in the bank's depleted war chest. "There are a lot of people in central banks who are fantasizing about forward guidance because it means they can stop QE and still claim they are doing something," said Posen of the U.S.-based Peterson Institute. "It was very attractive because ... it doesn't cost us anything," he said. "And like most things that don't cost anything, it's not worth much." (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Leika Kihara; Additional reporting by Ann Saphir in San Francisco; editing by David Chance and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Wealthfront Last month, Wealthfront's  Adam Nash gave a speech at Twitter headquarters entitled "Personal Finance for Engineers." Personal finance can be a "noisy" field, with a lot of investing aphorisms thrown around as fact. And because engineers understand and prefer math, as Nash describes them, they tend to think they are being rational with their money ... even when they are not. Given the imminent IPO, and the windfall that will accrue to several employees, this is an important lesson. Nash's presentation is a solid intro and useful refresher into the world of personal finance, especially for the more quantitatively-inclined. We pulled his slides, courtesy of Wealthfront. FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's what you need to know before your first meeting of the day: 1. Several Israeli suspects have been arrested over the abduction and killing of a Palestinian teenager, The Financial Times reports. The charred corpse of 16-year-old Muhammad Abu Khdeir was found the morning after the funeral of three Israeli teenagers kidnapped and killed in the West Bank. 2. Nine Palestinian militants were killed by Israeli air raids on Gaza following rocket attacks on Israel, the BBC reports. Hamas says six fighters died. 3. The CEO of a major diamond company has urged his employees not to take part in Hong Kong's democracy protests. A massive "Occupy Central" sit-in is planned if the government there does not deliver reforms. 4. American banks are getting out of the business of international remittances — cash transfers — because law enforcement requirements to prevent and monitor terror funding and drug money laundering are becoming too burdensome. The move will hurt Mexicans most, as cash transfers to Mexico are the largest portion of remittances. 5. The Ukrainian military has gained several small victories against pro-Russian rebels. Previously, Ukraine forces had retreated but they have been reinforced by an infusion of civilian militia. 6. In Britain, there are growing calls for a wide-ranging investigation into the alleged cover-up of suspected child abusers in Westminster, The Guardian reports. The permanent secretary at the Home Office, Mark Sedwill, will be appointing a senior legal figure to conduct a review into what happened to a dossier relating to alleged pedophile activity at Westminster which was passed to the home secretary, Leon (now Lord) Brittan in 1983. The dossier then disappeared. 7. The Tour de France will go through central London today. The 96-mile route runs from Cambridge to the The Mall. 8. Spanish wi-fi firm Gowex will file for bankruptcy after its boss admitted that the company's accounts had been falsified for years. Founder/CEO Jenaro Garcia Martin has resigned. REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci Goalkeeper Tim Krul of the Netherlands saves the first penalty shot by Costa Rica's Bryan Ruiz (unseen) during a penalty shootout in their 2014 World Cup quarter-finals at the Fonte Nova arena in Salvador July 5, 2014.9. Netherlands' last-minute substitute goalkeeper Tim Krul defended his antics during the World Cup penalty shootout against Costa Rica. He said that speaking directly to every player before they took a shot "to get in their heads" was legit. 10. Passengers flying to the U.S. will be required to switch on their electronic devices before boarding planes. The increased level of vigilance is to prove they do not contain explosives, The Guardian says. And finally ... ... A man giving a crocodile-feeding demonstration at an Australian zoo nearly became lunch himself when the largest resident crocodile, a 3.7-meter reptile named John, grabbed him by the hand and dragged him into the water, the Sydney Morning Herald says. He freed himself moments later and sustained non-life threatening injuries to both hands. FREE AppDownload
