CBS/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. When It Comes To Long-Term Investing, Think Like A Vulcan (Vanguard)  Long-term investing takes discipline and logic and in many ways involves investing like a Vulcan, writes Joe Davis chief economist at Vanguard. "Vulcans were devoted to discipline, too. Some of them chose to complete Kolinahr training, in which they demonstrated that they had purged themselves of emotions," he writes. "Advisors are like Kolinahr masters. They set clients on the path to disciplined investing by asking the right questions to identify goals and then developing diversified, low-cost portfolios to achieve them. Then, during those inevitable market downturns, advisors help clients resist the panicky urge to sell." He points out that long-term investing requires the use of logic, another skill Vulcans have. "The logic of low costs is relentless. At its heart is the idea that you can’t control most of life or the markets, so you should control what you can. Costs are high on that list." Davis also reminds us that Spock, the most famous Vulcan, was part human and worked well with the more reckless and human Jim Kirk. "Active funds also meet an emotional need, a human need, to hope," he writes. It's A Stock-Pickers Market Now (The Wall Street Journal)  Last year, the market cycle was such that individual stocks tended to have returns that were similar to the given indexes. Macro strategies did well then, writes Paul J. Boyd of ClearPath Capital Partners in a WSJ column. As the economic cycle moves, Boyd argues that this is a good time to take a more active approach.  "Historically, in the cycle following a phase of high equity correlation, there tends to be a lot more disparity between returns--and that's precisely what we've seen since the end of 2013," he writes. "We're halfway through a year that's been marked by higher dispersion, where the performance between individual stock returns and the market itself is varied." ..."Now that we're almost through with two full quarters of 2014, the success of that active approach has become clear: Actively managed strategies are up an average of 2.5% over those tracking the moves of broad indexes." High Net Worth Individuals Increasingly Want A More Integrated And Digital Services From Wealth Managers (Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management) Globally, 65.3% of high net worth individuals (HNWIs) said they would consider leaving their wealth management firm if they didn't provide them with an integrated experience "meaning, for example, that they can initiate an action on one channel and finish it on another) with a consistent level of service throughout," according to the 2014 World Wealth Report.  Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management FINRA Employees Had Quite The Payday In 2013 (Investment News)  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) employees clearly did well for themselves last year. The average compensation and salary for FINRA employees in 2013 was $197,000 ex certain costs, reports Bruce Kelly at Investment News. "That's pretty sweet, particularly as it practically doubles the mean wage earned at all 167 occupation titles listed in the 2013 'Securities and Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage' wage estimates tallied by the Bureau of Labor Statistics," reports Kelly.  "The fact of the matter is that Finra must compete with the securities industry when attracting, and especially retaining, workers who have the necessary regulatory training, expertise and knowledge," Finra spokeswoman Nancy Condon told Kelly in an email interview. "Our salaries must be competitive to keep the highly skilled individuals that Finra employs." 5 Proactive Things Advisors Can Do To Maintain Client Loyalty (Advisor Perspectives)  Advisors need to give their clients pro-active advice if they want to see client loyalty writes Dan Richards in Advisor Perspectives. "The difficulty lies in how clients interpret 'stay the course' recommendations, especially in tough markets," he writes. "All too often, they view advice to stand pat as the easy way out for their advisors, representing passivity and lack of effort on their part." He suggests that advisors do these five things:1. Advisors should update clients on their portfolio holdings, otherwise clients might feel like they're not doing much. 2. "Take advantage of opportunities to rebalance …Besides offering investment merits, rebalancing gives you another opportunity to approach clients with proactive recommendations."3. Working on tax efficiency in investing and on after-tax returns offers a good  opportunity to get in touch with clients. 4. Clients often are worried about the poor performers in their portfolio. Advisors should explain their decision to hold or sell the asset. 5. Changing out holdings is another proactive way to approach a client. "Even though there may not be a big difference between the bond that’s matured and the new one you’re recommending, the fact that you’ve gone to the effort to research an alternative sends a positive message to clients." FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Imagine EntertainmentThere's an argument based on game theory that both the United States and Germany should pretty much just stand around the ball during their match on Thursday. In the World Cup tournament, the first round consists of eight groups of four teams each. Each team plays all the other teams in its group. If a team wins a game, they get three points and the losing team gets nothing. If the teams tie, they both get one point. The two teams with the highest number of points go on to the next round. After Sunday's heartbreaking tie with Portugal, the U.S. has four points, as does Germany. The other two members of our group, Ghana and Portugal, each have just one point. So, if the U.S. and Germany draw on Thursday, both teams will have five points, and neither Ghana nor Portugal can have any more than four points. This would mean that both the U.S. and Germany would advance into the knockout round of the tournament. If the U.S. wins (which FiveThirtyEight only gives a 14% chance of happening), they will advance, and Germany will very likely also still advance, barring something very strange happening in the game between Ghana and Portugal leading to a blowout for one team or the other. If Germany wins then they advance, but things get rather complicated for the U.S. and their chances. For more details on what the possibilities are for our group, check out our own Tony Manfred's write up here. This makes a win not particularly important for Germany. They should be perfectly happy to take the draw, and a draw is basically the best reasonably expectable outcome for the United States. Christian Hofer/Getty ImagesJurgen KlinsmannThis has caused some people to speculate that Germany and the United States could collude and fix the game — neither team would try to do much of anything on Thursday, leading to a pre-ordained 0-0 tie. U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann has denied any intention of doing this, but it might be the best option for both teams, since both would advance, and without playing particularly hard, both teams could avoid any risk of injury or player suspensions going into the knockout round.  Making collusion work, however, would be tricky. While both teams would be best off not trying too hard and aiming for the draw, one team might betray the other, and launch a sneak attack against a team expecting a quiet day in the park. This would give the betraying team an advantage. However, collaborating and not really playing to win to get to the draw is still a better option, since now both teams are exposed to risk. Further, the collusion could completely collapse, with both teams trying to actually win, leading to a normal looking soccer game.  This situation is actually an example of a classic problem in game theory: the stag hunt. The problem, originally formulated by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, involves two hunters who can choose between hunting stags or hunting rabbits. If the hunters team up, they can take down a stag, and eat like kings. If only one hunter tries to hunt a stag, and the other just goes for rabbits, the stag hunter is out of luck and goes home hungry, and the rabbit hunter gets a rabbit. If both hunters go for rabbits, they both get rabbits. The issue is similar to whether or not the U.S. and Germany should play to win or just run ninety minutes of passing drills. While it would be better for both overall to cooperate, it's safer for a team or hunter to defect. Both hunters going for a stag will get more meat, but a hunter going for rabbits is guaranteed to get a rabbit. It's helpful to put this situation into numerical terms. If both teams collude and don't try to win on Thursday, let's say each get 3 utility points, representing a safe path to the next round. If one team is not trying, and the other team defects and plays to win, the defecting team gets 2 points, and the now-betrayed cooperating team gets 0 points, representing the advantage the defecting team gets over the surprised cooperating team. If both teams defect and play to win, each gets 1 point, representing a normal soccer game. In the analysis of game theory, this kind of situation is usually written out as a payout matrix like the one below. Each row shows the U.S. team's possible decisions, and each column shows Germany's possible decisions, with the respective U.S. utility points for each situation in blue and the German points in red: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz This gives us an idea for what each team should do. If the USA cooperates and lounges on the field, they either get the best score of 3 utility points if Germany joins them, but with the risk of getting the worst score of 0 if Germany defects and plays seriously. Meanwhile, defecting is less risky — the U.S. gets at least one utility point — but there's no chance of getting the best possible outcome. The resolution to this game relies on how much the two teams can trust each other. If Klinsmann wants to collude, and he's confident that Germany will go along with the plan, then both teams can reasonably safely aim for the best possible outcome, and safely and easily walk into the next round. However, if there's doubt in his mind and he expects the Germans to defect and play to win, then the U.S. team should do the same. This puzzle and others like it, such as the famous Prisoner's Dilemma (which is very similar to this game, except that the payoff for betraying while the other player cooperates is higher than the reward for both cooperating, leading to the best strategy being to always betray the other player) are frequently used in economics and the social sciences as a highly simplified model for how interactions work in society. The stag hunt game and the decision of whether or not to play to win on Thursday are small scale illustrations of situations where people collaborating and banding together can get much better outcomes for everyone involved than everyone working on their own, but if some people work together and some people work alone, the people working together get nothing. One example given at Stanford's website explaining the stag hunt is pollution: everyone near a lake wants a clean lake, but if it's possible for one person to dump their garbage in the lake and ruin things for everyone, it's hard to coordinate everyone to keep the desirable outcome of a clean lake instead of moving to a nightmare scenario of everyone dumping their garbage. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua Lott  The U.S. Marshals Service will be auctioning off nearly 30,000 Bitcoins worth $17.5 million on Friday from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. The coins come from the government's seizure of Silk Road's massive Bitcoin stash, worth more than $80 million.  The announcement of the auction earlier this month sent prices below $600 for the first time in weeks, as the community seems to think they will go for a discount. The assets have been divided into 10 blocks, nine with 3,000 Bitcoins (~$1.8 million each), and one with a single block of 2,656 Bitcoins (~$1.6 million).  If you don't own any Bitcoin now, how can you get any?  The deadline to register directly with USMS passed today at noon. Participants were required to front a $200,000 deposit to join the bidding. (If you don't win the bid you get it back).  But there's still another way. SecondMarket, the New York-based alternative investments firm helmed by Barry Silbert, has set up a syndicate that will pool bids. To subscribe, you must make a minimum bid of $50,000 minimum bid, plus a 5% fee. The deadline for joining the syndicate is noon Thursday. You can also obtain shares in SecondMarket's Bitcoin Investment Trust in lieu of a direct allocation of Bitcoin. To do so only requires a $25,000 minimum bid.  In order to receive shares of the Bitcoin Investment Trust you must be an accredited investor and the standard fund fees will apply.  Coindesk recently published a list that was accidentally leaked showing folks who've already signed up to bid. They include Silbert, Coinbase co-founder Fred Ehrsam, a lawyer at megafirm Wilmer Hale, a quantitative arbitrageur at BNP Paribas, and Yelp's director of public policy.    We also asked DOJ some additional questions about the auction. Here were their written emailed responses. BUSINESS INSIDER: What were DOJ's principal reasons for deciding to hold this auction now, as opposed to an earlier or later date? DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE: We have a complex assets team in our Asset Forfeiture Division that worked with specialists from the FBI, the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern District of New York, and the Department of Justice to develop the auction plan. BI: Why has DOJ decided to auction only ~20% of the Bitcoins seized in the Silk Road case? Will there be further auctions? DOJ: That was the amount of the forfeiture order by the court on Jan. 15, 2014. BI: How many bidders does DOJ expect to have, or hope to have?  DOJ: We don’t speculate. BI: Are international bidders permitted? Yes. Bids will not be accepted, however, from any person or entity that appear on the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control list of “Specially Designated Nationals.” All deposit and purchase funds must be received from a US bank. FREE AppDownload
APThe Wall Street Journal, citing a person familiar with the matter, is reporting that Dean Foods was subpoenaed in recent weeks by authorities seeking information in connection with the insider-trading investigation of Carl Icahn, Phil Mickelson, and Billy Walters. The Journal also said Clorox recieved a request for information from regulators in 2011 related to trading in its shares.  Earlier this month, a report from Reuters said the FBI and SEC did not find evidence Mickelson traded in Clorox shares. Icahn and Walters, however, remain under investigation for trading in those shares. That report said that Mickelson was not cleared on trading in Dean Foods.  The FBI is pursuing a criminal investigation in the case, while the SEC's inquiry is civil, Reuters reported.  In after hours trade, shares of Dean Foods were down as much as 7% and shares of Clorox were little changed. Shares of Icahn Enterprises were also down about 1%. FREE AppDownload
When it comes to sneakers, Nike's competition is nonexistent.  The athletic wear giant's namesake and Jordan brand controls 97% of the U.S. basketball shoe market, according to a recent report by Morgan Stanley.  Nike's popularity in this segment is a boon for the company and a challenge for its competitors.  "Basketball remains the most resilient segment in the US sports footwear market (+18% over the last year, +33% in the past 4 weeks)," according to Morgan Stanley analysts. "Adidas’ lack of penetration in this sector remains a drag on its U.S. growth." Here are charts from Morgan Stanley illustrating how Nike dominates. Morgan StanleyMorgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
We recently discussed what kids entering college should consider majoring in given the state of the jobs market.  We may have made this unnecessarily complicated, because a chart we posted this morning shows the answer is really a no-brainer. There's really only one industry in which you're guaranteed of earning a pretty respectable wage no matter what specific occupation you choose: medicine. Nine of the top 10 best-paid positions in the U.S. tracked by the BLS are all in the field, and there are 17 occupations where the mean wage is above six figures. Here's the rundown: UCanDoEat/reddit UCanDoEat/reddit  Note: These are different from some health-related support occupations, which are way down there — almost half make less than $30,000. UCanDoEat/reddit Basically, if you're going into anything but medicine, you'd better be the best in your field at it. FREE AppDownload
We’ve all learned “parallel lines never intersect” in high school geometry. But what your teachers failed to explain is that “parallel lines never intersect” is only true in Euclidean geometry, which dates back to Euclid, a Greek mathematician living in Alexandria during the 4th century CE. In the 1800’s, leading mathematicians developed non-Euclidean geometry - which changed everything that people thought they knew about geometry. In Euclidean geometry parallel lines always remain at a the same distance from each other no matter how far you extend those lines. But in non-Euclidean geometry, parallel lines can either curve away from each other (hyperbolic), or curve towards each other (elliptic). This looks like this: Wikipedia   But even though they are curving we see that at one point the lines are parallel at a point. If you have forgotten your basic geometry, parallel lines are represented by the little squares you see above, which signify 90-degree angles. Here’s the catch, non-Euclidean geometry does not operate on traditional geometric planes. The easiest way to understand non-Euclidean geometry is to use a sphere. Here’s where the basketball comes in, since basketballs are real life spheres. Let’s focus on the four lines in the center. Elena Holodny If we zoom in, we see: Elena Holodny We see that the lines form 90-degree angles, just like in the first black and white sketch.  These lines are parallel at the zoomed in point. But if we zoom out again, we see that the black lines are curving away from each other, meaning that the black lines we are seeing look like they are hyperbolic.  Wikipedia But these lines are not actually following the curve of the ball. Whoever designed a basketball probably didn't study non-Euclidean geometry. If he did, he'd know that a sphere is not hyperbolic, but rather it is elliptic. So, what happens if we followed the natural elliptic curvature of the ball and continued the parallel lines down the side of the ball? When you extend those lines, they do not curve away from each other. In fact, they actually curve toward each other as they approach the bottom of the ball. This is what this looks like: Elena Holodny You see that these three lines, which are all parallel to each other at the top (the part we zoomed in on), all meet at the common point at the bottom of the basketball when you extend those lines along the natural curvature of the ball. Weirdly enough, this does not mean that parallel lines intersect, but rather that seemingly parallel lines intersect - such as those on the basketball. In fact, in non-Euclidean geometry there are no parallel lines. But any lines on the earth's surface, even if they seem parallel, eventually meet. And if you have a basketball at home, you can try and trace this with your finger - it'll feel weird if you do not follow the natural curvature. And voila! We’ve successfully disproven “parallel lines never intersect” using just a basketball.  FREE AppDownload
No one will ever forget about the U.S. housing bubble and how it brought down the financial system when it burst. After collapsing, U.S. home prices are back on the rise. But they're nowhere near their all-time highs. The same can't be said about some international housing markets were prices remain elevated. Bespoke Investment Group points to New Zealand, Canada, and Australia in particular. ...English-speaking former UK colonies are by far the most aggressively expensive home price cohort.  The boom/bust cycle in home prices for Australia, New Zealand, and Canada was much shorter than it was for other economies, and now prices are grinding steadily higher again; Canada and New Zealand are the only two advanced economies at all time highs for home prices.  The Canadian market, driven by foreign investment in cities like Vancouver and a boom in oil production throughout the central provinces, especially Alberta, is trending strongly to the upside.  Australia had a mini-cycle downwards but is now once again moving up.  But the real winner among the 11 economies is New Zealand.  Home prices there have gone up by more than 93% since 2000, the best performance of any advanced economy.  It's no surprise then that the Reserve Bank of New Zealand hiked interest rates at their last meeting. You might be surprised to see that the UK itself isn't much higher considering the widely-reported boom in London home prices. "Home prices aren't accelerating aggressively upwards on an aggregate basis, mostly because the concerns of a housing bubble are rooted in one specific area, London," noted Bespoke. At the bottom are Japan, where deflation has persisted and housing isn't really considered an investment, and Germany, where rentals are more popular and there is no deduction in the tax code for mortgage interest. Bespoke Investment Group FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hazir RekaA U.S. soldier, part of a NATO peace force, places barbed wire on his Humvee during a protest in the ethnically divided town of Mitrovica.Stocks closed lower, but little changed. By closing lower, the S&amp;P 500 and Dow failed to make another record high. First, the scoreboard: And now, the biggest stories of the day: Don't Miss: This Epic Chart Shows The Average Wage For Almost Every Job In America » FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Hong WuNicola PeltzThe daughter of billionaire activist investor Nelson Peltz, the founder of Trian Fund Management, is starring in the latest Transformers movie.  Nicola Peltz, 19, plays Mark Wahlberg's daughter Tessa Yeager in Transformers: Age of Extinction. She said the role reminds her of her relationship with her real father.  "I love the human element of this film," Peltz said in an interview recently posted on YouTube. "My favorite part of the whole movie, you know, having to do with my character is the father/daughter relationship because I'm so close with my dad. I think it's so important to have a strong dad."  Peltz has had roles on television show Bates Motel and the movie The Last Airbender. She definitely seems like a promising young actress. She's also not the only one in Hollywood in the Peltz family. Her brother William Peltz is also an actor.  The film comes out on June 27th.  [via NY Daily News] Check out the trailer and interview below:    FREE AppDownload
Separating activity from growth on Bitcoin’s network One of the contentious areas of writing about Bitcoin data and emerging markets, is discussing what conclusions and interpretations (if any) can be drawn from say, transactional volume. Let us put that aside for a moment and consider ways to estimate real commercial volume.  Are there any other ways to do so besides a full traffic analysis? Sell side pressure On any given day there are at least three entities that continuously sell bitcoins onto the market: merchants (and merchant processors), miners and mining manufacturers (who are sometimes paid in bitcoin). As I noted in my previous article, last month BitPay announced that it was processing about $1 million in daily payments.  It is unclear what amount of bitcoins that constitutes, depending on the time frame and therefore price levels (early December or the month of May) it could represent 1,000-2,000 tokens per day. Let us assume that the other merchant processors such as Coinbase and BIPS are also processing a similar amount.  And that altogether between 5,000-10,000 bitcoins per day are collectively being spent on commercial activities through these processors. This puts pressure on the sell side of the price equation.  That is to say, to minimize exposure to volatility, nearly all merchants elect to immediately convert bitcoins into fiat and those bitcoins are sold onto the market (both Ben Edelman and David Evans have written on this before). Similarly, because miners have to pay real costs – capital and operating costs – they too sell their mining rewards on the market: around 3,600 each day (because again, MV=MC). It is unclear how much mining manufacturers have to sell each day to fund their own developmental and logistical operations, but for the sake of simplicity and roundedness, let us say 1,400 bitcoins (it could also be as little as zero). Thus altogether, there is a regular 10,000 – 15,000 bitcoins representing commerce that are sold daily on the market today.  It also bears mentioning that, although technically the miners receive money, virtually all of it is spent towards utility (electricity) and hardware, not on the bitcoin ecosystem itself.  While it is unclear how much other positive-sum value exchange is taking place (such as remittances, houses or cars) we can see that the transactional volume of potential commerce has remained flat during the past six months: Tim Swanson/Of Number/Blockchain.Info  Is there a chart that shows this amount of transactions? In my last article, I mentioned Total Volume Output – the total value of all transaction outputs per day – yet this includes coins which were returned to the sender as “change” and thus the real number trying to be measured is substantially less.  And taken to its maximum readings, roughly 1,000,000 bitcoin outputs (UTXOs) are used each day.  If only 10,000 – 15,000 bitcoins are being used in real commercial activities (instead of merely zero-sum activities like gambling, mixing of coins or cybercrime), then the perceived Total Volume Output is potentially two orders in magnitude larger than the real economy.  What is the real economy?  While the debate over what percentage of bitcoins are being spent in positive-sum activities, between October 15 and December 18 of last year, 41,928 bitcoins were sent to addresses controlled by Cryptolocker (a type of malware) – this is not real economic growth, in fact it is negative-sum.  And because it signaled to the market that it was a successful way of generating (stealing) wealth, there are numerous copycats using similar methods (including CryptoDefense and Cryptolocker 2.0). The cost of information security For the moment, let us ignore the buy side of the equation, that in order to keep the same price level, at least 10,000 – 15,000 bitcoin are being acquired by other parties each day (primarily high-net worth individuals and institutions through OTC brokers). What this actual activity translates into is the following: Miners are the labor force that secures and processes transactions.  And because this labor force has real depreciating capital costs and operating expenses, in theory, the cost for their services amounts to roughly $2 million per day (3,600 bitcoins X $600 per bitcoin). In practice however, most miners are operating at losses.  In fact, the network is vastly oversecured by miners operating at losses probably by a factor of 2-5x (described in Estimated costs).  For instance, according to a recent report from the National Science Foundation (NSF), a now-banned researcher used, “about $150,000 worth of NSF-supported computer use at the two universities to generate bitcoins worth about $8,000 to $10,000.”  Or in other words, the researcher externalized the real costs of mining (energy and capital deprecation) onto another party (the NSF and therefore taxpayers).  This is inefficient, yet there are many cases of such activity taking place each day. Thus while the Bitcoin ‘trust fund’ (a more accurate description for the network which divvies out a finite amount of block rewards) pays out security of $2 million each day, the labor force is providing significantly more security than they are being paid, probably closer to $6 - $10 million if not more (Hass McCook has additional estimates). Simultaneously, they are providing these services for commercial activity that ranges from as little as 5,000 bitcoins to perhaps as high as 15,000 bitcoins.  Or $30 million to $90 million respectively in today’s prices. For comparison, MasterCard spent $299 million on their capital expenditures in 2013.  As part of these expenses, it builds data centers similar to the “fortresses” (with moats) that Visa has also built.  In 2013, MasterCard and Visa processed a combined $7.4 trillion in purchases.  Together with American Express and Discover, these four companies generated $61.3 billion in revenue during the same period. While this is not an entirely apples-to-apples comparison, what this means is that the Bitcoin network is enormously oversecured compared with other transactional platforms.  The reason this is, is because it is decentralized which creates overhead (since all the nodes have to process and verify the transactions).  Yet, as shown with GHash.io over the past month, the network is qualitatively insecure due to economies of scale.  That is to say, so as long as the proof-of-work mechanism can be economically scaled, this leads towards centralization.  No amount of white papers or tweets will change that. If the labor force of bitcoin is spending $10 million on protecting the network yet real commerce is only $30 million, this would be equivalent to a mall issuing 1 out of 3 customers a personal security detail to go shopping.  Or in other words it is, arguably, quantitatively oversecure (it is not qualitatively trustless as shown by GHash.io and previously, Deepbit).  Perhaps this mix will change over time.  However one thing to consider is that some bullish advocates contend that the Bitcoin network will one day supplant and compete head on with Paypal and even Visa.  In order to do so, the Bitcoin labor force are still (assumedly) being paid a fixed income to provide the same services.  Thus perhaps in the future, the opposite will occur – the network could become undersecure due to disproportional rewards. I spoke with Greg Simon, co-founder of Cryptowerks who worked as head of International Equity Sales for JP Morgan in Japan.  According to him,  Cryptoledger miners are Japanese banks. They are producing an oversupply of crypto trust relative to an under supply of borrowers of that trust. Their only solution, producing an ever increasing supply of crypto trust, is making the problem worse, not better. It is the equivalent of central bank QE [quantitative easing], or pushing on as string.  Just as an oversupply of central bank produced money causes the value of each unit of money to decline, so does an oversupply of crypto ledger miner produced crypto trust cause the value of each unit crypto trust, which we can measure in units of ghash, to decline. The problem is not the aggregate supply of crypto trust. The problem is aggregate demand for crypto trust. Until demand for crypto trust improves, either from monetary or non-monetary borrowers, we can expect the same fate for crypto trust in the crypto economy as we are seeing for fiat money in the legacy central bank fiat economy. Another way to visualize this phenomenon is the chart below: Ratcliff/Swasnson/Of Numbers John Ratcliff recently published an explanation about zombie bitcoins (coins, or rather UTXOs, that have not been active in more than 18 months) which is where the chart above comes from.  Each color band represents the last time a private key corresponding to these UTXOs was used. Thus, one take-away from this chart is that liquidity – as shown by the One Day, One Week and perhaps One Month bands – represents between 100,000 to 2,000,000 bitcoins.  What is the actual number?  Without a full traffic analysis we probably will never know. But we can tell from spikes that the largest movements take place during volatile time periods, specifically during price run-ups.  So, for instance, in the spring of 2013 there was enormous Western media attention and a subsequent boom that peaked in mid-April (when Mt. Gox had to temporarily shut down).  Similarly, in November and early December corresponds with additional global media coverage and Chinese adopters coming online – with prices peaking on December 4th.  Or in other words, transactional volume rises and falls with price levels – that the bulk of on-chain activity corresponds primarily to day trading and speculation.  This, despite the fact that Ratcliff notes, that prices during this 18 month time span increased 4,000%.  That is to say, even though there are more than 100,000 merchants that accept bitcoin and even though token valuation has risen logarithmically, UTXO holders as a whole prefer speculating over conducting actual commercial activity.  What could change this behavior? Maybe nothing will because Bitcoin is a recreation of a medieval agrarian economy; few people spend, in part because the network codifies what is essentially negative time value of money. Money and credit There is an endless stream of papers and books on the topic of what constitutes and attributes of money.  Arguably one of the most thorough explanations of what money is and how it arose is, The Ascent of Moneyby Niall Ferguson which was later turned into a good PBS series. Despite what some Bitcoin advocates claim, gold itself was not used on a large scale since time immemorial.  In practice, there were numerous types of physical assets ranging from metals to stones.  England even used a system of money known as tally sticks for several hundred years.  And the reality is that prior to the birth of civilizations, many tribes and villages operated with barter and gift systems with themselves and one another (some never even created something akin to “money”). As noted by Ferguson, up until the Renaissance, there were no real financial instruments or professionalized banking or hedging methods in the West.  Bonds, joint-stock corporations and insurance companies evolved throughout time (all post-Fibonacci).  And consequently, this is reflected in the dearth of economic output at the time.  That without a way to expand credit – to create loans to start businesses – the pie cannot be enlarged.  In his words, “Credit and debt, in short are among the essential building blocks of economic development, as vital to creating the wealth of nations as mining, manufacturing or mobile technology.”  In contrast, poverty (subsistence) more often, “has more to do with a lack of financial institutions, with the absence of banks, not their presence.”  Thus, I would argue that ultimately Coinbase could turn into a fully-fledged bank, providing interest to bitcoin holders to be able to loan out bitcoins (much like BTCJam does).  And they could do this through a fractional reserve process.  In fact, Huobi’s new Hong Kong branch (BitVC) is heading in that direction; users can lend funds to Huobi for interest and Huobi will then lend it out to users to trade on margin. Contrary to what many Bitcoin adopters contend, fractional reserve banking itself is not inherently a bad thing but that is a topic for another article. However, for the time being, Coinbase and others – while on-ramping a lot of new users and providing utility through ease-of-use functionality – have a long way to go before this occurs.  For instance, this past week Coinbase announced instant buyback (once you spend bitcoins, you can buy more).  However, the reddit comment below sums up actually what happens: reddit/Of Numbers  Again, there is a difference between the economy Bob wants to have versus the economy Bob currently has.  Today Bitcoin, as I have argued, is at most an emerging market akin to a pre-industrialized agrarian economy with enormous frictions.  Internally it is an inflexible command economy that outsources and arbitrarily rations its scarce resources (block rewards) irrespective of economic conditions (e.g., Bob, the miner, is rewarded whether or not he processes transactions).   Front loading rewards the first four years without processing any transactions is an unsustainable activity.  In fact, as Jonathan Levin, co-founder of Coinometrics, notes in his upcoming paper, Creating a decentralised payment network, he found that “[i]n total over the network history there have been 84,469 blocks with no transactions.”  Yet because there is no one at the helm, no entrepreneur to rationally allocate block rewards or market value for those rewards the first year, ultimately 4.2 million bitcoins were given out for naught. Many adopters note that this was done to help bootstrap the economy and that the initial distribution of bitcoins through the block reward is purportedly not how bitcoin will operate in the long run.  And that at some point Bitcoin’s internal economy will somehow be incentivized by transaction fees only – or at least that is theoretical transition (see Reducing and removing block rewards).  But the fact that miners were rewarded irrespective and arbitrarily of their actual work is very similar to how top-down command economies work rationing wages.  This is a topic that will likely be debated over the coming years. For additional perspective I spoke with Martin Harrigan, a software developer and founder of Quantabytes, a cryptocurrency analytics start-up.  In his view: The initial distribution of bitcoins is a one-time process that is distorting our understanding of the Bitcoin economy. I think that the peaks in transaction volume during the price run-ups are a form of secondary distribution: early adopters are distributing their bitcoins, for profit, to new users. This is a vital part of Bitcoin's distribution process and may continue for as long as there are periods of significant price increase. It may be that institutional investors will take-over a significant portion of this process for several years. Then, at some point, when the technology, infrastructure, regulatory frameworks, and our understanding of cryptocurrencies has matured, the price will stabilise and Bitcoin will return to individual users as a stable transactional currency in the traditional sense. Of course, I'm speculating wildly here. My point is that we don't have a good null model. We're not seeing "hockey stick growth" but maybe that's okay. Many start-ups need this type of growth to survive -- I don't think Bitcoin does. During the Bitcoin crash of 2011 the price dropped 93% and didn't recover until 2013. The difficulty also dropped and remained stagnant for a year and half. Although I can't quantify it, the "mood" on the Bitcointalk forums was grim. The equivalent event would have been fatal to most start-ups. Perhaps at Harrigan noted, this will change in the future.  And perhaps those frictions are still lower than the cost of doing business in certain regions (like the Philippines).  And this is not to single-out Coinbase.  I still think they are one of the best companies in this space, I even consider them one of the most promising in part because they are trying to create value (and have).  But that does not mean this particular service is frictionless.  For instance, David Evans recently delved into the specific transaction costs of various platforms and explained how the actual roundtrip cost of Coinbase is 2% + $.15, not the 1 percent that is frequently cited (Evans also had another good explanation of how Coinbase and merchants like Overstock work). Building a continuous series of bubbles or building utility One of the common refrains about altcoins and appcoins in general is that none of the underlying systems are able to give out real equity and thus cannot have P/E expectations – neither does bitcoin, nor will it.  This is a bug and it is why I argue that using the "TCP/IP" analogy is probably incorrect.  The internet is an amalgam of private-public intranets cobbled together and cost real capital to build.  It was not built with magic; real incentives had to be provided to build it.  Imagine if those incentives decreased 50% every 4 years?  That's Bitcoin's internal economy.  The Bitcoin network cannot operate without bitcoins – the app or currency or commodity (choose your definition).  The two are united together. Yet TCP/IP, the protocol, can still work even if substantial portions of the network fail; it is not tied to a specific set of hardware or token (TCPIPCoin). This is not the first time a set of unrealistic expectations have been created in the past 10 years.  Pitchbook/Of Numbers So what kind of bubble is bitcoin then?  Some claim that it “crashes upwards” which makes no rational sense at all.  Bitcoin (the token) is not immune to the laws of economics.  Perhaps as illustrated above (source), the current investment cycle in Bitcoin is more akin to Cleantech circa 2005?  What this means is that, as noted in my previous article, even though many of the startups are clever, they may lack sustainable business models.  Once this froth is removed, the businesses that survive will likely be those that are actually creating real pain killers (utility) to real needs; perhaps reusing the infrastructure of the network (like merged mining proposed by Blockstream or that of Cryptowerks) to process contracts and titles.  Again, all of this is speculative, yet it warrants attention because Cleantech also had a similar dedicated ideological group of early adopters that created economic activity (though, not much growth yet) and wanted to change the world.  And despite their best efforts it popped. In conclusion, expanding credit alone is not the answer to Bitcoin’s stagnant economy.  For instance, China’s money supply grew leaps and bounds since November 2008 (when it implemented a series of stimulus packages).  It also signed bilateral currency agreements with new countries every year which led many outside commentators to erroneously conclude that this somehow leads to mass adoption of the RMB.  Yet the stark reality is that the RMB only accounts for 1.4% of global payments compared with the dollar at 42.5%.  This is unlikely to change either.  However, even in its current doldrums, the Chinese economy still produces real goods and services to the tune of trillions of dollars per annum.  Obviously it is unfair to compare Bitcoin, a five-and-a-half-year old “startup” to China.  Yet the emerging market aspect, the reuse of capital stock, the implementation of new financial instruments, the training of unskilled laborers and ultimately the creation of needed utility to outside parties can be viewed as facsimiles to learn and grow from.  As noted by John Kenneth Galbraith in the last article, there is only so much capital that can be extracted from the “fleece-me” crowds of reddit.  Significantly more capital is needed to scale operations to enterprise-level reliability.  While some advocates believe eschewing the ancien regime of venture funds and private equity is the way to move forward, this is short-sighted.   Below is a list of companies I think have potential to create value in this digital ecosystem – embryonic solutions to this quagmire (I hold no equity in them): Click here to see this post at Of Numbers » This article originally appeared at Of Numbers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sky Gould/Business InsiderElana Simon survived a rare cancer — and is now trying to cure it.Before queuing up "Pomp and Circumstance," let's take a moment to recognize the best and the brightest high-school seniors in the U.S. All of these wunderkinds — including an Olympic athlete, a cancer survivor, a researcher, a Thiel Fellow, a self-published novelist, and a musical darling who's been admitted to all eight Ivy League schools — show that age has no bearing on what people can accomplish. Based on reader nominations, local news stories from around the country, and word of mouth, we found the most impressive students graduating from high school this year. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Mick_tnJonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, has alerted us to two tables that show just how ridiculously quiet it is on Wall Street. As Linette Lopez explained earlier, despite the soaring stock market, Wall Street is losing a fortune because volatility and volume are so low. In the last 20 years, only one time (!!) has the S&amp;P 500 traded in a more narrow range than it did Friday and is doing today.  This is what silence looks like on Wall Street. MKM Partners The other days on the lowest-volatility list are trading days around holidays, the kinds of days people show up for and wonder, why is anyone here at all? And in that context, trading on Wall Street looks even more ridiculously quiet.  But the curious thing is that it's not like there hasn't been anything going on. Last week saw an FOMC meeting and a press conference from Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen, and this week features a rash of economic data. And yet the stock market is trading like we're on either side of the New Year, or Christmas, or the Thanksgiving holiday.  From Krinsky: The SPX currently has an intra-day range (high to low) of less than 5 points, or just 0.25%. That ranks as the 3rd lowest daily range in the last 20 years (5k trading days). Friday was the 2nd lowest at 0.24%. The lowest was 0.20% on 12/30/13. The highest intra-day range in the last 20 years was 11.52% on 11/13/2008.There is no clear takeaway from this, other than volatility is low, and this is just another representation of that. What we can say, is that a major market top (like we saw in 2000 and 2007) is likely to be preceded first by increasing volatility, or expanded trading ranges. In 2007 for instance, the SPX saw a 0.33% trading range in April, but the range then increased steadily in the months leading up to the market top in October.Many of the prior extremely low trading range days came during bullish periods of the market, just as the highest trading ranges came during bearish periods. In fact, 15 of the top 20 trading ranges for the SPX came in 2008. Stock market bears will likely see the compressed trading ranges as presaging a market top later this year or early next year. Bulls will cite Krinsky's observation that trading ranges expand at tops as evidence that the current bull market can go higher still. As has been the case over the last few years, there is something for everybody to get excited about, even if the excitement is that absolutely nothing exciting has been going on. On the flip side, these are the 20 widest daily trading ranges over the same period. MKM Partners FREE AppDownload
Reddit user Dan Lin has uploaded a chart showing the mean wage breakdown for every profession in America tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The top wages all belong to specialized medical fields, while the ones on the bottom are all in food and hospitality. The numbers in parentheses are the mean wages, in thousands, while the different shapes show the range of salaries available in that field.  (NOTE: If you are having trouble viewing the image, click here and zoom in ») dan lin/reddit/bls   FREE AppDownload
This is the biggest acquisition Oracle has made since it closed Sun Microsystems for $7.4 billion in 2010 (which actually cost Oracle $5.6 billion after factoring in Sun's cash. With this deal, it actually cost $4.6 billion net of Micros’ cash, Oracle said.) Oracle paid $68 per share, slightly higher than the rumored $67-and-change price expected, and a nice price for Micros shareholders. The stock had been trading near the $58 mark for the past few days and under $53 for most of April and much of May. Word of the deal broke last week,  right before Oracle released its forth-quarter earnings. Micros makes software and hardware for the hospitality and retail industries, including "point of sale" cash register tech. It has some huge clients, including the Hilton, Hyatt and Marriott hotel chains. The latest wave in the POS industry is to replace these devices with tablets, and Micros offers a Windows tablet for this purpose. So, this deal also gives Oracle a tablet. Interestingly, Micros was already a big Oracle partner, had been helping it sell its database to hospitality businesses for the past 15 years, Oracle said. Some Wall Street analysts think this was a a defensive move to keep up-and-coming cloud competitors away from Oracle's customers: Matthew Healey, an analyst at TBR, wrote in a research note: The urgency with which Oracle is evaluating solutions for the retail and hospitality industry indicates that the acquisition of Micros Systems is a defensive move to protect Oracle’s install base [from] other providers such as SAP and Salesforce.com. But mostly, the acquisition is about buying revenue growth. The hospitality industry is in the midst of a tech revolution, moving from PC-based systems to tablets and cloud software. In May, Micros reported third-quarter revenue of $349 million, up about 11%, year-over-year. Revenue for the nine-month period was a little over $1 billion, up 7.4% and it dropped $142 million to the bottom line as profits (non-GAAP) for the nine months of the year, so far. It also upped its guidance for the full year, expecting between $1.36 billion - $1.385 billion in revenue and non-GAAP EPS from $2.53 to $2.57. “We expect this transaction to be immediately accretive to Oracle’s earnings on a non-GAAP basis and to expand over time,” said Oracle President and CFO Safra Catz. Oracle's fourth quarter and year-end was a disappointment to investors. It was a two-year-in-a-row miss on Wall Street expectations on revenue growth for both the quarter and the year. Oracle blamed the miss on its transition to cloud services, in which revenue is recognized as it is paid, not when contracts are signed, making it look like the company's growth has slowed. Some analysts, such as TBR's Healey were good with that explanation and others were more skeptical. For instance, Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities, wrote in a research note: While management engaged in a lengthy discussion about the shift toward the cloud, we think it is clear that, even accounting for a shift in revenue recognition, Oracle did not execute particularly well in the quarter, coming in at the low end of its guidance range for revenue, license, and hardware and generating billings growth (which captures the impact of revenue deferrals) of 3%, below consensus of 5%. We think investors should remain cautious on this name as Oracle faces tough and focused competitors in each cloud product category (including Amazon Web Services, Workday, and salesforce.com) and needs to execute better and more consistently. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Renato GuerreiroBank of America Merrill Lynch is out with a note giving long-run projections for key economic variables.  The list includes predictions for 20 economic data points, ranging from GDP to inflation to the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate, for each year through 2020, and then for 2021-2025. Some of BAML's interesting long-term predictions for 2021-2025 include a 3.75% benchmark interest rate, a 4.5% yield on a 10-year Treasury note, and 4.2% nominal GDP.  BAML also sees the Fed keeping interest rates low through 2016. BAML expects a 1.5% interest rate in 2016, below where all but three FOMC participants projected interest rates to be at year-end, according to the Fed's latest Dot Plot.  BAML also sees the Fed overshooting its inflation target once the economy fully recovers, with core inflation running a bit above 2% later this decade. Here's a full table of BAML's predictions: Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
Getty Images for LacosteIf you're headed up to the Hamptons this summer, it might be a good idea to hire your own driver. According to The Southampton Press, police departments across Suffolk County have announced a concentrated crack down on drunk driving and boating. This is the third summer of the East End DWI Task Force, which has seen 364 DWI arrests and several for boating while intoxicated. Related businesses are looking to cash in on the problem, to the annoyance of some Hamptons police. The designated-driver service Main Street Drivers has partnered with a local defense attorney Eddie Burke Jr., who specializes in DWI arrests, Page Six reported. The promotion used signs sporting “Hire a Sober Driver Tonight, not a Good Criminal Defense Attorney Tomorrow,” and similar slogans around the Hamptons. Although it was approved by local officials, some cops still objected that it violated town codes. It's a pretty clever campaign, because it's likely you'll end up needing either one or the other. Hopefully Burke doesn't get too many calls, but if bad decisions are made, at least you have some back ups. Stay safe, everyone. FREE AppDownload
Dmitry GudkovBarclays Mark Rubin claimed the Best Athlete title for the third consecutive year. The strongest and fastest people on Wall Street faced off this weekend to determine who is the best athlete.  Wall Streeters ranging in ages from 22 to 62 participated in the annual RBC Decathlon at DaSilva Memorial Stadium at St. John's University in Queens on Sunday. In a span of four hours, the athletes completed a 400-meter run, football throw, pull-ups, 40-yard dash, dips, 500-meter row, vertical jump, 20-yard shuttle, bench press, and an 800-meter run. The annual event raised $1.4 million for pediatric cancer research and treatment at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Mark Rubin, who works in fixed-income sales at Barclays, captured the Wall Street's Best Athlete title for the third consecutive year. Rubin was a former Penn State safety who had a stint playing in the NFL for the St. Louis Rams.  If you missed the competition, we've included photo highlights in the slides that follow. A big thank-you to Dmitry Gudkov and Kevin McCarthy who were both kind enough to share their photos.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderA bidder's assistant calls out a bid at an auction by USHomeAuction.com in Boston, Massachusetts.Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ is clearly very bullish on the U.S. economy.  Following the May existing home sales report — that beat expectations rising 4.9% on the month — he argued that one of Janet Yellen's big concerns has been quelled. But he didn't stop there.  He went on to write that home prices can only go up from here (emphasis ours): "Sales activity is just a hair away from being back in the all-is-well zone of 5.0-5.5 million.  What about prices?  Home prices are an important determinant of consumer confidence and their spending helps makes the economy go.  Things looking good here.  Single-family home prices shot up 6.2% to $213.6 thousand in May and are up 4.9% from May a year-ago, 2013.  Our advice to you is to buy a house if you can find one at 213 thousand dollars.  The economy is better than you think, and home prices have nowhere to go but up.  Bet on it." Other economists were positive but more cautious in interpreting the latest data.  Paul Diggle at Capital Economics wrote that this was the largest monthly gain in 21 months, but they were still 9% lower than levels seen last July when higher mortgage rates started weighing on housing. "We are inclined to see this jump largely as a reversal of the winter hit," wrote Jana McTigue at Pantheon Macroeconomics following the data release. "The very low and flat trend in mortgage applications does not support the idea that demand is recovering." Rupkey has of course demonstrated just how buoyant he is on the U.S. economy in the past. Earlier this month, he dismissed talk of slack in the economy and wrote that we're seeing a "full-on economic expansion" in the U.S. FREE AppDownload
Chakrabarti and MazewskiIncome inequality, in red, has increased along with income inequality, in blue.New York Fed economists think there may be a correlation between two problems currently plaguing the U.S.: extreme political polarization and income inequality. Rajashri Chakrabarti, senior economist in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Research and Statistics Group, and Matt Mazewski, a research analyst in the same group, plotted the relationship between polarization and income inequality from 1913 to 2012. They noticed that the two measures follow similar trajectories: during the first half of the 20th century, the left-right political divide and income inequality decrease over time, while during the second half both increase over time. However, although the two measures take similar paths, you can see in the chart above that the inequality measure (in blue) lags several years behind the shift in polarization (in red). Considering the fact that inequality follows polarization, Chakrabarti and Mazewski note that polarization itself "may not be as important" as the way in which polarization unfolds. In other words, what emerges from a very polarized Congress is more important than the fact that Congress is polarized.  They offer several examples of how polarization might affect inequality. The most notable is "policy drift" which is when "outdated or ill-suited" policies remain in effect because of a political stalemate. Unfortunately, policy drift often "contributes to legislative gridlock", a time period during which it is difficult to pass new laws because two political parties are evenly divided and cannot agree. This effect prevents new and possibly better suited policies from being implemented. An example of this effect can be seen with policies that are not indexed to inflation. Some policies benefit high earners, such as the income tax structure, while others benefit low earners, such as the federal minimum wage. Chakrabarti and Mazewski also suggest weaker financial regulations may be a second result of how increasing polarization can affect inequality. "Asymmetric polarization" that is caused by the political center of gravity moving to the right often leads to looser finance laws. This effect causes incomes among the wealthy to rise further, and subsequently, overall inequality increases. It is important to remember that this study does not say that polarization leads to income inequality, but rather that there is a correlation between the two.  FREE AppDownload
Rich people care more about animal welfare than human rights, and about a dozen other important causes, according to a new report from consultancy Capgemini. The firm interviewed more than 4,500 high-net-worth individuals from 23 different markets during Q1 of this year to get their take on a number of subjects, including what social issues they care about most. Besides human rights, the respondents also said they cared more about animal welfare than climate change, poverty alleviation, income inequality and race and gender issues. Check it out: Capgemini FREE AppDownload
Katie Couric, 57, tied the knot in front of 50 friends and family Saturday to fiancé John Molner, 51, in the backyard of her East Hampton home. "We wanted to keep the wedding just very low-key," Couric told People magazine before the wedding. "This is not my first rodeo so I didn't want to go too crazy and neither did John."  Couric tweeted after the ceremony: So excited to make my debut as Mrs. John Molner! pic.twitter.com/UjvmtT2ki0 Thank you to all my wonderful friends sharing in my happiness! I (I mean we!) appreciate the warm wishes, love &amp; support you've sent our way While Couric has been transitioning from her daytime talk show to Yahoo! News Global Anchor, Molner is an executive at the Chicago-based investment firm Brown Brothers Harriman and Co, where he is the head of Mergers &amp; Acquisitions, reports E! Online. But with Couric busy with work and her daughter's recent high school graduation, she says it was Molner who did a lot of the wedding planning."I call John 'Groomzilla!'" Couric told People. "We're a very modern couple." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThere isn't much that worries Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen. She dismissed the recent GDP slowdown as temporary due to poor weather and she brushed off the recent signs of accelerating inflation as noisy. But she has explicitly expressed concern about one area of the economy: the housing market. In her May testimony to the Joint Economic Committee, Yellen warned that housing data had been disappointing and that the Fed would be watching housing data points closely. "The recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery," she said. So this morning's housing report should come as a bit of a relief. Existing home sales beat expectations rising 4.9% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 4.89 million units. This was the highest monthly rise since August 2011 and showed that the housing market is rebounding from the winter lull. "The Fed Chair is concerned about the risk to the broader economy from the housing sector, but the strength in the sales report today should reduce her concerns," writes Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in a note to clients. Here's more from Rupkey: "What is a housing market recovery anyway?  What do we want to see in this important economic statistic?  Where is normal?  Based on our estimates, a 4.89 million annual sales rate is close to the normal zone of 5.0 to 5.5 million.  Activity was feverish in the housing bubble where 6.5 million homes changed hands in 2004 and again in 2005 until the Fed rate hikes started to bite.  But normal could be where sales were in the late 90s, a little above a 5 million annual rate of turnover, when real GDP was fast and furious at 5%. "Net net, existing home sales are back with a decisive 4.9% advance in May, shaking off the cold winter decline in January.  Sales activity is just a hair away from being back in the all-is-well zone of 5.0-5.5 million.  What about prices?  Home prices are an important determinant of consumer confidence and their spending helps makes the economy go.  Things looking good here.  Single-family home prices shot up 6.2% to $213.6 thousand in May and are up 4.9% from May a year-ago, 2013.  Our advice to you is to buy a house if you can find one at 213 thousand dollars.  The economy is better than you think, and home prices have nowhere to go but up.  Bet on it." We'll be watching for Yellen's future comments on housing. FREE AppDownload
Whether it be at a ball game, at a bar, or any other sort of crowded venue, knowing how to do "that whistle" will command everyone's attention. Take control.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
So I’m about to hit the road again. This time I’m headed to Anaheim, California for VidCon. I’m also hosting Business With Style, the first official meet-up that I know of for men who are interested in men’s lifestyle and self-improvement. As such – I need to pack my clothing for travel. Now I’ve already covered 3 ways to pack a suit jacket. So today I’m going to share ways to fold a dress shirt for travel. Real Men Real Style Now you may be wondering – which shirt folding method is best at preventing wrinkles? Unfortunately I find there isn’t a sure way to completely prevent dress shirt wrinkling through proper folding. What really determines the amount of wrinkling? That being said – rolling works best for me. But I always touch up my shirts before wearing and schedule time my first day at a conference to prepare all my clothing. It takes just an hour to steam the jackets &amp; trousers, iron the shirts, and shine the shoes while watching ESPN. Then I’m done with it for the week! This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The five year bull market is still going with no signs of slowing, volatility is at an all-time low, and The Fed is still holding down interest rates. As Oppenheimer's Chief Market Strategists John Stolzfus put it — "The punchbowl remains on the table, the record player keeps spinning tunes — and the party’s still lively." So everything is just swell on Wall Street right? Wrong. Most of Wall Street is miserable, and it's not hard to understand why. BTIG's Dan Greenhaus tweeted out this chart that says it all. Dan Greenhaus, BTIG Wall Street's brokers make money off of volume (the number of orders waiting to be filled in the market) and Wall Street's traders make money off of volatility (the spread of a given security's price over time). If there's little volume and little spread, there's no money to be made. And right now volatility and volume are going in one direction. Goldman Sachs In this environment, everyone's job is at risk. JP Morgan and other banks have already warned that trading revenue is going to take a serious hit in Q2. Earlier this month, JP Morgan CFO Marianne Lake went as far as to say that this malaise may hit employees in other parts of the bank as well. Specifically, Lake said that "too much capacity" in bond and currency trading could lead to revenue so anemic that layoffs and compensation cuts may have to be made throughout JPM's investment bank — the biggest investment bank in the world. So who's having fun here? FREE AppDownload
ABC News Last week, American Apparel announced plans to part ways with founder and CEO Dov Charney.  Now, Charney has fired back in a new document filed with the Securities And Exchange Commission.   In the so-called 13-D filing, Charney claims he's heard from American Apparel shareholders who want him back at the company. Charney plans to address "matters related to governance and board composition, management, operations, business, assets, capitalization, financial condition, strategic plans, and the future of (American Apparel)," he said in the filing. The filing indicates that Charney has technically become an activist shareholder in the company he founded, and that he still plans to exert control over American Apparel, writes James Covert at The New York Post. Charney's firing stemmed from ongoing allegations of misconduct, the company said in a statement last week.  But parting ways with Charney, who is the top shareholder at his company, won't be easy, said Eric Beder, analyst at Brean Capital.  "It's an awkward situation to get rid of your CEO when he owns more than a quarter of the company," Beder told Business Insider. "The new CEO will have to sort out that situation."  Charney will still have considerable say in company decisions like hiring executives and board members until he sells his shares, Beder said.  FREE AppDownload
John Moore / Getty ImagesA report from The Wall Street Journal this weekend said that French bank BNP Paribas is nearing a settlement with U.S. prosecutors that will prevent the bank from transacting in U.S. dollars. The deal is also expected to include a fine of $8 to $9 billion dollars and an admission of guilt from the bank. The settlement is related to findings by investigators that the bank hid $30 billion of financial transactions that violated U.S. sanctions. Last week, NPR's "Planet Money" podcast discussed the settlement facing BNP Paribas, and other recent bank settlements, on an episode titled "How To Punish A Bank." "Planet Money's" Zoe Chace and David Kestenbaum laid out just what it would mean for BNP Paribas to be disallowed from transacting in U.S. dollars, or "dollar clearing." From "Planet Money": Kestenbaum: The bank would be banned from something called "dollar clearing." Basically when U.S. dollars get sent electronically from one place to another, they have to go through this clearing house in New York. All the biggest banks are members, and BNP would be thrown out of the club. Chace: That is a big deal, because sending dollars around the world is what big banks do. I talked to this one banker as Wells Fargo, he does this all the time. Recently he had a French wine exporter who wanted to buy oak for his oak barrels from Chile. That transaction, it turns out, is all done in U.S. dollars. Those dollars go through New York City. Chace also cites Bloomberg's Matt Levine, who says that the real problem with punishing banks is that regulators are trying to regulate a thing, but banks don't have feelings and don't experience shame or guilt.  Levine adds that the most effective way to punish a bad bank would be to send bankers to jail. But as Chace notes, that option hasn't been tried — yet. The entire episode can be heard here.  FREE AppDownload
Bill Pugliano/Getty Images Markets are lower despite U.S. manufacturing data that showed the strongest improvement in overall business conditions since May 2010. The Dow is down 25 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 1 point, and the Nasdaq is down 4 points. The biggest news of the day is Markit's U.S. Flash manufacturing PMI report for June, which unexpectedly jumped to 57.5 from 56.4 in May. Economists were expecting the index to fall to 56.0. The biggest takeaway from the report isn't the data, but the commentary from Markit's Chris Williamson: "U.S. industry is booming again." Existing home sales for May were also reported, and showed that home sales rose 4.9% from the prior month to an annualized pace of 4.74 million units.  In corporate news, it is another Merger Monday, with three huge deals announced. General Electric struck a deal to acquire France-based Alstom's power business for $16.9 billion after a lengthy pursuit. In the utility space, Wisconsin Energy announced a deal to acquire Integrys Energy for $9.1 billion. Oracle also announced a deal to acquire MICROS Systems for $4.6 billion.  A report by The Wall Street Journal this weekend said that French bank BNP Paribas is close to a settlement with U.S. regulators that could cost the bank up to $9 billion, an admission of guilt, and a temporary ban on trading in U.S. dollars. And amid the positive economic data and M&amp;A activity John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, said in a note earlier this morning that on Wall Street, "The punchbowl remains on the table, the record player keeps spinning tunes — and the party's still lively."  FREE AppDownload
  YouTubeNote: this article contains TV show plot spoilers up to and including the series 4 finale. It also features detail from the books (though no plot spoilers). Wannabe king Stannis Baratheon’s unexpected arrival in the far north represented one of the most memorable moments in the Game of Thrones season four finale. The wildlings are routed, Stannis controls Castle Black, and things are set up nicely for next season as a disciplined and well-equipped army in the north should give the court machiavellis of King’s Landing a whole new set of problems. It may also give the unwitting people of Westeros some hope of a decent defence against the White Walkers once winter truly kicks in. But we last saw Stannis several episodes ago, short of men and ships, going cap in hand to the Iron Bank of Braavos – what is he suddenly doing up north with a big army? The TV show has consciously kept the money men lurking mostly in the shadows, exactly as the bank would like it. A powerful player which seems to want to influence Westeros' game rather than participate in it, the Iron Bank has evolved into an institution that combines all the best, or worst, characteristics of an investment bank, the IMF and the Cosa Nostra. Master spy Varys understands the nature of the bank’s power better than most. In an scene from the second season Varys tells Tyrion a riddle involving a king, a priest and a rich man who face a “humble sellsword”. Each makes an offer to the sellsword. “Who lives and who dies?“ asks Varys. The punchline to Varys’ riddle, that power lies where we believe it to lie, applies all the more pertinently to the institution that all the kings and claimants of Westeros seem to fear, the Iron Bank.  Banking is a matter of controlling risk, among other things. In general, a borrower will know more than the bank about their own ability to repay a loan, hence the steps a bank will take to reduce its exposure by finding out as much as it can about a borrower’s ability to repay. (In theory, of course – as we know from experience that not all banks were diligent in their handling of risk). Microeconomics calls this a problem of asymmetric information. In a legally regulated market, there are a number of legal and contractual mechanisms for covering this risk, from credit scoring to deposit of collateral (“your home may be at risk”), and the bank can rely on the courts to enforce those debts. But in the early modern world, and Braavos does seem to be based on Venice of the time, those institutional mechanisms were not so well developed. Enforcement, then, could be a matter of calling in the condottieri which literally translates to “contractors”; Westerosi equivalents would be Bronn and his fellow “sellswords”. The Iron Bank, however, has developed far beyond those early moneylenders. In one of the creative anachronisms that litter the fantasy genre, it is now a pro-active changer of regimes, an institution dedicated to turning credit into control, leaving dead kings and structural adjustment programs in its wake. A line from the books, not yet aired on television, illustrates this: When princes defaulted on their debts to lesser banks, ruined bankers sold their wives and children into slavery and opened their own veins. When princes failed to repay the Iron Bank, new princes sprang up from nowhere and took their thrones. The bank has lent out a considerable sum to the kings of Westeros and the situation in King’s Landing, as Davos points out, is not favourable to getting their money back. Tywin was at least capable of holding things together, but the prospect of a boy king with Cersei as regent is a recipe for continuing conflict. It’s not clear as of now what they know about Danaerys and her dragons, but given that she would have to transport her armies half way across the world, a closer alternative would be useful. That the Iron Bank should seek regime change in Westeros through backing a rival is far from inconceivable. Lending to a government that is less than assiduous in keeping its repayments would be a terrible move unless you had the ability to ensure that someone more reasonable could be put into power.  We have seen such moves in the real world too, where the hands of financiers have been discerned behind coups d’etat and changes of regime. Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation from the Italian premiership and the change of government that followed the financial crisis in Greece have both been put down to pressure from financiers, in this case those representing the IMF and Europe’s government and central bank. This leads naturally to an interesting consideration that arose in the meeting between Stannis and head banker Tycho. The numbers upon which the Iron Bank prefers to base its decisions were unfavourable to say the least. Stannis had few men and fewer ships, not enough to take back the throne, and almost no productive capacity to support them. However, Tycho is swayed not by numbers but by a story based on the characters of the people involved. A Westeros without Tywin’s influence is the chaos of a Cersei Lannister regency, and an Iron Bank already owed 3m gold dragons is exposed to more risk than it would like. Davos, using his own fingers as an example, convinces the bank that Stannis is good on his word, or at least better than the Lannister-led regime. If you have ever been through a due diligence process, or a venture capital funding round, you will recognise that the characters of the involved parties and the story told about future developments and strategy are of as high importance to funders as the numbers themselves. The only difference here is that the stakes are relatively higher. One final parallel between the Game of Thrones universe and our world lies in the founding of Braavos itself. The voluminous back story of the world takes in the Dragon Lords of Valyria, a slave owning empire in Essos. It was slaves escaping from Valyria that founded Braavos in a secret location, quietly building up a trading network. Trade, of course, requires finance to keep it going, hence the importance of the bank. Here in Europe, banking was also a trade of outsiders: from the Jewish moneylenders of Venice to the dissenters of the 18th century such as Mr Barclay and Mr Lloyd. Merchant traders were not always valued, but they were necessary – an economy with no credit would see long-lasting deflations and under-investment in productive capacity such as forges, farming tools or ships. Modernity owes its own debt to these outsiders who started in risky extra-legal finance and slowly moved into the establishment. Without them, our world could not have happened. Perhaps Stannis' banker-backed power play will one day be seen as first step towards dragging Westeros out of the pre-industrial era and into the modern world. Peter Antonioni currently receives no funding beyond what his employer beneficently provides. He is an enthusiastic consumer of products related to the subject of this article, but has no connection either to the production staff on the show, nor to GRR Martin or the distinctive likenesses thereof. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Tony DejakThe housing market seems to be recovering from the winter blues. Existing home sales beat expectations rising 4.9% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 4.89 million units.  Economists were looking for a  1.9% rise to an annualized pace of 4.74 million units.  This was the highest monthly rise since August 2011. April's figures were revised to reflect a 1.5% rise to an annualized pace of 4.66 million units. This compares to an initial reading of a 1.3% rise to 4.65 million units. Inventory was up 2.2% to 2.28 million existing homes for sale which represents a 5.6 month-supply at the current sales pace. This compares to 5.7 months supply in April. Distressed sales accounted for 11% of sales in May, down from 18% a year ago. "Home buyers are benefiting from slower price growth due to the much-needed, rising inventory levels seen since the beginning of the year," Lawrence Yun chief economist at NAR said in a press release. "Moreover, sales were helped by the improving job market and the temporary but slight decline in mortgage rates." One of the key numbers we'll be watching is the supply of existing home sales — since it's being argued that housing supply has held back the housing recovery. "We see little prospect that the uptick in April and May marks the start of a sustained, strong rebound," Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote in a note ahead of the release. He argues that this is because applications for new mortgages are flat or at a low levels and because housing affordability has seen its "biggest deterioration in 32 years." FREE AppDownload
This weekend a full page ad decrying the hedge funds that sued Argentina for over $1.3 billion in sovereign debt appeared in the Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. “Paying the vulture funds is a path leading to default,” it said. “The will of Argentina is clear: we expect a judicial decision that promotes fair and balanced negotiating conditions to resolve this protracted and difficult dispute.” Here's a screenshot of the ad below, via Bloomberg's Katia Porzecanski: Cris's full page COLOR ad in the journal. Pricey. pic.twitter.com/cIeQBWOBUd   It probably doesn't make much of a difference since this is a matter of negotiations between lawyers now, but it sounds like Argentine President Cristina Fernadez de Kirchner and her government are taking their case to the Court of public opinion. It's one of the few venues they have left after the Supreme Court decided not to hear their case, which dates back to their country's 2001 crash. For the last 13 years, the group of hedge funds, led by billionaire Paul Singer, has refused to restructure their debt along with the majority of bond holders. For all that time Argentina has said that these "vulture funds" have no right to touch the country's money. Now, despite their tough tone, the message from the country less, "don't touch us" and more "please be gentle." “The will of Argentina is clear: we expect a judicial decision that promotes fair and balanced negotiating conditions to resolve this protracted and difficult dispute that has affected, affects and will continue to affect the Argentine people due to the voraciousness of a minute group of speculators.” The ad also says that paying the "vultures" exposes Argentina to lawsuits from investors that could cost the country up to $15 billion — more than half of what it has in its Central Bank. That said, unless the international community is convinced Argentina will pay this debt, it will not be able to tap into bond markets to raise any cash. The country is running out of time. And according to Bloomberg, a U.S. law firm asked the International Swaps &amp; Derivatives Association if Argentina's intransigence on this issue has already technically put it into default. Schulte Roth &amp; Zabel LLP, a U.S. law firm, requested the ruling for a “potential repudiation/moratorium event.” FREE AppDownload
MarkitU.S. manufacturing activity is at its highest level since May 2010. According to Markit, the U.S. Flash manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) unexpectedly jumped to 57.5 in June from 56.4 in May. "U.S. industry is booming again," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The latest rise in the headline PMI was driven by the fastest output and new orders growth for just over four years," reported Markit. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected this activity index to fall to 56.0. Here are the key points from Markit: "The strong reading also rounds off the best quarter for factories for four years, adding to indications that the US economy rebounded strongly in the second quarter from the weather-related weakness seen at the start of the year," said Williamson. "The survey data suggest that GDP should be set to rise by at least 3.0% after the 1.0% decline in the first quarter." Markit FREE AppDownload
Dell Inc./flickrThe first week of summer is upon us, and the mergers &amp; acquisitions market remains active. The biggest deal news from the weekend is Alstom choosing General Electric's offer for the French company's Power and Grid businesses.  GE's offer totaled $16.9 billion and overcame both a bid by Siemens and initial opposition to the deal from the French government.  Oracle announced a deal to acquire MICROS Systems for $4.6 billion, or $68.00 per share. The deal had been telegraphed in press reports last week, and comes on the heels of the company's disappointing earnings report, which the company said was actually good news.  In the utility sector, Wisconsin Energy announced a deal to acquire Integrys Energy for $9.1 billion and create a new combined company called WEC Energy Group.  The combined company is expected to have more than 4.3 million total gas and electric customers in the Midwest, and the company's expect the deal to close next summer.  And on Friday night, Google announced a deal to acquire Dropcam, an internet camera company, for $555 million.  Last week, we noted that the first quarter of this year was the busiest first quarter for M&amp;A activity since 2007. Today's announcements, which includes three deals larger than $4 billion, makes clear that this trend is still intact. So is this just a healthy increase in business confidence? Or is it a sign of a little too much exuberance? FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Fairy Godmother of the Bull market did it again last week. Whenever Janet Yellen speaks publicly about monetary policy and the economy, stock prices tend to rise. On Wednesday, the S&amp;P 500 climbed 0.8% to yet another new record high in response to her press conference that day. It rose 0.3% on Thursday and Friday to 1962.87. It would have to gain just 2.6% to reach my yearend target of 2014, which I am thinking about raising. However, a melt-up followed by a meltdown back to 2014 by the end of this year remains a distinct possibility. Yellen’s pronouncements have tended to be bullish for stocks since she first took office as vice chair of the Board of Governors in October 2010. Now we can look forward to her quarterly press conferences as Fed chair, the position she assumed in February of this year. Of course, Fed policy has been ultra-easy since the start of the bull market, and stocks have also tended to rise after most FOMC meetings. The stock market’s bulls were charged up last week by both the FOMC’s statement and Yellen’s spin on monetary policy. Consider the following: (1) Unanimous. The latest statement was almost identical to the previous one on April 30. (See the WSJ’s Fed Statement Tracker.) Once again, the FOMC reaffirmed its NZIRP, or near-zero interest-rate policy: The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. Remarkably, the vote for the current policy stance was unanimous. No one dissented in favor of language suggesting that interest rates might have to be raised sooner given the ongoing improvement in the economy and the labor markets, as well as the recent rebound in inflation. (2) Noisy inflation. Even more remarkable, when asked in her press conference about the recent inflation rebound, Yellen blew it off as noise. In her prepared remarks, she didn’t even acknowledge the recent broad-based upturn in inflation: Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 2 percent objective, and the Committee remains mindful that inflation running persistently below its objective could pose risks to economic performance. Last week, I noted that the core CPI, on an annualized three-month basis, rose from 1.4% during February to 1.8% during March to 2.2% during April to 2.8% during May. I expected some mention of this new inflation risk in the FOMC statement and Yellen’s press conference. Instead, it was like it never happened. Indeed, Yellen’s response to the first question by CNBC’s Steve Liesman about the possibility that inflation might be on the verge of exceeding the FOMC’s 2016 target was bizarre: So, I think recent readings on, for example, the CPI index have been a bit on the high side, but I think it's--the data that we're seeing is noisy. I think it's important to remember that broadly speaking, inflation is evolving in line with the committee's expectations. The committee has expected a gradual return in inflation toward its 2 percent objective. And I think the recent evidence we have seen, abstracting from the noise, suggests that we are moving back gradually over time toward our 2 percent objective and I see things roughly in line with where we expected inflation to be. (3) Unemployment spin. In her prepared remarks, Yellen acknowledged that the labor market is improving, but accentuated the negatives rather than the positives: The unemployment rate, at 6.3 percent, is four-tenths lower than at the time of our March meeting, and the broader U-6 measure--which includes marginally attached workers and those working part time but preferring full-time work--has fallen by a similar amount. Even given these declines, however, unemployment remains elevated, and a broader assessment of indicators suggests that underutilization in the labor market remains significant. During the Q&amp;A, Yellen added: That said, many of my colleagues and I would see a portion of the decline in the unemployment rate as perhaps not representing a diminution of slack in the labor market. We have seen labor force participation rate decline. She also noted that wage inflation is running around 2%, which is too low in her opinion. It’s barely keeping up with inflation and should be rising faster to reflect productivity. She is rooting for this to happen, and isn’t inclined to tighten monetary policy if and when it does. (4) No thresholds. The Fed’s experiment with tying monetary policy to a specific threshold for two key indicators started at the December 11-12, 2012 meeting of the FOMC, when an unemployment rate of 6.5% was specified as the “threshold” for discussing raising interest rates as long as the inflation rate wasn’t still below 2%. The unemployment threshold was dropped at the March 18-19, 2014 meeting, the first one with Yellen as chair. At her latest press conference, Yellen said that the FOMC has reverted to a fuzzier data-dependent approach: In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This broad assessment will not hinge on any one or two indicators, but will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. (5) No bubbles yet. Yellen said she sees some signs of speculative excesses, and she is monitoring the low pace of volatility in financial markets, a sign of complacency. However, so far, she doesn’t see a need for monetary policy to respond to these developments, thereby contributing to the markets’ complacency!  Here is what she had to say about volatility: The FOMC has no target for what the right level of volatility should be. But to the extent that low levels of volatility may induce risk-taking behavior that for example entails excessive buildup in leverage or maturity extension, things that can pose risks to financial stability later on, that is a concern to me and to the committee. More specifically, she believes that the level of risk-taking remains “moderate”: Trends in leverage lending in the underwriting standards there, diminished risk spreads in lower-grade corporate bonds, high-yield bonds have certainly caught our attention. There is some evidence of reach for yield behavior. That's one of the reasons I mentioned that this environment of low volatility is very much on my radar screen and would be a concern to me if it prompted an increase in leverage or other kinds of risk-taking behavior that could unwind in a sharp way and provoke a sharp, for example, jump in interest rates. …But broadly speaking, if the question is: To what extent is monetary policy at this time being driven by financial stability concerns? I would say that--well, I would never take off the table that monetary policy should--could in some circumstances respond. I don't see them shaping monetary policy in an important way right now. I don't see a broad-based increase in leverage, rapid increase in credit growth or maturity transformation, the kinds of broad trends that would suggest to me that the level of financial stability risks has risen above a moderate level. (6) Complacent valuations. With regards to stock market valuations, she remains relatively complacent: So I don't have a sense--the committee doesn't try to gauge what is the right level of equity prices. But we do certainly monitor a number of different metrics that give us a feeling for where valuations are relative to things like earnings or dividends, and look at where these metrics stand in comparison with previous history to get a sense of whether or not we're moving to valuation levels that are outside of historical norms, and I still don't see that. I still don't see that for equity prices broadly. (7) Uber dove. Fed policy remains data dependent. However, Yellen is likely to describe the data as “noisy,” and therefore irrelevant if the numbers don’t support her ultra-liberal assessment of the disappointing performance of the economy and her preference for maintaining ultra-easy monetary policy until all ex-cons are gainfully employed. I wish I was kidding. In her 3/31 speech in Chicago, she briefly described the struggle of three workers in the Windy City--Dorine Poole, Jermaine Brownlee, and Vicki Lira--in the labor market. On April Fools’ Day, Jon Hilsenrath reported in the WSJ: One person cited as an example of the hurdles faced by the long-term unemployed had a two-decade-old theft conviction. Another mentioned as an example of someone whose wages have dropped since the recession had a past drug conviction. Hilsenrath also noted that a Fed spokeswoman said Yellen knew of the people's criminal backgrounds and that they were “very forthright” about it in conversations with the chairwoman before the speech! During last week’s Q&amp;A, Yellen confirmed that she remains one of the FOMC’s most dovish members when she said, “inflation continues to run well below our objective, and we're still some ways away from maximum employment and for the moment, I don't see any tradeoff whatsoever in achieving our two objectives. They both call for the same policy, namely a highly accommodative monetary policy.” Thank you, Madam Fairy Godmother! Fairy tales can come true, especially for us bulls. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Inflation Is Just “Noise.” (1) Bull is high on Yellen’s fairy dust. (2) When Yellen talks, investors listen and buy stocks. (3) FOMC statement reaffirms NZIRP. (4) In Yellen’s world, inflation isn’t heating up. (5) Liesman asks a good question. (6) Fed’s doves still see too much slack in labor market. (7) From thresholds to noisy data. (8) Fed has no target for volatility, while risk-taking remains “moderate.” (9) Fed is the source of markets’ complacency. (10) Uber dove wants more jobs for ex-cons. (11) Upbeat US economic indicators. (12) US MSCI still a global outperformer. (13) Fragile-5 morph into Fab-5. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andres StapffPortugal's Varela (C) scores their second goal as Tim Howard (R) of the U.S. reacts during their 2014 World Cup G soccer match at the Amazonia arena in Manaus June 22, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Chinese Manufacturing Flashes A Surprise. Manufacturing activity is accelerating again in the world's second largest economy. The HSBC China Flash PMI jumped to 50.8 in June from 49.4 in May. This was stronger than the 49.7 expected by economists. "This month's improvement is consistent with data suggesting that the authorities' mini-stimulus are filtering through to the real economy,” HSBC economist Hongbin Qu. “Over the next few months, infrastructure investments and related sectors will continue to support the recovery. We expect policy makers to continue their current path of accommodative policy stance until the recovery is sustained.” Eurozone Manufacturing Decelerates. The Markit Eurozone Flash manufacturing PMI slipped to 51.9 in June from 52.2. Still, any reading above 50 signals growth. "The June PMI rounded off the strongest quarter for three years, but a concern is that a second consecutive monthly fall in the index signals that the eurozone recovery is losing momentum," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "Hopefully the recent stimulus measures from the ECB will help revive growth again, something which may already be evident as the survey saw the largest increase in inflows of new business for three years in June." Germany Is Strong, France Is Ugly. The Eurozone continues to be a tale of two economies. Germany's Flash manufacturing PMI climbed to 52.4 in June from 52.3 in May. But France's Flash manufacturing PMI tumbled to 47.8 from 49.6. "There remained little sign of any turnaround in the performance of France’s economy at the end of Q2, with output falling for a second successive month and at a faster rate," said Markit's Paul Smith. "The data are consistent with another disappointing GDP outturn for Q2 following stagnation in the first quarter." And Then There's The US... Markit's U.S. Flash manufacturing PMI report will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate this activity index slipped to 56.0 in June from 56.4 in May. But some are more optimistic. "We forecast another rise in the Markit PMI in June," said UBS's Sam Coffin who forecasts an increase to 57.5. "Early indications of June factory activity have pointed to continued strength, as the NY and Philadelphia Fed measures rose from already high levels." Markets. The good news from China appears to have been more than offset by the bad news out of Europe. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.3%, Germany's DAX is down 0.4%, and Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. In Asia, Japans Nikkei closed up 0.1% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 1.7%. U.S. futures are modestly in the red. In Which The U.S. Beats Germany. We're not talking about World Cup soccer. After months of dealing, General Electric beat out Siemens-Mitsubishi to buy out the energy assets of French conglomerate Alstom. The complicated deal included piece for the French government. "France won an option to buy 20 percent of Alstom from construction group Bouygues on Sunday, in an eleventh-hour deal clearing the way for the agreed sale of Alstom's energy business to General Electric," reported Reuters' Benjamin Mallet and Laurence Frost. "The government had backed the tie-up on condition that it first secured the Alstom stake from Paris-based Bouygues - leaving less than three days to negotiate an agreement before GE's formal offer [expired] on Monday." French Bank Faces $9 Billion Settlement. "French bank BNP Paribas SA is likely to pay $8 billion to $9 billion as part of a potential settlement with U.S. authorities over violations of sanctions, according to a person familiar with the matter," reported Reuters Karen Freifeld. "U.S. authorities are probing whether BNP Paribas evaded U.S. sanctions relating primarily to Sudan between 2002 and 2009, and whether it stripped out identifying information from wire transfers so they could pass through the U.S. financial system without raising red flags, sources have said." American Apparel Drama Heats Up. "The independent directors of maverick retailer American Apparel Inc have rejected a demand to meet and reinstate ousted CEO Dov Charney on Monday, a source close to the matter said," reported Reuters' Nadia Damouni and Jeffrey Dastin. "The board last week stripped Charney of his titles of chief executive, chairman and president. Initially known for insisting on manufacturing clothing in the United States, Charney eventually became notorious for conduct like attending meetings in his underwear. American Apparel's board cited Charney's alleged misuse of company funds and role in disseminating nude photos of an ex-employee who had sued him." And Then There's That Other American Apparel Company. According to the WSJ's Suzanne Kapner, Joann Lublin and Dana Mattioli, Lululemon founder Chip Wilson is working with Goldman Sachs to figure out ways to fix the yoga pants maker. "Among the founder's possible options are selling his stake or joining with a private-equity firm in a buyout, other people familiar with the matter said," WSJ reports. "So far, Mr. Wilson hasn't made any decisions on further steps, said a person familiar with his thinking who wouldn't elaborate on what is under consideration." Existing Home Sales. The may existing home sales report will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate sales climbed 1.7% to an annualized rate of 4.73 million. "Existing home sales have slumped since August of last year due to a low inventory of homes, less investor buying, and recently, adverse weather conditions," said Nomura economists. "The pending home sales index, which tends to lead existing sales by a couple of months, has increased for two consecutive months after slumping for the previous eight, and suggests that the existing homes market may be stabilizing." FREE AppDownload
Google Images"The punchbowl remains on the table, the record player keeps spinning tunes — and the party’s still lively." That's from John Stoltzfus, the chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, summing up the state of the market. And it really doesn't get any simpler. In the view of market participants, nothing has changed to derail the more than five-year-old bull market. The economic data is solid, and it's showing no signs at all of a slowdown. But the economic data isn't so hot that the Fed has to tighten. And the Fed has given no indication that it plans to remove the punchbowl (raise rates). In fact, last week Janet Yellen suggested that the unemployment rate was overstating the strength of the labor market and that the rising pace of inflation was just "noise." Incidentally, Morgan Stanley strategist Joachim Fels says that Yellen's use of the word "noise" to describe the latest inflation data could go down as one of the most important Fed utterances in years. He writes: In my book, this five-letter word could become one of the most important (and shortest) code words or phrases that central bankers have used in the past few years. It might well end up alongside other important code words such as “strong vigilance”, “whatever it takes”, “extended period” and “measured pace”. And so the music spins, and the party is lively. And stocks are expected to rise and rise. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lukas BarthPeople gather around a bonfire and watch the 2014 World Cup match between Germany and Ghana on an outdoor film projector, during the Sonnwendfeuer (Midsummer) Festival at Mt. Kampenwand in Bavarian Alps, Aschau, June 21, 2014.Lately, everything seems pretty great. Summer has begun, the World Cup is on, stocks are at all-time highs, and market volatility is at a historic low. Investors seem unfazed by turmoil in Iraq and rising oil prices. However, we can't ignore the fact that inflation is becoming an increasingly problematic issue. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Citi's Tobias Levkovich published his mid-year U.S. equity strategy report, which included his initial forecast for the S&amp;P 500 in 2015. From the report: "Higher profits compel a modest pickup to the 2014 S&amp;P 500 year-end objective and a mid-2015 target is being introduced. Given index appreciation thus far this year and better earnings, the 2014 year-end S&amp;P 500 target was just edged up to 2,000 from 1,975 while a more detailed analysis generated a mid-2015 objective within the 2,040-2,060 range (or a single point figure of 2,050). The bigger challenges facing investors in 2015 might involve a significant change from the Fed and Chinese economic trends. It is reasonable to wonder about a forthcoming tightening in monetary policy once tapering is completed and the focus shifts to rate hikes. The timing and intensity of such moves will be somewhat dependent on inflation pressures but there is also concern about the impact of any rate hikes on emerging economies." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderWelp. We have our first Wall Street analyst pondering the 'Yo' app, the simple app that does nothing but send the message 'Yo' to one of your friends, and which became a viral sensation last week. In his Sunday Start note, Morgan Stanley economist Joachim Fels writes: Yo. When I first read about this latest must-have messaging app that has raised over $1 million in angel funding and has over 50,000 downloads, I thought it was utterly ridiculous. The only thing you can do with this app is to send a notification saying simply ‘Yo’ to any of your contacts with one tap, along with an audio alert of the word being spoken. Sounds silly, no? Well, here’s my Sunday confession: the more I think about it, the more I like the ‘yo’ concept. And it’s not because of the app’s latest feature: you can send a ‘yo’ to the username ‘worldcup’ to receive a ‘yo’ (and nothing else) anytime a team scores a goal. Rather, it’s because I’ve always thought that there is beauty in simplicity. I’m a minimalist. I like to sit in my scarcely furnished study with white-washed walls while I write this comment. I hate Christmas decorations. When on a vacation, I like to sit on the shore and stare at the sea in the summer, or climb up a cold, white mountain silently on skis in the winter. I loved to read the late Barton Biggs’s simple but beautiful prose about investing. Life is full of complexity –family, friends, work, politics, financial markets, the global economy. Coping with complexity requires filtering, sorting, reduction, concentration and, at least sometimes, simplification. Sometimes, a simple ‘yo’ can say and mean more to your ‘contacts’ than all the babble. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Sam BeebeThere are two datapoints coming out today that will be closely watched. At 9:45 AM we get The US Flash PMI which will give us some fresh data on the state of the manufacturing and service sectors for June. We'll be closely watching to see not just what the headline number indicates for growth, but what the sub-indices indicate regarding inflation and pricing pressure. Then at 10:00 AM we get existing Home Sales. here's Calculated Risk: At 10:00 AM, Existing Home Sales for May from the National Association of Realtors (NAR). The consensus is for sales of 4.75 million on seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) basis. Sales in April were at a 4.65 million SAAR. Economist Tom Lawler estimates the NAR will report sales of 4.81 million SAAR. We'll be covering both datapoitns LIVE. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersModel presents Samsung Galaxy Gear smartwatch after its launch at the IFA consumer electronics fair in Berlin SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - For decades, medical technology firms have searched for ways to let diabetics check blood sugar easily, with scant success. Now, the world's largest mobile technology firms are getting in on the act. Apple Inc, Samsung Electronics Co and Google Inc, searching for applications that could turn nascent wearable technology like smartwatches and bracelets from curiosities into must-have items, have all set their sites on monitoring blood sugar, several people familiar with the plans say. These firms are variously hiring medical scientists and engineers, asking U.S. regulators about oversight and developing glucose-measuring features in future wearable devices, the sources said. The first round of technology may be limited, but eventually the companies could compete in a global blood-sugar tracking market worth over $12 billion by 2017, according to research firm GlobalData. Diabetes afflicts 29 million Americans and costs the economy some $245 billion in 2012, a 41 percent rise in five years. Many diabetics prick their fingers as much as 10 times daily in order to check levels of a type of sugar called glucose. Non-invasive technology could take many forms. Electricity or ultrasound could pull glucose through the skin for measurement, for instance, or a light could be shined through the skin so that a spectroscope could measure for indications of glucose. "All the biggies want glucose on their phone," said John Smith, former chief scientific officer of Johnson &amp; Johnson's LifeScan, which makes blood glucose monitoring supplies. "Get it right, and there's an enormous payoff." Apple, Google and Samsung declined to comment, but Courtney Lias, director at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's chemistry and toxicology devices division, told Reuters a marriage between mobile devices and glucose-sensing is "made in heaven." In a December meeting with Apple executives, the FDA described how it may regulate a glucometer that measures blood sugar, according to an FDA summary of the discussion. Such a device could avoid regulation if used for nutrition, but if marketed to diabetics, it likely would be regulated as a medical device, according to the summary, first reported by the Apple Toolbox blog. The tech companies are likely to start off focusing on non-medical applications, such as fitness and education. Even an educational device would need a breakthrough from current technology, though, and some in the medical industry say the tech firms, new to the medical world, don't understand the core challenges. "There is a cemetery full of efforts" to measure glucose in a non-invasive way, said DexCom chief executive Terrance Gregg, whose firm is known for minimally invasive techniques. To succeed would require "several hundred million dollars or even a billion dollars," he said. Silicon Valley is already opening its vast wallet. Medtronic Inc Senior Vice President of Medicine and Technology Stephen Oesterle recently said he now considers Google to be the medical device firm's next great rival, thanks to its funding for research and development, or R&amp;D. “We spend $1.5 billion a year on R&amp;D at Medtronic – and it’s mostly D,” he told the audience at a recent conference. “Google is spending $8 billion a year on R&amp;D and, as far as I can tell, it’s mostly R.” Google has been public about some of its plans: it has developed a "smart" contact lens that measures glucose. In a blog post detailing plans for its smart contact lens, Google described an LED system that could warn of high or low blood sugar by flashing tiny lights. It has recently said it is looking for partners to bring the lens to market. The device, which uses tiny chips and sensors that resemble bits of glitter to measure glucose levels in tears, is expected to be years away from commercial development, and skeptics wonder if it will ever be ready. Previous attempts at accurate non-invasive measurement have been foiled by body movement, and fluctuations in hydration and temperature. Tears also have lower concentrations of glucose, which are harder to track. But the Life Sciences team in charge of the lens and other related research is housed at the Google X facility, where it works on major breakthroughs such as the self-driving car, a former employee who requested anonymity said. Apple's efforts center on its iWatch, which is on track to ship in October, three sources at leading supply chain firms told Reuters. It is not clear whether the initial release will incorporate glucose-tracking sensors. Still, Apple has poached executives and bio-sensor engineers from such medical technology firms as Masimo Corp, Vital Connect, and the now-defunct glucose monitoring startup C8 Medisensors. "It has scooped up many of the most talented people with glucose-sensing expertise," said George Palikaras, CEO of Mediwise, a startup that hopes to measure blood sugar levels beneath the skin's surface by transmitting radio waves through a section of the human body. The tech companies are also drawing mainstream interest to the field, he said. "When Google announced its smart contact lens, that was one of the best days of my career. We started getting a ton of emails," Palikaras said. Samsung was among the first tech companies to produce a smartwatch, which failed to catch on widely. It since has introduced a platform for mobile health, called Simband, which could be used on smart wrist bands and other mobile devices. Samsung is looking for partners and will allow developers to try out different sensors and software. One Samsung employee, who declined to be named, said the company expects to foster noninvasive glucose monitoring. Sources said Samsung is working with startups to implement a “traffic light” system in future Galaxy Gear smartwatches that flashes blood-sugar warnings. Samsung Ventures has made a number of investments in the field, including in Glooko, a startup that helps physicians access their patients' glucose readings, and in an Israeli glucose monitoring startup through its $50 million Digital Health Fund. Ted Driscoll, a health investor with Claremont Creek Ventures, told Reuters he's heard pitches from potentially promising glucose monitoring startups, over a dozen in recent memory. Software developers say they hope to incorporate blood glucose data into health apps, which is of particular interest to athletes and health-conscious users. "We're paying close attention to research around how sugar impacts weight loss," said Mike Lee, cofounder of MyFitnessPal. After decades of false starts, many medical scientists are confident about a breakthrough on glucose monitoring. Processing power allows quick testing of complex ideas, and the miniaturization of sensors, the low cost of electronics, and the rapid proliferation of mobile devices have given rise to new opportunities. One optimist is Jay Subhash, a recently-departed senior product manager for Samsung Electronics. "I wouldn't be at all surprised to see it one of these days," he said. (Editing by Edwin Chan and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
The French economy continues to be the world's dog. The latest Flash PMI reading from Markit shows the economy sharply contracting, with weakness in both the manufacturing and the service sectors. Here's the basic gist. Read it and weep: June’s flash PMI data painted another picture of subdued economic performance in France, with output down for a second successive month, orders falling slightly and the sharpest cut in staffing levels for four months. After accounting for seasonal factors, the Markit Flash France Composite Output Index, based on around 85% of normal monthly survey replies, posted a reading of 48.0 in June. That was down from May’s 49.3 and a four-month low. The decline in output was broad-based, with both manufacturers and service providers registering reductions since May. Goods-producers saw output decline to the sharpest degree in half-a-year; services companies the greatest in four months. Here's the chart showing the Flash PMI reading against GDP. MarkitFrance has consistently underperformed its fellow "core" European country Germany throughout the postcrisis period. During the eurozone crisis, France was always a marginal case, straddling the line between strong core Europe and the PIIGS.  Now at least the peripheral countries are rebounding, and yet there's France, dragging the entire continent down again. What a mess. FREE AppDownload
The economies of Europe are split in an interesting away. So-called "Core" Europe (Germany and France) are sputtering while peripheral Europe (the countries that had the worst of it in the crisis) continue to strengthen. We just got the latest Eurozone Flash PMI report, showing the state of industry across the region. This is the basic chart summing it up. From Markit: Markit The chart basically speaks for itself. Germany and France are fizzling. Especially France, whose economy is such a mess. With its reading coming in sub-50, it's a sign that French industry is contracting again. And yet the green line the rest of Europe as at its highest level since before the financial crisis. So once again, there's no one Eurozone economy. Not surprisingly, the Germany-dominated ECB is currently in easing mode, which it hesitated to do for so long while Core Europe was riding high, and peripheral Europe was suffering. FREE AppDownload
Joe Shlabotnik/flickrGood morning! And welcome to Wall Street's official start of summer Markets are falling today, particularly in Europe, where German stocks are down 0.9% and Italy is off 1.2%. France's CAC-40 is off 0.66%. It's Flash PMI day. Chinese manufacturers unexpected have unexpectedly accelerated, as the impact of the latest Beijing "mini-stimulus" has been felt. But European data is really week. French industry continues to shrink, while Germany expands at a weaker pace than expected. The US will still be mourning its heartbreaking tie to Portugal today. FREE AppDownload
After some disappointing data at the start of the year, Chinese GDP growth slowed to 7.4% year-over-year in Q1, and 1.4% quarter-over-quarter. In response to this, China announced a mini-stimulus that includes: "faster infrastructure project approvals; pro-growth reform initiatives related to the SME, utilities and services sector; more tax relief; maintenance of ample interbank liquidity; increased "targeted" monetary and credit easing through on-lending liquidity injection and another targeted RRR cut for specific financial institutions; as well as accelerated fiscal disbursements," according to UBS’ Wang Tao. The mini-stimulus has already helped boost business sentiment as was reflected in Monday's HSBC June Flash PMI report which saw a surge to 50.8, from 49.4 in May. Bloomberg's chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted a chart that showed how bearish economists have got  about Chinese economic growth (with the caption): "this chart illustrates the need for mini-stimulus in China:" Michael McDonough/Twitter Of course, we're previously pointed out that the biggest problem facing China isn’t the lack of credit growth, but the lack of the access to investment, or a lack of intent. China needs to rely less on monetary policy and work on more structural reforms. FREE AppDownload
