"Some investors are now asking us when China will ease macro policy to stimulate the Chinese economy, which is a question no one in the Chinese government is talking about, simply because there is not such a need. We think this market perception of China is wrong. We strongly believe that China’s economic fundamentals are much healthier than most other EMs and China is one of the least vulnerable EM economies to U.S. tapering in 2014."—Deutsche Bank chief economist for greater China Jun Ma and strategist Lin Li FREE AppDownload
A New York man who was riding a motorcycle through Mexico has not been heard from since Jan. 25 and is considered missing. Harry Devert, 32, had been traveling for 44 days on his way to the tip of South America. He last checked in Uriangato, Mexico, on his Instagram account, the New York Daily News reports. The Westchester, N.Y. native and former financial man planned to head to Zihuatanejo next to visit the beach where an ending scene in the "The Shawshank Redemption" took place.  Devert's family has set up a Facebook page, "Help Find Harry," giving detailed information about his appearance and last known whereabouts.  Sarah Schiear, Devert's girlfriend, last heard from him on Jan. 25 through WhatsApp, a smartphone app for texting across international borders. "Just got an hour and a half long escort out of some area it was too dangerous for me to be. Stopping for lunch and ... voila Internet. ... Gonna get back on the road soon. Apparently there's another military escort waiting for me in some other town... I'm running way late because of the crazy military stuff...hopefully get a chance to talk to you tonight when I (hopefully) finally arrive," Devert wrote, according to the Facebook page. Devert hasn't used at least one of his debit cards since the date he went missing, and his cell phone is no longer in service. The American embassy is actively working with Mexican authorities though. And the French embassy has been made aware of the situation as well, since Devert held French citizenship, the page states. "My son is a great communicator and he always lets me know — because I'm anxious — as close as he can where he's going to be or if he's going to be out of touch," his mother, Ann Devert, told CNN. The Missing Persons Project, a non-profit dedicated to supporting families of those missing in foreign countries, has also established a page to gather information regarding Harry.  The area where Harry was traveling is highly volatile, according to Fox News Latino. Vigilantes have toiled with drug cartel the Knights Templar for years. And the Mexican government just decided to incorporate armed civilian groups into their strategy, essentially legalizing vigilantism in the country. Harry ran a personal website, where he wrote about his various travels and showcased photography — anewyorkertravels.com. He wrote about his upcoming trip from New York to the tip of South America on a motorcycle on Oct. 19, 2013. He had never ridden a motorcycle before. Anyone with information should email helpfindharry@hotmail.com.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsU.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen stands after testifying during a confirmation hearing on her nomination to be the next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington November 14, 2013. The second week of any month tends to be quiet from an economic standpoint. But this week we get a treat. Starting Tuesday, new Fed Chief Janet Yellen gives her first semiannual Humphrey-Hawkins testimony. Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart writes: Fed Chair Janet Yellen gives her first semiannual testimony on monetary policy on Tuesday, February 11. With two weak payroll prints in a row, she will feel no need to defend policy accommodation. Indeed, she will have to reassure Congress that slowing asset purchases is the equivalent of tapping, not slamming, on the brakes. That assurance can be accomplished with a promise that all decisions are data dependent and made meeting by meeting. With considerable confusion about the role of weather on the last two employment reports and two more to come before the next FOMC meeting, a modest show of empathy should be sufficient. Traditionally, these events are the peaks in the landscape of Fed communication. Her predecessor, Ben Bernanke, was the most self-effacing person conceivable ever to hold that job and perhaps flattened the terrain via his testimony. Yellen, if not exactly marking a tectonic shift, will elevate the summit. But how high is higher? Reinhart goes on to anticipate some of the questions that will be asked, including questions about the impact of expiring unemployment benefits, and the current plan for the exit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyEmployees take pictures and videos of a giant electronic board showing the online transaction value on AlipayChina's notoriously restrictive financial system offers limited investment avenues for the growing ranks of wealthy Chinese.  In recent years we've seen a surge in wealth management products — a pool of securities (trust products, bonds, stock funds) that have yield that is on average 2 percentage points higher than bank deposits, and that are sold as low-risk investments but often are not so — as investors search for yield. We have previously talked about steps that China has taken to liberalize interest rates, and pointed out that one of the most important steps would involve scrapping the ceiling on deposit rates. In the absence of higher returns on their savings, households searching for yield continue to seek out wealth management products and other financial products. Many internet companies are trying to capitalize on this void in the marketplace and have launched their own internet financial products and services. Alibaba affiliate, Alipay, offers Yu E Bao, an investment product created by Beijing-based Tian Hong Asset Management Co, that places investor money in funds. As of January 15, Yu E Bao had over 250 billion yuan (about $41 billion) in investment from over 49 million investors, according to Tian Hong, Caixin reported. This makes it the 14th largest money market fund in the world.  Wang Dengfeng, a Tian Hong fund manager, told Caixin's Zhang Bing and Cao Wenjiao that Yu E Bao limits its investments to 29 banks that appear on a safe list. Most of those banks are state-owned banks or joint-stock banks. From the interview:  "We think it is not worth the risk dealing with small banks. It is not that we think they would actually default on loans. But we would like to avoid the risk altogether to be prudent.  "...If the money market goes weak, it is normal for our yields to fall. But it would not happen all of a sudden. Neither do we promise to deliver any rate of returns. Yields are not our primary concern. We are most concerned with risk control." Sina Corp, Baidu, and Tencent Holdings have also launched their own financial products. Tencent tied its financial product to WeChat, China's most popular mobile messaging service, which was developed by WeChat. "The new service is no doubt aimed at competing with Alibaba’s service, which was introduced last year," report Grace Zhu and Paul Mozur at the WSJ. "It’s also likely a ploy by Tencent to entice users to link their bank and WeChat accounts. The fund, called Licaitong, offers an impressive 7.3940% seven-day annualized yield, besting Yu’e Bao’s rate by almost 1%." Now Chinese banks are restricting the amount of money that their clients can put into internet financial services like Li Cai Tong, to avoid a cash crunch, reports WantChina Times. We saw a run up in Chinese money market rates in December, after a severe credit crunch in June of last yea Before the Lunar New Year holiday, ICBC, the world's largest bank by assets, issued restrictions allowing for just one transfer to Li Cai Tong a day and imposing a 10,000 yuan ($1,600) limit. That limit was then increased modified to 50,000 yuan a month after the holiday and is much lower than the original 300,000 yuan. Ten other banks are also said to have restricted money transfers. State-owned banks have also been upping interest rates to hang on to clients money. Jack Ma founder of Alibaba previously said someone from outsider the finance industry would need to "stir things up." That's just what seems to be playing out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nati HarnikWarren BuffettIn 2008 Warren Buffett made a bet against hedge fund Protégé Partners. The bet was fairly simple. Protégé Partners could pick a group of hedge funds to perform against a simple S&amp;P 500 index fund over the course of 10 years. Buffett bet $1 million that they couldn’t outperform the simple index. So, how’s that bet looking today?  Not so good given the huge run in the S&amp;P 500 in the last few years.  According to Fortune the hedge funds have returned just 12.5% while the S&amp;P 500 is up 43.8%.  But it hasn’t always been that lop-sided.  In fact, it looked pretty bad for Buffett in those first few years (I am just guessing that they’re using the HFRI since the HFRI just happens to also be up 12.5% since 2008): Pragmatic Capitalism This has the potential to look very bad for the hedge fund industry when all is said and done.   And the weirdest part is that they didn’t even agree to risk adjust the returns, which is the whole point of the hedge funds in the first place! So, in essence, they made a bet that they would generate stable returns and that the stock market roller coaster ride would just so happen to be on its way down when the 10 year bet happened to be ending.  They don’t even seem to have considered the fact that the S&amp;P 500 was bound to be SUBSTANTIALLY more volatile than the HFRI. And not surprisingly, it’s been almost twice as volatile thus far.  So that 43% looks good, but it doesn’t at all reflect the level of risk that’s being taken.  And since the bet involves the nominal return at the end of 10 years, no one will care about this when and if the hedge funds lose.  Which kind of defeats the whole point of the bet to begin with and will completely mislead the general public when the media inevitably runs with a story about how much better the index fund is than the hedge funds…. FREE AppDownload
My father once said to me “One of the interesting things about getting older is realizing that the clichés, prejudices, and popular wisdoms that we rejected as young, educated, independent thinkers turn out, in the end, to be true.” I love this idea, in part, for its double-contrarianism. The Way to Wealth by Benjamin Franklin reminds me of my father’s world-view, formed as a Depression-era child, delivered in Franklin’s 18thCentury style. Also, these clichés are true. We know “Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise,” and a few others, but I had not heard most of them. The Way to Wealth originally formed the preface to Franklin’s Poor Richard’s Almanack.  The book’s conceit is that Franklin’s alter-ego Richard overhears an old man (Father Abraham) quoting his favorite parts from the Almanack to a group gathered together before an auction.  As such, the farmer gives a kind of fast-and-furious greatest hits of aphorisms, tied together by the themes of Industry, Care, Frugality, and Knowledge. Some of my favorites from this book, which I hadn’t already heard: On complaints about government taxes: Friends, the taxes are, indeed, very heavy; and, if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we might more easily discharge them; but we have many others, and much more grievous to some of us.  We are taxed twice as much by our idleness, three times as much by our pride, and four times as much by our folly; and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or deliver us, by allowing an abatement. On the urge to buy things that seem cheap, on sale, or a bargain: Here you are all got together at this sale of fineries and knickknacks.  You call them goods; but, if you do not take care, they will prove evils to some of you.  You expect they will be sold cheap, and, perhaps, they may [be bought] for less than they cost; but, if you have no occasion for them, they must be dear to you…He means, that perhaps the cheapest is apparent only, and not real; or the bargain, by straightening thee in thy business, may do thee more harm than good.  For in another place he says ‘Many have been ruined by buying good penny worths.’ On the relativistic nature of time, if you owe money at the end of the month: When you have got your bargain, you may, perhaps, think a little of payment; but, as Poor Richard says, ‘Creditors have better memories than debtors; creditors are superstitious sect, great observers of set days and times.’  The day comes round before you are aware, and the demand is made before you are able to satisfy it; or, if you bear your debt in mind, the term which at first seemed so long, will, as it lessens, appear extremely short: Time will seem to have added wings to his heels as well as his shoulders. ‘Those have a short lent, who owe money to be paid at Easter.’ The little book’s scant thirty pages could, with smaller type and larger sheets, condense to about five pages.  So you’re looking at about 10 minutes of dense wisdom from a founding father of the United States. This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bureau of Labor Statistics Economists at BofA Merrill Lynch say one of the questions clients have been asking recently is whether proposals to raise the minimum wage in the United States — like the one highlighted by President Obama during his annual State of the Union address in January — would have an inflationary impact. The answer, they say, is no, given the tiny slice of the workforce such a policy would affect. "For the sake of argument, let’s assume that the minimum wage does increase from the current $7.25/hour to the proposed $10.10/hour," write the economists in a note to clients. "That is a $2.85/hour increase, or 39%! Surely that has to be inflationary? Not necessarily. As a rough approximation, $2.85 on a $24 average hourly wage is nearly a 12% gain. But with just 2.8% of wages subject to the minimum, the overall impact is a 0.33% increase in average hourly earnings. This is very unlikely to be noticeable at all in the wage, let alone the inflation, data." Of course, there is still the question of how many workers make more than the current $7.25/hour but less than the proposed $10.10/hour minimum wage, as they would benefit from the increase as well. According to the BofAML economists, this is not a particularly large group either. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bureau of Labor StatisticsNote: * includes utilities, wholesale trade, transportation, and other services not categorized elsewhere."We do not know the share of individuals (or wages) who are just above the minimum wage and whose wages might also rise with an increase, but we do know that it is likely still a small proportion," they write. "The current minimum wage is well below the economy-wide average. Even for low-paying sectors like retail trade and leisure and hospitality — where the average hourly wage in 2013 was $13.50 and $16.60, respectively — the current minimum is a fair bit lower. These data also suggest a relatively small share of total wage income that would be directly impacted by any increase in the federal (or various state) minimums." So while the minimum wage debate may be a hot-button political issue, it is somewhat irrelevant from an economic perspective. FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty Images The CBO released its new budget and economic projections today, and here's the finding everybody is talking about: By 2024, the Affordable Care Act will reduce full time-equivalent employment by about 2.5 million workers, compared to what it would be if the law hadn't gone into effect. This is about triple what the CBO estimated when it first scored the law in 2010. There's been a sort of annoying conversation about the report today, with conservatives saying "see? Obamacare kills jobs," and liberals insisting the reduction in labor supply is a good thing, because it reflects people choosing to work less once they're no longer tied to their jobs for health insurance. The truth is more complicated: The law will reduce work hours through several mechanisms, some of which are desirable and some of which aren't. Here are seven things you should know about Obamacare, jobs, and the CBO estimate: Broadly, one key goal of health policy should be to let people make work decisions without worrying about how those decisions affect their health insurance. The CBO report shows that Obamacare partly furthers that goal (by making insurance available to more people, regardless of income or employment status) and partly inhibits it (by withdrawing benefits from people who work more). Efforts to optimize the policy should focus on de-linking work decisions from insurance, not simply on maximizing the amount of labor supply. FREE AppDownload
Michael Buholzer/AFPPhoto taken on February 6, 2014 in Zurich shows a man walking past an electoral poster against the "Stop Mass Immigration" referendum by the Swiss People's PartyThe European Commission said it would assess EU ties with Switzerland after the Alpine country voted Sunday to limit immigration from the European Union, its biggest trading partner by far. "The EU will examine the implications of this initiative on EU-Swiss relations as a whole," said a statement after Swiss results showed a narrow victory for a proposal pushed by right-wing populists. The European Commission said it "regrets" the Swiss vote, which "goes against the principle of free movement of persons between the EU and Switzerland." Although Switzerland is not an EU member, it signed onto the EU accord for free movement of citizens in 1999 and implemented it from 2002. While Sunday's vote focused only on that issue, fall-out from the result could imperil Switzerland's trade with the big European bloc, which its economy depends on. Brussels has already made it clear that Bern cannot cherry-pick among EU advantages. An estimated 400,000 Swiss citizens live in the EU, many of them dual nationals, while more than a million EU citizens currently live in Switzerland.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesProtesters dressed as suited eagles on Barclays cycle hire bikes demonstrate outside the Royal Festival Hall in 2013.Barclays is under scrutiny by regulators and could face a hefty fine after thousands of confidential files on customers were stolen in a data breach described as catastrophic by an adviser to the business secretary, Vince Cable. The files, containing details on 2,000 individuals including their names, addresses, phone numbers, passport numbers, mortgages and levels of savings, were allegedly sold for use in boiler room scams, in which vulnerable savers are snared into fraudulent investments. "This is catastrophic, just awful," the Liberal Democrat MP Tessa Munt, who is parliamentary private secretary to Cable and has campaigned on mis-selling by banks, told the Guardian. "What protections have Barclays got in place? Are the police going to pursue this, are they going to prosecute, and is someone going to go to jail for this? They should do. "We are learning not to trust our banks and that is a pretty sad thing. It is a culture of just make money in any way and that probably breeds a contempt among those who are bankers towards those they are meant to serve." Barclays said it would be writing to the customers concerned. The bank, which claims not all of the individuals named in the files were its customers, has begun an immediate internal inquiry and reported the theft to the police and to regulators. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which can impose unlimited fines, and the information commissioner, who oversees data protection and can fine organisations up to £500,000, are both looking into the matter. "Barclays have contacted us and we will be working with them to understand exactly what has happened and what steps consumers may need to take," a spokeswoman for the FCA said. "Consumers rightly presume their data is safe with their bank, and this should serve to remind all firms how important it is they have the correct procedures in place to ensure data is secure and used appropriately. We will continue to investigate the issue with Barclays over the coming days." The security breach was first reported by the Mail on Sunday, which was approached by a whistleblower who claimed the files were just a sample from a haul of stolen data containing the details of 27,000 individuals. The whistleblower said he was prepared to give evidence to police, and claimed he was given the data to sell on by an unnamed firm of rogue brokers whom he worked with. The memory stick he handed over also contained national insurance numbers, details on dependants and highly personal information on whether people had undergone surgery or were on medication. Those affected include doctors, scientists, business people, a musician and a cleaner. They are believed to have been customers of the now defunct Barclays Financial Planning business, which was fined £7.7m in 2011 and ordered to pay up to £59m in compensation for mis-selling funds to more than 12,000 of its customers. Like those Barclays customers affected by the mis-selling scandal, many of those whose names appear on the stolen files are elderly. The whistleblower said the information was used to scam around 1,000 people, who were persuaded to invest in rare earth metals that did not exist. Between December 2012 and September 2013, a select group of brokers at the firm concerned were given the files, which they used to cold call their victims. These were customers who had originally sought financial advice from Barclays. As part of consultations with advisers, they filled out questionnaires about their savings, physical health and revealed their attitude to risk using psychometric tests. "The data is a gold mine for traders because it is so incredibly detailed. It gets them inside the customer's head," said the whistleblower. He added: "This illegal trade is going on all the time in the City. I want to go public to stop it getting bigger." He described a world in which scammers worked from so-called "spank shops", renting offices and peddling products that were either fraudulent or sold at inflated prices to unsuspecting, often elderly or inexperienced investors. With interest rates at all-time lows since the banking collapse, people have been withdrawing their money from the comparative safety of savings accounts and looking for other investments. Many are seen as soft targets for rogue brokers. When investors of the firm concerned began to suspect they had been duped, the trading floor was shut. According to the whistleblower, computers were wiped, paperwork destroyed, and the desks cleaned with bleach to remove DNA traces. The whistleblower, a former commodities trader, was asked to sell on the data, which he said could fetch up to £50 a file from those operating boiler room scams. Barclays said: "Our initial investigations suggest this is isolated to customers linked to our Barclays Financial Planning business which we ceased operating as a service in 2011. Based on what we have seen, this appears to be data from 2008 or earlier. "This appears to be criminal action and we will co-operate with the authorities on pursuing the perpetrator. We would like to reassure all of our customers that we have taken every practical measure to ensure that personal and financial details remain as safe and secure as possible." The Information Commissioner's Office, which can fine organisations up to £500,000 for failing to protect private data, said in a statement: "It's crucial that people's personal information is properly looked after. We will be working with the Mail on Sunday this week to get further details of what has happened here, as well as working with the police." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Pedro Ribeiro SimõesWhen it comes to understanding how to handle money, figuring out where to start can be fairly overwhelming. Walk into any Barnes and Noble store and you'll find hundreds of titles offering advice on how to spend it, save it, make more of it, and keep what you have from disappearing. But not all advice is created equal. When you're in your 20s, you want easy-to-read books that will teach you the foundations of investing, the best way to budget for major purchases down the road, and how to finally pay off those student loans. To help narrow down the choices and find the best advice, we reached out to personal finance experts and authors to find out which foundational books everyone should read before turning 30. FREE AppDownload
Michael Buholzer/AFPPhoto taken on February 6, 2014 in Zurich shows a man walking past an electoral poster against the "Stop Mass Immigration" referendum by the Swiss People's Party GENEVA (AP) — Voters in Switzerland have narrowly backed a proposal to limit immigration to the Alpine republic. Swiss television SRF reports that the referendum backed by the nationalist People's Party was approved by an extremely narrow margin Sunday. Initial results show some 50.5 percent of voters, with about 49.5 percent against. Approval was strongest in German and Italian-speaking parts of the country, and in rural areas. The Swiss government and most parties opposed the plan to introduce quotas for all types of immigrants, saying it could harm the economy and Switzerland's relationship with the European Union. The outcome means that the government will have to renegotiate painstakingly forged treaties with the EU on the free movement of workers. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
A New York townhouse is in contract to be sold to the nation of Qatar for $100 million, which, when completed, would make it the most expensive townhouse ever sold in the city. We caught up with Tal Alexander, half of the 20-something sibling duo who represented Qatar in the sale, to find out how the record deal went down. The story dates back to last year's United Nations Week, in late October, when representatives from Qatar reached out to Alexander, 27, and his brother Oren, 26, of Douglas Elliman's Alexander Team. Despite their age, the pair had made waves for the sale of the most expensive mansion in Miami, and had a number of other big-time deals under their belts. Qatar had actively been searching for a location for their New York consulate for at least a year by the time they reached out to the Alexanders. "I think they understood from day one that we were able to show them things they hadn't seen before," Tal Alexander told Business Insider. "We worked for our reputation of being able to make things happen. We have relationships with all the top brokers and focused on showing them off-the-market properties. They had been working with other brokers and they'd seen everything on the market, basically." While identifying a suitable building for a consulate was a new experience, Alexander said he was used to dealing with similarly demanding clients. Qatar had some particular requirements for a consulate building: The nations' Consul General Ahmed Yousef Al-Rumaihi sought a property that had substantial width — hard to come by in a city of slim townhouses — and a good set-up for security. Alexander reached out to the Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang, who he had worked with in the past. Google MapsThe 20,500 square-foot Wildenstein Building just sold to the state of Qatar for $100 million.As Chiang explained to The Real Deal, “I contacted my long-term clients, the Wildenstein family, to explore any possible interest in selling their mansion although the property was not on the market ... After reviewing the buyer’s request, my client agreed to the sale and the deal was consummated very quickly." The five-story Wildenstein Building, formerly an art gallery at 19 E. 64th St., has a steel frame and reinforced floors built to accommodate the weight of vaults. It is ready for the consulate to open this spring, shortly after the deal is expected to close in April.  "They jumped on it," Alexander said, "We got them to the right product in the right timing." The sale will result in a loss of nearly $400,000 in annual taxes to New York City because foreign governments don't pay real estate taxes, the Olshan Luxury Market Report noted this week. Nonetheless, closing the record deal represented months of work for the Alexanders. "It was very exciting, from the showings to being able to get the deal done," Alexander said. "Opportunities to work with a client like that, to find this type of property, don't come about every day in our business." Tal and Oren will visit Doha, the capital of Qatar, later this month. "I'm sure now that we've secured this property for the state of Qatar, if any other consulates are in the market, I think they can consider us," Alexander said "Going through every single townhouse on the Upper East Side, our knowledge of that market is excellent, and if any other parties are interested in this, we have opportunities to present." FREE AppDownload
Here's an indication that the US consumer is ready to engage in another round of releveraging. This is the year-over-year change in revolving consumer credit (read: credit cards) usage. FRED Keep an eye on this chart. (HT: @soberlook) FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Nightly Business ReportInvesting in the stock market  can be extremely frustrating for those who look back on the big rally they missed and nerve-wracking for those who believe the may be putting money into the market at the top. The S&amp;P 500 has roared 177% from its March 9, 2009 low of 666 to its January 2014 high of 1,850. Thanks to scary USA Today cover stories and increasing amounts of crash chatter, everyone is worrying that we are at or near a market peak. And this has investors extremely hesitant to buy stocks for fear of a big decline or perhaps a crash. Obsessing over the risk of a crash could lead to analysis paralysis. However, there is a very basic investing strategy that can save investors from losing too much hair as they make the decision to buy stocks. It's called dollar-cost averaging. The stock market is great for investors who have the benefit of long-term investing horizons. It's also better-suited for investors who aren't concerned about perfectly-timing market tops and bottoms.  Having said that, taking a longer term view is good for investors worried that they may be buying at the top of the market. A strategy called dollar-cost averaging can help reduce risks surrounding an asset falling in price. The concept is straightforward - you invest a fixed amount of money in an asset once every fixed time period. If the asset's price drops, you will be getting more shares of the asset for the same amount of money, and so if and when the price recovers, you will have spent less per share, on average, than if you had bought the shares at their peak, pre-fall price. Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing amounts of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally. To see this in action, we came up with a simplified thought experiment. We considered what would have happened to an investor jumping into the stock market at the last peak: October 2007. This was arguably the worst time to buy. Our hypothetical investor puts $50 into a S&amp;P 500 index fund every month, starting in October 2007 — the last stock market peak before the beginning of the great recession. Here is what happened to the S&amp;P 500 starting at that peak: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The index dropped more or less steadily until the worst moments of the financial crisis in fall 2008, causing the full on crash, and only began to turn around in March 2009. The key to our investor's experiment is that they are staying consistent. No matter how stock prices move, they will always put $50 every month into the index fund. Based on changes in the value of the S&amp;P 500 index, we calculated our investor's price return, less the $50 monthly cost: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz The value of our investor's portfolio as of January 2014 is $5631.87. If they instead had taken their $50 each month and held it as cash, they would have just $3800. So, the price return on this investment — even though they started at the last peak, just before the market started to go downhill — is $1831.87. This is a respectable 48% return. That averages out to about a 7.6% annual rate of return. To get another perspective on this, here is the percent gain or loss, compared to taking $50 each month and holding it as cash: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Things start out looking pretty dire, as the economy fell into its deep recession through mid-2009, with the S&amp;P 500 reaching a minimum in March of that year. At the low point, in March 2009, our investor would have been down about 34% compared to just holding cash. Because human beings are often overly risk-averse, our hypothetical investor might have been tempted to abandon their investment plans during the bad months. That is, they might look at this chart and panic about the drop: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz But, if our investor sticks with their plan and keeps putting $50 in every month, even through the dark times, once the market bounces back, they end up doing quite well: Business Insider/ Andy Kiersz Unfortunately, dollar-cost averaging isn't sexy. It's much sexier to sell at the top and buy at the bottom. Obviously, your returns would be much higher if you win the stock market lottery by perfectly timing the tops and bottoms of the market. However, almost everyone who tries to do this will find themselves losing money and lots of it. If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until that later, don't panic. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderOn the surface, the case looks relatively innocuous: Two Miami residents were arrested this week for trying to sell Bitcoin to undercover cops who said they wanted to use the digital currency to buy fake credit cards. Pascal Reid, 28, and Abner Espinoza, 31, have been charged with money laundering after being approached on LocalBitcoins.com, an online exchange based in Finland, by Florida detectives working in conjunction with the Secret Service. Digital security guru Brian Krebs was the first to spot the case. It's not the first time people have been busted for allegedly trying to use Bitcoin to make illicit purchases.  But Krebs talked to researchers who say it looks like the opening salvo in an attempt to put a lid on LocalBitcoins.com, one of the last remaining venues for purchasing Bitcoin anonymously. The head of BitInstant, another anonymous exchange, was also just charged with money laundering. LocalBitcoins.com allows users to trade Bitcoin in person by finding the address of buyers and sellers closest to your physical address. That might seem like no anonymity is involved, but in practice actual addresses are never revealed, many transactions occur online, and if the two parties do meet in person, they usually don't ask each other's names. As of December, the site was seeing up to 3,000 Bitcoins traded a day.  The criminal complaints [embedded below] in the two cases shows U.S. law enforcement continues to view the Bitcoin market in somewhat adversarial terms. They also show how large now-shuttered illicit marketplace Silk Road looms in their approach to the digital currency: "Owing to its high degree of anonymity, Bitcoin is also ideally suited for illegal purchases," the complaint says. "An online illicit website called Silk Road offered the ability to buy narcotics exclusively using Bitcoin. The high degree of anonymity makes Bitcoin a useful medium for laundering money because it is virtually impossible to trace bitcoin transactions to the owner of the bitcoin addresses."  “I’d expect many more state cases like this one because it will act to strangle the lifeblood of the online dark markets,” such as Silk Road, Nicholas Weaver of the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI) and the University of California, Berkeley told Krebs. “If you want a significant amount of anonymous Bitcoins, right now this community is about the only mechanism still available.” Reid and Espinoza are also being charged with operating an unlicensed money transmission business. Here are the complaints: Def Reid  Def Espinoza  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduard KorniyenkoA member of a special forces unit under the military intelligence service takes part in a demonstration of skills in the city of Stavropol in southern Russia, October 24, 2013.MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian authorities have issued warnings against using Bitcoin, saying the virtual currency could be used for money laundering or financing terrorism and that treating it as a parallel currency is illegal. "Systems for anonymous payments and cyber currencies that have gained considerable circulation - including the most well-known, Bitcoin - are money substitutes and cannot be used by individuals or legal entities," the Russian Prosecutor General's Office said on February 6. It added that Russian law stipulates that the rouble is the sole official currency and that introducing any other monetary units or substitutes was illegal. Russia's central bank also said on January 27 that Bitcoin trade was highly speculative and that the unit carried a big risk of losing value. "Citizens and legal entities risk being drawn - even unintentionally - into illegal activity, including laundering of money obtained through crime, as well as financing terrorism," it warned. The Prosecutor's General Office said it was working with the central bank and other law enforcement agencies to tighten regulations and prevent legal offences committed with the use of pseudo-currencies. The Bitcoin community in the United States, far more developed than the one in Russia, has already come under intense scrutiny as authorities crack down on illegal activity carried out using the digital currency. (Writing by Gabriela Baczynska; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
reddit/imgur/Phaenthi BI contributor Randy Olson passed along this map, created by reddit user Phaenthi, that presents U.S. states and corresponding countries with similar GDP. Olson, who moderates the subreddit DataisBeautiful, noted that the map is not adjusted for population size "e.g., Minnesota has a population of ~5.5 million and Nigeria has a population of ~175 million." California is the obvious powerhouse, with a GDP of about $2 trillion in in 2012 compared to Canada's 2012 total of about $1.82 trillion. And the 2012 GDP of Texas was about $1.4 trillion, making it considerably bigger than Mexico $1.18 trillion. New York saw a 2012 GDP of about $1.2 trillion compared to South Korea's $1.12 trillion. Illinois ($695 billion 2012 GDP), driven by private industries and manufacturing, is comparable to Saudi Arabia ($711 billion) and its oil-driven economy. A couple of other surprises: Colorado (at $274 billion) is bigger than Egypt (at $254 billion) and Indiana (at $298 billion) is considerably bigger than Israel (at $241 billion). The 2012 GDP of the entire United States was about $16.2 trillion.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays said it had launched an investigation after a newspaper reported that the personal details of 27,000 customers had been stolen and sold, raising the prospect of new fines for the bank. Confidential information on customers' earnings and health as well as passport details had ended up for sale, The Mail on Sunday reported, citing data provided to it by a whistleblower. Barclays said it had notified regulators and started an investigation, the initial findings of which suggested the files were linked to the Barclays Financial Planning business which closed in 2011. "This appears to be criminal action and we will co-operate with the authorities on pursuing the perpetrator," the bank said in a statement on Sunday. The data leak is a new blow for the British bank after a string of scandals for mis-selling payment protection insurance and manipulating benchmark interest rates, which have resulted in billions of pounds in fines and compensation payouts. The bank could face new fines should it be found at fault over this data leak. Britain's data privacy watchdog, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), can impose fines of up to 500,000 pounds for serious breaches of the country's data protection rules, while Britain's financial watchdog, The Financial Conduct Authority, has the power to impose unlimited fines. The ICO said in a statement that it would be working with the newspaper and police to find out what has happened. The Mail on Sunday said it had been shown 2,000 files on the bank's customers some of which were 20 pages long and containing some of the individuals' attitudes to risk. The whistleblower said there were 25,000 more files on a database. According to the newspaper, the stolen data is worth millions on the black market because it allows rogue brokers to target people in investment scams. Barclays thanked the Mail on Sunday for bringing the data leak to its attention. "Protecting our customers' data is a top priority and we take this issue extremely seriously," Barclays said in its statement. "We would like to reassure all of our customers that we have taken every practical measure to ensure that personal and financial details remain as safe and secure as possible." Barclays has been trying to rebuild its reputation after becoming the first bank fined for its part in a global scam to manipulate Libor benchmark interest rates in 2012. The Libor scandal led to the resignation of chief executive Bob Diamond and chairman Marcus Agius. (Reporting by Sarah Young. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe fact that Argentina is the country with the highest rate of psychoanalysts per capita has never made better sense. This country lives in state of constant identity crisis. One day, we are all proud descendants of European immigrants. The next, we are all proud South Americans who embrace the concept of the Pachamama and join the Latin American brotherhood. We secretly look up to the North, but admit that South-South ties will save our economy. We love the U.S. We hate the U.S. We are a country of agricultural exporters, but also an emerging industrial economy. We crave dollars, but dollars are evil. *Sigh*  Politically and economically-speaking, this translates into massive meltdowns that – while seemingly preventable – send us into periodic fits of rage. So, in a country where the economy dives into a massive crisis roughly every ten years, the population  turns to the dollar  faster than a troubled patient turns to Zanax. To the outside observer, Argentina looks like the neurotic distant cousin who will always be in therapy, but will never make real progress. But since one man’s loss is another man’s gain, whenever a new crisis strikes the country, the press, both national and international, starts sharpening their knives. In their eyes, Argentina has become so predictable that journalists – especially the international media – aren’t even trying anymore. Don’t get me wrong, the drama queen in me wants to join them wholeheartedly. Argentina is undergoing a relatively manageable situation in relation to a lack of foreign currency (that is, in terms of the problems affecting most emerging countries, but more on that later) but is turning it into a Montague-Capulet-style feud between the alleged conspirators (multinational companies, the political opposition, the media and probably you) and a “well-intentioned and naïve” administration that is trying to stay afloat amid an ocean of sadistic enemies. But before you panic, let me be clear: this is not 2001. That’s right, you heard me well. We’re not even close to the catastrophic reality of 2001.  Sadly, that’s not what the international media wants to hear. So, since I’ve already used this column to criticize the federal government in the past, allow me to play devil’s advocate and change my tune. This time, I want to slap the messenger. I’ve never been a huge fan of psychoanalysis, but I understand that there is a lot of “let’s put some of the blame on what your parents did to you in your childhood” involved. I’d normally say that Argentine politicians are the poster child for putting the blame on others, but this time a large percentage of the foreign press has diagnosed Argentina with “impending doom” without any regard for contextualization.  Renowned media outlets such as The Economist, The New York Times, O Globo and Reuters have analyzed the ongoing emerging-markets currency crisis and its impact on the plummeting value of currency in developing countries. Considering the fact that the revelation of slower growth in China was followed by Obama stating that China is, once again, the best place we can invest our dollars, it is no secret which markets U.S. dollars and foreign investment are heading.   To the foreign press though, Argentina’s crisis has a logic of its own: Recently, Reuters exposed that the “spectacular loss of value in emerging market currencies”  has led to one of the worst years in history for the Indian Rupee, has crashed the Turkish Lira, the Mexican Peso and the South African Rand, turning 2013 into a “…a train wreck of a year for emerging countries…”. However, when referring to Argentina’s currency problems, Reuters assure that the crisis only stems from the fact that  “…Argentina’s government began moving away from market-friendly economic policies toward a more populist attitude…” See where I’m going with this? The Economist followed a similar logic, in which connecting “international context” with “emerging economies” and “currency devaluations” was not even an option. The same day that the publication ran an article providing an optimistic perspective on the prospect of an emerging market crisis (they went so far as to use the headline “Don’t Panic”), it ran another article on Argentina and Venezuela stating that “The Party is Over” and that Argentina and Venezuela would be condemned to a future of misery and stagnation, although the article did end with the assertion that Argentina’s recent measures were a “halting step towards normality,” and that the country is nowhere near the situation of Venezuela. Needles to say, our good friend here at The Bubble, The Wall Street Journal’s Mary Anastasia O’Grady, went as far as to diagnose Argentina’s history of recurring devaluations as simply “pathological.” This may crush a few egos around here, but Argentina is not setting any records or blazing any trails in the world, and chances are that most journalists out there barely know what our country is about beyond the peculiarity of our political leaders, our football players and that catchy tune known as “Don’t Cry for Me Argentina.” So, upon close analysis, you will notice the existence of a perverse and vicious cycle in the press: the federal government’s propensity to create tangible enemies out of whatever it can, coupled with the local media’s fetish for calamity, drama and political opportunism. The result of this is mostly tragic articles that announce the end of Argentina as we know it. The foreign press reads these articles – which make our country sound like some badly-acted telenovela – and provides the world with some international coverage that eventually, the local media picks up and re-publishes, misinterpreting it as final confirmation that we are, in fact, doomed. Perhaps the clearest example of this can be found on La Nación after recently publishing Ms. O’Grady’s op-ed about Argentina’s “pathological tendency” to devalue its currency. The article was simply translated into Spanish, and it failed to mention that it was a column based on the opinions of a journalist and not an editorial of the Wall Street Journal. It simply read, “In Argentina, A Mega Devaluation Seems Inevitable”. Perhaps in an attempt to emulate Julio Cortazar’s “Hopscotch,” the foreign media’s preconceptions about Argentina translate into completely misleading articles that can be read from multiple angles and lead to opposing conclusions, depending on where the reader stands politically.  If you google Argentina’s devaluation crisis, these are the first results that appear: Now, after revisiting these articles with a more sophisticated understanding of Argentina’s economic context, this is what you get: It clearly all depends on how you read the news. Let’s face it; the Kirchnerite government’s admittedly progressive measures have only been equaled by their ability to make the kind of political mistake that makes for the most flamboyantly dramatic headlines. Sadly, the foreign press makes great use of that and most readers gravitate to those apocalyptic headlines, not really making an effort to understand the entire articles. Hence, the general conclusion is that Argentina is doomed. As former Economy Minister Aldo Ferrer recently put it, this is not the same context that lead to the crisis of 2001: the economy is working relatively well, the country isn’t indebted to its eyeballs and the prospects of foreign trade are stable. This is a crisis of expectations: expectations of citizens, investors, businessmen and unions, and uncertainty on how the government will react to this situation. True, the immediate future does not look promising. However, while the government maintains its feisty discourse, putting the blame on anyone but themselves, some concrete steps are being taken to face this crisis. Whether those steps are part of a carefully devised economic plan of a rushed, desperate attempt to change the course of this economy is debatable, but the decision-making process is there. It is said that the media’s role is to keep politicians humble. That sounds about right. But it is also said that perception is everything. When a potential crisis rests partly on the how the population perceives their reality, sometimes us journalists, both local and foreign, should be more aware that whatever we write has the power to shape reality. Eye-catching headlines and controversial one-liners are part of the game. But so is fact-checking. The situation is bad already. Let’s not try to make it worse. FREE AppDownload
What’s more, activists are going after bigger game. While the majority of attacks are still focused on companies with market values of less than $500 million, mammoth companies like Apple, JCPenney, Dow, PepsiCo, Hess, Microsoft, DuPont and more have all been recent targets. Four things have changed making activist investors more powerful: 1. Passive institutional investors are supportive: Traditionally long-only institutional investors that would once have spurned “corporate raiders” are now more inclined to side with activists, amplifying an activist’s potential for success. These big investors, who often hold meaningful blocks of a company’s shares, now mingle at activist conferences because they want to learn more about activists’ methods. When an activist approaches them with an investment thesis, these investors are more likely to lend their support.   2. Activists are communicating smarter and louder about their campaigns, using dedicated websites, white papers, sophisticated investor presentations, broadcast interviews, blogs and Twitter to quickly ramp their offensive and gain ground. As a result, activists are better and more appealing communicators, making the notion of a potential fight more intimidating for management and boards. 3. Activists no long need to wage a full-scale and expensive proxy fight to accomplish their goals. Activists are submitting shareholder proposals (which the company has to pay to put in its proxy statement), launching withhold campaigns or pursuing exempt solicitations. All of these tools are much cheaper and typically easier than the traditional proxy fight and can accomplish the same goal.   4. Companies are acquiescing. In response to activist initiatives, board seats are being offered, CEOs are retiring, and buybacks and spinoffs are taking place. FactSet SharkWatch counted 10 instances in 2013 in which a U.S. company agreed to break up, sell or exit businesses after an activist investor recommended changes, the highest number in the five years covered by its database. This suggests a new phase in which companies, their boards and their investors are more open to involvement from outside investors.   What do activists want? Historically, a company that was consistently meeting its own projections would generally be immune to the overtures of an activist investor. But given the enormous and motivated dollars now looking for targets, it’s increasingly clear that no company is outside the scope of a possible activist approach. Activists may find any of the following appealing: a company with a consistently under-performing division that can be overhauled or, paradoxically, an over-performing division or asset that can be spun-off; lagging performance versus industry peers; a large pool of cash that is perceived to be sitting unproductively; a leadership or Board that may be viewed as failing to keep up with industry trends; or outdated corporate governance practices that are viewed as hindering value creation. The likelihood of an activist campaign gaining momentum depends on many factors, including composition and pre-existing support of the company’s shareholder base (index funds, for example, are traditionally less inclined to get involved), the degree to which the company is seen to have underperformed, the perceived ease-of-execution of the activist’s plan, and ultimately, the extent to which the company’s shareholder base rally’s around the activist’s proposition. What companies can do to prepare Faced with greater risk of an activist challenge, companies and their boards must proactively give themselves a check-up of their market position and vulnerability to activist campaigns. They must ask, “What would an activist be interested in, and where would they attack?” and then proactively institute safeguards and build support for their corporate strategy. 1. Drive greater clarity around corporate strategy. In their investor communications, management should strive for clarity, specificity and transparency in discussing corporate strategy and future expectations. As much as possible, they should ensure that investors understand their vision and ability to realize it, and convey why their strategy creates optimal shareholder value and represents the best use of capital. Importantly, they must show how their strategy is producing tangible results, whether in financial or operational terms ideally besting industry averages.   2. Enhance quality of dialog with investors. Companies should increase the quality of their dialogue with their institutional investors, especially as it relates to expectations and strategies for creating shareholder value. They must know their investors and their expectations better than anyone else.  And they must attract investors who share their board’s investment preferences and time horizon and are thus less likely to respond to alternative proposals for value creation. 3. Determine what is negotiable in advance. Given increasing chances of an attack, all Boards and managements should discuss their tolerances for what are negotiable and non-negotiable aspects of their company’s strategy before an activist investor appears. It may be, for example, that certain changes to the capital structure that can improve shareholder returns are in fact acceptable, or even advisable, if they leave the Board’s core strategy intact. 4. Proactively remove red flags. Companies should proactively remove sources of discontent by taking strong pro-investor positions on shareholder issues such as director selection and election (sometimes called proxy access), executive compensation, dual CEO/chairman roles and poison pills. Investing, like all human behavior, is cyclical and the current environment is more tilted in favor of activist investors than at any point in recent history. Boards and managements must be better prepared in today’s world for potential activism so they can respond more nimbly and at a faster pace than they might have in the past, or else risk losing control of their corporate agenda. Lex Suvanto is managing director and leads Edelman’s worldwide Financial Communications and Special Situations practice.  Jeff Zilka, general manager, leads the practice’s team in Chicago. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Laszlo BaloghTeam USA women's ice hockey coach Katey Stone talks to her team during a practice session in the Shayba Arena ahead of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics February 7, 2014.Building a successful Winter Olympics team is expensive. It takes top athletes, training, and equipment that tends to be pricier than in the Summer Games. "The Winter Olympics are a useful backdrop for case studies on the relationship between athletic performance and economic progress in emerging markets around the world," writes ConvergEx's Nick Colas. "We’ve analyzed the medal count by country since the inaugural Winter Games in 1924, and indeed the results show that athletes rarely make it to the podium until their respective countries experience economic progress and stability."   "Furthermore, consistent podium-worthy performances in subsequent years are typically correlated with GDP growth," he writes. Colas provides some case studies. From the note: Even the U.S.'s Olympic prowess is linked with the economy, Colas notes. "In the earlier years of the Winter Olympics, the United States lagged the likes of Finland and Norway in the medal count," he writes. "Later on in the 1960s and 1970s, the Soviet Union/Russia and Germany also topped the U.S. in trips to the podium.  And though the United States continued to improve throughout the latter half of the 20th century, it actually wasn’t until 2010 that American athletes won more medals than any other nationality." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeAn attendant prepares for a reception marking the 62nd anniversary of China at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing September 30, 2011.BEIJING (Reuters) - China's catering sector grew at its slowest pace in more than two decades in 2013 as diners avoided splashing out in luxury restaurants during an anti-corruption campaign targeting official excess, according to state media. Catering in China grew nine percent last year, the weakest growth in 21 years, the official Xinhua news agency reported late on Saturday, citing the China Cuisine Association. It did not give the growth pace for earlier years. Restaurant earnings totaled 2.54 trillion yuan ($419 billion) in 2013. Among those stomaching the biggest hit were high-end establishments, which reported annual revenue lower than in 2012, Xinhua said. China's slowing economy has also dealt a blow to the catering industry, as cost-conscious diners go for cheaper spots with healthy, local food over multi-nationals like McDonald's Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt; and Yum! Brands Inc &lt;YUM.N&gt; which have also been hit by food-safety scandals. Companies dealing in pricey liquors, expensive cigarettes and luxury hotels are among those hit by the Chinese government's anti-corruption campaign. The crackdown has been led by President Xi Jinping as he looks to rejuvenate the Communist Party's image, marred by years of scandals and open displays of ill-gotten wealth. (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPocatello, IDCities in America are finally starting to return to health. In 2014, 351 metro areas will see job gains, according to a new report published by the Conference of Mayors and produced by IHS Global Insight. The U.S. economy is poised to accelerate in 2014, according to the report. "Consumers will increase discretionary spending in response to solid gains in employment, income, and asset values," IHS writes. "Homebuilding will surge until 2016, when it catches up with demand." Still, some cities were heading in the opposite direction last year. We pulled the cities from the report that saw GMP ("gross metro product") contract by 2% or more in 2013. FREE AppDownload
