When stocks are up 20% from a low, we're in a bull market. And when stocks are down 20% from a high, we're in a bear market. But where do these names come from? According to Scottrade, these characterizations were designated because of the respective animals' methods of attack. When you get gored by a bull, your usually getting launched into the air. And when a bear attacks you, it's coming down on you from its standing position. @Scottrade FREE AppDownload
After 2013's 31% gain in the S&amp;P 500, almost no one expected 2014 to see double-digit gains in the US stock market, especially considering the fact that it's doubled since 2009. Almost no one but Tom Lee. As JP Morgan's chief US equity strategist, Lee forecast in December 2013 that the S&amp;P 500 would top out at 2,075 in 2014, surging 17% from the time he made that call. "The bull market, which began in March 2009, is acting like a 'classic' secular bull market," Lee wrote in a Dec. 13, 2013 note. "[T]he 6th year of a bull market has historically been very strong, which would suggest that the market will continue to build upon the strong gains seen in 2013 as it enters its 6th year." At the time, Lee was the most bullish of the 14 strategists followed by Business Insider. The next most-bullish strategist predicted the S&amp;P would hit 2,014. The S&amp;P actually closed 2014 at 2,058. It got as high as 2,092 on Dec. 26. Today, Lee is the head of Fundstrat Global Advisors, where he continues to be more bullish than most Wall Street strategists. So, what did Lee's peers get wrong about 2014? "If you looked at consensus forecasts for 2014, I think a few incorrect assumptions (in retrospect) were reflected in the consensus forecast: (i) a strengthening economy (recall, Economists said growth would accelerate in 2014) was not good for stocks as it precipitated Fed action and (ii) the Street generally saw markets taking a breather after the 30% gains in 2013," Lee wrote in an email to Business Insider. That first point surprised a lot of pros, including the interest rate forecasters who thought that an improving economy and a more conservative Federal Reserve would lead to rising interest rates. For many stock market pros, higher rates meant lower stocks. That didn't happen. Even Lee admitted "lower interest rates certainly surprised us." Going into 2015, Lee sees the S&amp;P getting as high as 2,325, which is 11% higher than 2014's closing price. Again, that's far more bullish than most of his peers on Wall Street. "Be contrarian," Lee says. In a Dec. 18 note to clients, he wrote, "[T]he current bull market is not going to end simply because 'stocks have gone up too much.'" We asked Lee what his peers were getting wrong about 2015. "I think strategists are underestimating the recovery in the consumer balance sheets and the level of pent-up demand," Lee told Business Insider. "Look at sector recommendations and few are recommending Consumer Cyclicals. "Consensus seems to see deflation pressures from lower oil. But we think with the improvement in jobs and consumer confidence, investors need to be positioning themselves for reflationary trades. That is, Technology, Financials, Healthcare and Consumer Cyclicals." Still, Lee is no unconditional bull. He sees plenty of reasons why the stock market's bull run could get derailed. "There are quite a few risks in 2015 with most acting as deflationary pressures: (i) the collapse in oil creates a downward spiral of credit defaults; (ii) China’s real estate price weakness broadens into an full blown housing crisis; (iii) Europe’s economic weakness deepens and the ECB and fiscal policy react too slowly and (iv) US dollar is so strong that it weakens US multinationals sufficiently," Lee wrote. For now, Lee deserves some credit for his accurate 2014 call. "Our clients pay us for investment guidance, non-consensus analysis and actionable ideas throughout the year so the target is not our primary job," Lee said. "However, the target serves two important purposes — first, it is a gauge of our conviction of our views (i.e., if someone is bullish but they only see 2% annualized upside, are they talking out of “both sides of their mouth”?) and second, the target is a basis then to say, 'OK. How do we profit from this?'" To 2015! FREE AppDownload
Nigeria's currency, the naira, has been getting slammed as the oil-exporting nation has been getting squeezed by tumbling crude prices. However, it looks like the official price of the naira has stabilized against the dollar in the last couple of weeks after the central bank stepped in and restricted currency trading. Early December, the central bank also took 300 billion naira out of circulation in its effort to support the struggling currency. Reuters reported last week that the street price of the currency is lower than the official price, and it could be close to a record low. At times during the week before Christmas, the rate was as much as 190 naira to the dollar. It seemed to be about 187 as of Monday.  A separate Reuters report notes that the central bank's foreign exchange reserves are at $34.5 billion as of Monday — down almost 21% on the year. This is a story to watch as Nigerian national elections approach in February. Experts are expecting it to be expensive (even more so as the price of oil continues to drop) and potentially bloody. In the backdrop is what more or less amounts to a war against Boko Haram in the north of the country. A currency crisis won't be likely to help any of these things. Why does any of this matter? Nigeria is (somewhat arguably) the largest economy in Africa. It's been growing at a clip of about 7% for years. But on a per capita basis it's still very poor, not to mention very young. According to the Economist it needs to sustain double-digit growth just to absorb the millions of people aging into the labor force. That's not going to happen if the country is in crisis.  FREE AppDownload
This is the chart everyone is talking about right now: the 2014 performance of various futures. Let's hope you bet on coffee and beef, rather than oil and cotton. FinViz FREE AppDownload
In November, we declared this chart of US oil production the chart of the year.  Except it probably isn't. The following two charts — a yearly chart of WTI crude oil and the US 10-year Treasury yield — are really the charts that define 2014. Oil plays a significant role in the global economy and is always on the minds of traders and investors, but no one saw the complete rout in oil prices that has defined 2014 coming. And no one could have. The decline in oil prices has been attributed to a global supply glut, to strong-arming from OPEC trying to force US shale producers out of business, or from Saudi Arabia trying to squeeze Russia. But no matter the root cause, oil prices declined almost 50% over the second half of this year.  Business Insider, data via BloombergWTI peaked near $107 a barrel in June and finished the year just below $53. Meanwhile, at the start of 2014, the market was — much like at the start of 2015 — getting ready for the Fed's first rate hike. Consensus was, and still is, that interest rates are going higher, and that this will send Treasury yields higher too.  Some Treasury yields did rise this. Two-year Treasury yields rose to their highest level since 2011 in 2014. But the 10-year was expected to move from 3% to 3.5%. Instead, the 10-year fell from 3% to almost 2%, settling at 2.17% on Wednesday, and Bloomberg reports that the median forecast for 2015 is for yields to rise to 3%. Business Insider, data via BloombergAlmost everyone on Wall Street expected yields to go the other way.As is the case every year, there were plenty of great stories in the markets in 2014.  But if someone asks you to give a short — like, actually short — summary of what happened in markets in 2014, just say: "Oil crashed and yields fell." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee sees 2,075!Even the more bullish analysts on Wall Street undershot the big rally in 2013. So they're likely determined to not miss what 2014 has in store for this market. We thumbed through hundreds of pages of Wall Street's 2014 outlook notes and compiled the thoughts of 14 top stock market forecasters. For 2014, the average call is for the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,955, with the median prediction at 1,950. For EPS, the mean call is $117.20 with a median of $116.75. Here are Wall Street's top strategists with their S&amp;P 500 and EPS calls (from lowest to highest), with their commentary on why. From bullish to most bullish: David Bianco, Deutsche Bank: S&amp;P: 1,850: EPS: $119.00 In June, we introduced 2014 &amp; 2015 yearend S&amp;P targets of 1850 and 2000. We argued the S&amp;P PE would climb to its normal trailing PE of 16x (&lt;15x then) as healthy EPS growth continued within a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth. We also argued that if real long-term risk free interest rates stayed below historical norms when QE stopped, then a PE over 16x trailing EPS would be fair. The PE is back to normal, a bit earlier than expected, but the Fed has yet to taper. Thus, we think it prudent not to assume any further PE upside until we get more clarity on where 10yr yields likely settle post QE. Brian Belski, BMO: S&amp;P 1,900, EPS: $116.00  We enter 2014 less optimistic than we have been in the past few years. Our models suggest mid-single-digit gains in 2014 based on slightly lower risk premiums, better revision trends and dividend increases, but macro conditions remain an obstacle. Given performance trends to date, we believe this the prudent approach. While valuation is by no means grossly overvalued, current levels suggest it may be more difficult for the market to continue its impressive run without equally impressive earnings growth. In addition, we believe investors will be acutely focused on Fed actions, since market performance has been significantly better during Fed bond buying programs. Therefore, we expect stocks to perform strongly during 1H, but fade during 2H as investors grapple with the removal of QE stimulus. Nonetheless, any Fed induced weakness should not be view as the end of this bull market. Instead investors with slightly longer investment horizons should use it a buying opportunity, particularly considering that several secular trends suggest that there are many more years of life in this cycle.  Barry Knapp, Barclays: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $119.00 At the time of writing, attitudes toward stocks are very bullish, perhaps overly so. Although sentiment is easy to measure – several organisations do it – its relationship with market returns is ephemeral. Sentiment extremes often exist only briefly ahead of market turning points and disappear quickly as prices adjust, or even pause. Periods of persistent bullish or bearish sentiment are usually confirmed by excessively high or low valuations, which is not the case at present. Stocks have displayed an unusually tight relationship with sentiment since 2009. Thus, while establishing our core views for the coming year, we are holding some capacity with which to raise the risk of our portfolio further in case of a sentiment-led near-term sell-off.  David Kostin, Goldman Sachs: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $116.00 The linchpin of our market forecast is growth – in the economy, sales, and earnings. We expect 3.6% global economic growth. The US will advance at a 3% pace while inflation remains contained at 1.4%. China, Japan, and even Europe will all grow, expanding GDP by 7.8%, 1.6%, and 1.5%, respectively....However, we expect no growth in margins and multiple in 2014. Recurring net margins have remained at a record-high plateau of roughly 8.7% since 2011. Firms have struggled to maintain profitability at current levels. We estimate flat margins for next several years. Client inquiries about the appropriate P/E multiple to assign US stocks routinely ignore that margins are extremely high on a historical basis and have been stagnant for several years. Valuation is the biggest wildcard in our market outlook. Michael Kurtz, Nomura: S&amp;P: 1,925, EPS: $112.50 Our S&amp;P 500 upside outlook for the year ahead is not predicated on comparatively optimistic earnings expectations. Rather, our own top-down forecast for 2014 S&amp;P 500 EPS is "just" $112.50/shr., or 5.6% higher than our 2013 top-down forecast of 106.50. Margins, as discussed, are the critical consideration: Against the highly optimistic (in our view) consensus forecast for 2014 U.S. Net Income and EBIT Margins to reach unprecedented levels of 10.8% and 15.7% respectively... we conservatively assume 2014 S&amp;P Net Income Margin will no more than maintain the 2012-2013 two year average (i.e., 9.3%). Sean Darby, Jefferies: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $121.00 We expect the S&amp;P 500 to deliver modest returns with the index rising to 1,950 by the end of 2014. We believe the equity market is becoming fully valued and active investment strategies towards domestic growth and small caps ought to deliver better returns than multinationals and large caps. With sentiment indicators buoyant, margin debt close to historic levels and indices trading close to their 2 standard deviation based on forward PE over five years, investors need to be mindful that a correction can easily unfold. We don’t expect 2014 to be a smooth ride. Likewise earnings visibility will need to improve to maintain the recent fund flow momentum away from fixed income. Jonathan Golub, RBC: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $119.00 Such strong [2013] performance might lead investors to assume that the recovery has matured. We believe that a close look at the data suggests that we are just now entering the middle innings. As a result of the weak recovery, the economy has lots of spare capacity, interest rates and valuations are well below historical averages, and corporate managements are exercising extreme risk-averse behavior. We believe these factors are likely to provide a supportive environment for stocks for three key reasons: 1. Slack in the economy will keep the Fed from disruptively removing accommodation 2. Risk-averse corporate behavior will drive EPS higher 3. Valuations should renormalize, closing the gap between earnings yields and interest rates. Julian Emanuel, UBS: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $116.00 Although our projected S&amp;P 500 trailing valuation appears expensive on a recent historical basis, the much broader view of history strongly suggests that at some point in the current bull market cycle, valuations will indeed exceed 17x or more. In fact, in all but three of the post World War II bull markets, the multiple exceeded 17x on a trailing basis. Thus through the combination of strong corporate balance sheets, an accommodative Fed, and solid GDP growth fueling increased revenues in a high operating margin environment do we forecast an expanding multiple which yields our 2014 Year End S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,950.  Andrew Garthwaite, Credit Suisse: S&amp;P: 1,960, EPS: $115.90 Ultimately, we believe that the equity market is set to be on an uptrend until equities become clearly expensive against bonds, QE ends or risk appetite is clearly in euphoria zone (as opposed to neutral now). We have not seen a 10% correction for 25 months – but in the 1980’s, 1990’s and 2000’s we had three-year, seven-year and 41/2- year bull markets in equities without such a correction. Very near-term we see the risk of consolidation, with some of the tactical indicators extended (such as the bull/bear ratio for financial advisors, while net corporate buying is low) and we expect the Fed to start tapering in January. However, the tactical indicators are less extreme than was the case a month ago. Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup: S&amp;P: 1,975, EPS: $117.50 The good news from credit conditions, hiring intentions and capital spending plans on the economy and likely earnings growth can provide upside appreciation potential while sentiment, intra-stock correlation and even valuation suggest concern... Overall, we can get to a 1,975 kind of outcome, but we may also see choppier markets and early indicators on volatility also intimate reasons to be worried. [Updated from his previous call of 1,900] Savita Subramanian, Bank of America: S&amp;P: 2,000, EPS: $118.00 We believe the Standard and Poor's 500 Index will rise to 2,000 by the end of 2014, which implies a price return of about 11%... While that gain would be less than in 2013, our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street... Take note that allocations to equities (53%) are lower than the benchmark (65%). As for the Federal Reserve, we believe tapering, accompanied by a growing economy, would actually benefit cyclical stocks. Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $116.00 Since last March, we have been sanguine on US equities. Our logic has been driven more by lack of a bear case than the strength of the base case. We have seen 3 turns (12.0x to 15.1x) of multiple expansion in the last 2 years, only the 4th period with this level of expansion over the last 40+ years. Obviously, a sample size of three isn’t statistically significant, but the prior three periods were all followed by a continuation of the rally for another 12-24 months, as momentum typically persists. The only thing people are worried about is that no one is worried about anything. That isn't a real worry. John Stoltzfus, Oppenheimer: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $115.00 The 2014 target reflects our expectation that the stock market will have opportunity to move higher over the course of next year, and turn in yet another double-digit increase— albeit around half the size of this year’s rally to date. Our price target is set using the mid-point between our dividend discount model and a price/earnings model. We expect these valuation projections to be supported by improving fundamentals. We continue to believe that US economic growth has in effect been “primed” by the Federal Reserve’s Quantitative Easing (QE) programs. Recent improvements in the tone of US economic data suggest to us that prospects are good for investors to see a continuation of the economic recovery that could drive earnings higher in the year ahead. Tom Lee, JP Morgan: S&amp;P: 2,075, EPS: $120.00 For several years now we have advanced the idea that the current bull market could prove to be one of the longest in history. However, what we believe many investors have yet to fully appreciate is how this market is indeed behaving like a classic bull market...we believe this is a classic bull market and the 6th year is typically strong. Historically, bull markets lasting at least 4 years (since 1897) have only ended with a recession—that is, they typically do not end just because "everyone is too bullish." FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/GettyFor the third straight year, the S&amp;P 500 posted double-digit gains. With Wednesday's close, the S&amp;P 500 finished the year with 53 record highs and an 11% gain (excluding dividends). On Wednesday, the major stock indexes declined in an ugly close that saw the averages fall to session lows in the final half hour of trading for the year. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. Due to Thursday's New Year's Day holiday, the weekly report on initial jobless claims — usually scheduled for Thursday mornings — came out Wednesday and showed that claims rose to 298,000 from last week's 281,000 revised level. Following the report, economists at BNP Paribas said that the four-week moving average, which rose slightly to 290,750, shows that claims remains lower and are consistent with an improving labor market. 2. The December report on manufacturing in the Midwest from ISM Chicago showed that activity expanded at the slowest pace in five months. The latest Chicago PMI report came in at 58.3 — any reading over 50 indicates expansion — which missed expectations for a reading of 60.0 and was down from November's 60.8. Following the report, Philip Uglow of MNI Indicators said, "It was a disappointing end to to the year with the pulse rate of our business panel slowing noticeably in December. The trend, however, remains solid and consistent with continued growth in the US economy."  3. In the housing market, pending home sales rose 0.8% in November, rebounding from October's 1.1% decline and beating expectations for a 0.4% increase. Year-on-year, pending home sales rose 4.1%, up from October's 3.6% increase. Following the report, Lawrence Yun at the National Association of Realtors said, "The consistent economic growth and steady hiring we've seen the second half of this year is giving buyers enough assurance to consider purchasing a home before year's end."  4. The Russian ruble was volatile again on Wednesday, as the currency weakened to as low as 62 against the dollar. This year, the ruble has been the second-worst performer this year, beating only the Ukrainian hryvnia.  5. Reports on Wednesday said that Saudi Arabia's 91-year-old King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz was hospitalized. Some analysts see this development as having the potential for Saudi Arabia to change its oil policy, which so far has seen the Middle Eastern nation keep oil production unchanged amid the crash in prices seen this year.  6. The best performing stock market in 2014 was the Shanghai Composite. In 2014, the Shanghai Composite rose more than 50%, and earlier on Wednesday Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik sent out a series of charts summing up the year in China.  Don't Miss: The 12 Craziest Market Stories Of 2014 » FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderArianna Huffington, Daymond John, and Mark Cuban.The New Year is just around the corner, which means it's resolution season.  To help you make the most of the change in calendar, we asked industry leaders and world-changing entrepreneurs, including Arianna Huffington and Mark Cuban, what they're resolved to do in 2015.  FREE AppDownload
The stock market and the economy are not the same thing. Not in the US. Not anywhere. Bloomberg's Tom Orlik tweeted a series of charts earlier Wednesday including this one. It's of the Shanghai Composite stock index (red) and economists' forecasts for 2015 GDP (black). Despite a year of falling economic growth expectations, stock prices have exploded. In 2014, the Shanghai Composite surged a whopping 58%. "Tell me more of your theories about Chinese GDP growth and it’s impact on stock prices…" @TomOrlik FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - A forecasting tool developed by the Federal Reserve recommends that U.S. interest rates should be hiked immediately to keep pace with the improving economy, according to a paper by the soon-to-retire Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser. Plosser, among the minority of hawkish monetary policymakers, co-published research showing the Fed-developed model calls for rates to jump from near zero to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014, and to rise to 1.1 percent by the second quarter of 2015. The paper was co-authored by Philadelphia Fed director of research Michael Dotsey, who is in the running to succeed Plosser once he steps down on March 1. It recommends a more aggressive tightening cycle than that predicted by the Fed's core of officials, who generally see a mid-2015 hike and about a 1-percent federal funds rate by year end, if the economy continues to strengthen. "We believe the economy has returned to a more normal footing and ... our benchmarking indicates that monetary policy should follow suit," Plosser and Dotsey wrote. The Fed is taking a more patient approach to its first rate hike in nearly a decade because U.S. inflation remains weak and the global economy is slowing. Fed Chair Janet Yellen suggested in December that no action will be taken for another few months. Plosser, who has long argued for a rules-based approach to policy making, showed other more familiar forecasting models also call for an immediate tightening. Delaying "well into 2015 runs the risk of requiring more aggressive future monetary policy than would otherwise be needed," he said in the paper. The so-called Estimated Dynamic Optimization model, developed by economists at the Fed's Board of Governors and used internally since 2006, gives a policy rule based on economic data through the third quarter and does not account for the recent plunge in oil prices. It recommends a 2.8-percent federal funds rate by the end of 2017.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Sam Dangremond, Town &amp; Country magazine's associate editor, takes us through his recommendations for wine and spirit pairings for your next dinner or cocktail party. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter          
Five years ago, in January 2010, I decided to take a picture of myself every day for an entire year. I did this for a few reasons: boredom, narcissism, a lifelong fondness for weird and unnecessary projects. But I also realized that much of my adult life had gone undocumented. My parents have countless photo albums of themselves in  their 20s and 30s. I have a bunch of pictures from a beard and mustache festival in 2003. And I wasn’t even in the festival! I started using my MacBook to take a self-portrait every day. OK, not every single day without fail, because it didn’t occur to me at the time that it would sound way more impressive if my commitment was totally unwavering. But I took a photo pretty much every day, and once the year was up I kept on going. Why not? Taking one of these pictures took only a couple of seconds per day, and it always gave me a small sense of accomplishment. On days when I was struggling to do my work, I knew that I could always check “take photo” off my daily action list, and it always felt good. I suggest that you start your day with something similarly pointless and easy to accomplish. After a couple of years, despite my best efforts, this project started to feel meaningful. Not real-world meaningful, but personally meaningful—or at least something with the possibility of becoming personally meaningful. I had always enjoyed those time-lapse videos, ones with titles like “Man Takes Photo of Himself Every Day for Eight Years in Incredible Video.” Maybe if I stuck with the project long enough, I would have enough material for a video of my own, one that would deliver some sort of insight into my life. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Justin Peters is a writer for Slate. He is working on a book about Aaron Swartz, copyright, and the rise of “free culture.” Email him at justintrevett@fastmail.fm.
While researching her book, The Rise: Creativity, the Gift of Failure, and the Search for Mastery," author Sarah Lewis discovered the fascinating family story behind the wildly popular, body-shaping undergarments, Spanx. The company's founder, Sara Blakely, was floundering for years before she started her company. Here, we learn the important lesson her father ingrained in her from a young age about how to process and learn from mistakes.  Blakely is now ranked as one of the youngest, self-made billionaires. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
BIIMobile peer-to-peer payment apps, which let people send money to one another instantly, are gaining rapid adoption in the U.S. and globally. For example, BI Intelligence estimates Venmo will process $2.5 billion in volume this year. The secret to the success of these apps is that they solve a real problem for users: They give them a way to pay each other when they don't have cash or a check. For example, if you go out to dinner these apps make it easy to pay a friend back for covering the cost of your meal. In fact, among U.S. adults who use P2P payment apps, 49% say they use them for dining-related transactions, according to Nielsen. In a new report from BI Intelligence we size the opportunity for mobile P2P transactions, take a high-level look at a handful of these apps and how they work, what the opportunities are for monetization, and explore how P2P payments could be the bridge to consumer uptake of mobile payments. To access the full report and all our coverage of the payments industry, sign up for a free trial. Here are some of the report's key findings:  The report is full of charts and data that can be downloaded and put to use. In full, the report:  BI Intelligence is a subscription tech research service, covering the payments, e-commerce, and mobile industries. For full access to all our reports, charts, and briefs, sign up for a free trial. BII   FREE AppDownload
introbiz.comIntroBiz.com, the website purportedly operated by CYNK Technology, a penny stock with no assets and no revenue that had a $6 billion market cap in July.Great job everyone: we survived 2014.  We almost didn't. Because, there were some stock market stories that broke that were so unbelievable that we had to check, recheck, and have multiple editors recheck them again so that we weren't posting fake stories. We're talking about weird stories like the penny stock with no assets and no revenue that saw its market-cap balloon to $5 billion. Or that biotech firm that went public and then  not public. Or how about that time a CEO mocked an analyst on a public earnings call (we got it on tape!).  While all of these stories are wild in their own right, we've ranked them from "least crazy" to "most crazy." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/TrysilIt's that time of year to head to the mountains and start shredding the slopes. With the expert help of FindTheBest, we found the best snowboards on the market. The boards are ranked with a Smart Rating scale which accounts for magazine awards, the model year, and price.  Check out which boards are the best this season. The CAPiTA Defenders of Awesome snowboard is designed for the advanced rider. The all-mountain board has a symmetrical twin shape and hybrid camber. The snowboard is $50 less than the average advanced board, and was named Whitelines Snowboarding magazine's top board for the 2013-2014 season. Show off all your snowboarding tricks with the K2 WWW Wide freestyle snowboard. The rocker-flat-rocker camber will help you carve down icy conditions and float through powder. The board is one of Snowboard magazine's Platinum Picks.  The K2 WWW Enjoyer is another advanced freestyle board to make our list. The board's twin shape allows the rider to land their freestyle tricks in any direction. Like the K2 WWW Wide, this board is also a Snowboard magazine Platinum Pick. The K2 WWW snowboard is made for the intermediate boarder. The board has a soft flex, making it one of the most flexible boards on the market, allowing riders to have more control of the board while performing tricks. The board made Whitelines Snowboarding magazine's list of top boards. AmazonThe 2015 K2 WWW and the 2014 CAPTiVA Birds of a Feather boards. The freestyle Salomon Sabotage snowboard has a flat camber and medium flexibility. The flat camber provides more stability while the medium flex allows for control at higher speeds, yet can bend when riding rails. Transworld Snowboarding magazine gave the board a Good Wood award. The CAPiTA Birds of a Feather board is the first women's board to make our list. The all-mountain board has medium flexibility, a hybrid camber, and is designed for the advanced female rider. The board is also one of Snowboard magazine's Platinum Picks. The DC PBJ has the traditional positive camber that allows for precise turns and has a spring-like effect to allow for an extra "pop" when you're at the snowboarding park. It comes in six sizes, and earned a Good Wood award from Transworld Snowboarding magazine. The top women's board to make the list is the all-mountain K2 Eco Pop. The board is designed for the intermediate female rider, has a traditional positive camber, and a directional twin shape. Snowboard magazine gave the board the Platinum Pick and Best of Test awards.  AmazonThe 2013 Salomon The Villian and the 2015 Burton Family Tree Flight Attendant boards. The all-mountain Salomon The Villain board is flexible yet stable with its medium-soft flex. Transworld Snowboarding Magazine gave it a Good Wood award, saying, "It has a milled core and sidecut to match, along with a grip of other features for slaying the park." The all-mountain Burton Family Tree Flight Attendant is the best snowboard on the market, earning a 100 on the Smart Rating Scale. The board has a rocker-camber, directional shape, and medium-stiff flex. The Burton board is a top pick from Whitelines Snowboarding magazine, Outside magazine, and Snowboard magazine. Outside said,"As the name suggests, pro Nicolas Mueller's design flew over pillowtops and handled well in soft, uneven terrain... The topsheet is made from recycled Mountain Dew bottles (seriously) and weighs next to nothing, a big reason why throwing the featherlight Flight Attendant around on big days feels so effortless." FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe ruble is getting slammed. At around 11:20 a.m. ET Wednesday, it got as weak as 62.03 rubles per dollar after closing 56.71 on Tuesday. This was a nearly 5% plunge. It's currently trading at around 60.82. The currency's drop coincides with Brent oil falling to a 5.5-year low on Wednesday — down as low as $56.09. For the year, the ruble fell approximately 40% against the dollar. BloombergRuble to USD, 1 year. Today's plunge follows the Economy Ministry's announcement on Monday that GDP contracted by 0.5% from a year earlier, following a 0.5% increase in October. "This is linked to sanctions first of all, oil and the panic we saw on the market in December. The damage to the banking system and consumer sentiment will take a long time to repair," Dmitriy Polevoy, the chief economist for Russia and the CIS at ING Bank of Moscow, told the Moscow Times. Right now, Russia is on the edge of its first recession since 2009. Its economy took a serious beating following the sanctions imposed by the EU and US over the situation in Ukraine and the plunging oil prices. Following the sharpest fall in Russia's HSBC composite output index since May — down to 47.6 in November from 49.1 in October — analysts began expressing pessimistic views about the state of the economy. "The PMI survey found the Russian economy risking not only prolonged, but deep recession. We expect 1.5% GDP decline in 2015, but are prepared to see even deeper decline if current negative trends by the PMI survey continue," writes Alexander Morozov, the Chief Economist of Russia, CIS and the Baltics at HSBC. FREE AppDownload
Adam Carstens The Census Bureau just released a new set of state population estimates. These estimates revealed a definite pattern: there are definitely two different regions within the United States, each with their own pattern of growth. For simplicity’s sake, I’m calling these “America1” and “America2.” Neither is meant to be pejorative, but I think these labels reflect the role these regions will take in American life going forward. For clarity’s sake, in this definition, America1 is largely made up of the Northeast, the Midwest, the Mississippi Valley, the Northern Plains and Alaska. America2 is the coastal Southeast from the Mason Dixon line south, as well as Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, as well as Texas, much of the West and Hawaii.  According to Census data, America1 has only grown about 1.5% since 2010 (a gain of just over 2 million people), while America2 has grown nearly 5% (a gain of over 8 million people). This is due to two main factors: natural change (births minus deaths), and net migration (international immigration plus domestic migration). Since the Census, America2’s natural population change has been twice America1’s, giving it some major demographic tailwinds. In addition, America2’s international immigration rate has been about 40% higher than America1’s since 2010. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the domestic migration rate from America1 into America2 has gained the latter region an additional 1.6 million people since 2010. This means, on a net basis, America2 has gained over 4 million people from migration since 2010, while America1 has only gained about 46,000! Adam Carstens Combine this all together, and it means America1 needs many more immigrants from around the world just to keep its population relatively steady. In contrast, America2 benefits from many different positive demographic forces acting in concert. As you can see from the additional maps, if not for international immigration, several states in America1 would have lost population outright over the past year. And positive domestic migration was largely concentrated in America2, with North Dakota and New Mexico being major exceptions for each region. Adam Carstens America1 is less diverse overall than America2, which looks more like what the future of the United States will become than the past. While there is a sizable African-American population in both regions, Hispanics make up nearly a quarter of America2, with non-Hispanic whites getting closer to a plurality instead of a majority. In addition, the largest metros of America2 are comprised of many fast-growing Sun Belt cities, while many of America1’s metros are champions of America’s legacy assets in industry and higher education.  REUTERS/Mike BlakeA new housing development in San Marcos, CaliforniaThe economic situation is far from dire in either region – on the contrary, economic growth in both America1 and America2 has been quite strong since 2010. On an overall basis, America2’s GDP has grown 7% since 2010, but on a per capita basis, America1 has actually grown slightly faster (around 3.5%). This is no doubt due to the significant rise in energy production from America1, which produced 8 quadrillion more BTUs in 2012 than America2. Agriculture has no doubt also contributed to this GDP gain, as American farm exports continue to increase. As America1 is to energy production, agriculture and manufacturing, America2 is definitely more focused on the consumption side of things, with lots of land available in relatively warm or temperate climates for cheap housing. And in terms of overall employment growth – of the top 100 metros with the largest employment growth rates listed here, two thirds of them are in America2. America1 and America2 aren’t purely “Republican” or “Democratic” either – both regions voted for Obama in 2012, yet have more Republican governors, senators and congressmen as of now. In that way, they are both reflective of the national trend over the past few years. ShutterstockNew York City is America1So what does this mean for the future of both America1 and America2? Barring a major reversal of trend, America1 will continue to be heavily reliant on international immigration to maintain its population. Thankfully, many of the best educational institutions in the world reside in America1, as well as major financial, industrial and energy centers. So America1 isn’t going anywhere – many of the best and brightest from around the world will continue to move to America1 to learn from the best and seek their fortune. But in terms of raw growth and the demographic future of America, the resumption of America2’s fast growth is in many ways the continuation of an old post-war story of migration to the West and the South – remember, in the 1980s, California grew so fast that it gained 7 electoral votes in the 1990 census. As the American economic recovery picks up steam, as home values continue to rise, as many Baby Boomers look to retire and relocate, and as many Millennials pair up and form families and begin look for cheaper housing in nice climates, America2 should be well positioned to grow at a healthy rate for the foreseeable future. Flickr/Terence S. JonesAtlanta is America2 America2’s major advantages are that it has plenty of land available in nice climates, as well as the willingness to build new housing to meet that demand. Outside certain parts of California, there isn’t really a “preservationist” ethic inside America2 – there is a willingness to do what it takes to build. Most of America2 is so “new” that a preservationist ethic has not yet taken hold. Granted, it may develop one someday, but not yet. The contours and borders of America1 and America2 may change slightly over time, but for now, I believe this represents the two different growth dynamics in the United States for the foreseeable future. And one final point for emphasis: I believe any country or region around the world would be ecstatic to have the assets and institutions of either America1 or America2. The United States is doubly blessed because, at least for now, we have both. Adam Carstens tweets @adamcarstens. FREE AppDownload
Residents of Pyongyang were treated to a lavish display of fireworks at midnight as part of North Korea's 2015 New Year's celebration. North Korea had its first grand New Year's Eve celebration in Pyongyang three years ago, after Kim Jong Un came to power following his father's death. Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
The S&amp;P 500 is up a whopping 212% from its March 2009 low of 666. That means this bull market has been humming for a very long 68 months, which seems like a long time. But by historical standards, the length and strength of this bull run isn't that spectacular. Some folks have been tweeting this awesome chart from Morningstar's Jerry Kerns. The blue illustrates past bull markets' durations and returns (total and annualized). The red illustrates the bear markets. (Note: this was published in May.) This chart does a fantastic job communicating a few important things. For instance, there's a lot more blue than red, a unique way of reminding investors that stocks have spent more time going up than down. We particularly love what's illustrated by the y-axis. It's the multiple by which the stock market will go up or down from the beginning of each bull and bear market, respectively. As you can see, the amount by which the stock market can fall is limited to 100%. Indeed, market crashes are scary, but you usually lose less than 100% of your investment. However, the amount by which it can go up is unlimited. Indeed, this is why shorting the market can be a very scary process. It's also a reminder that you can make more than 100% of your initial investment if you're long. @jerrykerns FREE AppDownload
A couple of months ago, Eric Schmidt said he considers Amazon.com to be Google's biggest competitor. The company views the e-tailer as a search engine for products, and oftentimes Amazon's search engine offers better and more detailed results for product searches than Google does. What makes Amazon so dangerous for Google is that it has already reached a critical mass of customers. Indeed, Schmidt noted that more than one-third of people looking to buy something start their searches on Amazon. And while they don't always buy the product they're searching for from the Web store, its search traffic that isn't going to Google. That's why Amazon was largely able to avoid paying for Google's product listing ads, which it started inserting into the top of search results for product-related searches. While Amazon paid for those ads for some subsidiaries, its flagship online store has enough pull that if people really want to buy something from Amazon.com, they'll find it in Google's search results no matter where it ends up. Not every Internet company is as strong as Amazon. For example, coupon company RetailMeNot.com was negatively affected by Google's search algorithm update in May, causing its organic search traffic to decline significantly. From the second quarter to the third, RetailMeNot's search traffic fell from 64% of total traffic to 60%. Search traffic is particularly valuable for RetailMeNot, because searchers are generally looking to use its product immediately, as opposed to a direct visitor who may just be browsing to see what deals are available. As a result of the algorithm change, the company lowered its full-year guidance in the second quarter and narrowed it with a lower mid-point in the third quarter. The stock price has responded accordingly, falling over 50% since the Google algorithm update. RetailMeNot's business is fairly simple to replicate, which is why we've seen a plethora of competitors pop up over the past few years -- at least one of which, Coupons.com, has gone public. Google could easily replicate RetailMeNot's business, considering its existing relationships with retailers for advertising and other various projects. If Google shoved its own product at the top of search results for "Gap coupons," it would surely hit RetailMeNot's income statements. That's the situation in which Yelp finds itself. Google tried to buy Yelp in 2009, but Yelp turned down its offer. Now Google is attempting to overtake Yelp by placing its own product at the top of the page for location-based searches -- a carousel of local options. Yelp has also found that Google is attaching its own content to links to restaurant and hotel websites, which makes them more attractive, and makes it more likely users will click on a link to a Google product. Either way, Yelp believes this move cost it as much as 19% of search traffic. On the most recent earnings call, Yelp CEO Jeremy Stoppelmann noted that Google's strategic and algorithmic changes negatively affected traffic, particularly internationally. Most recently, Google started disrupting the lyrics aggregation sites by placing the first portion of song lyrics at the top of search results for searches like "Nelly Ride Wit Me lyrics." The lyrics card contains a link to Google Play to see the full lyrics. While this will negatively affect all of those lyrics database websites that rely on page views for income, Google hopes to attract more customers to its digital download store and music streaming service. After all, there are a lot more searches for song lyrics than for streaming services. Google's ability to insert its product into quasi-related search results is an advantage none of the other streaming services have. Google's impact on the Web and any company that relies on traffic is absolutely huge. If Google tries to buy a company you're invested in and it spurns Google's offer, it could signal the start of a rivalry between the company and the search giant. And while Google might not necessarily win, it can easily have a negative impact on almost any Internet company. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/KremlinA huge new economic union will begin tomorrow. You might not have heard about it, though, because its biggest member — Russia — has been a little preoccupied with its own economy recently. The Eurasian Economic Union (EEA), which succeeds the Eurasian Economic Community and customs union, begins on Jan. 1, 2015. It's made up of Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. The bloc will be an EU-like single market, with its own commission, court and development bank. Russian President Vladimir Putin even wants it to have a parliament. But there's absolutely no reason at all to think the union is going to be successful.  In May, when the leaders were agreeing to the EEA, we were treated to the comedic image of just three presidents sitting around an enormous table which could seat five times as many, agreeing to the EEA. Ukraine refused to join, unsurprisingly. Kyrgyzstan and Armenia will be added to the union this year, too. That still leaves the bloc extremely unbalanced. Russia's population is more than four times as large as the other countries combined, and it will make up the vast majority of the EEU's GDP. Russia's economic woes barely need repeating. With oil prices falling, the ruble dropped to record lows dozens of times in recent months, falling to 80 against the dollar in one spectacularly turbulent day. It's down by more than 40% this year. Things were actually looking pretty ugly even before a large part of the ruble's collapse. Western sanctions have hit Moscow and the country's own finance minister expects a 4% drop in GDP in 2015. Can the other nations in the EEA help out? The short answer is no.  Kazakhstan isn't immune to Russia's crisis. Its currency is now 50% more expensive in rubles than in the first half of the year. That makes it more difficult for Kazakh firms to export to Russia, though the Moscow Times suggests it may get a bit of a boost from investors who are concerned about Russian sanctions, but still want a presence in the region. The Kazakh economy is doing well in a lot of ways. That might be why long-term autocrat Nursultan Nazarbayev doesn't want to tie himself too closely to Moscow. He actually invented the contemporary idea of a Eurasian union, and even he doesn't seem convinced any more, insisting that the country could leave if it wanted, according to the FT. What's more, according to Foreign Policy magazine, studies actually suggest that membership of the Eurasian Customs Union has so far weakened Kazakhstan's economy. It's too late to back out now, but it's no surprise that Astana isn't rushing into anything more serious.  Danske BankThe economy of Belarus isn't looking so hot. On 21 December Alexander Lukashenko, who like Nazarbayev has ruled the country for decades, sacked the prime minister and central bank chief. Belarus is extremely dependent on Moscow and exposed perhaps more than any other nation to the collapse of the ruble. As in Russia, there have been queues to exchange currency, and massive interest rate hikes. Aside from the immediate crisis, it doesn't look like Lukashenko will be presiding over a dynamic economic any time soon. An apparent obsession with farming led to a plan for the country to return to a sort of serfdom earlier this year. So of the five countries joining the union in 2015, by far the largest is likely to have a shrinking economy. The World Bank notes that about a third of Kyrgyzstan's GDP is made up of remittances sent back by migrant workers, a large number of whom work in Russia. So a recession in Russia could push Kyrgyzstan into the same position. If that happens to Belarus too, a majority of the EEA's members would be in recession in its starting year. The EEA says it's open to new members, but it doesn't look like there's going to be a rush of countries trying to sign up.  FREE AppDownload
RexThe next James Bond movie — "Spectre" — was announced back in December. The bad news is: the movie won't be out until the fall of 2015.  But the good news is: you can still get some Bond in your life while you wait. We've put together a style guide based on Daniel Craig's James Bond: edgier and darker, but still maintaining that smart-elegant vibe.  Whether you want to go full-on Bond, or just add an accessory or two, you'll find it here.   Sony Pictures Entertainment/Youtube You just couldn't have a Bond without a suit. Usually, he's sports a gray one, ranging from light to charcoal tones. We recommend erring on the darker side — not everyone can pull off a heather gray. For the shirt and tie — choose a light blue shirt and navy tie. They're warmer than white and black, respectively, but still convey a serious vibe. Investment: Burberry London grey slim-fit wool suit — $1,395 Deal: Salvatore Exte Men's two button charcoal gray suit — $449.00 $95.86 to $109.86  Investment: Brioni blue striped cotton shirt — £310 ($482) Deal: Bloomingdale's Houndstooth Check Dress Shirt — $449.00 $49.77  Investement: Turnbull &amp; Asser ribbed silk tie — £95 ($147) Deal: Calvin Klein men's silver spun solid tie — $65.00 $33.14     Omega For almost two decades Bond's been wearing the Omega "Seamaster watch," which you can get yourself as well. Or you can find yourself a better deal on a lookalike. Investment: The Omega "Seamaster" 300 Chrono Diver watch — $3,640 Deal: SO&amp;CO "Monticello" stainless steel watch — $325.00 $43.99     Sony Pictures Entertainment But sometimes, Bond is running around in a more casual look, typically rocking a leather jacket. (Which is pretty much the cool-guy staple.) We recommend combining 2014's biggest trend in menswear with the classic James Bond style staple by getting yourself a leather bomber jacket. It's pretty much a win-win. Investment: Schott slim-fit leather jacket — £775 £387.49 ($1206 $603) Deal: Navy A-1 Leather Flight Bomber Jacket — $299.99 $149.99  YoutubeArguably the best scene in Casino Royale is the whole poker sequence. Scratch that — there's no debate. If you ever find yourself invited to a black (or white tie) setting like this high-stakes poker game, you better have that real bow tie ready. Investment: Turnbull &amp; Asser Silk Bow Tie — £55 ($86) Deal: Silk Bow Tie — $15.99 $9.50   A Martini Glass YoutubeAnd of course, James Bond's martini. Have a couple of glasses on hand so that you, too, can prepare a strong cocktail. Especially if you'd like to impress a date. Investment: Luigi Bormioli martini glasses (set of 4) — $37.00 Deal: Libbey martini glasses (set of 4) — $39.99 $17.01  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman recently spoke with our own Henry Blodget about a range of topics. Here they discuss the GOP's midterm successes, political apathy in the United States and the media's role in influencing public opinion.  Edited by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Morningstar analyst Matthew Young published a research note on Wednesday in which he summarized the performance of numerous companies in his coverage area. One of them is General Motors. Wall Street hasn't been all that kind to GM in 2014, but Young likes the stock. He also offered this critical insight into why GM is a better company post-bankruptcy than it was before its crisis during the Great Recession. "Old GM broke even with 25% U.S. share and a U.S. industry sales level of 15.5 million units, while new GM breaks even, depending on mix, at just 18%-19% share of 10.5 million to 11 million U.S. industry units," Young wrote. In other words, new GM is a much leaner, meaner, and more agile company than old GM ever was.  And with new car sales in the US likely to get close to 17 million for 2014, GM is way above its break-even point. GM has been trading modestly higher this week and was at $35 a share mid-morning on Wednesday.   Yahoo Finance   This story was originally published by&nbsp;Morningstar. FREE AppDownload
mcsquishee / FlickrTraditional grocer Kroger performed very well this year. In the grocery industry, investors have gotten used to Whole Foods Market (NASDAQ: WFM) dominating the pack with its emphasis on higher-margin organic and natural foods that cater to a premium customer base. Yet when you look at some of the best-performing stocks in 2014, Whole Foods is nowhere to be seen. But traditional grocery giant Kroger (NYSE: KR) has lit up the charts with a 65% gain this year. Effectively, Kroger has taken the best bits of Whole Foods' strategy and integrated them into its own business model, and so far, the results have been extremely successful. Let's take a closer look at Kroger and how it can turn a rewarding 2014 into even further gains in 2015 and future years. As in most industries, the name of the game in the grocery business is growth, and lately, Kroger has been one of the most successful grocery companies in producing the growth that investors want to see. Kroger managed to produce 11% higher revenue in its fiscal third quarter earlier this month, with same-store sales growth of 5.6% coming in well ahead of Whole Foods and its slower 3.1% rise in comps.Paul Heaberlin / FlickrWhole Foods might not be as competitive as it seems. More importantly, Kroger is getting even more of its revenue to the bottom line in the form of profits. Third-quarter earnings per share jumped 21% from year-ago levels, showing the rise in margins the company has managed to achieve. Kroger also pushed its expectations for full fiscal-year earnings higher, with hopes that a better winter-weather picture than last year could help drive gains above its previous targets. Kroger has achieved this success using a wide variety of different strategies. First, it has challenged Whole Foods on its own turf, promoting greater sales of organic and natural foods in an attempt to capture the higher margins that those products command compared to traditional grocery offerings. With natural foods boasting double-digit percentage growth, Kroger still has plenty of room to expand and become even more of a powerhouse in the space, even as it already has reached the No. 2 spot behind Whole Foods in terms of sales of organic food. Kroger hasn't just counted on organics, though. Kroger's private-label store brands have taken off, making up more than a quarter of the grocer's overall revenue and having seen growth accelerate recently. With many shoppers looking for ways to save money, private-label sales are essential, yet paradoxically, they often mean more profits in Kroger's pocket because the grocery chain doesn't have to share margin-enhancing profits with a brand-name food producer. In addition, Kroger has looked at vertically integrating its business even further, with the company owning its own food production facilities to make milk, juice, and other beverages for which freshness carries a greater price premium. Of course, one big challenge Kroger will have now that it has become a major threat to Whole Foods is whether it can sustain the competitive advantages it has earned. In response to its recent slump, Whole Foods has made several efforts to bolster its brand, with a new marketing campaign touting its status as America's Healthiest Grocery Store and seeking to cement its place in American households. If Whole Foods can demonstrate to Kroger shoppers that they'll find better products by switching, then Kroger could see its recent comparable-store sales gains start to slow. Associated Press Kroger has been stepping up sales of organic food.Another concern that many investors have is that Kroger has turned to the credit markets in a big way to help finance its acquisition-led growth spurt. With $11.5 billion in debt outstanding, Kroger has identified the need to get the liability side of its balance sheet under control, but it could nevertheless take a year or more to get Kroger's debt levels down to where management feels comfortable in the long run. Kroger has made the most of the opportunities it has to grow its business, making good use both of acquisitions and of boosting its own business from within. Investors shouldn't expect to see 65% returns year in and year out, but going forward, Kroger has several promising strategies that could generate more positive gains for long-term shareholders for years to come. FREE AppDownload
During his annual televised New Year's Eve address, Russian President Vladimir Putin once again spoke about love. "The more kindness and love there will be, the more confident and stronger we will be," Putin told the Russian people, "and that means, we will definitely achieve success." "Love for one's motherland is one of the most powerful, uplifting feelings," Putin stated. "It was fully present during the fraternal support of the inhabitants of Crimea and Sevastopol, when they were determined to return to their native home." Putin's reflections on love during this address draw similarities to an earlier speech from November when he stated: "love is the whole meaning of life, of being. Love of family, of children, and of the Motherland. It is such a multifaceted phenomenon that is the basis of all our actions." Additionally, although Putin didn't directly address any of Russia's current economic issues in his New Years address, he did say that in the upcoming year, "together we will solve a lot of problems" for the "sake of ourselves, for the sake of our children, for the sake of Russia." This speech marks the 15th anniversary of when Yeltsin first appointed Putin as acting president back on New Year's Eve 1999. Back then, during his first speech as acting president, Putin promised: "Freedom of speech. Freedom of conscience. Freedom of mass media. Property rights. These basic principles of the civilized society will be safe under the protection of the state." You can watch Putin's brief New Year's address here. FREE AppDownload
The world housing market is going crazy, especially in the luxury sector. Lincoln Property Company, a real estate company, has rounded up the most expensive apartments that are currently on the market, from a $400 million penthouse in Monaco to one in Hong Kong with a private pool on each floor.  There are also five New York properties that made the list. While most of us are worrying about security deposits and monthly rent checks, here’s how the other half is living. Courtesy of Lincoln Property Company FREE AppDownload
The US gained more than 770,000 new renters in 2014, which — along with rising rents across the country — drove the cumulative amount paid in rent to $441 billion.  The cumulative total rose 4.9% in 2014, from last year’s total of $420.4 billion. Renters in the New York-Northern New Jersey metro paid the biggest chunk in 2014, shelling out $50 billion cumulatively in rent payments, up from $48.2 billion in 2013. On a per-month basis, renters in the Bay Area saw the biggest increases. Rent per household in San Jose, CA rose by $197 per month, while rent in the San Francisco metro rose by $163 per month. Zillow’s new analysis comes as rental affordability continues to decrease across the country. Recent data showed that, on a monthly basis, renting is half as affordable as buying. Zillow expects another increase in cumulative rent next year as rents continue to rise faster than home values. “Over the past 14 years, rents have grown at twice the pace of income due to weak income growth, burgeoning rental demand and insufficient growth in the supply of rental housing,” said Zillow Chief Economist Stan Humphries. “This has created real opportunities for rental housing owners and investors, but has also been a bitter pill to swallow for tenants, particularly those on an entry-level salary and those would-be buyers struggling to save for a down payment on a home of their own.” For more information, check out Zillow Research. FREE AppDownload
Saudi Arabia's 91-year-old king, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, is in the hospital for "medical checks" in Riyadh, according to Al Jazeera America.  This isn't super surprising. King Abdullah's health has been deteriorating for quite a while, and his half brother Salman, who is 79 and next in line to the throne, has been representing him at events recently.  But the Saudi succession question brings up real questions about the country's oil policy. It has, so far, refused to cut oil production to stop prices from falling further, preferring to let the market run its course. But that could change at any time, and may very well if there is a transition period related to succession soon. Emad Mostaque at the emerging markets consultancy Ecstrat outlines the basic issue:  Oil prices are now at levels that cause real concern on the streets of Saudi Arabia, with the prospect of succession the icing on top that has caused retail investors to take the market down another leg. This policy may not make it through a succession period, where public support and good will is essential, particularly as it has nearly been 20 years since the last change. The new regent could decide to keep existing policy, change it completely or anything he decides. Similarly he has free reign to realign Saudi Arabia’s foreign policy as he wishes, which is a discussion for another time and place, but could have significant regional impacts. So the health of King Abdullah is definitely something to watch going forward. FREE AppDownload
Don't be the one who doesn't know which beer goes in which glass. Or the person who accidentally serves a whiskey in a Collins glass. Yikes. Insider Picks has put together a handy list of all the tools and glasses you'll need for a home bar.  Impress your colleagues, your friends, and your date. First up, glassware. AmazonLuigi Bormioli Strauss Whisky Rocks Glass There are two ways to serve whiskey: the 'rocks glass' and the snifter. The 'rocks glass' can double for whiskey cocktails, but keep the snifter only for neat drinks. Luigi Bormioli Strauss Whiskey Rocks Glass (Set of 6) $41.41 | Amazon Glencarin Whiskey Glass (Set of 6) $22.95 | Amazon   AmazonLibbey 10-Ounce Preston Martini Glass There are two main groups of cocktail drinks: short and long. Short are generally for the nighttime, and are primarily made of liquor (for example, a Martini.) Long drinks, on the other hand, are the sugar-filled, full of ice, possibly-okay-for-daytime drinks (such as a Tom Collins.) It's good to have both on hand. Libbey 10-ounce Preston Martini Glass (Set of 4) $18.17 | Amazon Stolzle New York Bar 11 Oz Collins Glass (Set of 6) $35.o5 | Amazon   Red and white wines need different glasses. Typically the reds have a larger, wider glass. It's good to have both on hand. Libbey Vina Round Red Wine Goblets (Set of 6) $22.00 | Amazon Libbey Vina Tall Wine Goblet (Set of 6) $24.99 | Amazon   AmazonLibbey 16-Ounce Midtown Pilsner Glass Solo cups were kind of acceptable back when you were guzzling beers at that college mixer, but now it's time to group up and learn the rules. Different beers, different glasses. Here are the ones you should have on hand: Pilsner glasses for light beers such as (surprise, surprise) pilsners and pale lagers. Libbey 16-ounce Midtown Pilsner Glass (Set of 4) $15.85 | Amazon A weissbier glass for wheat beers. Libbey Craft Brews 23-Ounce Clear Wheat Beer Glass (Set of 4) $14.99 | Amazon A glass for your Belgian ales. Libbey Craft Brews 16.6 Ounce Clear Belgian Ale Glass (Set of 4) $14.99 | Amazon And if all else fails, make sure you have the basic pint glass.  ARC International Luminarc Pub Beer Glass, 16 Ounce (Set of 10) $18.69 | Amazon   AmazonPremium Cocktail Shaker Next, you'll need your tools. In order to mix up your drinks, you'll need a cocktail shaker. Stick your ingredients in and shake. Here are two great options that you can get. Premium Cocktail Shaker Set $9.98 | Amazon  Barware Styles Classic and Elegant Stainless Steel 3-Piece Martini and Cocktail Shaker Bar Set $17.97 | Amazon   A cocktail strainer is used to separate ice from a mixed drink as it's poured into a glass (after you mix everything up in the cocktail shaker.) Here are two quality options. Winco Stainless Steel 4-Prong Bar Strainer $4.16 | Amazon Swissmar Stainless Steel Cocktail Strainer $12.00 | Amazon   AmazonOXO Steel Double Jigger In order to get the precise measurements for a drink, you'll need to have a jigger on hand.  OXO Steel Double Jigger $8.95 | Amazon Excellante 1 &amp; 2 Ounce Stainless Steel Jigger $3.91 | Amazon   Amazon11-Inch Stainless Steel Bar Spoon Regular spoons aren't going to reach to the bottom of a cocktail shaker — they're simply not long enough. And that's problematic because sometimes ingredients pool up at the bottom, and you'll need to shake them up. So pick up some bar spoons. Update International 11-Inch Stainless Steel Bar Spoons (Set of 2) $5.79 | Amazon You can also get yourself swizzle sticks to mix up drinks. Bonny Bar Stir Sticks (22 count) $5.68 | Amazon   No bar would be complete with an ice cube tray. Rubbermaid White Ice Cube Tray (Pack of 2) $6.99 | Amazon Tovolo Perfect Cube Ice Trays, Stratus Blue (Pack of 2) $14.12 | Amazon We recommend making spherical ice cubes. The drink will look more elegant — like you ordered it at New York speakeasy. ROX Ice Ball Maker (Makes 4) $9.97 | Amazon   AmazonBellemain Stainless Steel Squeezer And no one wants pulp floating around in their drinks. So if the cocktail you're making uses citrus flavors, we recommend squeezes the fruit with a citrus juicer in order to avoid pulp. Bellemain Stainless Steel Squeezer $18.95 | Amazon   A small knife comes in handy for garnishes and those not-so-easy-to-make cocktails. Cocktail Kingdom Channel Knife $5.95 | Amazon   AmazonSipping Stones, Grey Whisky Chilling Rocks And finally, some other accessories to complete your bar. Chilling stones are a great way to cool drinks without letting them get watered down. Just toss them in your freezer and use as needed. Sipping Stones, Grey Whisky Chilling Rocks (Set of 9) $11.95 | Amazon EZ Drinker Liquor Chilling Stones (Set of 9) | Amazon AmazonPrecision Kitchenware - Luxury Corkscrew and Wine Stopper Set Although champagne is fairly easy to open by hand, wine bottles are a different story. Make sure you always have corkscrew on hand. We recommend the Precision Kitchenware option, which comes with a wine stopper (so you can close the bottle, if you don't finish it.) Precision Kitchenware — Luxury Corkscrew and Wine Stopper Set  $11.95 | Amazon Or if you're particularly tech-y, you can get an electric bottle opener. Plus it's way easier to use. Oster Electric Wine Bottle Opener $19.99 | Amazon  You'll need a muddler to mash up citrus fruits, herbs, and even sugar cubes in a way that it releases extra flavors into a drink.  AmazonDecodybe Cocktail MuddlerDecodyne Cocktail Muddler $6.95 | Amazon Epica Stainless Steel &amp; Gridded Nylon Cocktail Muddler $6.95 | Amazon Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
 The Russian ruble is collapsing, reaching fresh historical lows on a daily basis. At the same time, oil prices are heading even further into the floor — the price of oil is down nearly 50% in the past six months. The currency's fall has crossed the line from a headache to a full-blown crisis. A massive interest hike Monday night from the Central Bank of Russia (to 17% from 10.5%) barely held off the ruble's fall for a couple of hours. It's raising memories of previous collapses in Russia, like the 1998 financial crisis. But for some, it's more like the 1980s oil glut that eventually brought down the Soviet Union. Here's Yegor Gaidar writing for the American Enterprise Institute seven years ago. He was Russia's acting prime minister between 1991 and 1994, years of extreme economic pain for Russia. He describes the starting point of the USSR's collapse: The timeline of the collapse of the Soviet Union can be traced to September 13, 1985. On this date, Sheikh Ahmed Zaki Yamani, the minister of oil of Saudi Arabia, declared that the monarchy had decided to alter its oil policy radically. The Saudis stopped protecting oil prices, and Saudi Arabia quickly regained its share in the world market. During the next six months, oil production in Saudi Arabia increased fourfold, while oil prices collapsed by approximately the same amount in real terms. Sound familiar? It should. OPEC, the group of oil-producing nations, failed to agree to a cut in output (the usual response to falling prices) this November. Statements from the Saudi oil minister and other officials have suggested that the country, and the other gulf states, are happy to let prices slide. That leaves countries like Russia in a perilous position.  In the late 1980s, the Soviet Union was forced into an embarrassing scramble for money. It tried to make deals with numerous banks, but the funding offered was far smaller than what the country required. Food shortages worsened, and Moscow needed the help of governments in the West, for which the USSR effectively had to allow Eastern European countries to assert independence.  Writing in 2007, Gaidar warned against the consensus that oil prices would stay high: What lessons can we learn from the Soviet collapse and apply to the current situation in Russia? First, we must remember that Russia today is an oil-dependent economy. No one can accurately predict the fluctuations of oil prices. The collapse of the Soviet Union should serve as a lesson to those who construct policy based on the assumption that oil prices will remain perpetually high. It would seem that in our country, which has lived through the collapse of the late 1980s and early 1990s, this fact would be evident. But as soon as the prices went up again at the beginning of 2000 and in 2004 became comparable in real terms to those at the beginning of the 1980s, the idea that “high oil revenues are forever” has gained an even wider acceptance. Russia today isn't the same top-down, command-and-control economy that it was in the 1980s, but the dynamic hasn't changed entirely. The country is still hugely dependent on oil, particularly in terms of tax revenues and exports. And Gaidar thinks the collapse of the Soviet Union is still relevant for modern Russia: One more lesson that is relevant for Russian politics today is that authoritarian regimes, although displaying a façade of strength, are fragile in crisis. In conditions of relative stability, society is prepared to tolerate the lack of real elections. People are prepared to come to terms with this situation as an inevitable and habitual evil. But they will do so only until the country encounters a serious challenge, requiring decisive and tough measures in order to adapt to unfavourable conditions. Russian banks are watching their share prices go through the floor Tuesday. The Soviet Union may be over, but the falling oil price still poses a debt challenge for Russia. This time, its banks are more likely to take the heat.   
These are your unoriginal regurgitated New Year’s resolutions. And they are getting pretty tiresome, especially considering the vast majority of you never fulfill them, choosing instead to wallow in the banality of your own existence, and roll them over again next year. "Hey fat ass, I already know what your New Year's resolution is." So stop telling yourself that you are going to take the stairs, cut back on the $6 Starbucks lattes, or park as far away from the Whole Foods entrance as you can, and just follow my advice… 1. Take a vow of silence. Join CrossFit. Do P90X. Detox in January. Become a vegan. Sell your TV.  Train for a marathon. Start the Paleo diet. Go for any or all of these, but please shut the f--k up about it. “No one would run a marathon if they had to sign a confidentiality agreement first." 2. Read more. Yes, that’s a permanent boring fixture on most people’s lists, but this year, be more specific and realistic. Make a list of 10 books to read, a healthy mix of fiction and non-fiction. Throw in a couple of classics that you’re embarrassed you never read in college. Purchase the hardcover copies, and keep them as a small trophy of your accomplishment. The Economist puts together a great “Books of the Year” list, but I’ll get you started with “The Private Life of Chairman Mao.” “Reading allows you to borrow someone else’s brain, and will make you more interesting at a dinner party.” 3. Befriend a World War II veteran. Spend time with him. Talk to him. Because there aren’t too many of them left. I certainly regret not helping the red-coated Chelsea Pensioners with their Tesco’s bags down the King’s Road. 4. Wash your hands more frequently. An actual study has shown that the average New Yorker indirectly touches 24 penises per day, and twice as many if they work at 1585 Broadway. 5. Take an online course. Why continue talking hollowly about self-improvement when leading colleges and graduate schools, including Duke, Wharton, and MIT, are investing significant resources into free education. Ironically, statistics have shown that it tends to be the better-educated and wealthier who take advantage of this.  But, who among us couldn’t benefit from knowing more about accounting, marketing, child psychology, or real estate and contract law? 6. Watch "The Sopranos" from start to finish. Even if you’ve already seen it. 7. Freshen up the starting lineup in your wardrobe. Go get 2 new suits, 10 dress shirts, 2 pairs of jeans, 2 pairs of shoes, and 50 pairs of socks. Maybe this guide will help. Why? For the same reason that Michael Jordan wore a brand-new pair of shoes every single game. 8. Avoid extreme and unrealistic health pledges. Eat right, exercise sensibly, and drink mostly in moderation; it’s not rocket science. “A guy came up to me at the gym and asked me what event I was training so hard for. Life, motherf--ker.” 9. Drink more green tea. Add manuka honey and some fresh ginger. 10. Skip the dramatic savings scheme. Don’t go crazy with unrealistic goals about how much you’re going to save this year. Keep it simple; spend less than you make, and save up for the big-ticket items until you can afford them. There’s no need for an extreme savings plan, so be sensible… but don’t forget to enjoy your expendable income. “There’s no point in a $50 million funeral or a $25 million divorce.” 11. Read my guide on “How To Be A Man.” Over two million people already have. Ladies, let me know what you think… 12. Write down your goals. Most people never fulfill their resolutions, but the people who write them down have a proven higher success rate. Take it a step further and make a list of what you want to accomplish each day, week, and month. Just write them down and check them off the old-fashioned way. And tell Mr. There’s-an-App-for-that to go f--k himself. "I'm gonna open a gym that turns into a bar after January.” 13. Go get a comprehensive health exam. Make your partner get one too. 14. Put your phone away at dinner.   "Checking your phone after someone else pulls out their phone is the yawn of our generation.” 15. Laugh more. That means: socialize more often, drink more, have long lazy brunches, throw parties, host drunken game nights. Be spontaneous… Upgrade your friends if necessary. “Most people wouldn't even be the main character in a movie about their own lives.” 16. Don’t just rely on the gym. Remember that feeling of playing a competitive sport as a kid, when you’re on the field, and not thinking about anything else. Most of us have forgotten what that feels like. So join a team or find someone to play tennis with. 17. Drink more. I’m not contradicting myself from earlier… If you’re healthy, eating well, and exercising, then your body can handle a few more drinks every now and then. There is nothing wrong with the occasional black out, and you’re just going to lie to your doctor anyway. “At most, maybe 15 to 17 units per week, doc.” “The 1st bottle is for health, the 2nd for love, and the 3rd for sleep.” – Eubulus, 350 BC 18. Help a pet get adopted, if for no other reason than to prove that you can. I’ll get it started with Spirit and Peony currently residing at the North Shore Animal League shelter in Port Washington, New York. (Tweet me; I’ll pay for the adoption fees.) “WASPs kiss their wives on the forehead and their dogs on the mouth.” 19. Get a regular foot massage. A dark room. No TV. No loud voices. It’s the most peaceful and productive 75 minutes I have every week. I go on Saturdays with the Weekend FT and The Economist. 20. Stay in on New Year's Eve. It’s amateur night and it rarely lives up to your expectations anyhow. Get dressed up, strap on the Patek, go out for some Per Se gnocchi and get drunk on Krug? That sounds like my Tuesdays. This year, stay in… And then start January 1st early and productively. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Paul AnalogPending home sales rebounded in November, rising 0.8% after October's 1.1% decline. Expectations were for the report to show pending home sales rose 0.5%. Compared to a year ago, pending home sales rose 4.1%, beating expectations for a 3.6% increase. In October, pending home sales rose 2.2% year-on-year. Following the report, Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors, says signed contracts inched forward in November and have been fairly stable but haven't broken out even as the economy picked up steam this spring.  "The consistent economic growth and steady hiring we've seen the second half of this year is giving buyers enough assurance to consider purchasing a home before year's end," Yun said.  "With rents now rising at a seven-year high, historically low rates and moderating price growth are likely to entice more buyers to enter the market in upcoming months." Yun added that the decline in gas prices is likely to boost consumer confidence and allow prospective buyers to save additional money for a downpayment. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Darren McCollester/Getty ImagesMidwest manufacturing cooled off a bit in December. The latest Chicago PMI report came in at 58.3, falling short of expectations and falling to a five-month low for the index. Expectations were for the report to come in at 60.0, down slightly from November's 60.8 reading. Any reading for the index above 50 indicates expansion and any reading below indicates contraction. "The Chicago Business Barometer fell 2.5 points to a five month low of 58.3 in December as production and both ordering components expanded at the slowest pace since July," the report from ISM Chicago said.  "The slowdown in the pace of activity exhibited since October’s one year high of 66.2 has been marked, although the Barometer averaged 61.8 in Q4, a little higher than the 59.1 seen in Q3. For 2014 as a whole the Barometer put in the best performance in three years, averaging 60.8 compared with 56.1 in 2013 and 54.6 in 2012." Commenting on the Chicago Report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist of MNI Indicators said, "It was a disappointing end to to the year with the pulse rate of our business panel slowing noticeably in December. The trend, however, remains solid and consistent with continued growth in the US economy."  FREE AppDownload
China's slowdown has been a huge economic story in 2014. Even the latest data confirm that the Chinese growth is decelerating: the manufacturing sector is contracting and the housing market is cooling fast. Jason Lee/Reuters But to get a better sense of the big picture, it's good to take a look at the year as a whole. Bloomberg's Tom Orlik tweeted seven charts that reflect what's been going on in China over the last year, and what the future implications might be. From falling property sales to monetary conditions staying tight to a booming stock market — check them out: China 2014 in 7 charts (1/7). Surprise fall in yuan opens path to exchange rate liberalization pic.twitter.com/LYtqbdyHvc China 2014 in 7 charts (2/7). Falling property sales threaten to kick away foundation of growth pic.twitter.com/DIL2OychkF China 2014 in 7 charts (3/7): Policy makers resist siren song of stimulus - monetary conditions stay tight pic.twitter.com/2quCVaQGjV China 2014 in 7 charts (4/7): Beijing can brag on rebalancing - 'old' economy crumbles, 'new' economy robust pic.twitter.com/80GUeSOzrk China 2014 in 7 charts (5/7): Rising real borrowing costs prompt rate cut pic.twitter.com/R2tbLikJwq China 2014 in 7 charts (6/7): Equity markets cheer rate cut, despite zero impact on expected growth pic.twitter.com/0uyzhKu6Tr China 2014 in 7 charts (7/7): Still to do in 2015 - delever pic.twitter.com/L8J0tVtTM1 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Art CashinHappy (almost) New Year! Wednesday is the final day of 2014 and the final trading day of the year, which means that New York Stock Exchange legend Art Cashin — who on Tuesday celebrated 50 (!!) years on the exchange floor — publishes his year-end poem. Last week, we featured Cashin's Christmas poem, and now a week later we close out 2014 with another bit of poetry from a stock exchange institution. 'Tis the day before New Year’sand despite what you’re hopin’The folks in the Boardroomsay “the full day we’re open”So we'll buy and we'll sellas the tape crawls alongAnd though "Bubbly's" verbotenwe may still sing a songTwo Thousand Fourteenwas okay, not really a wowTill a Santa Claus rallytook us through Eighteen ThouWe lost special peopleas we seem to each yearIt just makes us treasureeach one that’s still hereRobin Williams, so manicsnuffed out his own lightMickey Rooney's gone alsointo Dylan's Good NightJoan Rivers departedwhen a doctor slipped upAnd Sid Caesar now sipsfrom a heavenly cupJames Garner, "Bret Maverick"has played his last handPolly Bergen now singsin an Angelic bandEli Wallach needs no badgeshe's got wings, I've a hunchElaine Stritch found a new placenow with cherubs she'll lunchHurricane Carterhas thrown his last punchAnn B. Davis as "Alice"no longer waits on the "Bunch"Bacall, who could whistletook her last curtain callPhilip Seymour Hoffmanis now just down the hallCasey Kasem's now listingTop 40 harp songsMayor Barry departedmoving on past his wrongsMike Nichols graduatedto Mrs. Robinson's placeRuby Dee now alsofills heaven with graceBen Bradlee followed Nixonfor one final timeMaya Angelou tells St. Peterher favorite new rhymeOscar De La Rentadesigned his last gown"Adam Smith" (Jerry Goodman) he has also left townThe threat of Ebolamade everyone fear'So Time made health workerstheir Man of the YearKim K bared her assetsglossed up till they shoneBut most folks on the net shruggedand left the whole thing aloneSome guy near the White Househopped up over the wallAnd since the door was unlockedhe just strolled down the hallThe ice bucket challengemade some hairdos a messBut it raised lots of moneyto help fight ALSIn their Little League Seriesone kid pitched a pearlAs a young lady showed ushow to "throw like a girl"Polar Vortex froze businessThe year started out roughBut when we got defrostedthings seemed to go well enoughThere were shootings, then lootingsthings kept turning bizarreUntil a mad man came Northto shoot two cops in a carWe saw ISIS beheadingsand car bombs galoreSadly, three different airlinersgot half way but no moreBrad wed Angelinaand George Clooney - AmalBut some folks like Don Sterlingcould not find any palThere were midterm electionsThe GOP did quite wellWill that help them to govern?It's way too early to tellSony thought it terrificand they'd have lots of funIf they made a joke moviein which they killed Kim Jung UnDerek Jeter retiredone game at a timeIn most states, gay marriageis no longer a crimeThe NFL fumbledon domestic abuseWe didn't see the whole tapewas their only excuseRolling Stone ran a storythat they later withdrewAnd more women blamed Cosbysaying the press really knewGwyneth Paltrow "decoupled"Taylor Swift told streamers "No!"In the kid's movie FrozenElsa sang "Let it go"Let not this year's memoriesof sadness or sleazeDisturb you this dayjust give your heart easeHave faith that this New Yearwill bring a new signAnd believe in yourselfit will all work out fineJust lift up your spiritsand some fruit of the vineAnd kiss ye a loved oneand sing Auld Lange SyneAnd late in the eveningas you watch the ball fallWish yourself all the bestHappy New Year to All!! FREE AppDownload
Initial jobless claims finished the year on a so-so note. Claims totaled 298,000 last week, up from last week's 280,000 and worse than expectations for 290,000. Last week's number was also revised up slightly to 281,000. Following the report, economists at BNP Paribas said the four-week moving average in claims remains at low levels — 290,750 — which is consistent with an improving labor market. Initial claims still had a huge year, with 2014's first claims report coming in at 333,000 and claims trending downwards for most of the year. As our regular readers know, claims are usually a Thursday morning event, but due to tomorrow's New Year's Day holiday and last week's Christmas holiday, we've closed the year with two rescheduled reports. Next week, we'll be back on schedule to start 2015 right. Here's 2014 in initial claims. FRED FREE AppDownload
DLDNot everyone is gung-ho about making New Year's resolutions on the 31st of December. Some struggle with coming up with goals, while others simply denounce the tradition. But not Nassim Taleb. The famed "Black Swan" tweeted a first draft of his resolutions for 2015. Here's what he wrote (retyped exactly as tweeted): We'd like to reemphasize that this is only a first draft. There could be changes in the final version. FREE AppDownload
In 2014, developers from around the world unveiled new robots designed to interact more closely with humans.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
It's time again for my weekly gasoline update based on data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). Rounded to the penny Regular and Premium both dropped 10 cents. Regular is at its lowest price since May 2009. According to GasBuddy.com, Hawaii has the highest average price at $3.51. The highest continental average price is in New York at $2.99. Missouri has the cheapest Regular at $1.92. How far are we from the interim high prices of 2011 and the all-time highs of 2008? Here's a visual answer.  Click for a larger image The next chart is a weekly chart overlay of West Texas Intermediate Crude, Brent Crude and unleaded gasoline end-of-day spot prices (GASO). WTIC closed today at 53.61, down 1.7 from a week ago and down an astonishing 52.8% since its interim weekly high in May 2011.  The volatility in crude oil and gasoline prices has been clearly reflected in recent years in both the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE). For additional perspective on how energy prices are factored into the CPI, see What Inflation Means to You: Inside the Consumer Price Index.  Click for a larger image The chart below offers a comparison of the broader aggregate category of energy inflation since 2000, based on categories within Consumer Price Index (commentary here).  Click for a larger image Here are some additional commentaries related to gasoline prices: This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan FundsThe earlier you begin saving, the better off you'll be. We have a resolution for every 20-something in America who isn't saving for retirement: start saving now. Because, with each day you wait to start saving, the difficulty of hitting your retirement goals literally compounds. Literally. In the good old days, young Americans went to work for an employer who would promise a comfortable retirement in the form of a pension plan — that is, a defined-benefit plan. Today, it's increasingly become the responsibility of the worker to put money away for retirement in the form of a 401(k) plan or an IRA — that is, a defined-contribution plan. The goal of this post is not to explain the mechanics of retirement plans. Rather, we want to show you the importance of beginning to save sooner rather than later. It all comes down to one elementary mathematical principle: compound interest. Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself. It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball. This is why it's the concept that is at the core of all finance. The folks at JPMorgan Asset Management demonstrate the true power of compound interest in their 2014 "Guide to Retirement." Their example consists of three people who experience the same annual return on their retirement funds: Intuitively, it makes sense that Chris would end up with the most money. But the amount he has saved is astronomically larger than the amounts saved by Susan or Bill. Interestingly, Susan, who saved for just 10 years, has more wealth than Bill, who saved for 30 years. That discrepancy is explained by compound interest. You see, all of the investment returns that Susan earned in her 10 years of saving are snowballing — big time. Those returns accrue to the point that Bill can't catch up, even if he saves for an additional 20 years. Of course, if Susan saved like Chris ... well, if you haven't noticed, Chris' savings are equal to the savings of Bill and Susan combined. The longer you wait to start saving for retirement, the more you miss out on the benefits of the incredible power of compound interest. Here's the chart, in slide form, from JP Morgan Asset Management. JP Morgan Asset Management     
Russia has said annual inflation hit 11.4pc in 2014, the highest level since the financial crisis of 2008. The sliding rouble — hit by lower oil prices and Western sanctions — has significantly pushed up prices, with food up by 15.4pc for the year, the state statistics service said. Inflation crept up 2.6pc in December, a month when the ruble experienced a dramatic crash on December 18, falling by 20pc in a single day and triggering fears of a full-blown bank run. The currency has stabilised over the past week between 50 and 60 roubles to the dollar - more than 40pc weaker than at the beginning of the year. Russia's inflation in 2013 was 6.5pc. The economy — sluggish for the past two years — was dealt a double blow this year as oil prices reached a five-year low and Western countries imposed sanctions over Moscow's involvement in the conflict in Ukraine, cutting off Russia's banking system from foreign lending. As a result, the economy shrank in November for the first time in five years, and is expected to enter recession in the first quarter of 2015. Russians' real earnings also fell. Officials expect the economy to shrink by 4pc next year if oil trades at $60 a barrel. The rouble's decline has sparked fears about Russian companies and their ability to service billions of dollar-denominated debt, while the Russian central bank has raised interest rates to 17pc, sacrificing growth in order to protect the currency. Mr Putin this month conceded tough times were ahead and did not issue any roadmap for recovery, merely saying that the economy will rebound by 2017 in line with global trends. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew NellesA partially collapsed wall at the Morton Salt facility gave way to tons of salt being dumped onto parked cars at an adjacent car dealership in Chicago, Illinois, December 30, 2014. Good morning! Here are the major stories in markets you should know about today. China Is Slowing. China's HSBC manufacturing PMI fell to 49.6 in December from 50.0 in November. This was just marginally higher than the flash (preliminary) reading of 49.5. This was the first sub-50 reading since May, and any reading below signals contraction. German Minister Jorg Asmussen Has Been Meeting With Syriza Figures In Greece. German chancellor Angela Merkel has been preparing for weeks for a new, radical left-wing government in Athens, according to the Italian newspaper La Stampa. Labour minister and former ECB board member Jorg Asmussen has been visiting Athens for talks with the coalition. And Greece's Prime Minister Says Greece's Future In Europe Rests On The Upcoming Election. Greece's prime minister, Antonis Samaras, warned Tuesday the financially-stricken nation may be forced out of the eurozone if January's parliamentary election hands hard-left party Syriza power to reverse years of austerity measures. Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah Has Been Hospitalized. "Saudi King Abdullah has been admitted to a hospital in the capital Riyadh where he is undergoing medical tests, state media reported on Wednesday, citing a royal court statement," Reuters reported. He's 91 years old. Markets Are Mixed. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is flat, France's CAC 40 is up 0.6%, and Spain's IBEX is down 0.1%. Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.57%, ending the year 8.91% higher than it began in January 2014. US futures are up a hair with Dow futures up 8 points and S&amp;P futures up 2.4 points. Initial Jobless Claims Are Coming. It's a light day for economic data, but US figures on official jobless claims in the week to December 19 are out at 8.30 p.m. ET. Economists are expecting 290,000 initial applications for unemployment benefits. Chicago Purchasing Managers Index Is Coming. This regional activity index will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this activity index fell to 60.0 in December from 60.8 in November. "The Chicago business barometer index has been volatile recently, but has remained over 60 for the past four releases," Nomura economists noted. "The new orders and order backlog sub-indexes remained elevated in November, providing support for future activity." Home Sales Data Is Coming. We'll get the November pending home sales report at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate pending sales climbed by 0.5% in November. "MBA applications for purchase rose 4.5% m/m in November, and the NAHB buyer traffic measure rose to 45 (from 41), both indicating a rise in pending home sales on the month," Barclays economists said. Regional Fed President Naranya Kocherlakota Says The US Deflation Risk Is Serious. The chance of US inflation falling below 1% in 2015 is at a five-year high, and the risk of deflation is growing more likely, an analysis of market data released by Kocherlakota and the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank showed. Venezuela Is Plunging Even Deeper Into Recession. Venezuela's economy saw its third consecutive quarter of contraction, with a 2.3% drop in output during the three months to September. The oil-producing nation is also recording dramatic official inflation of close to 5% per month. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGreece's Prime Minister Samaras leaves the Presidential Mansion after a meeting with Greek President Papoulias in AthensATHENS (Reuters) - Greece formally dissolved parliament on Wednesday ahead of a general election on Jan. 25 that has cast its international bailout into doubt and set financial markets on edge just as the euro zone grapples with renewed signs of weakness. The traditional decree calling new elections was posted on the door to parliament two days after lawmakers rejected Prime Minister Antonis Samaras' candidate for president, automatically triggering a return to the polls. The Jan. 25 vote will mark a showdown between Samaras' conservative New Democracy party, which imposed unpopular budget cuts under Greece's bailout deal, and the leftwing Syriza party of Alexis Tsipras, who wants to cancel austerity measures along with a chunk of Greek debt. Opinion polls show Syriza holding a lead over New Democracy, although its margin has narrowed to about three percentage points in the run-up to the vote. However weakness among the small parties that either Syriza or New Democracy would need to form a stable coalition has also added to the uncertainty and raised the possibility that the next government may not survive long. Tsipras, who says he wants to keep Greece in the euro, has sought to present a more moderate face to financial markets and reassure voters that a Syriza-led government would not raid their bank accounts. But the potential arrival of a government openly opposed to the international bailout keeping Athens from bankruptcy has fueled a nervy mood on financial markets, even if the impact has been more limited than in past crises. In a note on Tuesday, ratings agency Fitch said the new elections added to the credit risk surrounding Greece, creating political and policy uncertainty likely to persist for months. Officials from the European Union and International Monetary Fund bailout "troika" had been due to resume negotiations in Athens next month to agree disbursement of a final 7.2 billion euro tranche as well as a post-bailout credit line. However the IMF said this week that negotiations would only begin once a new government is in place and noted that Greece had no immediate funding needs. Even before the election, there were signs Samaras' ruling coalition had been slipping behind on its reform targets and the prospect of a closely fought election will increase resistance to promised measures including privatizations and job cuts in the public service.   (Writing by James Mackenzie; Editing by Dominic Evans) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSaudi King Abdullah sits before a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Kerry at the Royal Palace in Jeddah.DUBAI (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia's elderly King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz was admitted to a hospital in Riyadh on Wednesday for medical tests, state media reported on Wednesday, citing a royal court statement. King Abdullah, who took power in 2005 after the death of his brother King Fahd, is thought to be 91, although official accounts are unclear. He has undergone surgery in the past few years related to a herniated disc. Saudi stocks dipped on the news, which will also be of wider interest as Saudi Arabia is the world's largest oil exporter and the top U.S. ally in the Gulf region. Global oil prices did not appear to be immediately affected. "The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, may God keep him, entered today, Wednesday, ... the King Abdulaziz Medical City of the National Guard in Riyadh to undergo some medical tests," the statement said, according to state news agency SPA. Saudi Arabia's stock market, which was already down more than 1 percent due to sliding oil prices, droped to 5 percent lower in the minutes after the news. It later recovered slightly to be 3 percent lower. Abdullah named his half-brother, Prince Salman, 13 years his junior, heir apparent in June 2012 after the death of Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz. Earlier this year he appointed Prince Muqrin bin Abdulaziz as deputy crown prince, giving some assurance on the kingdom's long-term succession process. In November 2012, the king underwent an 11-hour operation at the same Riyadh hospital. He had a similar operation in October 2011 and had back surgery twice in the United States in 2010 for a herniated disc, spending three months outside Saudi Arabia recuperating. (Writing by Yara Bayoumy; Editing by Sami Aboudi and Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettGoldman's top 121 employees are raking in an average of $4.72 million (£3.03 million).If you want to earn a lot of money with a US bank in the City of London, newly-released figures published by Bloomberg suggest you should be looking for a job at Goldman Sachs. Filings for 2013 show that Goldman's highest-paid 121 staff get an average of $4.72 million (£3.03 million) each. These code staff (senior decision-makers) got paid an average of £1.8 million just two years earlier, according to the Guardian. That's a pay rise of 83.5% in two years. Who says there's no wage growth? Other major US banks pay their top staff barely half Goldman's 2013 figure. Bank of America;s top 110 staff earn $2.54 million on average, and Morgan Stanley's earn $2.39 million. JP Morgan's most senior workers take home $2.37 million and Citigroup's earn $2.13 million. The banks are now required to release the pay details of these code staff under a EU ruling, which only goes back to 2011. But it's quite clear that in the past couple of years at least, life has gotten a lot more comfortable for people at the very top of Goldman Sachs' European operation. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIMF Managing Director Lagarde speaks to the media in LimaROME (Reuters) - Accommodative monetary policy will remain necessary for as long as global growth remains weak, IMF managing director Christine Lagarde said in a newspaper article published on Wednesday. With the global economy in a fragile state, central banks from Europe to China have cut interest rates in 2014, and the possibility of printing money to buy government bonds looms large in some places. "Accommodative monetary policy will continue to be necessary while growth remains anemic, although we must pay very close attention to the risk of potential spillover," Lagarde wrote in an opinion piece for Italian business daily Il Sole 24 Ore. Six years after the 2008 financial crisis, the global economy risks falling into a prolonged period of slow growth and scant job creation, Lagarde said, calling for fresh political impetus to activate measures agreed by G20 countries last month. Lagarde said progress had been made in regulating financial services but that countries must now pursue reforms and improve banking supervision. She called for tighter control over "shadow banking", or non-bank credit and off-balance sheet bank lending, and said more effort was needed to "fill the shortfall" of data on the financial sector and allow for better regulation. To rebuild public trust, the financial sector needs to change culturally and "behave ethically", Lagarde said. A boost to global trade could help unlock investment in 2015, she added, saying she was confident that a worldwide agreement on climate change is possible by the end of the year.  (Reporting by Isla Binnie; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockBig Ben, London, on New Year's Eve 2013. European markets are up a little this morning, on the last day of the year. They're all closed tomorrow for New Year's Day.  Here's the scorecard:  France's CAC 40: +0.54%, up 2.4% in 2014 Germany's DAX: Closed, up 2.65% in 2014 UK's FTSE 100: +0.31%, up 1% in 2014 Spain's IBEX: +0.10%, up 8.6% in 2014 Italy's FTSE MIB: Closed, up 3% in 2014 Asian markets closed mixed. Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.57%, ending the year 8.91% higher than it began in January 2014. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.44%, 5.31% higher than it was in January. China's Shanghai Composite is up another 2.18%, rising by 57.95% in 2014. US futures are ticking a little higher. The Dow is currently up 20 points, while the S&amp;P 500 is four points higher than Tuesday's close.  It's a light day for economic data, but US figures on official jobless claims in the week to December 19 are out at 1.30 p.m. GMT. Economists are expecting 290,000 initial applications for unemployment benefits. FREE AppDownload
HONG KONG (Reuters) - When Xi Jinping wanted to deliver a political message to Hong Kong as protesters demanding free elections were threatening to take to the streets, he summoned the tycoons who dominate the city’s economy. The words from the Chinese leader at the September 22 meeting in Beijing were uncompromising but not surprising. He would not entertain any demand for full universal suffrage in Hong Kong, according to two people who attended. Just six days later, pro-democracy activists made good on their threat, unleashing more than two months of street demonstrations. But while Xi’s message that day in the Great Hall of the People failed to deter the protesters, in speaking directly to the city’s business and professional elite he was showing where Beijing believes real power in Hong Kong resides. And it is here, in the city’s business sector, that China is inexorably tightening its grip on the former British colony. Even as Beijing struggles to tame Hong Kong politically, Chinese companies are consuming ever bigger chunks of the city’s key sectors including real estate, finance, power, construction and the stock market. Many of these industries have for decades been dominated by the business titans who attended the meeting with Xi. Men like Li Ka-shing, Asia’s richest man, casino and hospitality billionaire Lui Che-woo and palm oil magnate Robert Kuok. Now they are witnessing a mainland business invasion of the city. One of the most telling signs of change is the space mainland Chinese companies lease in Central district, the heart of Hong Kong’s financial center. These firms now account for over 50 per cent of new leases signed for offices there, according to a September report from Hong Kong-based brokerage CLSA. That’s up from 20 percent in 2012, the report said. The trend is the same in all major business districts. Mainland occupancy of 25 key Grade A office buildings, or prime office space, in the districts of Central, Admiralty, Sheung Wan and Wan Chai increased from 13 percent in 2008 to 21 percent earlier this year, according to commercial real estate services firm CBRE. “We do expect more mainland financial firms moving into Hong Kong,” said Simon Smith, senior director of research and consultancy at real estate services provider Savills Plc in Hong Kong. “They like landmark properties, high-profile buildings. They often like naming rights if it’s available.” The office directory at Hong Kong’s 88-floor International Finance Center has a growing number of mainland companies on the list. Among them is China Development Bank International Holdings Ltd, which held its opening ceremony in 2011 and serves as the offshore investment firm of China Development Bank, the country’s biggest policy lender. “If you go to the International Finance Center now and compare it to five years ago, it’s very easy to see that there are many more Chinese enterprises represented,” property analyst Nicole Wong, an author of the CLSA report, told Reuters. In a market accustomed to stratospheric land prices, state-owned Chinese developers this year stunned long-established local property giants with winning bids exceeding auction forecasts by up to 20 per cent. Of the six available plots sold since the middle of last year in Kai Tak district, one of Hong Kong’s largest developments of residential and commercial complexes, two went to China Overseas Land &amp; Investment (COLI) and one to Poly Property Group. “Price is not an issue for them,” said a former senior executive of a Hong Kong-listed developer who was responsible for bidding at land auctions before he left the company in June. “That’s why they offered prices that surprised everyone.” A spokesperson for Poly said the company had no comment. COLI did not respond to questions sent by email. While it was predictable business ties would expand after the 1997 handover, Beijing has made it clear that economic integration is central to reinforcing its sovereignty over Hong Kong, which is ruled under the one country, two systems model that affords the city’s 7.2 million residents broad personal freedoms. Part of Beijing’s vision is to draw Hong Kong into a Pearl River Delta mega-economy that would also include the giant southern Chinese cities of Shenzhen and Guangzhou just across the border. In 2011, a chapter was dedicated to Hong Kong for the first time in China’s five-year blueprint for national economic development. The 12th Five-Year plan, covering the years from 2011 to 2015, lays out how Beijing wants to connect Hong Kong with the Pearl River Delta’s increasingly prosperous middle class consumers. Under the plan, Hong Kong would be a leader for the region in shipping, trade, services and distribution. In finance, Hong Kong would serve as an offshore market for the mainland currency, the renminbi. New transport links from Hong Kong now under construction, including a high speed rail to Guangzhou and a bridge across the Pearl River Delta to the mainland city of Zhuhai near Macau, would allow the rapid movement of commuters and visitors. “It will be like New York where you have people working in Manhattan and living on Long Island or in New Jersey and commuting in to work every day,” said Hong Kong entrepreneur Allan Zeman, who developed the Lan Kwai Fong pub and restaurant area popular with expatriates. “People who can't have a home here (in Hong Kong) will live in Shenzhen and be able to come here in 10 minutes.” The mainland’s construction behemoths, including state-owned China State Construction International Holdings Ltd, are also grabbing market share. Hong Kong’s permanent secretary for Development (Works), Wai Chi-sing, said in an interview that while mainland firms accounted for less than 15 percent of public works contracts by value in the mid 1990s, they now accounted for more than a third. While mainland Chinese companies are rapidly expanding into Hong Kong, Western banking and financial institutions still have a strong presence in the city. Global bank HSBC Holdings Plc, for instance, employed more than 28,000 people in Hong Kong at the end of 2013. For Beijing, growing economic clout has not been mirrored by increased popular support. Frustrated by Hong Kong residents’ lack of identification with the mainland 17 years after the handover, China has at times resorted to covert means to bolster its control. Earlier this month, for instance, Reuters reported that retired Hong Kong policemen were part of a mainland-led surveillance operation to tail leading pro-democracy figures in the city. Although the street protests ultimately petered out, at their height they drew tens of thousands, presenting Xi Jinping with his most serious popular challenge since he took power two years ago. While the protesters have demanded full universal suffrage, the mainland authorities insist that only a handful of Beijing-vetted candidates can stand in the next elections for the city’s political leader in 2017. Hong Kong's current chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, got the backing of Xi and Premier Li Keqiang during a visit to Beijing last Friday, according to reports in China’s state-run media. The Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office in Beijing and Leung’s office did not respond to questions sent by Reuters. Rather than foster understanding, growing economic integration has at times raised tensions. One source of friction is the real estate market where wealthy mainland Chinese have bought up property in Hong Kong, helping to push up home prices that are already out of reach for many of the city’s residents. “One might have assumed that the inflow of mainland money and companies and people here, and the favorable economic policies of the mainland should have increased emotional integration rather than just economic integration but it hasn’t,” said David Zweig, chair professor of social science at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. “For the rich people here, the heart has followed the dollar but for the middle class and for students it hasn’t.” That’s been evident, at times, on the streets of Hong Kong. While the growing influx of mainland tourists has been good news for the city’s retailers – the number of Chinese visitors catapulted from 28 million in 2011 to 40.7 million last year – interactions between mainlanders and Hong Kong residents are not always amicable. In one incident that made headlines earlier this year, locals got into a scuffle with a mainland couple who had allowed their toddler to urinate in the street. “Hong Kong without the mainlanders would be a very small city,” says Allan Zeman, explaining the business elite’s attitude to the growth in tourism. “Ocean Park and Disney without the mainlanders would be nowhere. They'd be losing money.” Zeman developed Ocean Park, one of the city’s main amusement parks. When Xi met the delegation of tycoons and professionals on the eve of the demonstrations, he gave no indication he was worried, according to one delegation member who gave Reuters an account of the Chinese leader’s remarks. Instead, Xi appeared to signal that the city’s troubles were relatively minor compared to other problems in his in-tray. Before commenting on Hong Kong, Xi gave some of the richest men on earth a tour of China’s foreign policy challenges. He told the tycoons that China was now a major force in the world and most of his attention would be focused on ties with bigger nations including the U.S. and Russia, the delegate said. When he eventually turned to Hong Kong, Xi said Beijing had no intention of altering any of its policies and urged the tycoons to support the city’s chief executive. He also said the Hong Kong economy was falling behind those of Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea. Li Ka-shing, Lui Che-woo and Robert Kuok, three of the tycoons who were part of the delegation that met Xi, did not respond to questions from Reuters. AP Photo/Wally SantanaA police officer tries to hold back pro-democracy student protesters during a clash local residents in Mong Kok, Hong Kong, Saturday, Oct. 4, 2014. In an interview earlier this month, another delegate, former Hong Kong Law Society president Ambrose Lam said Xi had ruled out any departure from the guidelines already laid out for the city’s political future. Without citing the Chinese leader directly, Lam said he didn’t think the protests were a big issue for the Chinese leadership. It would have been different, he said, if they had happened 30 years ago when Hong Kong’s economy was more important to China. But the city’s gross domestic product is now only 3 percent of China’s, he added. At the time of the handover in 1997, it was almost a fifth. Still, summoning the city’s business leaders suggests Beijing may be more concerned than it is prepared to acknowledge. The city’s business leaders were also called to the capital in the aftermath of a 500,000-strong protest in 2003 when China attempted to introduce controversial new security laws. The proposed laws were withdrawn and the then chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa, was eventually forced to resign. As the mainland ponders how to contain demands for political change, its economic footprint in Hong Kong continues to expand. In retail banking, subsidiaries of mainland banks operate nearly 500 branches in Hong Kong, accounting for about 40 per cent of the total number of branches, according to figures from SNL Financial, a financial service research company. Hong Kong’s financial system has also become more intertwined with the mainland, especially as it has emerged as the premier hub for offshore renminbi business. The market in so-called dim sum bonds, bonds denominated in renminbi but issued outside the mainland, is rapidly closing on its Hong Kong dollar counterpart. The bonds, named after a popular Hong Kong cuisine, were first issued in 2007. Since then, the outstanding value of dim sum bonds has soared to around 700 billion renminbi, according to industry estimates. That’s nearly 60 per cent of the value of Hong Kong dollar bonds, according to data compiled by the Asian Development Bank. And mainland companies have long been making inroads into the local stock market. They now account for 54 percent of the companies traded on the Hang Seng Index. As part of Beijing’s plan for the Pearl River Delta, Guangdong and Hong Kong will seek to integrate their transport, energy and power grid infrastructure. For its part, the Hong Kong government is pushing to boost electricity imports from mainland China to reduce pollution and the dominance of two local utilities backed by powerful families, say industry experts who have been involved in consultations with the government. Hong Kong's grid is not interconnected with China Southern Power Grid, which supplies electricity to Guangdong and four other southern provinces. Plugging Hong Kong into the Chinese grid would create competition for the city's dominant local utilities – CLP Holdings, backed by the wealthy Kadoorie family, and billionaire Li Ka-shing's Power Assets Holdings – and further strengthen Hong Kong's ties with mainland China. The two local firms have enjoyed guaranteed returns for decades under what is known as the Scheme of Control. But the mainland grid giants are making inroads. China Southern Power Grid last year bought a 30 percent stake in CLP's power unit Castle Peak for $1.6 billion, while State Grid Corporation of China spent about $1.2 billion to buy into the local initial public offering of HK Electric Investments, a spinoff of Power Assets, early this year. Hong Kong’s Environment Bureau said in an email response that importing electricity from mainland China was one of two options under consideration. CLP and Power Assets did not respond to questions sent by email. One area where mainlanders have yet to make headway is the city’s elite clubs. With the exception of some clubs like the Aberdeen Marina Club and the Jockey Club which offer hefty debentures, it is difficult for newcomers like mainland Chinese to get membership as some of these establishments have waiting lists that can be as long as 20 years. But at places like the Ladies Recreation Club (LRC) and the Hong Kong Golf Club, members say there is definitely more Mandarin being spoken. “Mainlanders haven’t quite got in any meaningful way into the clubs,” says a Hong Kong resident who is a member of three clubs. “But it is only a matter of time.”  (Additional reporting by Anne Marie Roantree, Saikat Chatterjee, Charlie Zhu, Xiaowen Bi, Michelle Chen, Michelle Price, Donny Kwok and Lizzie Ko. Writing by David Lague. Editing by Peter Hirschberg and Bill Tarrant.) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File John MacDougallChief economist of the European Central Bank (ECB), Peter Praet, shown in a file picture, said the rise of populist parties across Europe should act as a wake-up call for governments to finally get their economies in orderFrankfurt (AFP) - The rise of populist parties across Europe should act as a wake-up call for governments to finally get their economies in order, a top European Central Bank official said Wednesday. "The rise of populism should be a wake-up call," the ECB's chief economist Peter Praet told the financial daily Boersen-Zeitung in a wide-ranging interview. "The governments have to give priority to difficult political decisions and follow through with the much-needed reforms." Praet's comments came as Greece is preparing for snap elections with a far-left anti-austerity party Syriza leading opinion polls. Syriza pledges to reverse Athens' reform commitments and even eventually take Greece out of the eurozone. "Populist parties in some countries promise quick solutions –- but they offer only recipes for disaster," Praet warned. "Nobody should be under the illusion that you only need to return to the old system and everything will be better," he argued. Countries had signed up to the single currency because the old system of constant devaluation was not working. "What is needed now is to make the much needed structural adjustments. A devaluation policy doesn't solve structural problems," Praet said. There were institutional flaws in Europe which had to be resolved, the economist argued.  "We have a monetary union with a very strong central bank –- but the other institutions have been too weak," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Vidal After months underplaying the risks of deflation, it looks like the European Central Bank (ECB) is now finally resigned to it. Chief economist Peter Praet admitted in an interview released this morning that inflation figures will spend a large part of 2015 in negative territory, and offered some of the biggest hints so far on what Europe's QE programme is going to look like. Praet was interviewed by German financial newspaper Boersen Zeitung, and there's a Bloomberg translation of his comments here. Spain's inflation figures, released yesterday, show the major effect that tumbling oil prices are likely to have. Prices dropped 1.1% in the year to December, the fastest drop in five years, and far faster than analysts expected.  Eurozone inflation was last at 2% at the beginning of 2013, and has been steadily dropping ever since. It's been below 1% for all of 2014, and a dip into deflation is now all but guaranteed in the new year. Here's that plunge: Pantheon Macroeconomics Deflation can cause a host of economic problems, especially for countries where the governments are heavily indebted and don't control their own currencies.  Praet's comments are some of the most dovish come from the ECB, making it sound all but guaranteed that the central bank will start a quantitative easing programme in January. He's also given a hint towards the makeup of the likely QE programme, saying that government bonds are "the only type of bond in which there is a significant market volume". Unlike Germany's Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann, who has argued that the ECB should effectively ignore falling oil prices, Praet says that with expectations for future inflation now "extremely fragile", the ECB must act to bring inflation upwards. Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, has also hit out at suggestions that Europe needs QE. The new programme could widen a major rift in Europe, with some of the bloc's healthier economies staunchly opposed to easier policy for the others.  FREE AppDownload
Brent crude prices hit a new 5-year low when the went as down as $56.09a barrel on Wednesday as weak Chinese manufacturing data and demand concerns outweighed supply disruptions in Libya. Brent was trading at $56.23 at 11.30 am GMT (6.30 am ET). Here is a chart: Investing.com China's factory sector shrank for the first time in seven months in December, with the final HSBC/Markit Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for this month coming in at 49.6. Business Insider's Sam Ro wrote about this here. "Clearly, demand concerns are one of the issues for the oil market," said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC Markets. China is the world's second largest oil consumer and any contraction in its factory sector can have a big impact on demand. US crude for February delivery was down 34 cents to $53.78. This came after yesterday both Brent and US crude hit their lowest levels since May 2009. This chart shows the US crude performance all year long: Investing.com "If we see a (PMI) number well under 49.5, it might spark further stimulus speculation and that might end up being supportive," McCarthy said of the HSBC/Markit reading. Prices were also pressured by an unexpected build in U.S. crude stocks. U.S. crude inventories rose by 760,000 barrels last week to 387.3 million, according to industry group the American Petroleum Institute, compared with analysts' expectations for a decrease of around 100,000 barrels. [EIA/S][API/S] The Obama administration on Tuesday bowed to months of growing pressure over a 40-year-old ban on exports of most domestic crude, taking two steps expected to unleash a wave of ultra-light shale oil onto global markets. Global supplies are still seen as overwhelming demand even with fighting in Libya cutting crude output there. A fire raging for almost a week at Libya's biggest oil port of Es Sider has destroyed up to 1.8 million barrels of crude and damaged seven storage tanks, top oil official al-Mabrook al-Buseif said on Tuesday. The turmoil in Libya has caused the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' oil supply to shrink 270,000 barrels per day (bpd) in December to a six-month low below OPEC's target of 30 million bpd. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis Kolesidis/Pool  man (C) and his daughter (2nd L), both rescued from the Norman Atlantic ferry, disembark from a Greek Airforce C-130 military cargo aircraft at the Elefsina military airport near Athens December 29, 2014. Good morning! It's the last day of the year. Before you break open the champagne tonight, here's what you need to know for Wednesday.  1. Divers will search for wreckage from AirAsia Flight QZ8501 on Wednesday after finding debris and several floating bodies off the coast of Borneo.  2. Scientists believe they have traced the source of the current Ebola epidemic to a hollow tree inhabited by free-tailed bats in a remote Guinea village. 3. The Norman Atlantic ferry has been ordered back to Italy as part of a criminal investigation after a fire broke out on the car deck on Sunday, while confusion over the number of passengers missing remains.  4. German chancellor Angela Merkel will make her most direct plea to Germans not to get involved in protests against the "Islamization" of Europe in her New Year's speech, broadcast at midnight on Wednesday.  5. Hong Kong has suspended imports of live poultry from mainland China for three weeks and began culling 15,000 chickens on Wednesday after the H7 bird flu strain was found in a group of live chickens that came from the southern province of Guangdong. 6. Venezuela's economy has officially entered recession. 7. Korean Air's former executive, Heather Cho, has been arrested in Seoul following her now infamous "nut rage" incident, which forced the flight she was on to return to the gate.  8. Oil magnate Harold Hamm has appealed his $1 billion divorce ruling after losing half of his $19 billion fortune due to falling oil prices. 9. An Idaho woman was shot and killed in a Walmart when her toddler pulled a gun from her purse and it accidentally fired.  10. At least 53 people have died in the Philippines after a tropical storm triggered flash floods and landslides. And finally ...  A Chinese man has been jailed for 10 years for buying and eating endangered tigers.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Mexico's state-run oil company Pemex's KU-S platform, part of the vast Ku Maloob Zaap oil field, is pictured off the Bay of CampecheBy Jarrett Renshaw NEW YORK (Reuters) - Mexican crude oil is sailing to the U.S. East Coast at the highest rate in over a decade, according to customs data reviewed by Reuters, in a sign deepening discounts help crack open new markets as domestic shale inundates Texas. Delta Air Lines-owned Monroe Energy received nearly 500,000 barrels of light-sour Mexican crude in September and a similar cargo in October at its 185,000-barrel-per-day refinery in Trainer, Pennsylvania, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data. It was the refiner's first imports from Mexico since 2009, the furthest the data go back. Monroe has received two more shipments of Olmeca crude from Pajaritos, Mexico since then, totaling some 1 million barrels, according to customs data reviewed by Reuters and available via ThomsonReuters Eikon's Crude Oil Flows system. The recurring deliveries, the most recent on Dec. 11, suggest a new term contract with Monroe, industry sources say. Together with separate sales of heavy and medium crude to two plants run by PBF Energy Inc, shipments of Mexican crude to the East Coast hit 38,200 barrels per day, the highest since 2004, according to the EIA figures. That represents about 3.4 percent of Mexico's total crude exports. The new flows, which have not been previously reported, are the latest evidence of how the U.S. shale boom is changing global oil trading patterns and forcing foreign suppliers once dependent on the U.S. Gulf Coast market to seek out new customers - often by offering hefty discounts. This is especially true for Mexico's relatively higher-value Olmeca crude. Though more 'sour' or high in sulfur, Olmeca competes with light, sweet U.S. shale oil and has been pushed out of the Gulf Coast by similar grades of domestic crude. "This is the cascade to the bottom. There's a lot of crude, and not enough demand," said Sarah Emerson, president of Energy Security Analysis. "With Gulf Coast refineries backing out of Olmeca, Mexico needs to find new buyers." She added that Brent crude, the global benchmark used by Mexico, has been competitive with WTI, the U.S. benchmark. While Mexico's heavier Mayan crude has retained most of its U.S. Gulf Coast customers, the state oil firm Pemex has been forced to look for new buyers of Olmeca. The sales also mark the arrival of a new competitor in the East Coast market, now dominated by domestic producers. Finally, the sales also represent a change of strategy at Monroe Energy, which has built up its trading desk and taken control over more of its crude oil sourcing this year. This summer it hired Hugo Zagaria, a veteran trader with deep ties to Latin American producers, a move industry sources say likely explains the deal with Mexico. Pemex officials did not return requests for comments. Monroe Energy spokesman Adam Gattuso said the company "always pursues high-quality, competitively crude," but declined to say whether the purchases were part of an ongoing contract.  UNUSUAL DEAL The arrival of Mexican crude on East Coast shores is not unusual as such, but aspects of the Monroe deal are. For instance, The refinery has bought high-sulfur oil similar to Olmeca only occasionally over the past four years, according to EIA data. Officials familiar with the refinery say such crude must be blended before it is processed because the refinery is not equipped to handle high-sulfur grades. And while PBF Energy has been receiving regular shipments of Mexican crude at its New Jersey and Delaware plants, it was only buying medium or heavy density grades that compete with Venezuelan or Saudi oil rather than with light U.S. shale oil. Like other Philadelphia-area refineries, Monroe relies largely on Bakken shale oil, which must be trekked nearly 2,000 miles by rail from North Dakota at a cost of some $14 per barrel, or ships similar crude from Texas aboard special U.S.-flagged tankers for approximately $6 per barrel. However, congested rail lines have caused delivery delays and production cuts at Monroe, forcing refiners to continue buying some oil from overseas producers such as Nigeria and Norway, data show. Now Mexico is making inroads, offering both cheaper transport - shipping from Mexico to the East Coast on a foreign-flagged tanker costs just around $2 per barrel - and deep discounts. In January, its Olmeca crude [OSP/O] will be sold in Europe at a $4.05 below Atlantic basin benchmark Brent, the biggest discount this year. It is unclear what terms were agreed with Monroe. "Mexico is in a position where it needs to find new customers, and if it needs to discount its crude to compete with U.S. domestic crude in order to build new relationships, it will do it ," said John Auers, executive vice president at Dallas-based Turner Mason &amp; Co. an energy consulting firm. Olmeca represents less than a tenth of Mexico's sales, but it has been the hardest hit by soaring U.S. crude oil production, with mainstay customers turning elsewhere. For example, in February 2012 two large ExxonMobil refineries in Texas - Baytown and Beaumont - were buying more than 200,000 bpd of light Mexican crude, accounting for the lion's share of U.S. imports, EIA data show. In the first nine months of this year, the two plants have imported only 8,000 barrels a day, according to federal data.   (Additional reporting by David Alire Garcia in Mexico City, editing by Jonathan Leff and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Revelers ringing in of the new year this week need to watch out for the next day's hangover. And investors may experience a similar feeling early in 2015 after a two-year run that has propelled U.S. stocks up by nearly 50 percent. Headed into the last trading day of 2014, the S&amp;P 500 has gained nearly 13 percent on the year, shaking off concerns about valuations thanks to improved economic growth and a very accommodative U.S. Federal Reserve. Add in dividends and the advance is 15 percent. However, the S&amp;P 500's forward price-to-earnings multiple - based on 2015 earnings expectations - is at about 17 now, exceeding the 15-year average of about 15. It means that a pick-up in profits growth may be essential if the market is to continue to add to its historic gains. And yet Wall Street analysts’ estimates for S&amp;P 500 earnings growth for coming quarters are languishing in the mid-single digits. With the Fed ready to begin raising interest rates for the first time in a decade, and the strong dollar providing a headwind for companies with overseas operations, a lot will depend on whether the recent strong growth in domestic demand can drive corporate profits higher than those estimates. Whether consumers and companies benefit enough from lower oil prices to more than offset the effects of the slide on the energy sector is also critical. "Multiples almost always go down when the Fed raises rates - you’re going to have to depend on earnings," said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, which has $345 billion in assets under management. The S&amp;P 500's forward price-to-earnings ratio sat at about 13 times at the beginning of 2013; it is now closer to 17, according to Thomson Reuters data. Since 1940, such a level is associated with S&amp;P returns (excluding dividends) of about 5 percent over a 12-month period, according to data from Citigroup. The high valuation concerns are starting to have some impact on trading. Stocks have been noticeably more volatile in the last few months; the CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, has averaged 15.4 over the past 12 weeks, compared with 12.6 at the end of August. If the Fed tightens, the higher rates will not only raise financing costs generally but would also be a deterrent to borrowing to do the share buybacks that have helped to propel earnings per share growth and stock prices gains in the past few years. With such artificial support crumbling, corporate America will have to rely much more on demand from domestic customers to drive earnings growth. Europe is expected to grow at just above 1 percent in 2015, according to Reuters data, Russia has been slammed by oil's decline, and China and other major emerging markets are struggling with weak demand as well. Switching to more of a reliance on sales growth rather than the Fed's cheap money may not be an easy transition. Fourth-quarter estimates have plunged in recent weeks, largely in the energy sector as crude oil prices have cratered. Annual growth is now expected to come in at 4.3 percent for the S&amp;P 500 in the fourth quarter, down from a forecast of 11.1 percent growth on only October 1. Citigroup's chief equity strategist Tobias Levkovich, in a note on Tuesday, said estimate cuts in the next few weeks, when companies typically warn if they expect to report disappointing results, could lead to some reversals and volatility, as "some of the late 2014 S&amp;P 500 gains appear to have been borrowed from 2015’s returns," he wrote. In perhaps a sign of things to come in the energy sector, Civeo Corp , which builds temporary housing for oilfield workers, said revenue could fall by one-third due to falling crude prices, and cut its workforce and suspended its dividend. The company's shares lost almost 53 percent Tuesday. Earnings expectations for S&amp;P 500 companies for the first half of next year aren't that encouraging: First- and second-quarter earnings growth estimates currently stand at 5.3 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively. "If you don’t feel that you have the earnings wind at your back, and you don’t have the monetary policy wind at your back, why pay more than the prices people have paid in many cases since 2000 for stocks?" said Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading in Greenwich, Connecticut. That said, earnings expectations coming into 2014 turned out to be far too pessimistic: On Dec. 31, 2013, the forecast was for per-share earnings of $120.89 on the S&amp;P 500. With fourth-quarter earnings season approaching, actual and expected earnings were $126.50 per share, according to Reuters data. So far in the fourth quarter, expectations have fallen largely due to the energy industry's woes, but sectors that could benefit from lower fuel costs, particularly the consumer discretionary sector – which includes many retailers - have not seen an attendant pickup in expectations. That sector is currently forecast to grow 8 percent for the quarter, down from 13.9 percent estimated on October 1. Despite the caution, few are calling for a bear market given the U.S. economy’s acceleration. An early December Reuters poll of Wall Street strategists forecast the S&amp;P 500 hitting 2200 at the end of 2015. After December's big gains, that suggests just a small rally amid a year of short-term advances and retreats. That said, it's not as if 2014 didn't have its rough spots, either, and yet the year is ending with a flourish. "In the spring of 2014 the market went nowhere for three months. In the summer through the fall the market went nowhere, and the market at its bottom in October was unchanged for the year," said Dan Greenhaus, chief strategist at BTIG LLC in New York. "The question is whether the general environment is supportive of higher stock prices, and the answer is still yes." (Reporting By David Gaffen and Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Washington (AFP) - The International Monetary Fund is under mounting pressure to cancel the debts of the three poor West African countries hit hardest by Ebola, as their economies stall under the fallout from the disease. The calls for a debt alleviation for Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone are coming not only from anti-poverty organizations.  In mid-December, a UN commission also urged serious consideration for eliminating at least some of the debts of the three countries. And the United States, the IMF's largest shareholder, has taken a stand on the issue as well, exhorting the crisis lender to wipe out around a fifth of the $480 million in debt owed it by the trio. Such a move would free resources to restart economic activities in the countries where the disease has taken more than 7,800 lives, US Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said. Meeting in Australia in mid-November, the heads of the G20 group of leading economies stepped up the pressure when they said that the IMF's promise of $300 million to help fight the epidemic should include debt alleviation. The calls for the IMF, which lends money to economies most in need, but usually with attached requirements for reforms and financial discipline, have spurred the institution into intense reflection, and it could come up with an initiative in January. "Staff are looking at further options to provide support to the Ebola-hit countries, through reform of an existing facility," a Fund spokesman told AFP. Traditionally bound to a narrow, orthodox mission of financial support and loans to governments that it expects to be repaid, the IMF in reality needs to expand its tools for aiding troubled economies. After the earthquake disaster in Haiti of 2010, the Fund did create a mechanism for dealing with natural catastrophes that hit its borrowers.  That made way for the IMF to eliminate $268 million that the Haitian government owed to the fund. But the mechanism is too restrictive to be applied to the Ebola epidemic: it is limited to "devastating" natural disasters. According to advocates of the move, even if the loans come with zero interest rates, they constitute a constant burden that can financially strangle the governments of Ebola-hit countries. "A broad criticism of using loans to help very poor countries is that, formally, no matter how bad their situation gets, they must repay every penny," said David Roodman, an independent expert on economic development. Sierra Leone and Guinea both have had to make loan repayments this year to the IMF despite the Ebola crisis, according to Fund data. The World Bank has understood the problem. It has mobilized $500 million for the three countries in the form of grants "which never need to be repaid," according to Bank spokesman Phil Hay. Doing the same is proving more difficult for the IMF. "It's like asking a banker to embrace not getting repaid -- it goes against their nature," said Roodman. The benefits of a debt writeoff would not be small. "The important thing about financing coming through debt relief is that it allows long-term investment on social infrastructure" like strengthening health care systems, said Eric LeCompte of anti-poverty group Jubilee USA. Indeed, the IMF has been accused of contributing to the weakening of the health care and disease prevention operations in Western Africa through tough austerity policies it required along with loans in the 1980s and 1990s. That is the assessment of a recent study by three British institutions. "Policies advocated by the IMF have contributed to underfunded, insufficiently staffed and poorly prepared health systems in the countries with Ebola outbreaks," said Cambridge sociologist and lead study author Alexander Kentikelenis. But the IMF categorically rejected their conclusion. "Such claims are based on a misunderstanding, and, in some cases, a misrepresentation, of IMF policies," a spokesman said. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Obama administration has opened a new front in the global battle for oil market share, effectively clearing the way for the shipment of as much as a million barrels per day of ultra-light U.S. crude to the rest of the world.  The Department of Commerce on Tuesday ended a year-long silence on a contentious, four-decade ban on oil exports, saying it had begun approving a backlog of requests to sell processed light oil abroad. It also issued a long-awaited document outlining exactly what kinds of oil other would-be exporters can ship. The administration's first serious effort to clarify an issue that has caused confusion and consternation in energy markets for more than a year will likely please domestic oil drillers, foreign trade partners and some Republicans who have urged Obama to loosen the export ban, which they see as an outdated holdover from the 1970s Arab oil embargo. The latest measures were wrapped in regulatory jargon and couched by some as a basic clarification of existing rules, but analysts said the message was unambiguous: a green light for any company willing and able to process their light condensate crude through a distillation tower, a simple piece of oilfield kit. "In practice this long-awaited move can open up the floodgates to substantial increases in exports by end 2015," Ed Morse, global head of commodities research at Citigroup in New York said in a research note. The action comes at a critical juncture for the global oil market. World prices have halved to less than $60 a barrel since the summer as top exporter Saudi Arabia, once a staunch defender of $100 oil, refused to cut production in the face of surging U.S. shale output and tempered global demand. By opening the door to U.S. crude exports, the administration is offering a bit of relief to some domestic drillers that have said that they are forced to sell their shale oil at a discount of as much as $15 a barrel versus global markets as fast-rising domestic supplies overwhelm local demand. But the impending swell of U.S. petroleum into global markets may intensify what many analysts say is a pivotal oil market war, with Saudi Arabia and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) unwilling to yield ground. Now they will face even greater competition beyond U.S. shores. If they can boost selling prices by even a dollar or two, oil producers in places such as the Eagle Ford of Texas will be better able to withstand the slump in oil markets. Morse said U.S. condensate exports could rise from 200,000 bpd to as much as 1 million bpd by the end of next year. "This has an interesting impact on the current confrontation between Saudi Arabia and shale," he said. Among those most at risk from the U.S. shale exports is Nigeria, which pumps similarly light, sweet oil. The OPEC member has already lost the U.S. market to shale, with its exports falling from more than 1 million barrels per day to next to nothing; now it will face U.S. competition in Europe and Asia, too. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), which regulates U.S. export controls, has come under enormous scrutiny over the past year because of growing pressure to clarify confusing regulations on exporting crude. While untreated crude oil is generally banned from being exported, refined fuels such as gasoline and diesel can be freely sold abroad. The question that has bedeviled U.S. producers is how the rules apply to "processed condensate," ultra-light oil that has been heated through a very basic refining unit. On Tuesday, the BIS said it had given permission to "some" companies to ship treated light oil but did not give details about what it had approved. Two energy companies, driller Pioneer Natural Resources and mid-stream firm Enterprise Products Partners, have been regularly exporting processed condensate since the summer after receiving a private permit from the BIS. But several dozen other companies that also raced to file similar requests were left waiting, with no timeline for action. The agency also released its first ever written guidance on the rules themselves in the form of frequently asked questions (FAQs), clarifying a series of detailed questions that had clouded efforts to move forward with substantial exports. The document gives "considerable discretion" that could allow for rising export volumes in the future, measures that could narrow the price gap between U.S. benchmark WTI crude and global marker Brent, said Kevin Book, managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC. On Tuesday, the Brent/WTI spread narrowed by more than 50 cents to around $3.70 a barrel. In its guidelines, the BIS said that most goods can be shipped abroad "without a license" - a reminder that some analysts read as encouraging shippers to "self-classify" their condensate, as Reuters reported earlier. EIA With global oil markets in flux, it is far from clear how much U.S. condensate will find a market overseas. Drillers are already slashing billions of dollars off their 2015 budgets because of lower prices, actions likely to slow growth in output next year and push forward the point at which supply overtakes demand. One administration official said the question of exports would ultimately be left to the market, and that the agency was simply seeking to "make the boundary line clearer." Even so, with no changes to the core U.S. law that bans raw crude exports, even slower growth will eventually stretch refiners' limits, forcing tougher questions in years ahead. "Whether to allow crude oil exports directly because the production of light crude overwhelms the domestic refining system still remains a live issue that may need to be addressed in the future in response to changing market conditions," said Jason Bordoff, the founding director of Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy and a former energy adviser to the Obama White House. (Reporting by Jonathan Leff; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
