An incredibly rare 19th century postage stamp, a tiny one-cent magenta from British colonial Guyana, sold for $9.5 million in New York on Tuesday, setting a new world record. Bidding began at $4.5 million and it took just two minutes to sell the stamp to an anonymous bidder on the phone, although the auction house Sotheby's had valued the tiny specimen of British colonial memorabilia at $10-20 million. "With the premium the stamp has just sold for approximately $9.5 million, which means it has set a new world record price for a stamp," David Redden, Sotheby's director of special projects, told a packed room in New York. Sotheby's said the previous auction record for a single stamp was $2.2 million, set by the Treskilling Yellow in 1996. Made in 1856 in Guyana and measuring just one by 1.25 inches (2.54 by 3.18 centimeters), the one-cent magenta is octagonal, printed in black ink and bears the initials of the postmaster. Redden had described the stamp as having "extraordinary fame and charisma" and being in remarkable condition given it is more than 150 years old. Last bought by convicted murderer and American multi-millionaire John du Pont in 1980, it was last seen in public in 1986, before going on display at Sotheby's in the build-up to Tuesday's sale. Hinged to a paper backing, since 1922 it has already broken three times the record price of a single stamp sold at auction. The auction house says the stamp is the only surviving example of a one-cent magenta, so rare that it is missing even from the British royal family's philatelic collection.   - 'Shining star' -   It is "the largest shining star in the very distance in the great universe of collecting," Redden told AFP in February. Colonial Guyana depended on supplies of stamps from England, but when a shipment was delayed in 1856, the postmaster commissioned a contingency supply. The printers of the local Royal Gazette newspaper quickly ran off one-cent and four-cent magentas, and a four-cent blue. The only surviving example of the one-cent was rediscovered in 1873 by Vernon Vaughan, a 12-year-old Scottish boy living with his family in British Guyana. He found it among some family papers and added the stamp to his album. Vaughan then sold it to another collector for a few shillings and the stamp made its way to Britain in 1878. It was bought by French Count Philippe la Renotiere von Ferrary, perhaps the greatest stamp collector in history, and later donated to a museum in Berlin. After World War I, France seized his collection as part of war reparations due from Germany and sold the stamp in 1922 at auction to Arthur Hind, a textile magnate from New York. Hind paid a then-record $35,000 for the stamp. It sold for a second record of $280,000 in 1970 and was bought in 1980 by the late du Pont for a third record of $935,000. In a case that shocked the United States, du Pont shot dead Dave Schultz, an Olympic gold medal freestyle wrestler, at his estate in Pennsylvania in 1996 and died in prison in 2010. The stamp is being sold by his estate. It has been on show at Sotheby's in London, Hong Kong and New York. Current day Guyana, which won independence from Britain in 1966, is a small but poor nation of about 700,000 people. $4 million is the auction record for any philatelic item, set in 1993 by The Bordeaux Cover, which includes both of the "Post Office" stamps issued by British colonial Mauritius. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Getty/Jeff J. MitchellFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Despite Concerns About Index Investing It Hasn't Got Too Big (Vanguard)  "The contagious enthusiasm for indexing has cultivated a loyal following, including financial advisory firms dedicated to passive investment strategies," according to Vanguard. Naturally some are worried that this is creating market inefficiencies that could actually let active investors profit by creating a favorable environment for stock pickers. But Chris Philips, senior analyst in Vanguard Investment Strategy Group, says that "investing is a zero-sum game that is being played among active investors, regardless of how many exist. …Prices are set and continuously reset by active investors seeking to execute on their information and beliefs. Indexers, on the other hand, attempt to passively track the market at the prices set by those active investors. Even if active investors made up a minority of a market in terms of invested dollars, as long as a profit motive existed, they would be jockeying with one another for any opportunity to make a gain." "....If the rise of passive funds were leading to inefficiencies because of the 'dumb' money that was information-ignorant, theoretically active managers should have an easier time outperforming a relevant index. However, as the dollars allocated to passives have increased, the relative performance of active managers has not followed suit." Unconstrained Bond Funds Aren't Doing A Great Job (Investment News)  Interest rates are expected to rise going forward, but no one knows when. Bond fund managers with their aggressive campaigning have managed to "stem and sometimes even reverse the tide," write Stephen Huxley and J. Brent Burns at Investment News. One way they've done this is by offering unconstrained bond funds. These funds, often called 'go anywhere funds,' allow managers to choose debt securities in the U.S. or abroad; be they government or  corporate. "The three largest are Pimco Unconstrained Bond A (PUBAX), JPMorgan Strategic Income Opportunities A (JSOAX) and Goldman Sachs Strategic Income A (GSZAX). Since the beginning of the year, they have returned 2.21%, 0.60% and 0.29%, respectively. By comparison, the generic Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, which includes over 8,000 bonds worth about $17 trillion, gained 3.87%." In this light, Huxley and Burns writes that investors can either exit bond funds altogether or hold them till maturity because this way "no matter what happens to rates, the investor will preserve principle and get some interest," they write. Alternately investors could look at individual bond funds. There Are Major Differences Between Expectations Of Those Retired And Those That Are Still Working (Northwestern Mutual)  A survey from Northwestern Mutual 2014 Planning and Progress Study found that 38% of respondents aged 60 and over said they would have to work till they were were 75 or older. 13% said they can't retire. Meanwhile, the average retirement age for those that have already retired from the workforce was 59. Interestingly 37% of working adults said they think they would be happier in retirement than they are working. Meanwhile, 84% of those retired say they are happy, and 60% said they were happier now than when they were still working. This Chart Shows Why This Rally Has Been So Hated (Business Insider)  This has been described as one of the move unloved bull markets. Investors have not really taken part in this rally. Volatility and volume have been lower that in previous years. Bank of America's chart on equity client flows, shows that even as the S&amp;P 500 has hit record highs, its clients (including hedge fund, institutional, and private clients) have been net sellers of stocks. Bank of American Merrill LynchWhy Clients Should Donate Via Donor-Advised Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Wealthy clients exiting their businesses are increasingly giving shares to donor advised funds instead of selling their business and then donating money to charity, reports Veronica Dagher at the WSJ. Making a gift ahead of the sale entitles clients to "income-tax deduction equal to the fair-market value of the donated stock," writes Dagher. It also means the clients "avoid capital gains on the donated shares when the company is sold." FREE AppDownload
Tailoring is a simple way to make clothes way more flattering. "Most men typicality wear oversized clothes, not understanding the essential elements of a good fit or compromising fit for style," Amber Hamilton, managing director of clothing company Jaden Lam, tells Business Insider. "Shirts and sweaters are too big or too long and trousers are too saggy or bulky." Jaden Lam is a designer clothing line specially sized and styled for men 5’9” and under.  To demonstrate the importance of good fit for men of all heights, Jaden Lam provided some images of how tailoring can drastically improve your outfit.  Take this oversized sweater and khakis. They appear sloppy and make the model look shorter than he is.  Jaden Lam The tailored version of the outfit elongates his frame and looks much more polished. Jaden Lam This business casual outfit is unflattering and dwarfs the model.  Jaden Lam The tailored version is much more professional and flattering. Jaden Lam Wondering if you should get your clothes tailored? Here are guides from Jaden Lam on how your shirts and pants should fit.  Jaden Lam Jaden Lam FREE AppDownload
Sometimes a hacker does something so brilliant, we can't help but marvel at it. In this case, a hacker figured out how to control certain home networks to mine for a computer currency called Dogecoin, netting over half a million dollars in a matter of months. The hacker's exploits were documented by Dell's security team, which points out that the hacker used a competitor's computer storage product to do the dirty work.  The Dell team traced the likely culprit to a German-speaking person who goes by the code-name of "Folio" on GitHub. (GitHub is a cloud service where developers post and share their software projects.). Folio used a security flaw in a computer storage product called Synology, Dell says. Synology's computer storage product is easy to set up, so it has become popular with people who store a lot of songs, movies, and other multimedia files on their home networks. In 2013, a security researcher discovered a flaw with the Synology product that let a hacker find, and ultimately control, these computer storage devices by searching for them on Google.  The company fixed the vulnerably and released a patch. But between the time the researcher told the world about the flaw and the company patched it, the hacker named Folio went to work. Folio discovered vulnerable computer storage boxes and put them to work to "mine" for Dogecoin.  Dogecoin is a computer currency like Bitcoin and is created by "mining," which involves getting computers to answer a series of cryptographic questions to unlocks new coins. It takes a lot of computing power to answer these questions. People actually buy specially made computers to do it. Or, if you are smart enough, you can string together a bunch of computers owned by other people and put them to work mining for you. Folio was able to nab 500 million Dogecoin, equivalent to $620,496, finding most of the coins in January and February right before the patch was released, the researchers discovered. The Dell team thinks this could be the most profitable illegal hacker mining operation of Dogecoin ever discovered. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA sign for a RadioShack store is seen in the Brighton Beach section of the Brooklyn borough in New York. RadioShack's bondholders are holding it hostage. On May 8, the company announced that its lenders rejected a plan to close up to 1,100 stores. On its first quarter earnings conference call, the company said it will close 200 stores per year instead. Yesterday, S&amp;P cut its rating on RadioShack's debt, saying it expects the company's operating results to remain weak. On June 11, ratings firm Fitch also lowered its rating on RadioShack's debt, saying that as its liquidity dwindles, the retailer's options are becoming limited. As of May 3, RadioShack's cash and cash equivalents totaled $61.8 million, compared to $109.6 million on February 1. That's a steep drawdown in just three months. On its earnings conference call, RadioShack's CFO John Feray said the company continues, "to have a strong, productive, and positive relationship with our lenders and more specifically a good dialogue on this topic."  But the reality is that the company's lenders are forcing it into bankruptcy. Michael Lasser, an analyst at UBS, asked the company on its conference call what the sticking points are between RadioShack and its lenders that created the disconnect on store closures. RadioShack declined to get into details beyond saying the terms, "were just not mutually agreeable at the present time." RadioShack's real estate problem is that it owns none of its stores. According to its 2013 annual report, RadioShack leases all of its retail square footage. Breaking leases can be expensive, and it's clearly something the company's lenders do not want to pay for.  On the Q1 earnings conference call, RadioShack CEO Joe Magnacca said the company's earlier intentions to close 1,100 stores, "wasn't drawing a line in terms of profitability of stores to get to 1,100 leaving another 3,000 open, it was more about taking a much more strategic view of our real estate and getting to a place sooner than later." In essence, RadioShack wanted to just "get it over with," break some leases, and close a bunch of stores. By not agreeing to the company's store closure plans, RadioShack's lenders are betting they can recoup money they might've lost on broken leases in bankruptcy court. RadioShack's previous store closure plans were a signal the company just wanted to eat the cost of breaking some lease agreements to stop bleeding cash. And its lenders said: "No." FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@melissadderosa Gov. Andrew Cuomo's office was so hyped about New York's new and improved bond rating that someone baked a cake to celebrate it. On Monday, Moody’s Investors Service announced it upgraded New York State’s general obligation bond rating to Aa1 from Aa2 and moved the state’s outlook to "stable." Cuomo, a Democrat who has made stabilizing New York's finances a top priority, naturally responded with glee. "Today's announcement by Moody's represents everything we’ve been talking about for the past four years," he declared in a statement. "We are pleased to celebrate New York's best Moody's credit rating in fifty years, and the highest rating from any agency in more than forty years." To further build on the excitement, his office commissioned a cake with "First Time AA1 in 50 years" written in frosting. Business Insider followed up on the cake situation with Cuomo's office. According to a spokeswoman, the cake was marble-flavored, made by Zachary's bakery in East Greenbush, "and shortly after the leaders' briefing, it was enjoyed by the budget office staff."   FREE AppDownload
A new chart from Morgan Stanley throws into relief just how important the U.S. shale boom has been to preventing oil prices from going parabolic in response to recent turmoil in Iraq. Markets are expecting 17% of new global crude supplies through 2018 to come from Iraq. The threat of that production getting cut off has caused oil prices to jump $5 in the past week. What is not in doubt is the America's 3.8 billion barrels a day's worth of projected output — expected to account for 41% of all new supply growth through the same period.  Here's the chart (the asterisk signifies an OPEC country): Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
ODA ArchitectureThis ultra luxurious penthouse in Manhattan belongs to an extremely private billionaire. The 18,000-square-foot apartment, located a whopping 90 stories high, was recently redesigned by ODA Architecture. It contains nearly every amenity you can think of, including a sculpture garden with a 30-foot water wall and reflection pool, a game room, a day spa, and a recording studio, according to ODA. The penthouse's extensive renovations reportedly took ODA four years to complete.   FREE AppDownload
YouTubeMonday night, after the U.S. Supreme Court decided not to hear the case between Argentina and a group of hedge funds and effectively ordered the country to part with $15 billion in one go, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner gave a passionate, defiant, Oscar-worthy speech. It was 30 minutes long, and it was all about bonds. In any other country, people would immediately switch to "Dancing with the Stars," but Argentina has an odd, fatalistic relationship with international markets – one that explains the Fernandez administration's defiant stance on this case and its overall consumption of the Argentine imagination. Fernandez was preparing her people for another tangle with its twin enemies— debt and inflation. "I think this merits a quick look at our history," she said. The president took the story back to the country's dictatorship in 1976, the first time international debt turned to inflation and was, she said, "without a doubt the most powerful trap we'd been in keeping us from growth, the development of Argentina, it created poverty, backwardness, homelessness, a lack of infrastructural development, investment in education, in science ..." What she is describing is the defining moment of Argentine history — a moment many in power lived through themselves. Over and over again in the speech, as she discussed the country's struggle with foreign debt, she repeated "and this wasn't the end." Because in Argentina it's never the end.  From there she went on to the latest default in 2001 and the IMF's loan to the country, which she called a "fictitious operation" to ensure that money made in Argentina never stayed there to aid the country. Instead it went abroad, to feed the beast that was the international market. She goes on, naming specific bankers, specific debt deals now familiar to her people as potential harbingers of disaster. This was a bedtime story — the kind of thing you've heard your whole life and will tell your own kids — not a news report. YouTubeEventually she got to the case at hand, the country's latest dance with default. She describes hedge fund manager Paul Singer and his group (NML) as vultures quite clearly. They bought Argentine bonds when they were "garbage," "worth nothing." "Only people intending to speculate would buy these bonds," she said. If you think about it this way, these investors, eating the carrion of the international financial market, are vultures. They want to make 1,608% off of the suffering of Argentines, from bringing the horror of the past into the present and future. "So fine, there are some that say: Why not pay the $1.5 billion and end it," she said.  "Because there is another more serious problem that the 1% of holdouts create. There's another 7% that, if we pay NML their $1.5 billion, Argentina has to pay them $15 billion ... That's half of all the reserves in our Central Bank." (She's being generous, it's more than half — they've got about $28.5 billion.) It's not that she doesn't want to pay, she insists, it's that she needs a payment plan. In any case, because of this situation, she says that NML demanding payment in full at once is extortion — one that has wider implications for financial markets. It's why so many entities and countries stood with Argentina and against NML. And she told those countries in her speech: "I have a confession to make to all of you: Our loss did not surprise me, I expected the loss. This morning when I talked to the president of our Central Bank, Juan Carlos Fabrega, he told me 'president, you were the only one who believes this would happen.' Yes, because this is not an economic problem, or a financial problem, it's not a judicial or legal problem; it's the result of a business model on a global scale that, if it continues, will produce unbelievable tragedies." She should know, her country is obsessed with them. The full transcript of the speech is here (in Spanish). FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesStocks finished higher, lead by gains from the Nasdaq, but were still little changed from yesterday's close, keeping with the recent pattern of quiet trading. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: Morgan Stanley on Tesla: 'Whoa' » FREE AppDownload
There's little doubt that inflation is heating up in America. Earlier today, we learned consumer prices climbed 0.4% month-over-month in May, which was higher than the 0.2% expected by economists. Excluding food and energy, CPI increased by 0.3%, which was a tick higher than the 0.2% expected. This was the strongest gain in core CPI since August 2011. On a year-over-year basis, prices climbed by 2.1% and 2.0% respectively. "With core CPI inflation rising to 2.0% in May, from 1.8% in April, the Fed will have to acknowledge in tomorrow’s policy statement that price pressures are building," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales."The chances that it will hike interest rates before the middle of next year are increasing." Some folks might be taken aback by that "2.0%" number as the Fed has mentioned that number as its longer run inflation target. And the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is currently holding its two-day meeting to discuss and decide the direction of monetary policy. However, the Fed is widely known to favor inflation as indicated by core PCE over core CPI. "Admittedly, core inflation on the Fed’s preferred PCE measure was still just 1.4% in April," added Dales. "But the same cyclical and medical factors will drive this measure above 2% early next year, if not earlier." The FOMC statement gets published at 2:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday. Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider It's happening again: Elon Musk is having a huge day. This morning, SolarCity announced that it purchase Silevo, a solar panel manufacturing company, and said it wants to build one of the world's largest solar plans in New York state.  SolarCity shares are exploding following the news, up as much as 19% in afternoon trading. This chart shows the huge move in SolarCity.  Google Finance Additionally, The New Jersey Assembly yesterday passed a bill that would allow Tesla to resume sales of its cars in the state.  Tesla shares are up about 4% today. Yesterday, shares of Musk's companies — Tesla and SolarCity — rallied after a report in The Financial Times said Tesla's electric car rivals Nissan and BMW could look to collaborate on a charging network. Tesla gained 8.8% yesterday, while SolarCity gained 4.5%. Musk is the CEO of Tesla and serves as the chairman of the board at SolarCity. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Out of all segments of goods and services, Americans are most likely to use cash to buy food and personal care items, according to a study from the Federal Reserve, compiled by BI Intelligence in the chart below. This category of spending represents the biggest opportunity for the payments industry. This data was published in April 2014 by the Federal Reserve, based on an October 2012 survey of U.S. residents that was weighted for seasonality and demographics.   BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider. To gain full access to all our coverage of the payments industry, including downloadable Excel charts, sign up. BII   FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort : The charts in this commentary have been updated to include today's Consumer Price Index news release for the May data. The Fed justified a previous round of quantitative easing "to promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate" (full text). In effect, the Fed has been trying to increase inflation, operating at the macro level. But what does an increase in inflation mean at the micro level — specifically to your household? Let's do some analysis of the Consumer Price Index, the best known measure of inflation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) divides all expenditures into eight categories and assigns a relative size to each. The pie chart below illustrates the components of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers, the CPI-U, which I'll refer to hereafter as the CPI.  The slices are listed in the order used by the BLS in their tables, not the relative size. The first three follow the traditional order of urgency: food, shelter, and clothing. Transportation comes before Medical Care, and Recreation precedes the lumped category of Education and Communication. Other Goods and Services refers to a bizarre grab-bag of odd fellows, including tobacco, cosmetics, financial services, and funeral expenses. For a complete breakdown and relative weights of all the subcategories of the eight categories, here is a useful link. The chart below shows the cumulative percent change in price for each of the eight categories since 2000.  Click for a larger image Not surprisingly, Medical Care has been the fastest growing category. At the opposite end, Apparel has actually been deflating since 2000. Another unique feature of Apparel is the obvious seasonal volatility of the contour. Transportation is the other category with high volatility — much more dramatic and irregular than the seasonality of Apparel. Transportation includes a wide range of subcategories. The volatility is largely driven by the Motor Fuel subcategory. For a closer look at gasoline, see this chart in my weekly gasoline update. The Ominous Shadow Category of Energy The BLS does not lump energy costs into an expenditure category. Instead, it includes energy subcategories in Housing in addition to the fuel subcategory in Transportation. Also, energy costs are indirectly reflected in expenditure changes for goods and services across the CPI. The BLS does track Energy as a separate aggregate index, which in recent years has been assigned a relative importance of 9.046 out of 100. In other words, Uncle Sam calculates inflation on the assumption that energy in one form or another constitutes about 9% of total expenditures, over half of which (5.1%) goes to transportation fuels — mostly gasoline. The next chart overlays the highly volatile Energy aggregate on top of the eight expenditure categories. We can immediately see the impact of energy costs on transportation.  Click for a larger image The next chart will come as no surprise to families footing the bill for college tuition. Here I've separately plotted the College Tuition and Fees subcategory of the Education and Communication expenditure category. Note that the steady staircase in this cost matches the annual cost increases in late summer for each academic year. As we see in this non-seasonally adjusted data, the latest data shows that the riser for the 2013 stair-step is complete and the data will no-doubt level off for a few months.  Click for a larger image Core Inflation Economists and policy makers (e.g., the Federal Reserve) pay close attention to Core Inflation, which is the overall inflation rate excluding Food and Energy. Now this is a somewhat peculiar metric in that one of the exclusions, Energy, is an aggregate that combines specific pieces of two consumption categories: 1) Transportation fuels and 2) Housing fuels, gas, and electricity. The other, Food, is the major part of the Food and Beverage category. I should explain that "beverage" for the BLS means alcoholic beverages. So coffee and Coca Colas are excluded from Core Inflation, but Budweiser and Jack Daniels aren't. The next chart shows us the annualized rate of change (solid lines) and the cumulative change (dotted lines) in CPI and Core CPI since 2000.  Click for a larger image Consumers, especially those who've managed expenses over several years, are most closely attuned to the top line. Inflation and Your Household The universal response is to moan over price increases and take delight when prices are cheaper. But in reality, households vary dramatically in the impact that inflation has upon them. When gasoline prices skyrocket, a two-earner suburban family with long car commutes suffers far more than the metro family with short subway commutes or retirees with no commute. And the pain is even more extreme for low income households whose grocery money shrinks when gas prices rise. And remember, Uncle Sam excludes energy costs from Core Inflation. Households with high medical costs are significantly more vulnerable than comparable households with low expenses in this category. The BLS weights College Tuition and Fees at 1.734% of the total expenditures. But for households with college-bound children, the relentless growth of tuition and fees can cripple budgets. Often those costs get bundled into loans that saddle degree recipients with exorbitant debt burdens. Consider the following numbers from the CollegeBoard.com website: Of course, Ms. Yellen would point out that, with a healthy dose of Core Inflation (extended of course to wages), those debt-burdened college grads will pay down the loans with inflated dollars. Which brings us back to the Fed's efforts to manage the level of Core Inflation. At the macro level, the Fed can doubtless make a theoretical case for manipulating inflation. But have their efforts — ZIRP and Quantitative Easing — achieving the desired goal? The results thus far haven't been encouraging. Inflation has been tame in recent months, although the latest Core CPI is off it interim lows in 2010 and at the Fed's 2 historical percent target. The one thing we can be certain about is this: Increases in inflation will have a painful effect on lower income households, those on fixed incomes, those with higher ratios of tuition, transportation, or medical costs ... and all households whose discretionary spending is more dream than reality. FREE AppDownload
When Steven Spielberg featured Reese's Pieces in his 1982 blockbuster "E.T. The Extra Terrestrial," the candy experienced a big boost in sales. The only reason Reese's Pieces got the lucrative product placement in the first place was because M&amp;Ms had already refused the filmmakers permission to use its product in the film. This wouldn't be the last time M&amp;Ms passed on a high-profile product placement opportunity.Produced by Graham Flanagan.
asdfaMorgan Stanley's Adam Jonas is out with an awesome and slightly hilarious note in which he argues Tesla is now, maybe, the most important car company in the world.   "Not even two years after the delivery of the first Model S, Tesla Motors has transformed from fledgling start-up to arguably the most important car company in the world. We are not joking." He groups a series of amusing anecdotes into three sections about how the auto world can't stop talking about the California-based electric carmaker. First there was the recent two-hour dinner Jonas had with the CTO a global parts mega-supplier. Half the meal was spent discussing how no one is doing what Tesla is doing to advance electrification and how suppliers are considering devoting new lines and facilities to make parts for the company. Next are all the state governments clawing over themselves to land one of Tesla's gigafactories, which could even someday end up moving the needle on U.S. GDP itself. Jonas said Tesla could wind up employing 20,000 employees directly and supporting up to 150,000 other jobs upstream and downstream. And finally, there's what the traditional automakers are saying, talk that has caused Jonas to go full Keanu.  "General Motors last year established its 'Team Tesla' to advance the development of long range EVs. A BMW engineer recently explained to us how Tesla's presence has helped reinvigorate the spirit of automobile innovation that was beginning to run stale, further testifying that BMW will be a stronger company longer term because Tesla is around. Whoa." Jonas has a $320 price target on the stock. Shares were trading at $233. FREE AppDownload
SolarCity We recently explained how Tesla needs to build what it is calling a "gigafactory" for batteries in order to survive. The rest of the world is not building enough lithium ion storage to meet what Tesla thinks will be surging demand, so it has decided it must do it itself by making a very costly factory. Tuesday, SolarCity (Elon Musk's other company) announced it will have to do the same for solar panels. The firm unveiled plans to build one of the world's largest high-efficiency solar panel plants, using technology from Fremont-based Silevo, which they also said they'd acquired.  "We expect to have to install 10 gigawatts [of high-efficiency panels] a year," Chairman Elon Musk said on a conference call announcing the move. "If you look at the current capacity in the world, we're not able to do that right now." It's not just a supply question. Solar panel prices have been falling in recent years thanks to a production boom in China. But the panels getting produced, though cheap, aren't terribly efficient and prices have begun bottoming out anyway.  They are likely to begin climbing: Government subsidies for renewables start getting phased out in 2016, and the political environment for rebooting them remains unstable at best.  Plus, in a call with BI, CTO Peter Rive said recent U.S. moves to slap tariffs on Chinese panels served as a "catalyst" for looking into building the Silevo plant.  Will the demand be there? The firm's own polling suggests there is. But if you assume that electricity customers are price agnostic, rooftop solar still has some ways yet to go to become cost competitive with fossil fuels. Musk recognizes this and beating fossil fuels at their own cost game remains his ultimate goal. As of last year, the levelized cost of energy for rooftop generation remained about double coal. Lazard Goldman has explained that it still very much believes in SolarCity. Its systems have a great shot at getting to parity as long as storage costs come down. But as Goldman and Barclays have said, storage costs will come down only if the real gigafactory, Tesla's, can take off.   Musk did not rule out selling their new panel technology to others. Utility-scale solar remains the largest source of solar generation in the U.S., and there is no sign they've made any moves to confront the coming price hike. Utility developers wouldn't be in a position to do much any way. So SolarCity, and the solar industry at large, sure looks like it needs these two gigafactories to continue to thrive.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesYork Capital Management CEO James Dinan's daughter Katherine is a talented equestrian. Wall Streeters are just like us in many ways, sharing the urge to settle down and start a family at some point in their careers.  We decided to track down a bunch of these Wall Street offspring to see what they've done with their legacies so far. Some followed the family business path, while others strayed into new passions. From singer-songwriters to journalists and equestrians, these Wall Street kids are doing some remarkable things. Let's meet the next generation.  FREE AppDownload
APAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos.On Wednesday, Amazon will announce one of its biggest, riskiest new products ever: A smartphone. While Amazon hasn't come out and officially said it's releasing a phone, we're 99.99% certain it's happening. Amazon released a teaser video last week for the event, and if you look closely, you can see a phone in the video. Various rumors, leaks, and Amazon’s own teaser video have hinted that the phone will have motion-sensing capabilities, and 3-D effects that let you look at objects on the screen from different angles just by tilting your head. There's also talk that Amazon will have some sort of data offering that will allow Amazon Prime members users to stream Amazon content — like movies from Prime Instant Video or music from its new Spotify-esque service — for free. BIIWith a smartphone, Amazon is plunging into a crowded, well-established market. Most adults in the U.S. already own a smartphone, and of the more than 120 million devices sold in the U.S. in 2013, Apple and Samsung took 45% and 26% of the market-share respectively. To get a sense of how tough the smartphone market is, look at Microsoft and Nokia. Microsoft is the dominant software company on desktop computers. Nokia was the dominant feature phone company. And yet, together, they've failed to take any significant share of the smartphone market with Windows Phone.  So, why is Amazon going to release a smartphone? Amazon has a long-term goal of being “an everything company” that lets users buy more and more stuff more and more seamlessly. Amazon’s new phone will essentially be a branded portal for increased customer spending. Amazon also thinks, "Why the heck not?" says Brad Stone at Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Stone, who wrote a book on Amazon, says,  "Fueled by his pride in Amazon’s inventiveness and his stubborn refusal to cede even an inch of the tech landscape to other companies" Bezos is determined to release successful hardware products.  Sam Hall, an Amazon mobile executive, laid out one of the company’s driving goals to The New York Times a few years ago: “We’re trying to remove the barrier between ‘I want that’ and ‘I have it.’” The phone will likely sell for cheap, because Amazon doesn’t expect to make much (if any) money off the hardware. Instead, it will make money when customers use their phones to buy more Amazon products, which it will encourage them to do.  "We want to make money when people use our devices, not when they buy our devices," said Jeff Bezos in 2012 when Amazon released new tablets. Amazon Inc.He also said, "We do not like the razor and razor blade model, where you lose money up front and then somehow make it up on the backend. We also do not like the other model, where you make a lot of money on the device, because it doesn’t follow our approach." The phone’s rumored 3-D capabilities could be one key to that, if they let customers view Amazon products in a whole new way. If, for example, you can easily scope out a new leather messenger bag  from all angles on your phone simply by moving your head, you may be quicker to press that “buy” button. Amazon may also build and expand on the functionality of its Flow app, which lets iOS users add items to their Amazon shopping carts by simply pointing their camera at them. The idea is that it makes it easier for users to re-order household items like shampoo or toilet paper when they’re running low. Amazon has already proven its sell-for-cost strategy with its Kindle e-reader hardware. Amazon makes slim margins on each Kindle sale, but owners spend 30% more on Amazon than non-Kindle owners, according to a recent survey by Mark Mahaney at RBC Capital Market. With mobile commerce growing 23% in the last quarter —nearly twice as fast as desktop online sales — a smartphone synced with Amazon’s various marketplaces could offer a bump in sales. Statista/Business Insider Pop quiz: Which part of Apple's business is growing fastest in the past six months? If you were to guess iPhones, you'd be wrong. iPhone revenue is up 9% year-over-year. What about iPads? Nope. iPad revenue is down 2% year-over-year. The fastest growing part of the business is the iTunes software and services division, which is up 15% year-over-year. The iTunes business is music, movies, e-books, and most importantly, mobile apps. That's a content sales business that Amazon was dominating when it was in physical form. (Think CDs, books, DVDs, etc.) Amazon has been beefing up its catalog of digital content to compete with iTunes. Because Amazon's smartphone users will have to purchase apps and content through Amazon's own app store, the company could increase its digital revenue stream. Its $99 Prime Membership now offers a streaming music service, a selection of free e-books, and an expanding catalog of movies and TV shows, along with its staple of free, two-day shipping on thousands of items. In its Q1 earnings call, Amazon reported that video streaming on Prime Instant Video nearly tripled year over year. When it launched its Fire TV streaming device in April, Amazon also debuted its new gaming studio. (The idea of new games with 3-D effects could be another draw for the new phone.)  If Amazon does actually allow Prime members to stream Prime content without paying for the data, that will be a strong incentive for users with Prime to buy the phone or for potential phone owners to shell out the $99 for Prime membership. That would be ideal for Amazon: On average, Prime customers spend almost double the amount on Amazon as non-members.  Amazon is one of several mega-companies that reach into a bunch of different businesses. It sells physical goods, digital media, web services, groceries, and even offers a payment system for other e-commerce sites.  But as smartphones became fully intertwined with our everyday lives, Amazon needs to offer its services to its 250 million customers without having to rely on the hardware of its chief competitors, like Apple and Google. As The New York Times' David Streitfeld points out, Google favors a future where it will remember what you want when you're out in the world and sell ads against that. He uses an example where a person could be walking by a Trader Joe's and their Android phone would buzz, alerting them they could buy the exact product they need, immediately. That vision of the future could be bad for Amazon, especially if it doesn't want to pay as much for ads as Google wants it to.  Nearly 30% of Amazon users access the site exclusively on their phones, meaning that it as has more mobile-only users than Facebook in the U.S. By releasing a smartphone and upping that percentage, Amazon can cut Google out of the equation. In 2012, venture capitalist Fred Wilson gave crude, but effective advice: "Be your own b**ch." At the time publishing companies were getting hurt by tweaks from Facebook and Google. His point was that it's best to be in control of your own destiny and not rely on other companies or their platforms. Amazon is taking the same path with its own smartphone. Ultimately, Amazon wants to create an all-encompassing ecosystem for goods, groceries, digital media, and maybe even local services. In Amazon’s ideal world, that starts with an Amazon Prime membership and extends into your pocket to your cellphone.  So, that's why Amazon is going to release a smartphone on Wednesday.  Now, the real question is whether or not customers will want the phone. We'll get a better idea about that when we see it. We're in Seattle for the release of the phone, and we'll have a live blog, photos, video, and all sorts of coverage, so stay tuned! Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesThink about it.Since the Supreme Court decided that it would not hear the strange sovereign debt case between Argentina and a Paul Singer-led group of hedge funds, and academics, technocrats and the like have worried that a dangerous precedent has been set. The country's stock market did, after all, take a serious nose dive immediately after the ruling. Google Finance "We have said in the past, the Fund remains deeply concerned about the broad systemic implications that the lower court decision could have for the debt restructuring process in general," said Gerry Rice, director of the International Monetary Fund's Communications department earlier this month. So what are these implications he and his organization are so worried about? To get that, you have to understand the case. Back in 2001/2002, Argentina collapsed. Its debt turned into junk — something "no one would want to buy," as Argentina's own president said on TV Monday night. But many investors, especially hedge funds, did buy the debt believing that it would increase in value as Argentina put its house in order. It is, after all, a very rich country when it wants to be. Recovering from default, however, takes time. In both 2005 and 2010 92% of Argentine bondholders restructured the debt, taking 30 cents on the dollar, in order to move the process along a bit and get money over time. Paul Singer and his company did not. They waited to get the entire pie. Argentina believes that isn't fair. Paul Singer believes he needs to get his money yesterday. According to Argentina's deal with the "exchange bondholders" (the ones who took a haircut) the country can't negotiate with Singer unless it absolutely has to (i.e. faces default, as it does now) until 2015. So you see the problem. Why should anyone restructure their debt if they can just play a waiting game, like Singer, and get 100 cents on the dollar. If this holds, poor countries facing default will have no mercy. Argentina, for its part, may need to print money to pay Singer back, devaluing its currency and punishing its own people. No one wants that, especially not organizations like th IMF that have to bail poor countries out. Now, the thing is, these days sovereign debt agreements like this one tend to have Collective Action Clauses (CACs) which state that if a certain percentage of bondholders agree to take a haircut in a given series of debt issuance, everyone has to. But there are exceptions. Back in 2012, economist Nouriel Roubini pointed out one very important one — Greece. In Greece's case, Roubini pointed out, the CACs don't go far enough. You don't just need every investor in every series to accept, you need to make it so that every investor, in every series, in every legal jurisdiction accepts. For example, some of Greece's debt was issued in Greece, under Greek legal jurisdiction — so potentially more favorable to the debtor, and some of the debt is issued in the United Kingdom — potentially more favorable to the creditor. Imagine slugging that one out in court. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) begins its meeting today. The FOMC meeting announcement and forecasts are out at 2 p.m. ET on Wednesday, followed by remarks from Federal Reserve chair, Janet Yellen, at 2:30 p.m. ET. The FOMC is largely expected to taper its asset purchase program by $10 billion to $35 billion. Effective July 1, the Fed is expected to lower its asset purchases to $15 billion in agency mortgage backed securities (MBS) and $20 billion in Treasuries. The Fed is also expected to maintain its current forward guidance language on federal funds rate support. Inflation concerns The latest consumer price report showed that inflation is starting to tick higher. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics wrote that he doesn't expect a "knee-jerk Fed reaction," but "If these emerging trends continue, markets and policymakers will soon be changing their tunes." "It undoubtedly will color the discussion on the FOMC, and may embolden some of the hawks to push up their inflation and interest rate forecasts," writes Michael Hanson at Bank of America. "While we don’t expect a hawkish dissent at this meeting, today’s numbers mildly increases those odds." Unemployment and growth Yellen is clearly looking beyond the headline unemployment rate. Her "eclectic" approach, writes David Rosenberg at Gluskin Sheff, includes quit rates as a sign of investor confidence, and part-time and long-term employment data.  "The bottom line, though, is that employment lags the cycle, unemployment rates lag employment, and wages lag everything," writes Rosenberg. "So what we have is a Fed that is committed to targeting lagging indicators — this can only end up building more inflationary pressures down the pike." The FOMC "will maintain its focus on the potential for a cyclical growth pick up and a further reduction in labor market slack," writes Mohamed El-Erian. "It will also note the importance of removing the slack given its more holistic assessment of the labor market (which includes part time activities, long-term joblessness, and wage growth)." Another number FOMC members will be tossing around is the slowdown in the first quarter, though this is likely to be considered a one-off. El-Erian writes that this is likely to show "some softening in the shorter term growth projections but no material change to longer-term expectations." In fact, in some regards the Fed looks close to achieving its employment and inflation goals. Recently, Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius wrote that "despite the 1% drop in real GDP in the first quarter, we believe that the US economy is now growing at an above-trend pace." This could have bulls antsy about the Fed's accommodative stance. New Fed faces and the Dot Plot There is a little uncertainty about the policy debate going in to this meeting since Lael Brainard and Stanley Fischer, who were confirmed last Thursday, will be stepping up as new voters. Meanwhile, Loretta Mester, who took over from Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto, is also stepping up as a voter.  Hatzius argues that these new faces could result in a "dovish shift." "This change-over will add some uncertainty to the policy debate and the distribution of the June 'dot plot,'" writes Michael Hanson at Bank of America. "We don’t expect these current or potential future personnel changes to fundamentally alter the majority support for a gradual exit with rates below their historical average for some time." Michael Hanson and Ethan Harris expect that Yellen will downplay the "dot plot" as not being a policy tool. This refers to the the dot chart that shows the predicted path of the federal funds rate, where each dot represents where an FOMC member sees the federal funds rate at the end of each year. They expect the first rate hike in Q4 2015. Forecasts "The committee is likely to make some upgrades to its description of the economic outlook in the post-meeting statement and its economic projections," writes Hatzius. "Although the committee will need to reduce its 2014 real GDP growth forecast to take into account the Q1 disappointment, we would expect the committee to reduce its unemployment rate forecast and lift its inflation forecast slightly." Here's a quick look at what Goldman expects: Goldman Sachs Stay tuned in, we'll have all the coverage live. FREE AppDownload
Micros makes software and hardware for the hospitality industries. This would be Oracle's largest acquisition since it bought Sun Microsystems for $7.4 billion in 2010 (which really cost Oracle $5.6 billion after it factored in Sun's cash). Oracle is one of the most acquisitive companies in the tech industry, having spent $50 billion to acquire about 100 companies over the past 10 years, Bloomberg reports. This year alone, it has already bought BlueKai (for around $400 million, sources told Business Insider), as well as Corente and GreenBytes. Still, the Micros Systems deal, should it proceed as reported, would be a big one for Oracle for several reasons. Obviously, the size of the deal, at $5 billion, makes it stand out. Micros Systems would also give Oracle a tablet. The company makes "point of sale" cash register software and hardware for the hospitality and retail industry. The latest wave in the POS industry is to replace these devices with tablets, and Micros offers a Windows tablet for this exact purpose. Most importantly, it could give Oracle some much needed growth. Micros generated nearly $1.3 billion in revenue in 2013 and $171 million in net income.  On rumors of this acquisition, Micros System's stock price has gone crazy. It's up 17% to about $67, when it had been trading near the $58 mark for the past few days and under $53 for most of April and much of May. Oracle reports its fourth quarter earnings for fiscal 2014 on Thursday. If this acquisition is as close as it sounds, we will likely hear more about it then. Oracle declined to comment on this story. FREE AppDownload
Brent crude prices have climbed more than $5 since Iraq declared a state of emergency after Sunni insurgents gained control of the city of Mosul last week. In a note yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts explained how prices could yet spike by another $40-$50 per barrel to never-before-seen levels.  Much of Iraq's oil production, as well as exports, is concentrated in the south, while most of the fighting has occurred in the north. Here are two tables from Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy showing what this looks like. First, proven reserves: Columbia University Center on Global Energy Policy Second, the comparison of exports emanating from Basrah, in the south, with those out of Kirkuk in the north. They'd already fallen to zero after a key pipeline to Turkey came under attack. Columbia University Center on Global Energy Policy If the conflict migrates to the South, we could be looking at $160 a barrel, BAML says.  Our commodity research team believes that in the unlikely event ISIS invades the South and the entire 2.6 million b/d of southern oil production is lost, oil prices could face $40-50/bbl upside. Further immediate risks to production seem limited under the base case scenario where oil prices remain around $110/bbl. The bulk of Iraq’s oil fields are located in the Shia South, far from the conflict zones. Meanwhile, analysts said today U.S. gas prices are likely to touch a six-year high of $3.652 this summer thanks to the crude price surge that's already taken place. The only solace we can take is that booming U.S. production has provided a marginal cushion to global prices. But overall this is a pretty ugly scenario.  FREE AppDownload
CNBCSince Michael Lewis published his book on high frequency trading, 'Flashboys', and told America that the market was rigged, it became clear that there are a lot of people on Wall Street that don't even think the topic should be discussed. The market isn't even close to being "rigged", they argued, and if anyone's losing any money on this it's just pennies — so move along, nothing to see here at all. That hasn't stopped the government's inquiry into the practice, though, and Tuesday morning Brad Katusyama, CEO of stock exchange IEX and subject of Lewis' book, testified before the Senate Committee on Investigations about it. During his testimony, he gave the perfect response to the people that would rather toss the matter aside too. "The size of the conflict compared to the notional amount traded is not a reason to ignore the issue," he said. "I think it's significant in the fact that it's a principle based issue... you can try to minimize it using pennies... [but] it comes down to the foundation of why the markets exist and people's trust in those markets." It's the principle of the thing — do we just sit back and let some people have a (maybe tiny) advantage in the market, even though we know it's there? Or do we strive to make the market as fair as possible so people want to invest? As Jamie Dimon might put it, a constant fight for the most fairness is why we have "the widest, deepest most transparent capital markets" in the world (if you've never heard him say that, you've never heard the guy speak in public). "The market's responsibility in our view," Katsuyama said, "is to ensure that when a trade happens, the conditions with which the trade happens are fair... As technology has evolved the technology should have also evolved to maintain this fairness... " But it hasn't, he continued, instead it has enabled some people to take advantage of other actors in the market. Katsuyama admitted that the use of the word "rigged" gave his critics a reason to shift the conversation, but he chalks that up to "people embedded in the status quo [who] don't want to see change happen." But it's going to happen, and he suggested that Congress start with a controversial practice called 'maker-taker', a practice that gives people who make trades (or provide liquidity to the market) and charges people who take trades. Some exchanges have argued that if you eliminate that practice, there will be less liquidity in the market. But Katsuyama disagrees, and thinks we should test that theory. "I think that steps should be taken to address what happens to the market if it's [maker-taker] eliminated... it should be given the chance to prove that eliminating maker-taker won't harm the market." So is anyone afraid of a little experiment? FREE AppDownload
Joe Shlabotnik/flickrThis morning we learned inflation climbed at the fastest rate since 2011, and that housing starts fell 6.5% from April.   As a result, analysts' models are now showing lower Q2 GDP. First up is Barclays' Cooper Howes, who said the declines in housing were broad based, and that what few gains there have been this year have mostly come from multi-family. As a result, his growth forecast came down 1/10th to 2.9% "After unusually severe winter weather weighed on housing activity in the first quarter, housing starts have been slow to recover," he writes.  Macroeconomic Advisers also saw its forecast fall by a tenth, to 3.6%, on the the surge in prices.  "<U+200B>...The components of the CPI that we use to deflate retail sales were, on balance, higher than expected, implying less PCE in the second quarter," the firm said. "As a result, we lowered our tracking forecast of second-quarter GDP growth by one-tenth to 3.6%." And Morgan Stanley also lowered its forecast, to 3.5% from 3.7%. We recently told you how it now looks as if Q1 contracted as much as 2%, mostly thanks to the harsh winter but perhaps because of other factors as well. So for 2014 so far, we're looking at probably no more than something like 1.5% growth. Yikes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerTribal fighters and members of Iraqi security forces carry their weapons as they take part in an intensive security deployment on the outskirts of Diyala province June 14, 2014. Stocks are higher, but basically flat. The Dow is up 4 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 1 point, and the Nasdaq is up 12 points.  The market opened lower following data that showed consumer prices surged in May and housing starts that fell more than expected, but quickly reversed higher before falling to trade basically flat. U.S. Treasury yields are higher, with the 10-year yield up to 2.64%. On the economic data front, consumer prices climbed 0.4% in May, more than the 0.2% that had been expected. On a year-over-year basis, prices climbed 2.1%, and 2.0% excluding food and energy. Housing starts in May fell 6.5% month-over-month, more than the 3.9% decline that was expected by economists. The Federal Reserve kicked off its latest FOMC meeting, which will culminate in the central bank's latest monetary policy announcement tomorrow afternoon, followed by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen.  In corporate news, Elon Musk's SolarCity announced plans to build one of the world's largest solar plants in upstate New York. Musk's other public company, Tesla, is also rallying, making two big days for one of the world's most influential businessmen.  Earlier this morning, the U.K. reported inflation that fell to its lowest level since 2009 and housing prices that have accelerated to their fastest pace since the crisis.  Last night, President Obama said the U.S. is sending 275 troops to Iraq to "provide support and security for U.S. personnel and the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad." Crude oil prices are near $107 a barrel, as the situation in Iraq remains unstable. The situation in Ukraine is also on the mind of investors, after Kiev yesterday said Russia cut off all gas to the country.   FREE AppDownload
An overriding market meme since the beginning of 2013 is we are in the midst of the most hated bull market in history. Some of this idea can be attributed to investors not participating in this rally. Yesterday, we looked at why volatility and volume have been so low.  Another reason is that even those who have been invested have just been wrong about the market. This chart from Bank of America Merrill Lynch shows equity client flows — which includes the firm's hedge fund, institutional, and private clients — over the last six years. Bank of American Merrill Lynch In the last 18 months as the S&amp;P 500 has run to record highs, BAML's clients have often been net sellers of stocks. And year-to-date, BAML's clients have remained net sellers of stocks, with only companies buying back shares serving as net buyers of stock. Bank of American Merrill Lynch Bank of America Merrill Lynch Last week we discussed the role that buybacks have been playing in the market. These charts bring that point home. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesMe: What’s your problem? Him: Nothing, still trying to sell this stupid apartment… Me: So? Sell it. Him: Not so simple, getting lowballed and the brokers coming up with buyers are really just trawling for the listing. Me: What do you mean lowballed? What are you asking? Him: One million. Me: There’s your problem right there. Him: What do you mean? It’s a junior four in the East 70's with one bath, what should I ask for? Me: Ten million dollars. Him: What the hell are you talking about? It has one bedroom and a dining room that converts to a smaller bedroom. Me: So what? It’s New York City, just list it at $10 million and watch the buyers roll in to fight over it. Him: Dude… Me: No, trust me. Once you list something over $10 million, your bring out a whole new class of buyer. People who don’t even get out of bed for a million dollar listing. The only people coming to look at a one million dollar apartment in Manhattan are hobos. Right off the freight car from New Jersey. You don’t want to deal with these people – they need, like, mortgages and shit. You want to deal with the ten million crowd, trust me. They show up with a check and a pen. Him: Yes, fine, but it’s not worth ten million… Me: It’s worth whatever you say it’s worth! This is New York City in 2014 – the way it works is you name the most ridiculous price you can think of and, out of thin air, a hundred people who are dying to pay it just materialize and start making offers. Homes, buildings, clothing, shoes, artwork, companies, office space, gym memberships, jewelry, groceries, meals, a round of drinks – money is literally no object anymore, you’re restricted only by your own imagination. Him: I really doubt that - Me: Yo! Let me tell you a question: Shut up! Him: What? That doesn’t even make sense - Me: Look man, New York City is a magical land where people just make up a price and then buyers kick the door down and start paying it. My friend has five kids, all at a Manhattan private school, do you know what he pays? Him: How much? Me: $46,000. Per kid. Quarter million a year for school. Not including school trips, school uniforms, athletic equipment and donation drives. Forty f--king six thousand dollars per kid, for eight months a year. And do you know where that number came from? Him: No… Me: He doesn’t either. No one does. It’s based on nothing. Why not $45,000 or $51,000? No reason. Someone came up with $46,000 and everyone just said fine and paid it. I bet if they were to double that price, they’d still fill the school with kids and parents who just don’t give a damn or are too busy to argue. That’s how New York City works. Also, nobody wants to be seen arguing or questioning the price for anything. They just pay. It’s amazing. No where else in America is there anything like this. If you can’t sell an apartment for a price unconnected to reality here, I don’t know what to say. Him: I don’t know… Me: And I’ll tell you another thing – lose that “East 70's” crap, nobody wants to hear that! There’s no cache in “East 70's.” If your neighborhood doesn’t have a name – like NoHo or DUMBO or TriBeCa, you might as well kill yourself. Him: But it doesn’t. Me: Sure it does. You live in TBAG. Him: What? Me: TBAG - Two Blocks from Atlantic Grill. That’s your hot, up-and-coming neighborhood’s name. Get a reporter from New York Magazine to use the term TBAG in an article somewhere, they’re basically out of things to write anyway, they’ll do it.Tell people you’re getting another SoulCycle next door and a new branch of Lavo up the street and then sell the place to a Russian or a Chinese guy for $10 million. Him: I guess I never thought of that. Will give it a shot. Me: Oh wait… Him: What? Me: I’m sorry. Him: WHAT? Me: I’m just getting word on Curbed.com, TBAG’s no longer a hot neighborhood. Him: But you just made that shit up two seconds ago! Me: Look man, I can’t control the trendiness of your loser neighborhood. You had your window of opportunity and you pissed it away. You’re probably going to die in that apartment. Get used to it. FREE AppDownload
Turney DuffOn Wall Street, when you leave the business you find out who your real friends are. We’ve all heard it before. And it’s true. Whether you’re taking a break, between jobs or off to rehab, your relationships divide into three basic assemblies.  First, you have the Dead-to-me group; they immediately delete your phone number, stop returning emails and cross the street every time they see you coming. I get it. Things change when your words don’t have a 5 cent commission attached to them.  Then there’s the On the Fencing Team. They’re not sure if you’re going to return to the street or not. It’s in their best interest to keep you close. Think of it like this—you’re on their to-do list. They check in once every couple of weeks to see how you’re doing, which is code for: “Do you have any interviews lined up?” If you do, they’ll adjust accordingly.  Finally there’s your Real Friends, they could care less if you work in the business or not. But when you boil it down, this is probably only 10 percent of your current working relationships. It’s friendship as usual. They still only laugh at your funny jokes, want to hang outside of work and keep your darkest secrets.  It makes sense. Most relationships on the street are born out of convenience and morph into being mutually beneficial. So what else would you expect to happen when they’re no longer convenient and beneficial? I’ve left the business twice, both times for drug and alcohol rehab. So, I have some experience in this department. The first time was for four months which wasn’t long enough to differentiate the Fencing Team from the Real Friends. The second time I left it was for good. And it took about a year to figure out who’s who and in some respects myself. And this is the thing; inevitably you’ll be disappointed by some and surprised by others. It’s almost impossible to predict. But… On Wall Street, when you leave the business and write a book about it you find out who your real enemies are. During pre-publication the Dead-to-me group of people tracks down your phone number or email.  “Hey, man, I haven’t seen you in a while; we should get a drink sometime.” I guess they didn’t realize that I’ve been sober since I left the street the last time. Nobody wants to see their name in print unless it’s in a story about them saving a cat from a tree.  I’ve been told I’m a titanic loser and should kill myself, and that I’m a lifesaver for giving a reader the courage to face their own addiction. I’d like to think I fall somewhere in between. The hate comes in waves, but you get immune to it fairly quickly.  While others have commended me for capturing a certain time period on Wall Street to a tee. And I’ve made several lists of what Wall Street is reading. The good has by far outweighed the bad. If I had to pick one word to describe Wall Street’s reaction to The Buy Side, good and bad, it’d be: intense.  Here are some interesting things I’ve heard since publishing the book: “You’re no Michael Lewis.” - I could have told you that before you read it. “Even his eyebrows are smug.” – Thanks? “I can’t afford the book, lost too much money.” - Well, you do know that I’m solely responsible for creating mortgage-backed securities in my secret lab. “A guy got a divorce because his wife read your book. She accused him of cheating after she read it and he admitted to it.” - So he got divorced directly because of my book and indirectly for cheating? “You’re stereotyping Wall Street and giving it a bad name.” - Did you think it had a good reputation before my book?  I tried my hardest to write an honest book and I didn’t want any exaggerations. And I’m proud of that. What I’ve learned is I prefer someone disliking me for the truth than liking me for what I only show them.  So in honor of the paperback being available on June 17th, you should read The Buy Side if...... you don’t like standing in lines.   FREE AppDownload
AP Photos Tuesday morning we got May inflation data, and it was something of a wakeup call, because it was a reminder that inflation still existed. Core CPI — which excludes food and energy prices — grew at its fastest month-over-month pace since 2011. On an annual basis, May was the hottest month since early 2013.  As you can see from the last three bars, inflation is clearly gathering steam. Pantheon Now we said up top that the reading was a wake-up call, but actually that's not right. The signs have been showing up all over the place that the economy is gathering steam and pricing pressure is rising. In a note published exactly a month ago, UBS economist Drew Matus highlighted two great charts. Matus provides his own explanation of the charts that we've included, but the bottom line is that credit growth has begun to explode higher, and more and more firms are saying that wages are rising. UBS Since Matus published those charts, the trend of accelerating loan growth has continued. Now the big questions are being asked: Is the economic breakout finally happening? And is the economy accelerating to the point where the Fed might consider? In a note to clients Monday, economist Chris Rupkey of Mitsubishi Financial argued unequivocally that the economic comeback is here. His comments were in relation to fresh numbers on industrial production and capacity utilization (emphasis ours): Industrial production, the Fed’s own number, rising 0.6% today in the month of May, it is at all-time, record highs. Slack, what slack? This isn’t a recovery anymore, it is a full-on economic expansion. The old peak before the recession in this timely monthly measure of factory output was 100.8 in November 2007, now today it is up 0.6% in May to 103.7. This isn’t a recovery as production has already regained the ground lost in recession and keeps on moving higher and higher. Wait there’s more good news. Last month it fell a sharp 0.6% a number that made us scratch our heads for an explanation, but now we don’t have to explain, it is revised to down just 0.3% in April. To put it another way, production today at 103.7 is now 1.0% higher than the 102.7 level in last month’s report. The economy is 1% better than we knew it to be. Things are really hopping out there. Goldman's top economist Jan Hatzius recently conveyed similar thoughts, though in less excited tones when he said: "Despite the 1% drop in real GDP in the first quarter, we believe that the US economy is now growing at an above-trend pace." As for the Fed, remember it has a dual-mandate: to reduce unemployment and to get inflation up. Once the Fed hits its goals, it will inevitably start thinking about opportunities to tap on the breaks, and extricate itself from the Zero Interest Rate Policy (ZIRP) that has characterized its stance ever since the economic crisis. And guess what, the Fed is closing in its goals. In his preview for this week's Fed decision, economist Tim Duy pointed out that on both unemployment and inflation, the Fed doesn't have much further to go to hit the endzone. Tim Duy Tim Duy Regarding that second chart, the blue line or "NAIRU" is the level of unemployment where economists would expect to see accelerating inflation. The reason is that when unemployment gets low enough, workers really start to get wage and bargaining power, and that becomes the fuel for inflation. As you can see, we are getting very close. So where does that leave us now?  Last week, Bank of England chief Mark Carney warned that rate hikes might come sooner than the market currently expects. He was only talking about the U.K. economy and the BoE, but given that the U.K. experience mirrors ours in many ways, it's inevitable that people have begun extrapolating about whether his comments are relevant here. Tomorrow is FOMC day. Not only will the Federal Reserve announce its policy decision, Janet Yellen will have a press conference where she'll be asked about all of this stuff. In a note to clients Tuesday, economist Chris Rupkey succinctly explained what it's all about: "Seems like the Fed needs to freshen up their guidance or start hiking rates earlier."  Yup. FREE AppDownload
APWarren Buffett may be working on a plan to take Coca-Cola private, according to Fox Business News.  Warren Buffett is not taking Coca-Cola private, according to CNBC. Hedge fund manager David Winters told FBN's Mario Bartiromo that Buffett and 3G Capital, which worked with Buffett on its takeover of Heinz last year, may be working on a plan to take Coke private, according to FBN's Katie Roof. David Winters is the managing member of Wintergreen Advisors, which owns about 2.5 million share of Coca-Cola, according to the company's latest 13F filing with the SEC.  CNBC's Kayla Tausche then followed up with a report that Warren Buffett told Becky Quick regarding the possibility of taking Coke private: "Absolutely no chance of that."  CNBC's David Faber was not impressed with Winters' comments. Winters' Coke stake is worth about $100 million. Buffett's Coke stake, which is 800 million shares or about 9% of the company according to data from Bloomberg, is worth about $32 billion.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJimmy Lee, JPMorgan.We've been asking Wall Street vets for the best piece of career advice they received and what they would tell young folks in finance today. Monday night, we caught up with  Jimmy Lee — JPMorgan Chase vice chairman and co-chairman of JPM's investment bank — at Harlem RBI's "Bids for Kids" gala. Lee was being honored alongside baseball legend Mariano Rivera.  We asked Lee, who is known for being the best dealmaker on Wall Street, about the best piece of advice he received. "I would say [former GE CEO] Jack Welch really helped me a lot in my career in giving me advice," Lee told us.  He continued: "A piece of advice Jack gave me when I first heard it I didn't know what the advice was— He said, 'Jimmy, you've got to be comfortable in your own skin.' Now, when I heard that I'm like 'Well, yeah, of course you do.' But I didn't realize how many different situations you can apply that same piece of advice." Lee said that whether you go in for a job interview at a bank or have to present a big M&amp;A deal before a board, you have to be yourself. "I think there's a lot to be said for being yourself," said Lee. "You get up to the plate and you think this guy is going to throw you a fast ball, but he throws you a curve ball. You've got to be ready for the curve ball. I think being comfortable in your own skin is an important trait. It relaxes you. It calms you down and gives you the ability to deal with the unexpected." ** We've been asking Wall Street vets about their earliest experiences in finance. If you have a piece of advice you received or a story about a lesson you learned early on in your career, feel free to email jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We can keep you anonymous.  FREE AppDownload
Here's a map from BP's Statistical Review of World Energy summarizing all of the world's oil import/export activity in millions of tonnes.  Scroll down for a table with details. BP
Dark Knight, screenshotIf you were watching the wires Monday, you may have noticed that Allergan, the pharmaceutical company targeted by Valeant and Bill Ackman for a hostile takeover, issued a release about Valeant's latest (rebuffed) offer to buy the company for $53 million. And within that release were some emails from Valeant's banker, Morgan Stanley. These were not flattering emails, especially given the fact that Morgan Stanley is Valeant's banker. Here's a sample: Robert Kindler, Vice Chairman and Global Head of M&amp;A, Morgan StanleyEmail to Allergan’s CEO, David Pyott, and CFO, Jeff Edwards, May 13, 2014 “My takeaway is that AGN is not being nearly aggressive enough in going after the VRX business model and currency.”* David Horn, Managing Director, Investment Banking Division (Healthcare), Morgan StanleyEmail to Jeff Edwards, May 18, 2014 “Part of what Rob [Kindler] is suggesting [to Allergan] is to allow him to use his significant relationships with media and analysts to provide a clear and detailed articulation of why Valeant is a house of cards and your investors should not want to take their stock.” "*Permission to use quotations was neither sought nor obtained," said the release at the end — go figure (the WSJ noticed that one). So in other words, it appears the emails were leaked from Morgan Stanley to Allergan. To review: Two Morgan Stanley Mergers &amp; Acquisitions bankers — the bank Valeant is using to secure its purchase of Allergan — emails Allergan about the most damning criticism of the deal (which is that Valeant's business model is crap). BI's Myles Udland has argued that it could destroy the pharmaceutical industry as we know it because of its propensity to slash R&amp;D. And he's not the only one. Hedge fund managers like Jim Chanos and John Hempton have argued that Valeant needs acquisitions (like this one) to sustain his business, which only looks healthy on paper because of its use of aggressive acquisition accounting. Now, you may be saying to yourself, "that's just two Wall Street bankers doing their jobs as consultants, nothing to see here. Move along." Valeant, for its part, is standing by its bankers. And if Valeant thinks this is fine then who cares, right? FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Andrew H. WalkerJimmy LeeHere's something we didn't know—The most powerful dealmaker on Wall Street started his career as a bank teller. JPMorgan Chase vice chairman Jimmy Lee interned for Chemical Bank after graduating from Williams College in 1975. It was a one-year management training program. First, the bank taught their interns Accounting I, Accounting II, Corporate Finance I and II. After that, the interns were sent to bank branches for one month. "I was lucky I learned banking from the ground up. If you can learn a business from the ground up, it's just a really great way to learn."  Lee worked at the Riverdale Branch in the Bronx—the same one the Yankees baseball team uses. Lee, was being honored at Harlem RBI's annual "Bid for Kids" gala at Cipriani last night, told us that baseball legends Reggie Jackson and Chris Chambliss would come in to bank when he was there. During his internship, Lee got to try out a number of roles. "You're a teller for a day. You go through all the jobs in a branch," Lee said. Like many interns on Wall Street, Lee said he messed up.  "I did a lot of mess-ups. I made enough of them. I hardly remember," he said, adding "I think working in a branch and really interacting with the public constantly—We had a lot of complaints and stuff. That's tough. It's hard." Lee went on to build an incredibly successful career at Chemical Bank before joining JPMorgan.  ** We've been asking Wall Street vets about their earliest experiences in finance (lessons, screw-ups, pieces of advice etc.). If you would like to share something from your early Wall Street career, please feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. We can keep you anonymous if you wish.  FREE AppDownload
BAML The above chart comes from Bank of America, and it's one that every animal lover should be thrilled to see. The analyst, Erin E. Wilson writes: According to Pethealth Inc., a leading provider of management software to animal shelters in North America, year over year growth in pet adoptions across 1,186 Animal Welfare Organizations increased 6.5% in May, a meaningful rebound following a 2.1% decline in April and a 2.4% rise in March. By species, feline adoptions spiked 9.1%, while canine adoptions increased 4.6%. The average price of a canine vet visit is ~30% higher than a feline visit. According to Pethealth, adoptions from animal shelters represent ~30% of new pet acquisitions. Euthanasia, inversely correlated to pet demand, sank 16.6% in May compared to a 13.6% decline in April. FREE AppDownload
APSolarCity wants to build one of the world's largest solar plants in the state of New York. The firm announced this morning it had purchased Silevo, a solar panel technology and manufacturing company that specializes in producing high-efficiency panels — ones that produce a lot of energy at a low cost. And it needs new plants to realize Silevo's designs. "We are in discussions with the state of New York to build the initial manufacturing plant, continuing a relationship developed by the Silevo team," the firm said in a blog post. "At a targeted capacity greater than 1 GW within the next two years, it will be one of the single largest solar panel production plants in the world. This will be followed in subsequent years by one or more significantly larger plants at an order of magnitude greater annual production capacity." The move is reminiscent of Tesla's plan to build Gigafactories to double the world's supply of lithium ion batteries. Except in this case, the market remains somewhat oversupplied with panels, thanks to a production boom in China. But SolarCity says it is preparing now for an era when renewables subsidies are gone and panels will have to become more efficient.  "Without decisive action to lay the groundwork today, the massive volume of affordable, high efficiency panels needed for unsubsidized solar power to outcompete fossil fuel grid power simply will not be there when it is needed." The firm is planning a conference call at 10 a.m. Eastern. Chairman Elon Musk will be present. We'll be following along. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Gregory Bull)Housing starts fell 6.5% month-over-month in May, to an annualized pace of 1.001 million units. This was worse than expectations for a 3.9% MoM fall to an annualized pace of 1.03 million units. April's number was revised down to show a 12.7% rise to an annualized pace of 1.071 million units. This compares to an initial reading of a 13.2% rise to 1.072 million units in April.  Meanwhile, building permits tumbled 6.4% to 991,000, worse than expectations for a 0.9% fall to of 1.05 million. This compares with a downwardly revised 5.9% rise in April to 1.059 million. Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics writes that this is a "correction after "starts overshot the pace implied by permits." Homebuilder confidence, meanwhile, improved in June. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/GallaghersNYCEvidence is mounting that inflation is starting to accelerate. New data released this morning shows that consumer prices climbed 0.4% month-over-month in May, which was higher than the 0.2% expected by economists. Excluding food and energy, CPI increased by 0.3%, which was a tick higher than the 0.2% expected. This was the strongest gain in core CPI since August 2011. On a year-over-year basis, prices climbed by 2.1% and 2.0% respectively. "We have been worried about rising inflation for a while but we were relaxed about this report in the wake of the PPI, which showed profit margins dropping after two big gains," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson. "That was a mistake, clearly." There is a growing meme that the economy is picking up, and it's only a matter of time before the Fed starts eyeing an exit from the ultra-easy policies that have characterized the post-crisis era. Today's inflation number should feed into that narrative. From the BLS (emphasis added): The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) increased 0.4 percent in May on a seasonally adjusted basis, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. Over the last 12 months, the all items index increased 2.1 percent before seasonal adjustment. The seasonally adjusted increase in the all items index, which was the largest since February 2013, was broad-based. The indexes for shelter, electricity, food, airline fares, and gasoline were among those that contributed. The food index posted its largest increase since August 2011, with the index for food at home rising 0.7 percent. The increases in the electricity and gasoline indexes led to a 0.9 percent rise in the energy index. The index for all items less food and energy rose 0.3 percent in May, its largest increase since August 2011. Along with the indexes for shelter and airline fares, the medical care, apparel, and new vehicle indexes all increased in May. The indexes for household furnishings and operations and for used cars and trucks declined. Here's a table breaking down the numbers. BLS   FREE AppDownload
Jihadi extremists and Sunni tribes have commandeered north Iraq and are fighting Iran-backed Shia militiamen and volunteers within 50 miles of Baghdad. Morgan Stanley The conflict has all of the makings of a sectarian war at a time when the civil war in neighboring Syria grinds on in its fourth year. Brookings expert Matthew Pollack thinks that, absent a huge influx of military assistance from an foreign backer, "the fighting will probably continue for years and hundreds of thousands will die." Furthermore, Dexter Filkins of The New Yorker notes that "the events unfolding in Iraq point toward a much wider war, reaching from the Iranian frontier to the Mediterranean coast." screenshot/Chris MatthewsThe Shia crescentThe implications for the Middle East are huge, especially given Iran's eagerness to bolster Baghdad while simultaneously running the show for the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad by dispatching elite Iranian Revolutionary Guards (IRGC), Iranian-trained Iraqi militias, and Lebanese guerrilla fighters from its Shia proxy Hezbollah. Iran's primary interest involves protecting the Shia crescent, which comprises Shia populations from Iran to to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon. That's why Tehran has been training Iraqi militias for years while infiltrating the Shi'ite-led government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. The above map from Morgan Stanley illustrates why Iraq is crucial to the Middle East amid flaring sectarian tensions. Iran is 91% Shia, Iraq is 66% Shia, Syria is 16% Shia, and Lebanon is 30% Shia.  Assad and Hezbollah are battling a overwhelming Sunni majority in Syria, and Tehran needs to maintain a robust supply line from Iran to Damascus and Beirut. Doing so requires fighting the Sunni minority that's revolting in Iraq. Basically, Iran is angling to dominate the regions as it goes up in flames. Proactive moves in Syria and Lebanon — combined with U.S. capitulation —  have worked out to Tehran's advantage.  Consequently, Iran is moving fast to bolster Baghdad and are willing to accept any help the U.S. is willing to provide. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanNew Jersey's state Assembly has passed a bill that will allow Tesla to resume selling its electric cars in the state, reports The Star-Ledger.  Tesla halted sales in the state in April. Tesla operates two showrooms in the state. The bill would allow Tesla, or any other company that sells zero-emission vehicles directly to consumers, to open up to four stores in the state. One of the bill's sponsors, Assemblyman Tim Eustace, told The Star-Ledger that he is confident the bill will pass the Senate, but that he has not yet gotten a commitment of support from Senate President Stephen Sweeney.  Tesla shares had a good day yesterday, gaining more than 8% after The Financial Times reported that the company's electric vehicle competitors Nissan and BMW could seek to collaborate with the company on charging networks. (via The Star-Ledger)  FREE AppDownload
As a Korean-American, I grew up exposed to a lot of Korean culture in America. Korea's exotic spicy foods and most mannerisms don't surprise me. So, on my recent visit to Busan and Seoul, South Korea, the things that stood out really stood out. Here are a few: Business Insider / Sam RoHaeundae, BusanBusan's luxurious beach town of Haeundae is packed with residential skyscrapers like the I-Park, the Hyperion, and the Poseidon, which tower some 60 to 70 stories. At 80 stories, Zenith Tower A is the eighth-tallest residential building in the world. At 42 stories, the Trump World towers in Busan are tall but tiny relative to its neighbors. Here's a photo of the Trump towers from the 72 floor of Zenith Tower A. Business Insider / Sam RoThis delivery man was seen on one of the top floors of the extremely pricey Zenith residential towers. Other popular chains include Burger King and Outback Steakhouse. McDonald's and Subway are also visible but not as much. Business Insider / Sam RoThis German-style bakery in Seoul's Insadong district sells New York City's cronuts. It even has a custom-made sign advertising them. Business Insider / Sam RoHot dogs are sold everywhere and in all forms. Here are some crinkle-cut fries-battered corn dogs at the Insadong street market. Business Insider / Sam RoThis is a food item we've yet to see on Starbucks' U.S. menu. Business Insider / Sam RoAnd they are delicious.   Here's a special for live abalone. Business Insider / Sam RoBecause it just makes it easier when you leave. Business Insider / Sam RoOne local told me these are considered the most luxurious colors. Business Insider / Sam RoSo people don't accidentally scuff their neighbors' cars. Business Insider / Sam RoThe first word on painted on this waste bin is "uhm sheek," which means food. This is processed into biofuel and other products. Even fast-food restaurants won't let you throw out your own trash for fear of being fined. Business Insider / Sam RoIt's almost to the point of certifiable mental illness. This chicken joint is called "Chicken Syndrome." Business Insider / Sam RoThis sign for the Kim Jong-il mental hospital was seen right in the middle of Seoul's Gangnam district. It's probably not the same Kim Jong-il as North Korea's late leader. The good news for the owner is that he's managed to stay in business despite his name.    Somac is short for soju (a Korean rice liquor) and maekju (which is just Korean for beer.) Here's my uncle making a somac by pouring beer onto a shot of soju and then slamming the bottom of the glass with a spoon. You end with a beer cocktail with a creamy finish like an Irish Car Bomb. Business Insider / Sam RoBaduk is the Korean name for "Go." Business Insider / Sam RoAlso called beondegi, roasted silkworm pupae are not loved by everyone. It's certainly not the most offensive thing I have eaten. It has the consistency of soft-shell crab and tastes like how a shoe store smells. Business Insider / Sam RoKoreans are aware that their rest areas are much nicer than the fast-food courts we see along the U.S. interstate. This restaurant has a full menu of Korean dishes made to order by cooks in chef's hats. Business Insider / Sam RoThis particular rest area, between Busan and Seoul, had three bakeries, two cafes, multiple snack-food stands, and both indoor and outdoor seating. Business Insider / Sam RoIt also had multiple luxury and souvenir shops and rows and rows of free-massage chairs. Business Insider / Sam RoMassive South Korean conglomerates, called "chaebols," include Samsung, Hyundai, and LG. In the west, they're known for their personal electronic devices and automobiles. But in Korea, they own everything from apartment buildings down to roadside gas stations and convenience stores. Business Insider / Sam RoThis ad for eye, nose, and lip work was in one of Seoul's subways. Business Insider / Sam RoAs a safety precaution, cab drivers enable child safety locks on the left side so you don't accidentally walk out into traffic. There's a tremendous sense of pride in infrastructure, especially bridges. Because you're often crossing a bridge to get somewhere, small talk often involves how quickly bridges go up.  Business Insider / Sam RoWhen you go into these restaurants, they'll ask you how many orders of the house specialty you want. This particular restaurant sells only traditional cod stew, for about $9 a bowl. You can get additional parts like intestines and pancreas. Business Insider / Sam Ro Here's a group of elementary school students on a field trip to the Bank of Korea. Business Insider / Sam RoThis clothing store sells styles similar to what you'll find at a Polo/Ralph Lauren store. Business Insider / Sam RoFrisbee is Korea's Apple products reseller. Business Insider / Sam RoSkincare products. Business Insider / Sam RoThis store had nothing James Bond would wear. FREE AppDownload
You can create reports in Word and PowerPoint that are linked to tables and charts in Excel. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderApple's design chief, Jonathan Ive, gave a small glimpse into the inner workings of the company recently in a rare interview with the New York Times. Subjects covered included the management style of chief executive Tim Cook; new materials being worked on for as-yet unannounced products, and Ive's expanded role overseeing the design of Apple's software as well as it's hardware. Here are nine things we learned from the interview: Apple has always prided itself on the industrial design of its products. Ive talks about his belief that design is best done in small teams, with Apple's having been together for the past 15-20 years. “It has always been a case where you have a number of small groups working together,” said Ive. “Creative teams are small and very focused. One of the underlying characteristics is being inquisitive and being curious. Some of those personal attributes and hallmarks haven’t changed at all.” “Titles or organizational structures, that’s not the lens through which we see our peers,” said Ive describing something much more free and collaborative than a clearly structured hierarchy where ideas come from the top down. Ive also trumpets Apple’s two-pronged design ethos, blending manufacturing and design when creating new products. "Making isn’t just this inevitable function tacked on at the end,” he said. “This is part of Steve’s legacy. Deep in the culture of Apple is this sense and understanding of design, developing and making. Form and the material and process – they are beautifully intertwined – completely connected." Ive has been core to Apple’s products for the last 15 to 20 years, but so has the company’s current chief executive Tim Cook, brought tightly into the fold by co-founder Steve Jobs as part of his succession plan. “Steve established a set of values, and he established preoccupations and tones that are completely enduring – and he established those principles with a small team of people. I’ve been ridiculously lucky to be part of it. But Tim was very much part of that team – for that last 15 or 20 years," said Ive. Cook was instrumental in the move from plastic laptops to the new metal Apple PowerBooks first released in 1997, which set the design language and product expectations that have stretched all the way through to the current day MacBook Pros and Airs. “I remember clearly a time when we made plastic portable computers, and Steve and Tim and I sat down and said we wanted to build an incredibly thin and light portable computer,” quipped Ive. Apple, like any technology company, is constantly working on new products in new categories behind the scenes, which often never see the light of day. Although Ive wouldn’t be drawn on specifics – surprise! – he did hint that some new products are on their way made out of materials Apple has yet to use in a device. “I would love to talk about future stuff – they’re materials we haven’t worked in before. I’ve been working on this stuff for a few years now. Tim is fundamentally involved in pushing into these new areas and into these materials,” said Ive. Whether that indicates that Apple’s long expected smart-watch is due soon, using one of those brand new materials, remains to be seen. A lot was made of Ive’s move to head software design as well as hardware design, with Apple’s last iPhone and iPad software being called “Ive’s iOS 7” by pundits, but the organizational shift is not quite as dramatic as commentators made out, according to Ive. “I provide some leadership and direction in terms of user interface – a subset of software,” he said. “The core creative community is very small but is also very close – there’s been changes there, but the change isn’t perhaps as dramatic as you might assume.” “One of the values of things I learned absolutely directly from Steve was the whole issue of focus. What are we focusing on: focus on product,” said Ive. Apple makes very few products compared to most electronics companies, especially in the mobile space where it has four current models, the iPhone 5S, iPhone 5C, iPad Air and iPad mini. Others like Samsung have 10s of products in their lineups. “When that truly is your reason for coming into the studio, is just to try to make the very best product you can, when that is exclusive of everything else, it’s remarkable how insignificant or unimportant a lot of other stuff becomes,” Ive explained. Cook took the reins at Apple in 2011, after Jobs took medical leave. His speciality was supply chain management, which some thought would change the ethos at the company. Jobs was a notorious stickler for detail, ruling some parts of the company with an iron fist. According to Ive, Cook applies a similar discipline to his role. “We meet on average three times a week. Sometimes those meetings are over in his space, sometimes here in the design studio,” said Ive. “Heading on for two decades working with Tim, one of the things I have always admired is the quiet consideration he gives to trying to understand how he perceives something. He will take the time. I think that testifies to the fact that he knows it’s important,” he said. On the outside, Apple projects an image of cool, calm and collected consideration, only launching products when they’re ready and at the right time. But the internal workings aren’t quite as machine like and keeping things under wraps is a challenge. “It is hard for us all to be patient. It was hard for Steve. It is hard for Tim,” said Ive. “At any point in time, working on something, it’s always hard to just keep focusing on the product.” Apple has been slated in the past for releasing products that many commentators have dismissed at first, claiming that they are nothing new. Ive sees this as business as usual. “Honestly, I don’t think anything’s changed. People felt exactly the same way when we were working on iPhone. The iPhone was broadly dismissed. The iPod was broadly dismissed. The iPad was probably more copiously written off as a large iPod,” said Ive. Ive also relishes in the challenge of pushing boundaries, and is not afraid to fail, at least internally when producing new products. “If doing anything new, you’re very used to having insurmountable obstacles. At some point you have to make a call — at some point you have to say, ‘We’ve stretched this and we’ve come up against laws of physics, which we cannot change’,” said Ive “The benefit of hindsight is we only really talk about those things that did work out,“ he concludes. • Apple, coffee and techno: Jonathan Ive's recipe for success This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesApple has reached an out of court settlement with plaintiffs that accused it of price-fixing on e-books, the Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday. Apple and the plaintiffs -- consumers and some US states -- have reached an agreement in principle that must be approved by the US District Court in New York, said Steve Berman, an attorney representing the plaintiffs, the Journal reported. The terms of the settlement were not made public. The plaintiffs had been seeking $840 million in damages from Apple, arguing that it had overcharged consumers on e-books to the tune of $280 million. The plaintiffs said the tech giant should have to pay three times that amount in damages, the paper said. The agreement is contingent on Apple's appeal of an anti-trust ruling last year by US District Judge Denise Cote that Apple and five major American publishers had colluded to push up the price of e-books, the Journal added. Apple says it has not broken any anti-trust laws. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darrin Zammit LupiSunbathing tourists watch firefighters tackle a blaze which broke out in a semi-basement store of the Radisson Blu hotel in St Julian's, outside Valletta, June 16, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: 275 To Iraq. On Monday evening, President Barack Obama sent a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner saying he would be sending 275 U.S. troops to Iraq to "provide support and security for U.S. personnel and the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad" in the wake of violence and political turmoil triggered by the jihadist group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS). The Nightmare Scenario For Oil. Energy analysts warn that if ISIS advances toward the southern Iraqi oil fields, we could see a major supply disruption that could send energy prices surging. Here's Societe Generale analyst Michael Wittner: "Prices went up last week because of the fear and possibility of a much larger volume of crude produced in the southern Iraqi oil fields and exported through the Basrah port complex. Exports of Basrah crude have been in the 2.5-2.6 Mb/d range in recent months, and that is what is at risk. This volume of crude is greater than Saudi Arabia's spare capacity, which we currently estimate at 1.75 Mb/d (9.75 Mb/d of crude output in May vs. capacity of 11.5 Mb/d available within 30 days)." Argentina Says It's A Victim Of Extortion. "Argentina will fulfill its obligations and it will not default on its restructured debt," said Argentine President Cristina Fernandez after the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear her country's appeal that it shouldn't have to pay a consortium of hedge funds billions in debt. However, she continued to reiterate her disapproval of the hedge funds' demands. "Argentina has shown it is willing to negotiate, but it does not have to submit itself to such extortion," she said. Prices Cool In The UK. UK consumer prices climbed 1.5%, slowing from 1.8% the month prior. From UK's Office of National Statistics: "Falls in transport services costs, notably air fares, provided the largest contribution to the decrease in the rate. Other large downward effects came from the food &amp; non-alcoholic drinks and clothing sectors. The largest offsetting upward effects came from motor fuels and recreation &amp; culture." German Investor Sentiment Drops. Germany's ZEW Investors Expectations index unexpectedly fell to 29.8 in June from 33.1 in May. This also missed economists' expectations fro a 35.0 print. "We are slightly surprised by the continuing fall  given positive catalysts from the ECB, lower bond yields and generally decent economic data," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "If recent positive data points and announcements in the eurozone are not enough to buoy investor sentiment, we dread to see what happens if the news flow changes for the worse." Markets Are Up. Most markets around the world are in the green. In Europe, France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%, Germany's DAX is up 0.2%, Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.3%. U.S. stock market futures are modestly in the green. Here Comes The Fed. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) begins its two-day monetary policy meeting today. Here's a summary of what former Fed Vice Chair Don Kohn has said about the Fed (via Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere): "The Fed remains dovish, with a solid majority of officials in the camp that believes there's still plenty of slack in the labor market.  Despite the disappointing first half economic figures, the central bankers anticipate improvement in the second half -- but not enough to alter their accommodative policies any time soon. " US Inflation Update. Consumer prices accelerated a little more than expected in May. Headline CPI climbed by 0.4% month-over-month and 2.1% year-over-year. Excluding food and energy, prices were up 0.3% and 2.0%, respectively. The food price index saw its largest increase since August 2011. US Housing Market Update. Housing starts fell 6.5% in May to an annualized pace of 1.00 million units. Permits dropped 6.4% to 991,000 units. Both numbers were muc worse than expected. GM. Late Monday afternoon, GM announced it would be recalling another 3.16 million cars with model years 2000-2014. This brings GM's total recalls since the beginning of the year to over 20 million. FREE AppDownload
Paris Marriott Hotel Champs-ElyseesA Hong Kong steel investment firm said it has agreed to pay almost $470 million for the five-star Paris Marriott Hotel Champs-Ely sees, as it targets Chinese tourists' desire for luxury travel. Kai Yuan Holdings will pay €344.51 million ($467.27 million) for the seven-floor, 100-year-old hotel it said in a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange late Monday. Shares in the firm surged 64 percent to HK$0.159 after the announcement. "As the capital of the most visited country in the world, Paris has been benefiting from its importance as a global hub for business, culture and tourism," it said. France is the number one tourist destination in the world, with French government figures showing 83 million people visited last year. It is also the prime destination for Chinese tourists, with a record 1.4 million visitors from the country last year. Kai Yuan said it would market the hotel to Chinese tourists, adding in the filing that it "takes an optimistic view in the prospect of the global tourism industry". While the firm is principally engaged in the manufacturing and trading of steel in China, it also has interests in real estate and in December paid $63 million for a hotel in Hong Kong, another popular city destination for rich mainland tourists It said the deadline for the completion of the sale will be September 5. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
APPicasso's The Blue Room (detail), painted in 1901. Researchers have found a secret painting hidden in one of Pablo Picasso's first masterpieces. Beneath "The Blue Room" (1901) is a bearded man of unknown origin. Observers knew since at least 1954 that there were odd brushstrokes on the work of a woman bathing, but it wasn't clear that it was a portrait until now. AP/skitch The AP notes that found a portrait of a mustached man was found hidden beneath Picasso's painting "Woman Ironing," which is displayed at the Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan. FREE AppDownload
This morning, UK inflation registered its lowest level since 2009. The CPI chart looks like this, as May inflation fell to 1.5%. ONS In response to the inflation news, Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted the following: David Cameron There are so many problems with this tweet it's hard to know where to start. But we can start with the obvious that if ultra-low, declining inflation were a hallmark of "stability" and "financial security" then the 2008-2009 period would have been a golden age, rather than a crash. Obviously the UK isn't crashing now like it was in 2008-2009, but it still doesn't stand to reason that there's more "financial security for everyone." One look at exploding UK home prices will disabuse anyone of that notion. ONS Does that look like economic stability? Furthermore, while prices of goods measured by CPI are growing 1.5%, wages are growing only at 0.9%, so workers are still struggling to keep up. So no matter how you cut it, Cameron's comments make him look totally foolish. FREE AppDownload
The modern economy has been characterized by very low inflation and booms and busts in asset prices. In the U.S., inflation has been on a big downward trend for years, even amid booms, bubbles, and solid economic rebounds. The story is similar in the U.K. And that's what we just saw this morning. At 4:30 a.m., two numbers came out from the U.K.'s Office of National Statistics. One was the May CPI reading, which showed that inflation just fell to its lowest level since 2009. Here's the chart: ONS Now you have to realize something, which is that by most accounts the U.K. economy is booming. Pretty much every economic measure from the U.K. has been hot, and last Friday, the head of the Bank of England Mark Carney hinted that rate hikes could come sooner than markets were expecting. This led to analysts pulling forward their forecasts for when rate hikes would come, with many now predicting that BoE rate hikes could come this year. And yet here's inflation, which is usually the big warning signal of an overheating economy, sitting near decade lows. Meanwhile, another data point just came out that tells a different story.  The U.K. housing market is booming, the Office of National Statistics tells us. Home price gains have accelerated to their fastest pace since the crisis. ONS And the London market is just insane. Here's a breakdown by region.  ONS  So this is your snapshot of the economy. On the one hand, you have basically no inflation by historical standards.  But in terms of asset markets, particularly real estate in prime locations, prices are going up like crazy. The situation is not good, and it drives Central Bankers mad because they don't like to see numbers like that one in London, but they don't want to choke off a recovery when inflation isn't at the levels they want. And again, this isn't just London. The same scenario has presented itself for years in the U.S. There hasn't been worrisome inflation in a long time, but there have certainly been destabilizing asset booms. As for why this is, people have all kinds of theories. Some think it's a function of central bank policies that are impotent and boosting the real economy but are effective at blowing financial bubbles by providing cheap capital. Others talk about a "new normal" or "structural stagnation" where for structural reasons, economies are unable to grow and induce normal inflation. The view of Larry Summers is that something has changed in the economy (perhaps relating to population changes and technology) that necessitates bubbles in order to get widespread growth. Nobody has nailed it down exactly. Regardless of why this is going on, what we just got from the U.K. is a snapshot of a story we've been seeing for a long time. FREE AppDownload
Well, despite talk about how the UK is booming, and how the Bank of England needs to raise rates, there's still no evidence of "overheating" at least as it's traditionally understood (which is surging prices). Inflation remains quite tame. In fact, the UK CPI, as just reported by the Office of National Statistics (.pdf) has hit its lowest level since 2009, with price gains falling from 1.8% to 1.5%. ONS Here's how the government breaks down the report: "Falls in transport services costs, notably air fares, provided the largest contribution to the decrease in the rate. Other large downward effects came from the food &amp; non-alcoholic drinks and clothing sectors. The largest offsetting upward effects came from motor fuels and recreation &amp; culture." FREE AppDownload
FinViz Oil prices have been on a strong run this month, as the situation in Iraq has deteriorated, but over the last few days, prices have taken a bit of a breather. From a market perspective, we haven't seen the real nightmare scenario yet. The real nightmare scenario would be if ISIS Jihidas (the Sunnis who are powerful in the north) were able to make major progress towards oil infrastructure in the south. Oil strategist Michael Wittner at SocGen explains that the real assets are in the south, and that in recent days, the ISIS momentum has stalled a bit. And furthermore, whether ISIS wants to take all of Iraq (and Baghdad) is unclear. Wittner's full thoughts on this scenario are worth reading.  Prices went up last week because of the fear and possibility of a much larger volume of crude produced in the southern Iraqi oil fields and exported through the Basrah port complex. Exports of Basrah crude have been in the 2.5-2.6 Mb/d range in recent months, and that is what is at risk. This volume of crude is greater than Saudi Arabia's spare capacity, which we currently estimate at 1.75 Mb/d (9.75 Mb/d of crude output in May vs. capacity of 11.5 Mb/d available within 30 days). In other words, Saudi Arabia would not be able to replace a total disruption of Basrah exports on its own; a release of IEA strategic reserves would also be required. As noted above, the threat of this happening is not imminent, but it is serious, in light of the audacity, speed, and success of ISIS gains in the last week. How likely is a disruption of Basrah flows? There are many factors to consider. In recent days, ISIS has started to meet with some resistance from Shiite forces in Iraq, with the fighting becoming less one-sided. ISIS has been losing momentum. Iraqi Shiite militias may have been at least as important in this regard as Iraqi government troops. In addition, in order to help its Shiite ally, Iran has reportedly deployed at least three battalions of its elite Quds forces to the fight against ISIS; these units are part of the Iran Revolutionary Guard Corps. One battalion was already in Iraq, and two were moved from Iran's western provinces. The US is also considering military assistance to Maliki's Shiite government, with air strikes and other options being considered (though Obama has ruled out American boots on the ground). Importantly, the US has said that it will only provide military assistance if the Iraqi government undertakes political reforms, including representation of Iraq's Sunni and Kurdish populations. Regardless, the US Navy moved an aircraft carrier and other ships into the Persian Gulf over the weekend. In addition to a slowdown in the pace of advance of the ISIS forces, it is not even certain that their goal is to capture Baghdad, overthrow Maliki's Shiite government, take over the country, and continue to move into southern Iraq. In fact, this would be an expansion of the goal they've stated in the past, which is to establish an Islamic Caliphate in the region that spans eastern Syria and western and central Iraq (northern Iraq is Kurdish). It is also not at all clear if ISIS wants to disrupt or even try to take over Iraq's main southern oil production and exports. In intelligence terms, ISIS has demonstrated a military capability, but their ultimate intentions in Iraq are still unknown. Wittner goes onto note two key reasons why oil assets in the south are fairly safe: They're in strong Shiite regions, and Iraq has 30,000 security forces whose job is to solely protect these assets. That being said if there were a disruption (which is possible), prices could surge to the $120-$125 range. Wittner's view is shared elsewhere on the Street. Here's the quick and dirty summary of things from Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson: Near-term geopolitical premium may fade with time, but impacts on long-dated oil could persist. Headlines, escalating violence, short covering and prior underinvestment will likely continue to lift Brent near term. However, we do not expect material disruption to oil exports. Without an outage, market fatigue will likely lower the geopolitical premium in the coming months and allow fundamentals to drive pricing again. Moreover, higher prices should further pressure refining margins, limiting sustainable upside. That said, persistent headline risk could change the psychology of oil markets by jeopardizing supply growth and removing complacency about oil prices (especially medium term). From Longson's report, this simplified map of where the insurgents are, and where the key oil assets are offers some perspective. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersArgentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner addresses the 68th United Nations General Assembly at U.N. headquarters in New YorkWASHINGTON/BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - President Cristina Fernandez vowed on Monday to find a way to service Argentina's restructured debt despite suffering a major setback in a long legal battle against "holdout" investors that pushed the country closer to a new default. Hours after the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear an Argentine appeal aimed at staving off a default, a defiant Fernandez slammed U.S. courts for repeatedly ruling against her government. She also said Argentina was the victim of "extortion" by holdouts who refused to join debt restructuring deals since the catastrophic 2001-02 default on $100 billion of sovereign debt. But Fernandez said she was still open to negotiations and insisted she would continue to pay the more than 90 percent of creditors who accepted a renegotiation of the defaulted debt. "Argentina will fulfill its obligations and it will not default on its restructured debt," she said in a televised speech. She gave no details on how it would manage that, however, saying only that she had told her economy minister to set up "all the tools needed to make the payment to those who trusted in Argentina." The Supreme Court's unexpected refusal to hear Argentina's appeal left intact lower court rulings that ordered it to pay holdout hedge funds $1.33 billion. Argentina has so far refused to pay the holdout investors unless they also agree to a restructuring of the debt. If it sticks to that position, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa could prevent payment to exchange bondholders even though the country is able and willing to service that debt. That could result in a default by June 30, when payments are due on discount bonds under U.S. jurisdiction. Fernandez calls the hedge funds "vultures" and says that agreeing to pay them on their terms would lead to claims from other holdouts on about $15 billion of debt -- equivalent to more than half the foreign currency reserves held by Argentina's central bank. "Argentina has shown it is willing to negotiate, but it does not have to submit itself to such extortion," Fernandez said. She insisted Argentina cannot give holdouts preferential treatment over exchange bondholders after many of them bought the debt at a massive discount and are claiming payback in full. Argentine stocks and bonds fell sharply on Monday because investors had expected the Supreme Court to delay a decision on the appeal, giving Fernandez time to negotiate with holdouts or restructure its exchange bonds outside of U.S. jurisdiction. "It's a very damaging scenario for Argentina," said Marco Lavagna at Ecolatina consultancy, noting that how lower courts implemented their rulings was key. "Maybe something could open up there and allow for negotiation." NEGOTIATIONS Argentina has hinted it might consider negotiating with holdouts but could not do so until after December 31 when a clause in its debt swaps prohibiting it from offering holdouts better terms expires. Whether Argentina can keep stalling investors and U.S. courts until that date remains to be seen. Fernandez said on Monday her government would welcome it if holdouts agreed to join its debt swaps. The Supreme Court decision hurts Argentina's efforts to normalize relations with foreign investors and creditors in order to regain access to international funds. The holdout investors fighting the legal battle are led by hedge funds Aurelius Capital Management and NML Capital Ltd, a unit of billionaire Paul Singer's Elliott Management Corp. More than 90 percent of the debt was renegotiated in two debt swaps in 2005 and 2010 with investors accepting between 25 and 29 cents on the dollar. The International Monetary Fund has said it is worried that the rulings against Argentina could make it more difficult for other countries to restructure their debt and put financial calamity behind them. "This is surprising because it is giving a precedent for any 'vulture fund' to go against any country, so any country is vulnerable in a restructure," said Sebastian Centurion at ABC Exchange. But others say collective action clauses now broadly used in sovereign debt issuance should prevent Argentina's case becoming a precedent and there was little reaction in other emerging markets to the Supreme Court decision. In another blow to Argentina, the Supreme Court also ruled that creditors can seek information about Argentina's non-U.S. assets in a case about bank subpoenas. The question was whether NML could enforce subpoenas against Bank of America and Banco de la Nacion Argentina. The court's ruling may nonetheless have limited impact in part because of Argentina's limited assets around the world. NML has in the past pursued Argentine assets aggressively in its fight to get full repayment for its bonds, even seizing an Argentine navy ship in Ghana in 2012.   (Additional reporting by Daniel Bases in New York and Alejandro Lifschitz and Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires; Editing by Andrew Hay and Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Peter Sommer TravelsGood morning! Markets on the rise. US futures are up a bit. German stocks are up 0.9%. The UK is up 0.12%. Italy is gaining about 0.3%. Japan gained 0.29%. Overnight, the biggest mover was the Aussie dollar, which slid on dovish minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia. Oil has come off a bit in recent days. According to Kit Juckes, the market is hopeful that the conflict in Iraq won't continue to go south, and that the majority of the country's oil assets won't be affected. That's the conventional wisdom right now anyway, so that gives the market some breathing room.   FREE AppDownload
