WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Commerce Department found no evidence to support allegations that the monthly unemployment rate was manipulated before the 2012 presidential election, according to a report issued by the agency's office of inspector general on Thursday. The department launched the probe last November after the New York Post reported that data used in the closely watched survey was faked in the final stretch of President Barack Obama's re-election campaign, when the monthly unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent. Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives called the allegations "shocking" and sought documents and communications related to the collection of data for the Current Population Survey, which is used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to calculate the unemployment rate. The Census Bureau rejected the allegations at the time and said it reported the claims to the Office of the Inspector General as soon as it learned of them. The newspaper story, citing anonymous sources, said the Census Bureau had caught an employee faking data for the survey in 2010, and the practice went beyond one employee and had continued. It said the employees had faked interviews to meet monthly quotas for the survey. In its report, the Office of Inspector General said it "exhaustively investigated these allegations and found them to be unsubstantiated. "However, during our review, we identified several areas where the Census Bureau could implement policies and improve processes to better prevent survey data falsification," it added. Among its recommendations were implementing a formal policy that prohibits any employees suspected of falsifying information from collecting data during the investigative process, and ensuring that supervisors have all available tools to detect and prevent such fraud. (Reporting by Peter Cooney; Additional reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The New York Attorney General's office is seeking information from exchanges and alternative trading platforms about their relationships with high frequency trading firms, as part of its probe into allegedly unfair trading practices on Wall Street, according to sources familiar with the situation. Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office is expected to send subpoenas within days to exchanges, one of the sources said on Thursday. Another source said major banks that operate dark pools, or platforms where trades take place out of sight of the rest of the market, have been sent letters asking for information. The sources spoke this week on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The major U.S. exchange operators include IntercontinentalExchange Group &lt;ICE.N&gt;, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc &lt;NDAQ.O&gt; and BATS Global Markets. NYSE, a unit of ICE, has already been cooperating with the attorney general by sharing data, while BATS has also had conversations with the prosecutor, two of the sources said. Nasdaq Chief Executive Robert Greifeld said in an interview on April 24 that his company had not been subpoenaed. Exchange operators and Schneiderman's office declined to comment. The expected move by Schneiderman's office shows how investigations into the practices of high-frequency trading firms are broadening. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Federal Bureau of Investigation have also said they had several active probes into high-speed and automated trading. The probes have been going on for several months to a year but scrutiny has intensified in recent weeks following the release of best-selling author Michael Lewis' new book, "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt." In the book, Lewis contends that high-frequency traders have rigged the stock market, profiting from speeds unavailable to others. Virtu Financial, one of the largest high-frequency market-making firms, recently delayed the launch of its initial public offering as focus of the industry had grown. Separately, the NYSE said on Thursday it would pay $4.5 million to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to settle charges that it violated regulations, including around co-location practices. Schneiderman has been looking into what he considers unfair Wall Street practices for about a year and has spoken out against issues such as exchanges allowing high-frequency trading firms to "co-locate" their computers within the exchanges' data centers so that trading information reaches them faster than others. At least half-a-dozen high-frequency trading firms, including Tower Research Capital LLC, Chopper Trading LLC and Jump Trading LLC, were sent subpoenas two weeks ago, Reuters has previously reported. One of the sources said the earlier subpoenas requested information about business operations, including their strategies, the technology they use, and any communications - such as e-mails, writings, notes, text messages and even social media posts - the firms had with the exchanges. The information requested is so broad that some of the firms have asked that the scope be narrowed, the source added. (Additional reporting by John McCrank and Herbert Lash; editing by Paritosh Bansal and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Fattening profit margins have enable corporate America to generate impressive earnings growth despite lackluster sales growth. Among other things, corporations have been able to do this because they've been able to squeeze more productivity out of fewer workers without having to raise pay by too much. However, this model for growing profits obviously has limits. And some warn that a mean reversion in record-high profit margins will come soon. But according to the early read on Q1 earnings announcements widening profit margins continues to be the key source of earnings growth. Here's JP Morgan Funds' Joseph Tanious and Anthony Wile based on earnings announcements through April 28: It is also worth mentioning that stronger-than-expected profit margins have helped drive results this quarter. Chart E breaks down the growth in this quarter’s EPS by sales, margins and the index divisor* which includes share buybacks and constituent changes. While all three components have contributed in varying amounts to earnings growth since the recession, this quarter’s equal split between revenue and margin growth is a welcome signal, as companies will likely find it harder to rely on cost cutting in order to drive future earnings growth. Margin strength is only a slightly bigger contributor to earnings growth than is sales growth. But it's clearly not a detriment. For now, the profit margin bears will remain at bay. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
Don Bradshaw/NTVGood morning and welcome to your Friday. Here’s the best way to start the countdown to knock-off drinks: 1. Markets are flat. The US stock market didn’t do much overnight, with the S&amp;P 500 flat, the Dow down just 0.1% and the NASDAQ up 0.3%. Weirdly, the bond market rallied amid strong manufacturing data – normally, strong numbers would be an indicator of rising interest rates, but the yield on 10-year US Treasuries fell .03%. 2. In Asia yesterday the Nikkei shot higher up 1.3% as company reports suggest there is some good buying in Tokyo. China, Hong Kong and Taiwan were out for Labour Day holidays. Today will also be quiet as markets await the non-farm payrolls in the US tonight but in Japan, household spending, unemployment and foreign investment data is to be released. SPI 200 Futures overnight suggest a 12 point rise this morning but each of the last 3 days the market has fallen from the open, so traders will be wary. 3. US jobs report tonight. The world’s most important economic indicator is out at 11pm AEST and economists are expecting the US created 218,000 jobs last month. Remember it’s never too early to submit your #NFPguesses on Twitter with your estimate. Mine is for 253,000, on the high side. 4. Extraordinary revelations from environmental scientist Troy Delbridge, who fronted the Royal Commission investigating the rollout of the Rudd Government’s pink batts scheme. Delbridge told the commission:  “(I was told) the costings were drawn up on the back of a napkin by some senior Labor Party politician … and the head of the bulk (insulation) industry association.” Remember, the scheme was cut early after four workers died. 5. The notorious former headquarters of the KGB in Riga, Latvia is now open to the public and Reuters photographers got inside to give us a look at the grim interior. Yes, there’s a torture room and it looks every bit like you’d imagine a torture room would. 6. Facebook has made a couple of huge acquisitions in recent months – most famously WhatsApp for $US 18 billion – but also Oculus Rift, the obscurely-named virtual reality headset maker, which Mark Zuckerberg got for $US2 billion. Sounds like a bunch of geeky nerdy stuff, right? Right! But then so was the internet when it first came to newsrooms. The virtual reality headset is, according to everyone who’s tried it, completely mind blowing and could change communication forever. That’s why it matters when there’s news that Oculus Rift might be available to consumers next year. Here’s a cool video of how a Swedish company is using it to mess with people’s heads.  7. The worst sentence a boss can ever say is this &gt;&gt; 8. NASA’s wonder rover Curiosity has just begun drilling into a slab of rock on Mars and has sent us back this beautiful pic of work underway.Picture: NASANASAThe nice part is the rock is named “Windjara” after the gorge in Western Australia. It sits in a range NASA has dubbed “The Kimberley”. 9. The rise and rise of China’s cheap smartphone manufacturers is no doubt causing major concern to the big brands. Earlier today, Xiaomi had a lot of people freaking out when it tweeted that it got a whopping 122 million pre-orders for its latest device, the RedMi Note. It fixed the mistake, saying it was actually 15 million. That’s about 6 million more phones than Apple sold the weekend it launched the iPhone 5S. 10. BONUS ITEM: Death isn’t funny. But exploding whales are and this one’s going to blow any minute. You can guarantee the internet will melt when it does. Until then, here’s a reminder of the last time a whale blew up:  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Women Offer A Key Opportunity To Advisors (Vanguard)  37% of North American millionaires as of 2010 were women. By 2020, two-thirds of personal wealth is expected to be held by women. And 70% of widows leave financial advisors a year after their spouse's death. All of this means there's an opportunity for advisors. "Not only are women growing wealthier, but they are likely to develop long-lasting relationships with trusted advisors and recommend them to friends," said Kristin E. Barry, head of advisor resources for Vanguard.  "The median age of widowhood is 59.4 years, but women's average life expectancy is 81.3 years.4 And as an estimated $41 trillion is passed from one generation to the next over the next 40 years, many women are poised to inherit wealth," according to the report. That means advisors should get to know both spouses — not only to improve the advisor-client relationship but also to lower the risk of losing a client. Jeremy Grantham Makes A Very Specific Call About When The Bubble Will Burst (Business Insider)  The stock market has been pretty volatile this year and investors are wondering what's next. In his latest quarterly letter, Grantham writes that the bubble will burst around or after the next U.S. presidential election. Here are his projections for the next two years.   1. "That this year should continue to be difficult with the February 1 to October 1 period being just as likely to be down as up, perhaps a little more so."2. "But after October 1, the market is likely to be strong, especially through April and by then or in the following 18 months up to the next election (or, horrible possibility, even longer) will have rallied past 2,250, perhaps by a decent margin."3. "And then around the election or soon after, the market bubble will burst, as bubbles always do, and will revert to its trend value, around half of its peak or worse, depending on what new ammunition the Fed can dig up." How Advisors Can Be Better At Managing Their Business (The Wall Street Journal) Many advisors are great with investments but terrible at managing their business. In a new WSJ column, Valerie Porter, director of the Financial Planning Association's Research and Practice Institute, writes that a survey they conducted, showed that advisors said "effective time management is important to their business success, but that they struggle in this area." "The survey results also suggested that advisers need a more refined model of client targeting," Porter writes. "If you don't have clients that are good fit, you can't create meaningful client relationships. A lot of advisers have an idea of the ideal client, but no formalized way of finding them." Merrill Lynch Hires Two Advisors That Managed About $3 Billion In Assets (Reuters)  Bank of America Merrill Lynch hired two veteran advisors from UBS and Deutsche Bank Securities that together managed about $3 billion in client assets, reports Neha Dimri at Reuters. Howard Rowen joins Merrill Lynch's private banking and investment unit from UBS, while Halsey Smith joins from Deutsche Bank. DAN LOEB: Be Prepared To Buckle Your Seatbelt (Business Insider) In his Q1 investor letter, Daniel Loeb, CEO of Third Point LLC, writes that "looking back, perhaps our optimism at the beginning of the year was misplaced." While the U.S. economy seems to be coming off its low, this fall we should be prepared to "buckle our seat-belts." "Despite its challenging start, it appears as we begin May that the U.S. economy is beginning to accelerate from the low levels of Q1. As a result, perhaps 2014 will be the year where one should not “Sell in May and go away”. Nevertheless, it is important to keep in mind that by this Fall, we will have had negative real interest rates in the U.S. for a longer consecutive period than at any other time – even after the Great Depression. As tapering ends, most likely in October, and the discussion shifts to an impending first rate hike (probably around the time when unemployment is approaching 6% and inflation is ticking higher), we will have to buckle our seat belts for an inevitably more volatile environment." FREE AppDownload
CoinometricsThe homepage of Coinometrics.Editor's note: Below is a list from Tim Swanson, a Bitcoin consultant based in San Francisco who blogs at the site Of Numbers, on the top 10 firms built on or incorporating a blockchain.  Blockchains work like giant digital spreadsheets shared by everyone in a decentralized network, and are used to do things like confirm Bitcoin payments.  We recently discussed why many are saying the advent of blockchain technology could be as important the development of the Internet.  Swanson chose companies no longer operating in "stealth mode," and which he believes already provide real value. References to "the" blockchain refer to Bitcoin's blockchain.  He owns no equity in any of the companies. — Coinometrics is attempting to do what few people or organizations in this space have tried to do: empirically quantify and qualify the actual behavior what is happening on the blockchain.  While forum-based armchair philosophers are nearly a dime a dozen, data speaks much louder than words.  And in this case, co-founder Jonathan Levin has provided both clear analytics and corresponding interpretations of data sets that are valuable to both layman and industrialist alike.  As the industry matures, actual data as opposed to hopes and dreams will be provide much needed metrics for outside investors, developers and entrepreneurs to focus their future endeavors toward. — Helloblock is Bitcoin infrastructure built specifically for developers.  After creating a number of Bitcoin projects, the team led by Sidney Zhang – based in San Francisco – found the developer infrastructure to be raw and primitive; the ecosystem in their view is still at the “TCP/IP” level.  And testing is both tedious and time-consuming.  Developers in general want to explore the Bitcoin protocol because it offers entirely new possibilities with money.  Their API reduces these complexities into a JSON interface, so developers can simply focus on their idea, not infrastructure – and the API is just the first step. — Kraken is a fully compliant digital asset trading platform that goes beyond simple market or limit orders, allowing up to 9 additional advanced order types and in the future, the potential of margin trading (if pre-approved).  They have positioned themselves to be a FOREX platform for digital currencies.  Based in San Francisco, the team is managed by a group of talented early adopters including Jesse Powell who has stuck with the community through thick and thin. — BTCJam is a San Francisco-based P2P lending platform that has provided over $5 million in bitcoin-based loans over the past year.  Founded in 2013, it is led by Celso Pitta, a Brazilian with industry experience building statistical models at Citi and who had first-hand experience with living in a country with high interest rates (200% for credit cards). — BlockCypher is one of the first Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) infrastructure companies in Bitcoin. The team rebuilt the Bitcoin platform from the ground-up and optimized it for the cloud, exposing web APIs and callbacks for developers to easily build and scale applications on. This team is led by Catheryne Nicholson, who brings a different way of thinking in a largely male-dominated segment. She and her co-founder Matthieu Riou have a long history of building large-scale platforms together. Both want to grow the Bitcoin developer ecosystem and encourage more women to participate. — DigitalTangibleTrust aims to be a liquidity provider and marketing partner for hard assets that are difficult to monetize, but can be easily digitized into cryptocurrencies and then traded on any centralized or peer-to-peer exchange. Whether you are buying digital gold bullion from the United Kingdom or digital mineral rights in Texas, led by a cryptofinance and experienced marketing team in San Francisco, they are trying to push the edge of blockchain innovation building an investment portfolio that will consist of coins it has issued as ownership rights to these unique assets.  Since its humble beginnings in early 2014, in a short month they have thousands of hard assets in custody and appear determined to digitize all things. — Ripple Labs is a San Francisco-based company that is building commercial applications and infrastructure around the Ripple protocol.  Founded in September 2012, Ripple Labs has built a distributed trustless exchange system around a consensus ledger as opposed to a blockchain.  While there are many similarities between the two technologies and even some of the company employees (both David Schwartz and Stefan Thomas, were early Bitcoin adopters and developers), Ripple Labs is attempting to bridge the digital world with the traditional financial sector, connecting isolated payment systems into one rail. — Bifubao is not just another wallet provider.  Known as Bitfoo internationally, this Beijing-based international team comprised of Americans and Chinese developers became the first commercial developer to implement proof-of-reserves.  Proof-of-reserves is a Merkle tree-based technique developed by Greg Maxwell in February 2014, to enable exchanges and hosted wallet companies to cryptographically proof to the public that they have the assets they claim to have, yet not exposing the privacy of their customers. — Coinbase grew from a small hosted wallet company in mid-2012 to become one of the largest companies in the ecosystem.  Based in San Francisco, it began 2013 with a mere 13,000 wallets, growing to 1 million in under 14 months (3 months quicker than its competitor, Blockchain.info).  Its services have since expanded to include merchant support for companies such as Overstock.com. — BitPay is an Atlanta-based payment gateway, one of the first 3rd party merchant support payment systems.  Their system enables merchants to accept bitcoins, locking them into fiat conversion rates that helps protect merchants from currency fluctuations and TigerDirect is one of its tens of thousands of supported companies. — BitPagos is also in the merchant solution space however instead of simply converting bitcoins into fiat, they are trying to help merchants move in the opposite direction: accumulating bitcoins.  Led by Argentinian Sebastian Serrano, who experienced first-hand the rampant inflation of the early 2000s in Argentina, this San Francisco-based team is focused globally but especially with respect to emerging economies such as those in Latin America. FREE AppDownload
Ford (F) has announced that its new Ford CEO will be Mark Fields, a 53-year-old Harvard Business grad. He will take over in July when CEO Alan Mulally steps down. Here are 5 things to know about the new Ford CEO Mark Fields. Ford named Fields their chief operating officer in 2012, which tasked him with handling the automaker’s day-to-day operations. As with many companies, such a position left him in line to take over as the new head of the American motor company. And as a Ford company man, his ideas dovetail well with how Ford has been doing business. These retirement pitfalls will destroy your nest egg — click here. As the LA Times reports, Fields got 20 matchbox cars as a child — which he still keeps. According to the paper, the New Jersey native says “it’s a reminder of the emotional attachment people have to their wheels and the power of childhood memories, whether it’s being carted in a minivan to a soccer game or a first ride in a Ford Mustang convertible with the top down.” As Fields told the Times, meeting the new demands for better fuel efficiency will be one thing on his mind. “I think the other opportunity for us going forward, which is kind of epitomized with the launch of the F-150 [pickup truck earlier this year], is continuing to deliver improved fuel economy for customers while also giving them the capability for whatever they want to do and meeting the national fuel standard of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.” “We’ve had very few, maybe never, had a planned and smooth transition, all the way back to my great grandfather,” Chairman Bill Ford Jr. said at an event announcing Mulally’s departure. Via the Wall Street Journal: He has been running the company’s weekly business review—Mr. Mulally’s signature creation—for more than a year. He also created his own Wednesday morning meeting with key executives to regularly receive updates on the company’s product launch schedule. Fields said no management changes are coming. BusinessWeek has an interesting story that pretty much sums over the transition of power at Ford. In effect, as Ford isn’t one of the auto companies that is (at the moment) struggling, the real challenge Fields has is not keep the momentum going, and not lose steam. In the past five years, Ford has booked $42.3 billion in profit and realized a net margin of 6.4 percent. Last year it sold 6.33 million vehicles, a bit fewer than it did in 2006. But it made an average profit of $1,130 on each one. Ford already is facing rising warranty costs, and coupled with unknown outlooks in its most promising markets, the next few years come with a lot of uncertainty. Ford stock is down 1.4% today. FREE AppDownload
CPSL via VimeoThe stock market has already been volatile this year and investors are wondering what's next.  The S&amp;P 500 had a rough start in April, shedding about 3% halfway through the month, only to end up 0.6% for the month. The S&amp;P 500 finished April close to a record high, while the Dow closed at a record high.  Many investors are wondering if we're in a bubble or if there's a correction coming. In his latest quarterly letter, Jeremy Grantham, veteran fund manager at GMO, put out his "best guesses for the next two years." Grantham draws on John Hussman's research that shows "an overpricing for the U.S. markets that ranges from 75% overpriced to 125% at the end of March." Meanwhile Grantham writes that GMO "very much agrees with the spirit of this data, but our preferred measure for our 7-Year Forecast has the market slightly less overvalued at 65%." He also acknowledges that the bull market could already have come to an end even as he wrote his quarterly letter, but he believes "it probably (i.e., over 50%) will not end for at least a year or two and probably not before it reaches a level in excess of 2,250 on the S&amp;P 500." Grantham believes the market bubble will burst around or after the 2016 presidential election. Grantham doesn't think this time is different. But "given this regime of the Federal Reserve and given the levels of excess at other market peaks, I think it would be different to end this bull market just yet." FREE AppDownload
Instagram/missvsixDespite the ongoing lime shortage, bars around the city will be serving up tequila shots and margaritas all day on Monday for Cinco de Mayo. So in anticipation of the May 5th celebration, we took an office poll and made a list of 12 of our favorite margaritas around NYC. Some of these are fruity, some are crazy strong, and still others are classically delicious with fresh lime juice and the very best Tequila. Did we miss a great one? Sound off in the comments below.  FREE AppDownload
emilykneeter/flickrEditor's note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Pete Saunders, a Chicago-based urban planner. He's been blogging about problems in city housing markets at The Corner Side Yard.   This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Wednesday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. PS: Can you summarize the problem you're trying to diagnose? Our nation's cities are on the cusp of rebirth to an extent not seen in my lifetime. It's fair to say that while lots of analysts and observers are debating whether or not cities are adding more population than suburbs today, the fact is that the tide has turned. More and more people are expressing a desire to live in walkable, urban environments, with amenities and access, than at any time in the last 50 years. And more importantly, they're acting on it. The trend will continue to build. I've had a long interest in urban rebirth and revitalization that goes back to my growing up in Detroit in the '70s. And while I recognize that not all cities are the same, I'm concerned with how the rebirth is happening. There are so many new city movers who are either afraid of the conditions in sketchy areas, or afraid of being labeled as part of the problem of gentrification, that they're creating citadels of affluence in cities that have little or no connection to the rest of the city. My fear is that many would prefer to strengthen the citadel at the expense of the rest of the city. Where I live, in Chicago, might be the clearest example of this because of its long held segregation patterns, but it's happening in some fashion around the country. I want to call attention to this and seek alternative paths. BI: How does this problem differ between cities and suburbs? What role do current zoning laws play? PS: At the metro level, if we're talking about reducing racial and economic segregation, the problem is one of constrained housing supply in the 'burbs, which artificially raises prices and acts as a barrier for minorities. Without a doubt a more diverse mix of housing types would open large areas of the suburbs up to minorities — and many suburbs have resisted that. However, when talking about the city alone, conditions change. I argue that the burden of artificially high suburban home prices doesn't rest on in-demand urban neighborhoods, that burden rests on the poor, working-class and middle-class neighborhoods whose prices have been artificially depressed as a result of suburban actions. So I guess I see suburban zoning laws affecting things at the metro level, having an impact on low and moderate income city neighborhoods, but having less of an impact in the most desirable high-income neighborhoods. BI: What metros are exceptions to this problem? PS: Admittedly this is more of a Northeast/Midwest city problem, where segregation is more clear-cut. There, economic and racial segregation tend to go hand in hand. But there are many Sun Belt metros (I'm assuming — I don't get around much) that are economically segregated by less so racially. BI: You've written that, "If young affluents are serious about returning to cities, they should consider Austin, Bronzeville, Woodlawn and South Shore, and not just Wicker Park and Logan Square." How would this be different from some commonly accepted definitions of gentrification? PS: Like I said earlier, there are lots of people who want to avoid the gentrifier label. So young affluents are headed to the same locations, and if the trend continues they will become a strain on amenities and city services. We're setting ourselves up for a point where we'll have a critical mass and explosion into surrounding communities that will do far more harm than good. I tend to think gentrification is a return to normalcy for most neighborhoods. Austin, Bronzeville, Woodlawn and South Shore [in Chicago] are relatively poor now, but that hasn't always been the case. I'm about trying to manage that transition, not just letting it happen. BI: What metros, if any, are "getting it right" when it comes to this problem? PS: I've only recently developed this dissenting view on housing, segregation and gentrification, so I'm not exactly sure about metros that are "getting it right" at this time. Honestly, it might be that no one is getting it right now, but that metros might be angling to be the first ones to do so. We're still in uncharted waters six years on since the housing collapse. No one really knew who the Sun Belt metro winners would be in 1947. FREE AppDownload
First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/wienjeremyJPMorgan vice president/head of VIX trading Jeremy Wien is leaving the bank to join hedge fund giant Och-Ziff, according to a memo obtained by Business Insider. At his new job at Och-Ziff, Wien writes that he will be trading the fund's equity index derivatives book. Wien, 29, joined JPMorgan Chase in March 2012. Prior to that, he worked at hedge fund PEAK6 Investments LP, his LinkedIn profile shows. He also did stints at SocGen and Goldman Sachs. You might also remember Wien from the World Series of Poker. He's played in it a few times. He's also a great Tweeter during those tournaments.  Here's the memo he sent to clients and colleagues:    Also, during our research we came across this hilarious first dance wedding video of Wien and his wife Sarah. Enjoy!  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil NobleA child's toy Ferrari is parked between two hatchbacks at the Hale Barns Cricket Club in Altrincham, Cheshire, northern England June 19, 2013. The pace of auto sales in the U.S. slowed to an annualied rate of 15.98 million units in April from 16.33 in March. Analysts were looking for 16.20 million. The Detroit 3 reported mixed results. Chrysler said U.S. auto sales jumped 14% to 178,652 units in April. However, this was a bit lighter than the 15.7% growth expected. GM said sales climbed 6.9%, which was better than the 5.7% expected. Ford sales unexpectedly fell 0.8%. Analysts were looking for 3.1% growth. "Looking ahead, auto sales could continue to gradually increase, in line with an ongoing improvement in overall consumer health," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Here's our running tally: FREE AppDownload
A lot of great things come from Canada, like William Shatner and Shreddies. Find out what else Canada has to offer.  Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Reuters, Jorge SilvaVenezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez gets into a National Guard armored vehicle in Caracas, Venezuela, Feb. 18, 2014.This week Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez spent his 43rd birthday in prison; next week a judge will decide if he is to stand trial for crimes ranging from arson to treason. Lopez is the leader of the movement whose mass demonstrations, which started in February, have turned into a fixture of daily life in Venezuela. Every day there are protesters in the streets. Every night there are new threats from government officials warning the opposition that their days are numbered, despite their numbers. If Lopez is found guilty, he could spend 14 years locked away. According to his father, also named Leopoldo Lopez, he's grown a beard. He starts his days at 5 a.m., reads the Bible, exercises, reads Venezuelan politics in the morning and international politics in the afternoon. Sometimes he's allowed out on the patio. At night he continues reading until 2 a.m. As a high-profile prisoner, Lopez is always kept alone. But there's hope for him yet. "The only way to fight barbarians is with the law," said Lopez Sr. There is a way for Lopez to regain his voice in politics and leave prison in one fell swoop. His father explained that his son can run for office from jail as long as he hasn't been found guilty of his crimes. If he runs, he'll likely win. If he wins, he'll be free. Normally, a trial like the one Leopoldo Lopez faces could take two years to make its way through Venezuela's court system, but this case is unlike any other. He is the first opposition figure to lead a massive movement in the country since the late-Hugo Chavez took power in the late '90s. Nicolas Maduro, Chavez's successor, has the courts in his pockets. He may very well speed up Lopez's case. All of this makes Lopez's decision to turn himself in back in February seem like a serious gamble. It was. "Leopoldo forced people to see that the government can't be just," said his father. "It's a great sacrifice." Reuters, Jorge SilvaLilian Tintori, wife of jailed opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez, and her children, Manuela and Leopoldo Santiago, blow a candle on a birthday cake for her husband at Chacao district in Caracas April 29, 2014. Venezuelan protest leader Leopoldo Lopez is being held at the military jail of Ramo Verde since last Feb. 18 when he was arrested. But it is a sacrifice the Lopez's knew they would have to make. They are a family of technocrats and exiles going back three generations. Lopez Sr. founded a Venezuelan scholarship program back in the 1970s. During the Chavez years, he was banned from leaving the country at one point. Even as a young man, his son had always shown an interest in politics. "In theory you are prepared, but when it happens it's very, very hard," said Lopez Sr. Hard means watching your 9-year-old granddaughter write letters that might never be read, as they'll be confiscated by prison  guards. Hard is watching President Maduro claim the map of Venezuela you sent your son was sent to him by terrorists. "I am that terrorist," Lopez said with wry humor, "If that is a terrorist map you must confiscate all the maps in the libraries in Venezuela." Meanwhile the people tire of their government. Reports that $1.6 million worth of imported food was found spoiling at a Venezuelan port especially frustrated the population now accustomed to food shortages. The economy worsens and the Maduro administration does not have answers. "We are now being governed by the mouse, not the lion," said Lopez Sr. "When you have a dictatorship, they don't listen to people. They don't listen to realities." FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through March. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. The latest data puts margin debt off its all-time high set the previous month.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  Click for a larger image After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing until the beginning of tapering purchases now underway. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. Real margin debt had increased for the previous eight months and accelerated in the more recent months. But the March data shows a decline. It will be interesting to determine in the months ahead if March was a brief pause in demand or was beginning of a trend reversal. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Click for a larger image Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  Click for a larger image As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSMinutes ago, the 10-year Treasury yield got as low as 2.5934%. This is down sharply from 2.6604% this morning just before the better-than-expected ISM manufacturing report. "We are hearing the bid for treasuries is coming from across the investment spectrum – HFs, Long Onlys, Pensions, Asians, Banks, Insurers, etc...," said Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz. "Heck of a bet into the Non-Farm payroll print tomorrow." Strong economic data like today's ISM report is supposed to encourage the Federal Reserve to want to taper quantitative easing and raise rates more aggressively sooner than later, which means higher interest rates. This is why people are perplexed by the falling rates. Among other things, Lutz believes that much of the buying is a result of the fact that traders were just too short the Treasury market. "CFTC data showed that short positions in 10-year note futures were near four-year highs," said Lutz. Here's a look at the yield via Yahoo! Finance: Yahoo! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenDaniel Loeb, CEO of Third Point.Closely followed fund manager Daniel Loeb, CEO of Third Point, just sent out his first-quarter investor letter. So far this year, Third Point's Off Shore Fund is up 3.3%. The S&amp;P is up 1.8%. It's a solid quarter considering that it's been a brutal year for hedge funds. To put it in perspective, the average fund is up only 1.23%, according to research from Preqin. Loeb writes that mortgages are what helped Third Point's portfolio in the first quarter. Loeb also says this year has been challenging: "Looking back, perhaps our optimism at the beginning of the year was misplaced."  He warns that, come this fall, we should be prepared to "buckle our seatbelts" if the Fed's tapering ends. Loeb sees more volatility because of this. From the letter: Despite its challenging start, it appears as we begin May that the U.S. economy is beginning to accelerate from the low levels of Q1. As a result, perhaps 2014 will be the year where one should not “Sell in May and go away”. Nevertheless, it is important to keep in mind that by this Fall, we will have had negative real interest rates in the U.S. for a longer consecutive period than at any other time – even after the Great Depression. As tapering ends, most likely in October, and the discussion shifts to an impending first rate hike (probably around the time when unemployment is approaching 6% and inflation is ticking higher), we will have to buckle our seatbelts for an inevitably more volatile environment. Also, similar to David Einhorn's investor letter last week, Loeb writes "certain sectors were clearly exhibiting bubblelicious valuations." Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, wrote that we are seeing our second tech bubble in 15 years. FREE AppDownload
Alexander Zemlianichenko/APRussian President Vladimir PutinMasterCard Inc &lt;MA.N&gt;, the world's second-biggest credit and debit card company, said Russian President Vladimir Putin's plan to create a domestic card payment system would create "serious complications" for its operations in the country. Putin, lashing back against U.S. and EU sanctions over the crisis in Ukraine, has said Russia needs its own card system to reduce its reliance on Western companies. Russia's parliament passed legislation last week that would allow for the creation of domestic credit and debit cards as well as require Western card companies to pay a security deposit to operate in the country. MasterCard and larger rival Visa Inc &lt;V.N&gt; stopped providing services to some Russian banks after U.S. President Barack Obama imposed sanctions on Russia in March. "There are provisions (in the legislation) there that I believe would create serious complications for the way that we can operate in (Russia)," MasterCard Chief Executive Ajay Banga said on a post-earnings call with analysts on Thursday. "Russia will be tough to work through," said Banga, a self-described "worrier". MasterCard's Russian operations account for just over 2 percent to its total net revenue, and the company said the sanctions had little impact on its first-quarter results. However, a competing card system in the fast-growing Russian market would likely constrain future growth for both MasterCard and Visa, analysts say. Visa said last week that the sanctions were already hurting its card transaction volumes in Russia and that it expected revenue growth to slow further this quarter. MasterCard, whose shares rose as much as 4.3 percent in morning trading, said its net income rose 14 percent to $870 million, or 73 cents per share, in the quarter. Analysts on average had expected earnings of 72 cents per share. The company also stuck to its forecast of net revenue growth of between 11 percent and 14 percent between 2013 and 2015. MasterCard's worldwide purchase volume increased 10 percent in local currency terms to $759 billion, with much of the growth coming from Latin America, Asia and Europe. U.S. purchase volumes rose 9 percent to $268 billion. Global consumer confidence returned to pre-financial crisis levels in the first three months of this year, according to a survey by research company Nielsen, and was at its highest since the first quarter of 2007. MasterCard's net revenue rose about 14 percent to $2.18 billion in the three months ended March 31, beating the average estimate of $2.14 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The company's shares were up 2.3 percent at $75.26 in early afternoon trading. Up to Wednesday's close, the shares had fallen about 11 percent since the start of the year, underperforming the S&amp;P 500 Index &lt;.INX&gt;, which rose 1.6 percent. (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Earlier today, we learned that personal spending jumped by 0.9% in March as personal income climbed by 0.5%. Because spending outpaced income, the personal saving rate slipped to 3.8% from 4.2%. The saving rate is now at the lowest level since January 2013. So, have the American consumer lost it? "I do think one thing people are missing is that the drop in savings over the last year or so is not really surprising," said Renaissance Macro's Neil Dutta in an email to Business Insider. "The wealth ratio is rising (inverted in the chart). That is, households are seeing their financial and real estate assets rise faster than income. When that happens, households feel better about the world and draw down their rates of precautionary saving. Just because households are not using their homes to extract equity, they are a bit more comfortable bringing their rates of saving down, especially now that the bulk of household deleveraging is behind us." Just this week we got confirmation that home prices were still rising and we also saw the Dow close at a new record high. Renaissance Macro FREE AppDownload
AP Fitch Ratings announced it downgraded New Jersey's credit rating from "AA-" to "A+" Thursday.  The downgrade affects New Jersey's $2.4 billion in outstanding general obligation debt and about $32 billion in securities linked to that debt.  In a statement announcing the decision Fitch attributed the downgrade to several key factors. Specifically, Fitch cited "ongoing budget strain created by overly optimistic revenue forecast," "long-term spending pressures," a lack of liquidity and what it described as New Jersey's "repeated reliance on one-time solutions to achieve budgetary balance." Overall, Fitch described New Jersey's budget as "structurally imbalanced." New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie has made improving New Jersey's economy and, specifically, pension reform, one of the main focuses of his administration. In a speech late last month, he warned a budgetary "disaster" was looming in the state. Fitch noted that, in spite of Christie's pension reform efforts, unfunded liabilities were still a key concern in New Jersey because the current pension funding schedule includes phasing out the prior levels of funding over seven years, which will result in "sizeable, planned increases in annual pension contributions." "Fitch believes that meeting the requisite increases in pension contributions will continue to be challenging and is likely to conflict with other long-term demands, such as infrastructure needs, property tax relief, and school funding," Fitch's statement said.  Christie's office did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the downgrade from Business Insider Thursday. Update (2:20 PM): Christie's office referred Business Insider to New Jersey's Department of Treasury, which provided the following statement about the downgrade: FREE AppDownload
Box's IPO has reportedly been pushed back after the recent cool-down for tech stocks.  News about trouble with Box's IPO has been floating around on Secret, the anonymous app where people in the tech industry like to gossip.  According to some posts on Secret, Box was looking to sell. That turned out to be true, but it may not have been a serious shop around. Dan Primack at Fortune reports: Fortune has learned from multiple sources that bankers -- including at least one listed on Box's IPO registration -- have put out feelers to large tech companies about Box, but that those calls were not authorized by Box's board of directors. Instead, they appear to be a bit of freelancers by underwriters in search of optionality. Box co-founder and CEO Aaron Levie has stood down his board before when they wanted to sell. Those that know Levie say it was a growing-up moment for him. That's not to say, with only about a 4% vested stake, Levie couldn't be pushed around by his board, particularly if the company's need for cash puts its back against a wall. In March, an analysis of Box's business showed that it was burning twice as much cash as any comparable public company.  Sam Hamadeh, CEO of PrivCo, a company that analyzes private companies has a harsh assessment of Box. He says, "Box was not and is not ready for prime time for the IPO market, and it would have difficulty surviving in the wilderness of the public markets ...Box's only realistic option is to sell the company." PrivCo is often knocked by people in startup community for being overly harsh on startups, but in this case he Hamadeh makes some fair points.  "Box was bleeding cash, could not seem to decide if it is a consumer app company or an enterprise software company, and has powerful competitors in Amazon, Google, Apple and others who were initiating a price war," he says. "And Box simply cannot ever win a price war against rivals like those." Box is not commenting, citing the quiet period before the IPO. This is clearly driving Levie crazy. When news broke about the IPO delay and rumored sale, Levie tweeted: "Quiet periods are so much fun," said no one ever.   FREE AppDownload
Joe Shlabotnik/flickrYesterday, the BEA announced Q1 GDP climbed just 0.1%.  This afternoon, Wall Street is saying it's even worse. Citing weak construction spending data, several firms' GDP tracking models now show Q1 growth fell into negative territory. "Residential construction was a bright spot, rising 0.7% on the month and standing 15.2% above year-ago levels," noted Barclays' Cooper Howes. "Nonresidential construction fell 0.1%, however, and there were downward revisions to February and January. On the whole, this lowered our GDP tracking estimate three-tenths, to -0.2%." Macroeconomic Advisers, a widely cited source for GDP estimates, said its model fell 10 bps to -0.1%, also weaker-than-expected construction spending below BEA assumptions. And according to Zerohedge, JPMorgan's model is now also tracking negative growth. Some analysts say Q2 should prove better. Despite the weak spending, Macroeconomic Advisers made no change to its forecast for 3.6% growth.  And Capital Economics says this morning's ISM report points to stronger GDP in the months ahead. "...Even at 54.9 in April, the index points to a rebound in annualised GDP growth to more than 2.5% in the second quarter. We think it could come in even stronger." FREE AppDownload
FinVizThe Treasury bond market is rallying as reflected by falling interest rates. The 10-year Treasury note yield fell from 2.6604% to as low as 2.6016% after this morning's stronger-than-expected ISM manufacturing report. "Everyone is asking about strength in Treasury prices after ISM," said ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets' Tom DiGaloma in an email. "Shorts may be covering ahead of NFP possibly — some talk of buying out the curve from foreign investors too." Strong economic data is supposed to encourage the Federal Reserve to want to taper quantitative easing and raise rates more aggressively sooner than later, which means higher interest rates. This is why people are perplexed by the falling rates. "Bonds have been breaking higher since the GDP print yesterday," noted Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz in an email. "We are hearing the bid for treasuries is coming from across the investment spectrum – HFs, Long Onlys, Pensions, Asians, Banks, Insurers, etc... Heck of a bet into the Non-Farm payroll print tomorrow." Lutz pointed to a few reasons why bonds might be moving up: "Crowd is usually wrong," said Lutz about that last point. FREE AppDownload
APAs a self-professed libertarian and follower of the Austrian school of economic thought, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) has a lot in common with the central bank skeptics who helped get Bitcoin off the ground.  Which is why Fortune's Tory Nemyer asked the senator about the cryptocurrency in a new interview.  While he likes it in principle, Paul said there's one thing he would change about it to align it more with those values: have it backed by something of value, in this case, he proposes, stocks. Here's the full quote: I was looking more at it until that recent thing [sic]. And actually my theory, if I were setting it up, I'd make it exchangeable for stock. And then it'd have real value. And I'd have it pegged, and I'd have a basket of 10 big retailers… I think it would work, but I think, because I'm sort of a believer in currency having value, if you're going to create a currency, have it backed up by -- you know, Hayek used to talk about a basket of commodities? You could have a basket of stocks, and have some exchangeability, because it's hard for people like me who are a bit tangible. But you could have an average of stocks, I'm wondering if that's the next permutation." It's true that Bitcoin is currently backed by the full faith and credit of ...  whatever Bitcoin service you're using, so in theory the idea is not without merit. But the process for making this happen would undoubtedly be arduous from a technical and regulatory standpoint.  Something to consider. Check out the full interview here &gt; FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderLloyd Blankfein and Team Rubicon co-founder Jake Wood.  "This is Michael Moore," said Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein referring to the Bloomberg News reporter. "This is the thin, good looking guy. Not the fat–"  "I think it's time to go. It's time to take him home," Blankfein's wife Laura quickly interrupted. Blankfein was on a roll last night at the Team Rubicon fundraiser at the New York Stock Exchange. Blankfein was also wearing an interesting red Hermès bull-market themed tie. "I knew I was going to be at the stock exchange... see bulls running up and bears running down," he said, showing us the front and the flipside of the tie as it accidentally dipped into his drink. The Dow had just closed at a record high, so we asked him if it was a lucky tie. It turns out it's not. He just wanted to be festive. Team Rubicon is a non-profit made up of military vets and medical professionals that assists with disaster relief. It began with 8 members and now has over 15,000 volunteers. They're currently on the ground in Arkansas leading the response efforts in the wake of the tornadoes. Blankfein kept the mood light, wise-cracking with everyone all night.  A few financial reporters even witnessed his encounter with some JPMorgan folks. "We're JPMorgan," a member of the group replied. "Ohhhh," said Blankfein's wife Laura as he made a hand gesture toward them clearly joking about some sort of rivalry between the firms.  Blankfein then began to tell a story about a dinner he had with some of the surviving CEOs of the financial crisis. "Laura and I were out to dinner with Jamie [Dimon] and –" "Peter Sands," Laura chimed in referring to Standard Chartered's CEO. "The three of us were out. Jamie and his wife. We had a grand ole' time going over financial crisis..." "War stories. Our war stories," Laura added. "Because if you look in the books, go check who are still in their CEO jobs from the start of the crisis," he said "Hmm not many," a reporter was pondering it. "Do I have to do all your work for you?! I do a lot," Blankfein joked.  There was a large turn out of Goldman Sachs folks showing their support for the non-profit. ABC News' Bob Woodruff, who was seriously injured by a road side bomb in Iraq in 2006, was the master of ceremonies. Blankfein was Team Rubicon's distinguished guest.  Twitter.com/GoldmanSachsIn 2012, Goldman teamed up with Team Rubicon following Hurricane Sandy to clean up the Rockaways. Even Blankfein went out there in his dad jeans to help with the clean up. The organization's co-founder and president Jake Wood, who was a Marine Corps scout sniper and sergeant, told a story about how Blankfein and his wife Laura grabbed shovels to help clean out a home that was lived in by a widow for 60 years. "Lloyd didn't hesitate to climb down to his dark, dingy and wet basement. He earned a new accolade that day." That day, Blankfein's wife also found the 80-year-old widow's wedding album. She spent two hours carefully peeling and salvaging the photos.   Blankfein then took the stage to make some remarks. It was like watching a comedian. "Every time I stand next to Jake I feel like a different species," he said referring to Wood's height. Wood has over a foot on the Goldman chief executive. Julia La Roche for Business InsiderBlankfein then proceeded to demonstrate what it was like when he was carrying stuff out of the basement of the Rockaway home. "I've never been in my own basement," he began. "You can imagine what this looked like as heavy items were based from here to here to here to HERE!" referring again to Wood's height. "I regained my arm about six months ago." While Goldman has been a big financial supporter of Team Rubicon, Blankfein said the firm is also doing its part by hiring military vets. He told us that some of the traits he likes that vets possess is that they're capable, smart, mature, confident and they have good leadership skills. It was fascinating to watch Blankfein in action as he worked the room. "Lloyd's hysterical. I think that's the thing people don't understand—is how approachable he is," Wood told us afterward. "Once he starts rolling, he just starts. He would be seemingly unapproachable, but as soon as you get around to him, he's the life of everything. He's got a joke for everything."  Of course, all the fun was for a much bigger cause. The event raised more than $400,000 for Team Rubicon. Watch below to learn more about Team Rubicon:    FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Ethan MillerTeagan Presley JPMorgan Chase shut down the bank accounts of a bunch of adult film industry workers and didn't tell them why. "We recently reviewed your account and determined that we will be closing it on May 11, 2014. Please accept our apologies for the inconvenience," a letter from the bank to porn star Teagan Presley posted on Perez Hilton's site reads. "You may close your account before the date we provided. Your account agreement says that either of us may close your account at any time, without notice and without reason," the letter from Chase continued. Some of those affected have expressed on Twitter that the reason their account was shutdown is because they work in the porn industry. "The branch and telephone bankers said it was because of our industry but their executive branch said no it wasn't and categorically denied this," Presley's husband Joshua Lehman told us via email. Lehman also had his Chase account closed.  The Chase letter didn't cite a specific reason. It also didn't mention anything about pornography. This is actually standard across the banking sector. There's no requirement by law that banks have to tell account holders why they're closing their account. In some cases, the banks are even obligated under the law not to disclose the reason why an account is being closed. Also, there's no written rule saying that a porn star can't bank with Chase. Just because you're a porn star, it doesn't mean you'll get your account taken away either.  A spokesperson for JPMorgan Chase declined to comment on the matter. Some media reports claimed that the accounts of hundreds of porn stars were shut down by Chase recently. Business Insider has learned that's not the case. People are definitely paying attention to this story. There's now a #BoycottChase hashtag. There's also an online petition with over 6,000 signatures as of this morning.  On April 21, Teagan Presley (real name Ashley Erickson Lehman) Tweeted to her 187K followers that Chase was closing her personal account. She's had the account since she was 18. She said she uses it to buy groceries and pay for gymnastics for her kids.  Thank you for @Chase for closing my personal acct that Ive had since I was 18yrs old.I was w/ Washington mutual before you bought them out @chase told me I was an infamous figure in the adult business&amp;thats reason why they closed it.So infamous I pay my utilities&amp;kids gym class Presley's husband Joshua Lehman (@DirectorJoshua) also had his account closed. He Tweeted at blogger Perez Hilton that hundreds of them got letters. Lehman provided us with a few names of people who've been affected, but it wasn't hundreds. @PerezHilton @Chase they did it to hundreds of us today. We all got letters closing them as of 5/11/14. Mine was because my wife’s a star Adult film director David Lord got a letter from Chase earlier this month. @PerezHilton @DirectorJoshua @Chase they did !!!!! pic.twitter.com/mE45d5UzyO Violence gets much more acceptance than sex in this society- how many producers of horror flicks have accts at Chase no problem? Hmmm Check out the article I'm in on the front page of the @nypost @PageSix http://t.co/xPpqqCqUUs <f0><U+009F><U+0092><U+008B> Stormy Daniels Tweeted that Chase cancelled her account a few years ago. She said her friends got theirs cancelled a couple weeks ago. @PerezHilton @DirectorJoshua @Chase They did it to me a few years ago..they did it to Chanel Preston and @KeiranLee a couple weeks ago @davidlordxxx @chase - I'm with ya Porn actress Bonnie Rotten Tweeted that she was closing her Chase account and moving it to Wells Fargo before they could close it on her. @ohsoslider I closed my account before they close it on me Also, below is a copy of the letter Teagan Presley received: Twitter.com/DirectorJoshua FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK CITY — It’s affordable housing — for the 1 percent. A polo-playing multimillionaire who allegedly broke up Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s marriage, a former tobacco executive who once chaired an anti-tax organization and the head of a hedge fund have all lived in rent-stabilized apartments in some of Manhattan’s toniest zip codes in the past few years, paying a fraction of their units’ true market value. A DNAinfo New York analysis of state records found that they were among the tens of thousands of big earners, from surgeons to law firm partners to business executives, occupying rent-regulated units, the city’s largest form of affordable housing. Many of these tenants had remained in their apartments for decades, only losing their sweet deals when  their monthly rents rose above $2,500 and their landlords proved that they had earned more than $200,000 in each of the previous two years. Having a rent-regulated apartment can mean significant savings. In a report released last week, City Comptroller Scott Stringer noted that a recent study showed rent-regulated apartments in Manhattan reduced monthly rents by an average of $829. “It’s ridiculous,” Carol Kellermann, the president of the good-government group Citizens Budget Commission, said of high earners living in rent-regulated homes. “It’s not making affordable apartments available to low-income people.” Rent-stabilization laws were enacted more than a half-century ago to make the city more affordable for the middle and working-class. A government board annually sets rent increases for these apartments, preventing any sharp rises. In exchange, landlords receive tax breaks. But having a low or middle income is not a requirement for obtaining a rent-regulated apartment. That means wealthy city residents can live in them, too  — if they’re lucky enough to snag one. In 2010 there were nearly 970,000 rent-stabilized apartments in the city, according to the U.S. Census Bureau’s most-recent New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey.  That year an estimated 22,642 rent-stabilized households had incomes of more than $199,000, according to the census data which Citizens Budget Committee analyzed for DNAinfo New York. Roughly 2,300 rent-stabilized households had incomes of more than $500,000, according to the data. Bruce Colley — a multimillionaire whose family owns a 300-acre estate in North Salem, N.Y., and whose dad is one of the biggest McDonald’s franchisees in the country — fit in that group. Colley, 60, made headlines in 2003 for allegedly having an affair with Cuomo’s then-wife, Kerry Kennedy, leading to their divorce. At the time of the alleged scandal, Colley lived with his wife, Ann, in a $2.5 million apartment on the Upper East Side. His own marriage subsequently ended in divorce. In 2008 Colley moved into his then girlfriend’s rent-stabilized apartment and took over her lease.  The unit was in a landmarked building on tree-lined East 74th Street, just two blocks from Central Park. His girlfriend and now-wife, Teresa de Sequera, had lived in the apartment since 2004, according to records. But in May 2010 the landlord of the building filed a petition with the state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal, requesting that it deregulate the unit because of the couple’s combined income and their monthly rent. Under state law, HCR will deregulate a rent-controlled or rent-stabilized apartment when a landlord can prove a tenant’s annual income was more than $200,000 for two consecutive years and the rent was more than $2,500 a month. In 2010 the income threshold was $175,000 a year and the ceiling on monthly rent was $2,000. In recent years landlords have tried aggressively to use the procedure, known as luxury decontrol, to deregulate apartments so they can rent units at a much higher market value. According to HCR, landlords filed 8,185 luxury decontrol petitions between Jan. 1, 2011, and Dec. 31, 2013. However, the HCR, which can take years to issue a decision, only approved 291 luxury decontrol requests during that time period, according to records obtained by DNAinfo under a Freedom of Information Law request. HCR approved a luxury decontrol of de Sequera and Colley’s apartment in February 2012. Colley told DNAinfo that when he moved into de Sequera’s apartment, he was clueless that it was rent-stabilized. “[De Sequera] did qualify to live there. That’s how I ended up there. I took over her lease,” Colley said. “I wouldn’t have qualified if [the management company] had asked me any questions. They never asked me about [my income]. I wasn’t being sneaky.” The polo player said the apartment was a studio and “wasn’t that cheap,” but declined to give the monthly rent amount. “It was not like we were living in luxury,” he said. In October 2011, a year after getting notice that the landlord had applied to have the apartment deregulated, Colley and de Sequera purchased a $1.8 million Upper East Side apartment, where they now live. Some of the other high earners whose rent-stabilized apartments were deregulated in the past two years because of their income include: • A 57-year-old former Philip Morris executive who served for years on the board of directors of the conservative think tank Heartland Institute and on the board of directors of the Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation, an anti-tax group. He lived in a rent-stabilized apartment inMidtown between 1994 and 2013, records show. While living in his government-regulated unit, he and his wife bought a $275,000 weekend home in the Berkshires in 2005, according to property records. • A former magazine editor and her husband who owns a photo agency. They lived in a rent-stabilized unit on the Upper West Side for 27 years until it was deregulated in 2013, records show. For most of that time, they also owned a cottage on a 7-acre property in upstate New York. • A hedge fund principal and his wife, a former magazine editor, who lived in an Upper West Side apartment. • An oral surgeon at New York Presbyterian/Weil Cornell Medical Center and his wife, the director of human resources at a major publishing house, who lived in an Upper East Side apartment three blocks from the Metropolitan Museum of Art. • The culture editor of a major fashion magazine and her husband, the president of an arts consulting firm that works with museums, who lived in an Upper West Side apartment. Kellermann, of the Citizens Budget Commission, said she was not surprised that big earners were occupying rent-regulated apartments. She said that while the current rent-system helps some New Yorkers who truly need affordable housing, it lets high-income earners take advantage of the deal as well. “It doesn’t address the problem of creating more housing at low rents for low-income people,” she said. Her organization issued a report in 2010 recommending the state expand more effective affordable-housing programs that target low- and moderate-income households. The report also said that the state should phase out rent-stabilized apartments for high-income households. It recommended a deregulation procedure that is based solely on a tenant hitting an income threshold — not tethered to the rent hitting a certain ceiling. The report said deregulating apartments occupied by high-income earners would lead to more revenue for the city since landlords would lose the property tax breaks. But rent-regulation remains a polarizing and deeply divisive political issue with little chance of an easy fix in Albany. Tenant advocates are fiercely opposed to the loss of any rent-regulated apartments while landlords, hoping to capitalize on the city’s white-hot real estate market, want them gone altogether. Kate Goldstein, the executive director of renters rights group Tenants and Neighbors, declined to comment on whether big earners living in rent-regulated apartments unfairly take away affordable housing from New Yorkers with lower incomes.  Instead she said the real threat to affordable housing is a process known as vacancy decontrol. Under state law, landlords can fix up a vacant rent-regulated apartment and increase the rent by 1/60 of the value of the improvements. If the increase raises the apartment’s rent to more than $2,500 a month, then it can be deregulated. Stringer’s report last week noted that in 2012 vacancy decontrols accounted for about 70 percent of apartment deregulations. “We would really love to see the repeal of vacancy decontrol,” Goldstein said. “That’s our biggest priority.” The Rent Stabilization Association of New York, which represents landlords’ interests, has lobbied state legislators in the past to lower the income and rent threshold for luxury and vacancy decontrols, hoping to the quicken the deregulation of apartments. Jack Freund, the executive vice president of the association, said that building owners do not get enough out of affordable housing. He added that the fact that millionaires can live in subsidized apartments highlights the problems with the system. “What this points to is this inherent failure of the system to not be income-based, to just give out subsidies willy-nilly,” Freund said. “The system can be gamed if you know how to do it. It can keep you in place for a long time.” The current rules for luxury and vacancy decontrols end in 2015. Both landlords and tenants groups expect a battle as each side pushes state legislators to change the deregulation process in their favor. “The whole system doesn’t make sense,” Freund said. “We’ve had a system in place for over 70 years that was supposed to address the affordable housing issue. It doesn’t work.” FREE AppDownload
APThis week we learned that if Warren Buffett has a problem with you, he prefers to handle it privately over a steak dinner in Omaha. Because publicly, it seemed that Buffett wasn't going to do anything about the Coca-Cola executive compensation plan that, according to some detractors, might dilute shareholders up to 16.6% and hand execs up to $24 billion worth of stock at today's share price. His firm Berkshire Hathaway is the largest stockholder in Coca-Cola but when it came time to a vote, Berkshire abstained. So did a lot of people. The plan passed with 83% of the vote in favor, but less than half the shareholders voted. Now we know that behind the scenes and over the course of a few meetings, Buffett was working to make it clear to Coca-Cola's executives that he didn't like the plan. The WSJ reports that Coca-Cola will likely revise the massive executive compensation plan it presented to shareholders this week. So what didn't Buffett like about it? Because he was so private about his distaste, it's hard to know exactly what he quibbled with. He told outlets like CNBC and WSJ that Coca-Cola execs knew he didn't like the plan right after the vote, but he didn't go into detail about why. What we do know is that the plan included long term equity awards, 60% in options that can be exercised for a price at a given date, and 40% in performance-share units. That's probably not something Buffett would do at Berkshire. In 1997 he wrote in a letter: “We shun ‘lottery ticket’ arrangements, such as options on Berkshire shares, whose ultimate value -- which could range from zero to huge -- is totally out of the control of the person whose behavior we would like to affect... A system that produces quixotic payoffs will not only be wasteful for owners but may actually discourage the focused behavior we value in managers.” So there's that. Another way to figure out what bothered Buffett is to look at why more outspoken shareholders had a problem. Chief among them is David Winters, chief executive at Wintergreen Advisers LLC. The firm owns 2.5 million Coca-Cola shares. "...Wintergreen Advisers believes this plan to be an unnecessarily large transfer of wealth from Coca-Cola’s shareholders to members of the Company’s management team," Winters wrote in a letter to Coca-Cola's board... We can find no reasonable basis for gifting management 14.2% of the share capital of Coca-Cola, worth $24 billion at today’s share price." Winters also put out nine points for Coca-Cola shareholders to consider before the vote that lays his views out quite succinctly. 1. Coca-Cola’s proposed plan, unlike previous plans, allows an individual to receive more than 5% of the awards available under the plan. 2. The proposed plan permits the Compensation Committee to award "bonus shares" that are “not subject to any restrictions or conditions. 3. The proposed plan includes 27 criteria that can potentially be used by the board to justify equity awards, many of which are not subject to any disclosed standard of success. In recent measurement periods, the hurdle rate that must be met to receive shares and options has been lowered. While the hurdle rate has been raised for the current measurement period, it is below what was required in previous periods. 4. The proposed plan allows Coca-Cola's Compensation Committee to “exclude” and “adjust” certain items from the evaluation of management performance.  In football terms, this allows the Compensation Committee to move the goal posts closer once the ball is in the air. 5. The proposed plan, when combined with previous plans, could dilute shareholders by up to 16.6%. 6. The proposed plan, as envisioned by Coca-Cola, will result in the issuance of up to 340,000,000 shares and options. This represents a 21% increase in potential awards compared to the previous plan. 7. The proposed plan allows the Compensation Committee to issue these 340,000,000 shares and options over four years. This time period is more than 33% shorter than the time period under the 2008 plan. 8. The proposed plan may require Coca-Cola to spend even more on share repurchases than the $1.3 billion it spent in 2013 in order to offset dilution. These 2013 buybacks comprised 27% of Coca-Cola’s “robust share repurchase program,” a figure that could rise under the proposed plan and divert a significant portion of the company’s cash flow away from more productive and profitable uses. 9. Coca-Cola’s compensation policies get a low rating from a leading proxy advisory firm. Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) gives Coca-Cola’s compensation policy a score of 8, near the bottom of the ISS scale. Buffett said Winters was right about the fact that the plan is excessive but that Winters got his numbers wrong.  How wrong, though? FREE AppDownload
Emerging market economies offer fantastic growth opportunities for multinational corporation. But conducting business in these markets comes with all sorts of risk. They tend to experience high inflation rates and volatile currency swings. In February, Venezuela undertook a massive currency devaluation that instantly wreaked havoc for companies doing business in the country. In Q1, Coca-Cola took a $247 million charge because of Venezuela's bolivar. Most of the companies that dodged this were probably quietly celebrating. The executives at Church &amp; Dwight — the owner Arm &amp; Hammer, OxiClean and Trojan — celebrated quite vocally during the CAGNY Conference earlier this year. "I wanna talk about our entry strategy into Venezuela," teased Matt Farrell, Church &amp; Dwight's CFO. "Come on! We're not doing it! What're you stupid?!" "I'm writing a letter to the president of Venezuela to thank him for all of the pain and suffering and distraction he's causing all of my major competitors," he said. Farrell said that Church &amp; Dwight would not be going into Venezuela in his lifetime. Here's the blunt slide Farrell used to communicate his sentiment. Church & Dwight FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe ISM's manufacturing index climbed to 54.9 in April from 53.7 in March. This was higher than the 54.3 expected by economists. From the ISM's Bradley Holcomb: "The New Orders Index registered 55.1 percent, equal to the reading in March, indicating growth in new orders for the 11th consecutive month. The Production Index registered 55.7 percent, slightly below the March reading of 55.9 percent. Employment grew for the 10th consecutive month, registering 54.7 percent, an increase of 3.6 percentage points over March's reading of 51.1 percent. Comments from the panel generally remain positive; however, some expressed concern about international economic and political issues potentially impacting demand." Of the 18 manufacturing industries ISM follows, only Nonmetallic Mineral Products saw contraction. Here are some anecdotes from the ISM's survey: ISM Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/George WidmanConstruction spending climbed 0.2% month-over-month in March. This missed expectations for a 0.5% rise.  Meanwhile, February's reading was revised down to reflect a 0.2% fall, compared with an initial reading of a 0.1% rise.  Private residential consutrction was up 0.8% on the month and 16% on the year. But public residential construction was down 6.6% on the month and 26.7% on the year. Homebuilder confidence climbed modestly in April but has been disappointing. Meanwhile, new home sales plunged and housing starts have also been disappointing.  FREE AppDownload
Does IQ correlate with power? How many powerful people in the U.S. are actually geniuses, and how much does intelligence really affect success? In one of my research papers published last year, Investigating America's Elite, I set out to address these questions. I collected data on some key groups that greatly influence society: Fortune 500 CEOs, billionaires, federal judges, Senators, and House members. Individuals were deemed to be in the top 1% of ability if they attended an undergraduate or graduate school that had extremely high average standardized test scores that put the typical person well within the top 1%. Researchers have determined that standardized tests, such as the SAT and ACT, give a reasonably good — yet of course imperfect — measure of a person's general reasoning capacity. For more detail on the method used, including its limitations, please read the full paper, published in the journal Intelligence. Jonathan WaiRoughly 40% or more of billionaires, judges, CEOs, and Senators, and 20% of the House were in the top 1% of cognitive ability. Therefore, a large fraction of the U.S. elite are indeed smart and highly educated. This does not mean they are geniuses (I would reserve that term for someone who does mind-bending work like Albert Einstein); but they are really smart. Moreover, it turns out that even within the highly select groups of Fortune 500 CEOs and billionaires, higher cognitive ability and education was associated with higher compensation and net worth, respectively, supporting the idea that brainpower has a payoff when it comes to certain forms of leadership and performance. This mirrors the findings of a recent study of profoundly gifted students in the top 0.01% (IQs around 180) published in Psychological Science. In it, my colleagues Harrison Kell, David Lubinski, and Camilla Benbow asked the question: "Who rises to the top?" They tracked this brainy group, identified at age 12, for nearly three decades to see what positions in society they attained. Many had become CEOs and vice presidents of companies, high level attorneys and physicians, professors at top universities, senior engineers, and other directors. This shows many smart young people become successful, but also that many successful people were also smart when young. It seems that today's elites are increasingly coming from the high end of the IQ distribution. And that's especially true in highly complex fields like finance and tech. Billionaires in the investments and technology sectors had the largest fraction of people who were also in the top 1% of cognitive ability (see the black bars in graph below). Jonathan Wai It's not hard to think of famous examples. Think Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Larry Page, and Mark Zuckerberg. As Joe Weisenthal astutely pointed out, Facebook's acquisition of WhatsApp exemplified how technology amplifies the talents of the top 1%: "Thanks to the internet, a few folks who had the right combination of skill and luck were able to create a gigantic business that spanned the globe in just a few years. And we're seeing this replicated over and over these days in ways that would have been hard to fathom in earlier generations."  The connection between intelligence, power, and gender also proves fascinating, albeit still difficult to study. In general, women were largely underrepresented among the U.S. elite groups examined. Notably, female Fortune 500 CEOs were underrepresented by a factor of 28.3 to 1. But among those women who had climbed the ranks, they had to be smarter and more select, on average, than their male counterparts (see the bottom left of graph below).  Jonathan WaiRoughly 60% of female CEOs but only 40% of male CEOs were in the top 1% of cognitive ability. This may show that in the business world, as recently minted billionaire Sheryl Sandberg has pointed out in her book "Lean In," there are still many obstacles for women. Consider the remarkable personal qualities and achievements of Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer, who Nicholas Carlson elegantly profiled, illustrating how so very different from ordinary someone like her had to be to climb to the top.  It's important to note that the groups of the U.S. elite described here provide case controls (see this recent study of mine for more detail), showing that although a large fraction of people (about 40%) among these groups were well within the top 1% (IQ 137 and above), this means nearly half or more were not. So although brainpower certainly matters, it isn't the only thing that contributes to an individual's success. Other factors — including conscientiousness, focus, vision, an immense work ethic, social skill, political savvy, desire for power, and luck — combine to determine whether someone will rise to a position of leadership among the U.S. elite. Jonathan Wai, Ph.D., is a psychologist, writer, and research scientist at the Duke University Talent Identification Program and an expert on multiple issues surrounding the development of intellectual and creative talent. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook, or G+. Read his blog Finding the Next Einstein: Why Smart is Relative. © 2014 by Jonathan Wai FREE AppDownload
The April purchasing manager's index for manufacturing hit 55.4. Consensus was for a reading of 55.4, unchanged the flash reading earlier this month. April's print comes in just a notch below the 55.5 figure from March. Output increased at the steepest pace since March 2011. Input cost growth moderated moderated to the weakest rate since May of last year. Job growth slowed.  “...Although GDP may bounce back in the second quarter, the updated manufacturing numbers are not strong enough to offset the softer trend in the flash services PMI, suggesting that the underlying growth rate of the economy has weakened since late last year," Markit Economics' Chris Williamson said in a release. “The manufacturing sector continues to benefit from rising domestic demand, but weak overseas demand continues to mean export performance disappoints, with only modest growth of new export orders recorded again in April.” Here's the scorecard: Markit Full release » FREE AppDownload
Data from a recent Gallup poll shows that people living in Connecticut and Illinois aren't too happy with their environment: Half of residents say that, given the chance, they'd move to a different state. The states where people want to stay? Texas and Montana come out really well. Gallup In Illinois, 50% of respondents want to leave, while only 49% do in Connecticut. Maryland is a close third, with 47% of respondents expressing the same desire.  But in Montana, Hawaii, and Maine, 23% reported they'd move if the opportunity arose. And only 24% of respondents felt that way in Texas. Gallup To obtain the data, Gallup conducted at least 600 interviews with people aged 18 and older across the 50 states. The survey asked, "Regardless of whether you will move, if you had the opportunity, would you like to move to another state, or would you rather remain in your current state?" And if you consider intention to move, Nevada comes out on top: 20% plan to move in the next 12 months.  In total, 33% of all people in the U.S. want to move to another state.  (Via Vox) FREE AppDownload
WikipediaImagine you're a company and you want to go public. If you're going to hit the market, you hire some banks to make sure that from the get-go there are buyers prepared to pick up the stock you're selling. That's why companies hire banks as book runners. You would think that the more book runners, the more shares sold, yes? Wrong. How do we know? Because of what happened in Hong Kong this week that lead to the collapse of a $6 billion IPO. No one is 100% sure how this happened, but the 29 Hong Kong banks that were supposed to take meat producer WH Group public failed to keep the deal alive, according to The South China Morning Post. You may recall that WH Group is the company that formed when China's biggest meat producer, Shangui, bought U.S. meat producer, Smithfield Foods. Sources told Ray Chan, George Chen and Nick Edwards of the SCMP that banks sold only about a third of the $1.9 billion worth of shares that were being put up for sale. This was after three weeks of share offering in which the price of the WH's stock was lowered to entice buyers. The group of 29 was lead by BOC International, Morgan Stanley and UBS — so no amateurs. Some bankers are blaming Morgan Stanley as it was the lead underwriter on the deal and also led the takeover of Smithfield. Another source blames the whole thing on arrogance and says the banks simply wouldn't communicate with one another. Others say the deal was just executed poorly. From SCMP: "The way the deal was marketed was plainly wrong," said Philippe Espinasse, a noted market analyst and author and former head of equity markets for Asia at investment banks Macquarie and Nomura. Espinasse said having a record 29 book runners was "ridiculous for a US$6 billion deal". Too many cooks in the kitchen. FREE AppDownload
T-MobileT-Mobile CEO John Legere(Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc said it added 2.4 million net customers in the first quarter, up from 579,000 a year earlier, as the company's aggressive discounts won over customers. The No. 4 U.S. mobile operator's quarterly revenue rose 47 percent to $6.88 billion, boosted by the popularity of a series of discounts and promotions that have disrupted an industry long dominated by the top two players, Verizon and AT&amp;T. The mobile provider, which is 67 percent owned by Deutsche Telekom, lost $151 million, or 19 cents per share, in the first quarter, compared with a profit of $107 million, or 20 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. (Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee and Soham Chatterjee; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Jobless claims hit 344,00, unexpectedly rising for the second week in a row. Consensus was for 320,00, down from revised 330,000. Full release » A Labor Department official said claims tend to be more volatile around Easter. The four-week moving averaged also claimed back to 320,000, an increase of 3,000. The consensus seems to be that yesterday's abysmal Q1 GDP figure was a blip. "Among the indicators suggesting much more strength than Q1 GDP is the ADP series; it was reported up a healthy 220K in April," HFE's Jim O'Sullivan writes in a note this morning. "We still forecast a 3.5% pace for real GDP in Q2. We also forecast a 185K rise in payrolls in the BLS report on Friday, a little below the 215K consensus but a solid number after allowing for the tendency recently for upward revisions to initially reported data." Here's what the moving average has looked like until today. FRED   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking A woman shops at a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Rogers, Arkansas.Personal spending jumped by 0.9% in March, which beat expectations for a 0.6% increase. This was the biggest gain since August 2009. "March's solid rise in real spending is due to two factors," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "One, the unwinding of the weather distortion generated a 1.4% m/m leap in goods spending. Two, the surge in healthcare spending (as the previously uninsured use the new policies provided by the Affordable Care Act) led to a 0.4% m/m rise in services spending." "The weather-related rebound may now have run its course," Dales said. "The rush to take out a healthcare policy before the end of March, however, means that healthcare spending could rise rapidly in April too." Income climbed by 0.5% in March, which was a bit stronger than the 0.4% expected. "Most of this was also weather-related, as the rebound in employment and hours worked in March boosted nominal wages and salaries by 0.6% m/m," Dales said. "Income was also boosted by a 1.4% m/m increase in Medicaid transfer payments due to the expanded coverage of the ACA." Because spending outpaced income, the personal saving rate slipped to 3.8% from 4.2%. The saving rate is now at the lowest level since January 2013. The PCE price index climbed 0.2% in March. Similarly, core PCE climbed by 0.2%. Both figures were right in line with expectations. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
       Thank you for inviting me to ICBA's policy summit. I am pleased to have this opportunity to share my views on some of the key issues facing community banks and how I see the community banking model fitting into the financial system in the years ahead. In particular, I will discuss steps the Federal Reserve has taken to address the "too-big-to-fail" problem and how these steps affect community banks; I will describe how the Fed strives to improve our understanding of the unique role that community banks play in the economy; and then I'll show how we are using this knowledge to better tailor our supervisory expectations and approaches to community banks.               As you may know, before I rejoined the Federal Reserve Board as Vice Chair in 2010, I had the privilege of serving for six years as president and chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The 12th district is the largest of the Fed's districts, covering nine western states, and it is home to a significant number of community banks, the majority of which are supervised by the San Francisco Fed directly or indirectly through bank holding companies. Community bankers helped me, when I served as president, to take the pulse of the local economy and also to understand how regulatory and policy decisions in Washington affect financial institutions of different sizes and types, sometimes in very different ways. During the financial crisis, I saw firsthand the challenges that community banks faced in a crisis they did little to cause, and I have felt strongly ever since that the Fed must do what it can to ensure that the actions taken following the crisis do not place undue burdens on your institutions.    
FREE AppDownload
Over and over again, we see proof that networking is one of the best ways to get yourself that new job, here's how to get it right.
Thomson ReutersA man walks past the logo of Swiss Bank UBS on a footbridge connecting two office buildings in ZurichZURICH (Reuters) - Swiss bank UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; has banned some of its employees from entering France, where the bank is subject to an investigation, Swiss radio and television RTS said on its website on Thursday, quoting unnamed sources. Several dozens of employees of UBS's wealth management business are not allowed to travel to France, RTS said, adding that employees who do not respect the ban may lose their job. RTS said the bank had told the staff about the travel ban before the Easter weekend and that it was in force until further notice. UBS spokeswoman Dominique Scheiwiller said the bank did not wish to comment. "There's an investigation under way and we are cooperating with French authorities," she said. French judicial authorities are investigating UBS over allegations it illegally sold products designed to avoid French taxes. The bank was put under formal investigation for alleged complicity in suspected illegal sales practices in June last year. UBS said at that time said it would cooperate fully with the authorities. (Reporting by Silke Koltrowitz. Editing by Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA phone hangs above the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening of the market August 19, 2011. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are discussing today: We shall see if investors embrace “Sell In May”, or if the “Good Harbor” ETF reallocation impacts trading today – right now US Futures are starting higher, led by a 30bp pop in Nasdaq futures as YELP leaps 10%.   Liquidity could be pretty thin today, as Most Asian and Euro markets closed for May Day Holiday.   In London, The FTSE is higher after solid Bank earnings and M&amp;A chatter – While over in Asia Chinese PMI rises for 2nd month straight and the State Council announces fresh stimulus, but Aussie still closed red – led lower by a 1%+ drop in the Miners again.    The Nikkei jumped 1.2% as the Yen weakened, despite more Tech earnings warnings overseas – as Banks and REITS helped propel the Nikkei.   We do get Auto sales numbers today – along with a slew of key earnings from BZH, CNP, CLX, CME, COP, XOM, HST, K, MA, TEVA, TXT and VIAB pre open, EXPE, FLR, LNKD, MTZ, QLGC, VRTX and WYNNN after the close. The 10YY is up small this AM, after touching 2week lows yesterday ahead of a 8:30 speech this AM by Yellen – The 10YY’s consolidation this year is the longest since 1978, as it has been stuck in a 23bp range.   The DXY is mixed this AM, caught between a weaker Yen and stronger € - In Metals, Copper was able to rally on China Stimulus headlines, but Gold is falling 1%, and nearing a test of recent lows.   The Energy complex is under pressure as Ukraine’s stress lessens slightly, with Oil off 50bp+ and nearing 1M lows, and Natty Gas down almost 1% ahead of inventory data today.   Scheduled Catalysts today include Challenger Jobs data at 7:30, At 8:30 we have a speech from Yellen, Weekly Claims and Personal Income data.  Markit US Manufacturing PMI for April at 9:45, ahead of the official ISM release at 10.   We have a small POMO at 11 to close out.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/BabuA worker walks through a salt pan on the eve of May Day or Labour Day on the outskirts of the southern Indian city of Chennai April 30, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. AT&amp;T wants to buy DirecTV. The Wall Street Journal says AT&amp;T has approached the country's second-largest satellite pay TV provider about an acquisition. AT&amp;T itself actually already has its own landline based  TV package. And DirecTV is interested. "The satellite TV industry is facing a slowdown in subscriber growth after years of adding customers," the Journal reports. "The pay television market in the U.S. is now mature, with about 90% of U.S. households with TV now subscribing to either cable, satellite or phone company-delivered television. And satellite firms' inability to offer Internet access that is competitive with cable and phone companies is becoming a bigger issue." China Slump. China manufacturing PMI came in slightly under expectations at 50.4 vs 50.5 forecast. China’s economy is 'a slow-moving ship at the moment, but the sentiment is turning progressively negative,' Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG Ltd. in Melbourne, told Bloomberg. “We haven’t had positive news for quite some time.” UK Economy Booming. British manufacturing PMI for April surged to a 5-month high.“Manufacturing continues to bask in the spring sunshine, with solid growth and mounting optimism for the months ahead," said David Noble of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing &amp; Supply. "Building on the strong performance of Q1, success was consistent across the consumer, intermediate and investment goods sectors. Supporting the robust expansion and new order inflows, employment numbers were boosted even further this month; all of which are good signs of a sustainable upward surge in the UK economy more broadly." Buffett Busts Coke Comp. Warren Buffett privately met with Coke CEO Muhtar Kent to express his distaste for teh company's executive comp plan, the Wall Street Journal reports. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway owns 9% of the firm. "Mr. Buffett has frequently expressed his distaste for pay plans that rely heavily on stock options, calling them "lottery tickets" for executives that often generate outsize rewards. Such options give the recipient the right to purchase shares at a later date for a set price. clear with Coke management from the outset that he thought the plan was excessive."  Busy Day In Data, Starting With Auto Sales. They'll be coming in throughout the day. Analysts estimate the pace of sales slipped to an annualized rate of 16.20 million from 16.33 million in March. "Motor vehicle sales jumped 7% in March to a new cycle high of 16.3 million after starting the month well, accelerating mid-month, and then ending the last weekend particularly robustly according to company comments," noted Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Mid-month industry surveys for April indicate that the momentum coming out of March continued in further upside in retail sales, but a pullback in fleet deliveries is expected to the leave the overall selling rate slightly lower." Claims And Outlays. The BLS will announce weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. Expectations are for a decrease to 320,000 from 329,000. Also at this time, the BEA will announce personal income and outlays. Consensus is for a 0.4% increase in personal income, a 0.6% increase in personal spending, and Core PCE price index to increase 0.2%. Manufacturing And Construction Data. At 9 a.m. we get Markit PMI. Economists forecast a reading of 55.8, up from 55.5. At 10 a.m. we get ISM manufacturing. The consensus is for an increase to 54.2 from 53.7 in March. The ISM employment index was at 51.1% in March, and the new orders index was at 55.1%, McBride says. Finally we also get construction spending at 10 a.m. It's expected to be up 0.6% vs 0.1% prior. The Junk Bond Market Is Tightening. Investors are slowing down on buying into risky deals, Bloomberg says. Six months ago the Fed and OCC told banks to improve deteriorating loan standards. Investors are demanding better terms and pulled cash from leveraged-loan funds the last two weeks, snapping an unprecedented 95 straight weeks of inflows. 'The balance of power, for the moment, has a little bit shifted to the buy side,” Jonathan Insull, a money manager at Crescent Capital Group LP in New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday. 'The market’s been taking a breather and people are using the opportunity to push back.” Earnings. Exxon, Mastercard, Motorola Solutions, T-Mobile and Wynn all report Q1 financial results today.  Markets Take The Day Off. It's May Day in Europe and parts of Asia. U.S. futures were a bit higher. Janet Yellen speaks to the Community Bankers of America at 8:30 a.m. FREE AppDownload
Even after 2013's massive 30% rally, the stock market continues to grind higher. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average booked a record-high close. Meanwhile, market bears are convinced things could soon turn south. They argue that elevated stock market valuations (for example, high price earnings multiples) and record-high profit margins have increased the risk of a disorderly sell-off. Or perhaps even a crash. "People could be right that the market multiple will contract, but we doubt they can provide empirical evidence to support this claim," said Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. "The part of the argument we really don’t like is the part where people say that the multiple expanded a lot last year, so that increases the odds of less or no multiple expansion or even contraction this year. That’s baloney." In a recent research note, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg notes that stocks don't fall just because they've gone up a lot. "We go into fundamental bear markets either when the Fed overtightens, when the economy heads into recession, or both," he said. Rosenberg presented this chart showing 12-month returns in the S&amp;P 500 since 1969. As you can see, downturns typically coincide with recessions (shaded area). It's particularly interesting to see that 30%-plus rallies over 12-month periods — like what we saw last year — happen pretty regularly. Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/David BuimovitchA file picture taken on November 14, 2009 shows Ultra-Orthodox Jews outside the Intel production facility in Jerusalem's Hozvim Mountain industrial area.US computer chip giant Intel is to invest close to $6 billion in upgrading its Israeli production facilities, Israeli Economy Minister Naftali Bennett said on Thursday. "Intel chose to set up its most advanced production line in Israel in the face of tough competition," Bennett told public radio. "It's an investment of billions of shekels... in Israeli hi-tech," he added. Facebook comments by Bennett, which were reposted by Intel Israel on its website, put the figure at 20 billion shekels ($5.8 billion, 4.1 billion euros). "Twenty billion shekels will be invested in Israel, one of the biggest -- if not the biggest -- investments in the country's history," he wrote, saying the plant would become the "most advanced" in the world. Intel itself made no public statement on the investment. "This is a vote of confidence in the Israeli economy and in Israeli brains," Finance Minister Yair Lapid wrote on his Facebook page. He said that thousands of new jobs would be directly created and tens of thousands indirectly. Intel's Israel Development Centre, opened in 1974 in the northern port city of Haifa, was the company's first design and development centre outside the United States. It has facilities in Jerusalem, the central town of Petah Tikvah and in Yakum, north of Tel Aviv, as well as a large manufacturing plant in Kiryat Gat in the south. The company website says it currently has 9,885 employees in Israel. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Some 800 million voters in India are heading to the polls this month in an election process that will take several weeks to complete. India’s stock market has recently reflected the optimism investors feel in India. After a stretch of policy logjams and years of unmet potential in India, we’re also optimistic. While we aren’t in the business of predicting elections, this one could prove historic for India. The Congress party has dominated the country since India gained independence from colonial rule in 1947, but there is a possibility that an unprecedented change could take place when the results are in. A win for the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies would result in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coming to power at the country’s center of influence. While not without controversy, Modi’s achievements in the western state of Gujarat, where he has been chief minister for 11 years, have been viewed positively by many. Recent opinion polls suggest India’s people want that type of progress for the rest of the country. Mark MobiusAccording to a recent Pew Research survey, the majority of Indians reported dissatisfaction with the way things have been going in their country and less than 30% were satisfied.1 This discontent swept across all generations, income levels and genders. We’ll see how this dissatisfaction plays out as the votes are counted. Interestingly, despite this general dissatisfaction, the Pew survey showed most Indians were upbeat about the economy’s prospects. That seems to fall in line with expectations for India’s GDP growth to outpace that of the last few years, projected to grow 5.4% in 2014 and 6.4% in 2015.2 Great Expectations in India  Indian investors were particularly optimistic about their stock market’s prospects, as well as their own financial prospects. The Franklin Templeton 2014 Global Investor Sentiment Survey (GISS)3 revealed that, out of the 22 countries surveyed, investors in India were the most optimistic about prospects for their local market, with 82% of Indian investors anticipating their local stock market to be up in 2014. Of those surveyed in the GISS, over half of Indian investors reported plans to increase their exposure to domestic (Indian) equities. And, for a second year in a row, Indian investors emerged as being the most optimistic about reaching their financial goals. As investors, we are certainly hopeful these market predictions play out although obviously there is no guarantee. As we see it, the crux of the problems in India is that the current government hasn’t moved fast enough to make the reforms that many believe need to be made to propel the country as a whole forward. We’ve seen progress at the state level but not at the national level. In our view, what India needs is reform, plain and simple: less corruption and more action. This isn’t uniquely our view. According to the Pew Research survey, more than 80% of Indians say corrupt politicians and business people are a big problem in India. They lament the political gridlock that is holding back progress in fixing the nation’s economic problems.4 Two Areas for Reform: Bureaucracy and Education There are two main areas we think are in need of reform. The first is the barriers to foreign investment in India, which are tremendously high. There is an excess of bureaucracy. The red tape needs to come down. The second is education. We believe the educational level of the entire population needs to be lifted. Of course, there are great universities and many well-trained, educated people in India. But, in our opinion, there are segments of the population that are missing out on the opportunities an education can provide, and that means the country is missing out on the full potential of its human resources. As investors, we are focused on companies and industries that utilize or take advantage of the tremendous brainpower of the population. We focus on companies that can essentially export this brain power, and which are more isolated from some of the investment barriers that have impacted other industries, such as mining. In our view, there are certainly a lot of positives for India that can bode well for its future. Its people have a relatively high savings rate, its youthful population creates a positive demographic with a lower dependency ratio than many other developed countries, and its economy is fairly diversified with a strong service sector. India’s middle class also has the potential to grow significantly, which means that it could become an even greater consumer market. Given the current economic growth rates, within 20 years it is expected that some 291 million people will move out of poverty and into the ranks of the middle class.5 With this type of growth typically comes greater spending on consumer goods and services. For example, wireless communications has been growing by leaps and bounds in India.  A Final Note One more note I’d like to make about the Franklin Templeton Global Investor Sentiment Survey. Interestingly, more than half of all investors surveyed in all countries planned to become more conservative this year with their investments, despite the fact they also had some optimistic hopes regarding returns this year. Of course, people should evaluate their hopes in light of the actions they take—that applies to life in general, and not just investing! Want to see the rest of what our survey respondents had to say? 2014 Franklin Templeton Global Investor Sentiment Survey. Mark Mobius’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or recommendations to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. The material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.  1. Source: “Indians Reflect on Their Country and the World,” Pew Research Center, Washington, D.C. (March 31, 2014). 2. Source: © by International Monetary Fund. “World Economic Outlook Update,” January 2014.   3. Franklin Templeton’s 2014 Global Investor Sentiment Survey was conducted online by ORC International in January 2014. The survey polled 11,113 investors across 22 countries. 4.Source: “Indians Reflect on Their Country and the World,” Pew Research Center, Washington, D.C. (March 31, 2014). 5. Source: McKinsey Global Institute, “Next Big Spenders: India’s Middle Class.” May 2007. © 2014 McKinsey &amp; Company. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KravchenkoUkraine's Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk (L) and Austria's Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz attend a meeting in Kiev April 30, 2014. KIEV (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund's board has signed off on a $17 billion bailout for Ukraine to boost the former Soviet state's failing economy, weakened by months of upheaval and a stand-off with Moscow that has triggered the worst East-West crisis since the Cold War. Ukraine desperately needs to increase revenues to try to meet its foreign currency debt obligations, and the first disbursement of $3.2 billion to Kiev will help it meet immediate payments. Below is a list of what Ukraine needs to pay and what it expects to receive in credits this year. (Figures include both Finance Ministry and Central Bank obligations, but do not include debts owed by state companies such as Naftogaz, which now owes $3.5 billion for gas imports from Moscow, according to Russia's Gazprom. $2.9 billion to the IMF - due over the course of the year $1 billion on Eurobonds in June; $0.9 billion in coupon payments $0.9 billion due to other international financial organizations/countries $1.3 billion repayment of local dollar bonds $1.6 billion early repayment of local dollar bonds $0.5 billion local bond coupon payments and T-bills $3 billion from the IMF next week $2.7 billion from the European Union $1 billion from World Bank $1 billion guarantee from the United States $1 billion Eurobond issue possibly in the second half of the year $0.3 billion from local dollar bond placement (Reporting by Natalia Zinets; Writing by Elizabeth Piper; Editing by Will Waterman) nL6N0NN1DJ FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Ole Bendick KvisbergLast night, Chinese PMI rose from 50.3 to 50.4, representing a smaller-than-expected rebound in the country's manufacturing sector. Ting Lu, a China economist at Bank of America, writes: We maintain the “mini-stimulus” view Data released today displayed some moderate improvement, but the improvement is not big enough to deliver an around 7.5% growth target for the whole year, in our view. We expect Beijing to implement its mini-stimulus—some small-scale growth supportive measures focusing on special credit policy in the rural area and fiscal spending in social housing, urban infrastructure and central &amp; western region infrastructure. The targeted RRR for rural banks announced in April (first by the State Council and then by the PBoC) means the chance for universal RRR cut is quite low, but we expect interbank rates will fall back to below 4%. For more on last night's report, see our writeup here. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersInvestor Warren Buffett poses for a portrait during an interview after a luncheon to benefit the Glide Foundation of San Francisco in New York(Reuters) - The Coca-Cola Co is likely to revise its controversial equity compensation plan for executives before it goes into effect in 2015, following pressure from Warren Buffett, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Buffett, chairman of conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway &lt;BRKa.N&gt;, made his reservations about the plan known privately in recent weeks to Coca-Cola's Chief Executive Muhtar Kent in three conversations, the Journal quoted sources as saying. As of February 24, Berkshire owned 400 million shares of the company, just over 9 percent of the shares outstanding, according to Thomson Reuters data Buffett said last week that he thought Coca-Cola's controversial equity compensation plan was excessive, but Berkshire Hathaway abstained in the shareholders vote. Buffett, in an interview with CNBC, said he and partner Charlie Munger did not want to vote against the plan because he did not want to show disapproval of Coca-Cola's management. On Tuesday, Buffett said that he had spoken to Kent "multiple times" and to his son Howard Buffett "very briefly" in reference to the equity compensation plan, adding that his son served Coca-Cola shareholders and not Berkshire on the beverage maker's board. Buffett's pressure adds to that from critics, most notably activist investor David Winters, who said the plan would dilute the holdings of current shareholders too much. Coca-Cola had said last week that 83 percent of shareholders approved the plan. Spokesman Petro Kacur said in an emailed statement to Reuters that "no changes are being made to the plan at this time." The expected changes include awarding fewer options per staffer each year, so the pool of options in the new plan lasts longer, the Journal said, quoting a source. Another choice could be a longer vesting period for options than the four years the plan calls for. A third move would involve flipping the 60-40 percent split between stock options and performance units, the Journal said. (Reporting by Sampad Patnaik in Bangalore and Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
The UK economic recovery continues to be quite impressive. Its manufacturing PMI for April just surged to a 5-month high. Here's the quick summary from Markit: Markit FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Direct TV dish is seen outside a home in the Queens borough of New York(Reuters) - AT&amp;T Inc &lt;T.N&gt; has approached DirecTV &lt;DTV.O&gt; about a possible acquisition of the satellite TV company, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the situation. A deal would likely be worth at least $40 billion, DirecTV's current market capitalization, the newspaper said. A combination of AT&amp;T and DirecTV would create a pay television giant close in size to where Comcast Corp &lt;CMCSA.O&gt; will be if it completes its pending acquisition of Time Warner Cable Inc &lt;TWC.N&gt;, the Journal said. (http://r.reuters.com/qad98v) Representatives for AT&amp;T were not immediately available for comment outside of regular U.S. business hours. DirecTV spokesman Robert Mercer said the company does not comment on speculation. Comcast Corp this week agreed to a three-way deal with Charter Communications Inc &lt;CHTR.O&gt; as part of Comcast's efforts to win regulatory approvals for its proposed $45 billion purchase of Time Warner Cable. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning! It's very quiet. Futures aren't moving much, and most of Europe is closed on account of May Day. Last night, Chinese manufacturing data came in weaker than expected. We may be having a "calm before the storm" moment as tomorrow we're going to get a torrent of manufacturing data (Global PMI day) and US Non-Farm Payrolls. In the meantime, like we said, quiet. FREE AppDownload
