Guilhem VellutThe weekend is over and markets in Asia are heading lower. Japan's Nikkei opened down 0.2%. Korea's Kospi is off 0.29%. U.S. futures are up though.  Japan's trade surplus came in smaller than expected, and the yen was falling. We've got a great cross-section of econ data coming up this week. Check out BI's Sam Ro's full preview here » FREE AppDownload
OdysseyA marine exploration group says it has recovered nearly 1,000 ounces of gold from a long-ago shipwreck 160 miles off the coast of South Carolina.  Tampa-based Odyssey Marine Exploration announced it had completed its latest mission to the site of the wrecked SS Central America, which went down in a hurricane in 1857. We first heard about the story from William J. Broad in the New York Times.   Gold contracts were recently trading at $1,288.90 an ounce, meaning the haul could be worth about $1.3 million. Among the specific items recovered: But this was only a recon mission, and many believe a lot more where this came from — up to $336 million by one estimate.  The wreck was first probed 25 years ago, and ever since has been the subject of numerous claims. That actual owner remains on the lam, accused of bilking investors on the initial recovery enterprise he'd set up. The firm, Recovery Limited Partnership, is now in receivership, and its court-appointed receiver is now overseeing the entire project.  The wreck of the Central America itself is an amazing, tragic story. It's said to have contributed to the Great Panic of 1857, since its reported $2 million (in 1857 dollars) gold supplies were destined for commercial interests in New York. Meanwhile, 425 people ended up drowning. You've got to read Broad's full piece to get a flavor of the zaniness of the entire undertaking» Odyssey is listed on NASDAQ as OMEX. Shares were up nearly 1.5% Friday. FREE AppDownload
YouTube Jordan Belfort — AKA: The Wolf Of Wall Street — was on Australia's version of "60 Minutes." During the interview he freaked out and walked off set. BI Australia reports he lost it when interviewer Liz Hayes asked about a deal he has with an Australian talent management agency: “The last thing is that you have an oral contract with your management, the Fordham company, is that an attempt to hide your income?” His response: “I’ve said enough about this, let’s move on, since you’ve stonewalled me at every step! ... I’m done with this, I’m not gonna get attacked here — you’ve got a lot of nerve boy, I‘ll tell you!” he said before storming out. He eventually came back on set. Here's the teaser clip:  FREE AppDownload
There are no perfect stock market indexes that'll give you a complete picture of the state of the market. Most market-watchers prefer the S&amp;P 500 over the Dow Jones Industrial Average. But the fact that the S&amp;P 500 is down just 1% from its all-time high of 1,897 belies the fact that many stocks in the index and in the market as a whole are way down. "When we examine breadth in terms of new highs, more specifically stocks that are in ‘striking distance’ to a new high, we see a completely different picture," writes J.C. O'Hara, of FBN Securities. "Often at the end of bull markets, large cap stocks continue to rise and the smaller stocks begin to flatter." The S&amp;P 500 is cap-weighted, which means larger companies like Apple and ExxonMobil have a much larger impact on how the index moves. "High cap stocks influence the averages more thus can mask internal weakness," continued O'Hara. O'Hara's research found that the average S&amp;P 1500 stock is down by more than 12% from their recent 52-week highs. The average stocks in the Russell 2000 and Nasdaq Composite are down by more than 20%, which means you can say they are in bear markets. "Historically, this sort of divergence does not bode well for the longevity of a market’s upward inertia," said O'Hara. "We went back and examined instances where the market made a new high and looked at where the median stock sat compare to its high. Our data suggests that the current breadth reading is very unhealthy. Not only are new highs diminishing but we are seeing many stocks making new lows. This breadth divergence is a major concern." O'Hara says this isn't necessarily a screaming sell signal. "However the powerful message of “there is something wrong” should not go unnoticed," he cautions. FBN Securities FREE AppDownload
The key issue for market participants is whether the price action is a technical correction or a change in underlying fundamentals. At this juncture, we are more inclined to view it as a technical correction, albeit one that may have more room to run, than a change in the underlying fundamentals. We have yet to be persuaded that the real drivers of demand for the euro are going to be addressed by ECB action in early June. The demand for euro is coming from the large regional current account surplus, the strong foreign demand for euro area bonds, and continued deleveraging and capital raising by euro banks, including the sale of portfolios of distressed loans to foreign (largely US) investors. US economic data is generally pointing to a strong rebound after the world's largest economy stagnated, or worse, in Q1.  However, Fed policy is seen as practically on auto-pilot and most of the data in next few weeks is not going to impact the pace of the tapering operation or bring forward expectations of the first rate hike. The Dollar Index staged a key reversal on May 8 and was lifted further by following through buying on May 9 ahead of the weekend. Despite the sharp recovery, the Dollar Index failed to rise above the previous week's high. The band of resistance between 79.90 and 80.20 is the key to a stronger recovery. A break of the 79.25 area would warn that that upside correction is over. The euro briefly traded below the 10-month uptrend drawn off last July lows and the February and April lows this year. It came in around $1.3780. Resistance is now seen in the $1.3840-55 area. On the downside, the once that trend line is convincingly violated the next immediate target is near $1.3740 and then $1.3675. Initially, Draghi's comments saw the euro blow through the upper end of its Bollinger Band near $1.3910 but stopped shy of the psychologically important $1.40 level.  It staged a key reversal and tested the lower Bollinger Band near $1.3765 ahead of the weekend. This seems to suggest the likelihood of some consolidation in the early part of next week. The dollar recorded lower highs each session last week against the yen. However, in the second half of the week, the dollar's downside momentum eased as it hugged the lower Bollinger Band. We had anticipated the dollar would bottom below JPY101.50, and that view is still intact. Additional support is seen nearer the 200-day moving average (~JPY101.10). The JPY102 area offers immediate resistance. A constructive dollar view is at least partly predicated on the rise in US 10-year yields.  The yield had flirted with the year's lows below 2.6%, but looks like it can rebound in the coming days. Sterling neared $1.70 on May 6, but then proceeded to recover lower highs for the three consecutive sessions to finish the week. It tested its 20-day moving average (~$1.6835) for the first time in over a month. Trend line support, drawn off the late March and early April lows comes in near $1.68. This also corresponds with a retracement objective of the advance off that late March low. Below there, the next retracement objective is about $1.6730. The Canadian dollar's rally was stopped cold in its tracks by the unexpected weakness in April jobs data (-29k vs. expectations of +12k) before the weekend. Prior to the employment report, the US dollar had been pushed through bottom of its lower Bollinger Band, which at CAD1.0860 coincided with other chart-based. The US dollar bounced off the CAD1.08 area to test the CAD1.0920 area in reaction to the dismal employment report. There is near term potential toward CAD1.0935-60. The Australian dollar was the strongest of the major currencies last week, gaining about 0.8% against the US dollar.  The technical tone did not deteriorate as much as most of the other major currencies before the weekend. However, the Aussie needs to move above the $0.9400 area, and ideally, April's multi-month high near $0.9460 to sustain the upside momentum. The technical indicators are mixed and are not generating a strong signal. A break below $0.9320-35 would be an early signal that $0.9200 may be seen first. The US dollar slipped to almost MXN12.90. Disappointing real sector data and soft inflation data provides the peso bulls little on which to hang their hats. Assuming the MXN12.90 area holds, the US dollar can trade back toward the MXN13.05-MXN13.10 area. Observations on speculative positioning from the CME currency futures:1.  With large price swings after the recent reporting period ended on May 6, the Commitment of Traders report seems somewhat less relevant that is often the case.  In particular, the euro and the Swiss franc both declined by more than 1% between May 7 and May 9.   Sterling sold off about 0.7%.  The Canadian dollar was little changed over that period net-net, but that conceals both a sharp rally and then the just as dramatic of a decline. 2.  The largest gross position adjustment was the 8.4k contract increase in euro longs to 110.7k. This is the most since mid-March.   There were two other gross position adjustments more than 5k contracts.  Long yen positions rose by 6.5k contracts to 20.4k. Long Australian dollar positions were cut by 5.2k contracts to 44.8k. 3. While the late long euros and Swiss franc positions were vulnerable to the reversal, gross long sterling positions have been trimmed for the past two weeks and three of the past four. 4.  It is difficult to conclude that the yen bears have capitulated with 81.1k gross short contracts outstanding.  However, this is smallest short position since last October.  It should not be surprising if next week's report shows that the gross short euro position surpasses the gross short yen position. It would be the first time in about a year.        Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Economists at Deutsche Bank have come up with yet another way of looking at which cities are really expensive and which are cheap. Via FT Alphaville, we see they've come up with something called the Cheap Date Index, which looks at how much it costs in various cities to take a cab to McDonald's get two tickets to a movie, and get two beers. Here's the index: Deutsche Bank No shocker at all that London is the most expensive city to go on a cheap date. If you're looking for "value" we might recommend Kuala Lumpur. It's one of the most modern, beautiful, cities around, and that whole night is only $36. Not bad. FREE AppDownload
As the massive over-liquidity in the US banking system reaches new highs, the amount that banks borrow from each other continues to decline. In the past some banks borrowed from other banks in order to meet their reserve requirements, but these days excess reserves are so large, the need for interbank financing has dramatically diminished. Barclays Research: - The overnight market for unsecured bank loans has shrunk considerably since the Fed’s asset purchases expanded the level of bank reserves to nearly $3trn. With no short base left in the market and massive over-liquidity, banks no longer to need to borrow from each other or the GSEs to meet their reserve requirements. Indeed, overall bank reserves are now 34x bigger than required reserves. Sober Look This presents a problem for the Fed. The central bank's main policy tool for setting short-term rates involves targeting the Fed Funds Rate - effectively the average rate at which banks lend to each other overnight. With such lending having declined so dramatically (chart below), the Fed needs other tools to impact short-term rates on a broader scale. Otherwise the central bank would be attempting to influence rates by targeting a relatively narrow set of transactions among a few banks. Sober Look There are two other tools the Fed can potentially use as it prepares to exit the zero-rate policy. One is the interest it pays on excess bank reserves, which is currently at 25bp. If that rate increases, banks would be expected to increase the rates at which they lend out short term funds. That's because banks would always charge more on loans to the private sector than on "lending" to the Fed. And higher rates to the private sector would be the goal of this policy. The other tool is the Fed's experimental reverse repo facility (fixed rate full allotment reverse repo facility or FRFA) - see post. The advantage of this program is that it broadens the set of counterparties beyond the banking system (see full list here), making a rate increase more effective. In particular FRFA gives money market funds a good alternative to treasury bills (3-month treasury bill now yields 3 basis points). If money market funds can increase yields by lending to the Fed (via FRFA), depositors will be able to earn more on cash. And that in turn will force banks to increase rates on deposits to keep customers from switching from savings accounts into something like the Vanguard Federal Money Market Fund. This program also allows the Fed to drain some of the bloated excess reserves by taking cash out of the system overnight. With treasury bills near zero, it's not surprising that demand for the reverse repo facility is quite high even at the testing stage. WSJ: - In her testimony, Ms. Yellen said when the Fed begins tightening credit, it will use a “number of complementary tools” that will collectively “push up the general level of interest rates.” She listed the reverse repos as one of tools that will “likely” be in the mix. That’s a fairly strong endorsement for the still-experimental reverse repos. Even in tests, the facility is popular: Operations over recent days have seen the Fed draining around $200 billion a day as participating firms navigate a shortage of short-term Treasury issuance related to the April 15 tax filing deadline and the government’s improving financial position. Sober LookFed's testing of the reverse repo facility is generating considerable demand  (source: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System)Both of these tools, the interest paid on bank reserves and the reverse repo facility, are currently on the table as the Fed debates their potential uses. When the central bank finally hikes interest rates, it won't be just about the Fed Funds Target Rate. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBasking SharkLast Wednesday, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch released a brief paper titled "A Transforming World." To demonstrate the kinds of themes it is looking at, the firm provided the following 15 crazy facts: (Via FT Alphaville) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; may reward long-term investors as demand for the U.S. investment bank's worldwide underwriting, trading and custodial services grows with the global economy, according to Barron's. In an article for release on Monday, Barron's said Goldman's shares were recently hurt by news New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman was investigating Goldman's high-frequency trading operations and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was looking into the hiring practices of the big banks in Asia. But for longer-term investors, Barron's said pricing for market-making and liquidity services offered by the bank should improve as the cost of new regulations and greater capital levels are passed through to issuers and investors. The paper said higher costs for those services may come sooner rather than later as the industry's weaker players, like UK bank Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt;, leave. "It's a last man standing game, and Barclays blinked," said Brad Hintz, a senior analyst at Bernstein Research, in the Barron's article. Hintz has a buy rating on Goldman with a $205 price target, which is 30 percent above the current stock price of $157. (Reporting by Scott DiSavino; Editing by Mark Trevelyan) FREE AppDownload
Oli Scarff / Getty ImagesWilliam Bernstein, cofounder of investment management firm Efficient Frontier Advisors, writes in his recently published ebook "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly" on the importance of having a basic understanding of finance in order to successfully save for retirement. On his website and re-posted here with his permission, he recommends reading the following books on investing. Those of you who are seeking investing enlightenment are not going to find much of it on the web. I suggest you log off, power down your computer, and read some books. Take your time. The months you spend perusing this list will be well spent. I'd recommend reading at least the first four books listed before even thinking of getting your hands dirty with real investing. 1. "A Random Walk Down Wall Street" by Burton Malkiel An excellent investment primer. It explains the basics of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds, and will reinforce the efficient market concept. 2. "Common Sense on Mutual Funds" by John Bogle It provides as much detail as you could ever want about this important investment vehicle. Mr. Bogle is the founder and retired chairman of The Vanguard Group, and has been an important voice in the industry for decades. Beautifully written, opinionated, and highly recommended.  (The book also demonstrates the democratization that has swept the investment industry in recent years. Until a decade ago the sort of sophisticated mutual fund analysis described in his book was the brief of just a handful of professionals with access to expensive proprietary databases and mainframe computers. Almost all of Bogle's work was done with a subscription to Morningstar and a statistically competent assistant, and could have been performed by any small investor with similar software and ability.) 3. "Global Investing" by Roger Ibbotson and Gary Brinson This is a beautifully written volume on the history of investible assets. An informed investor cannot know enough about market history, and this is the best single source in this area. Want to know what the returns for U.S. stocks have been in each of the past 200 years? The price of gold for the past 500 years? Interest rates and inflation for the past 800 years? It's all here. As implied by the title, the authors also provide an excellent perspective on the place of foreign assets in a diversified portfolio, and provide some worthwhile insights on portfolio theory and the efficiency of the marketplace. 4. "What Has Worked in Investing" is a free pamphlet from Tweedy, Browne A low-key sales pitch for their funds, it is also the best compilation I've seen of the data supporting the value method. 5. "The New Finance, the Case Against Efficient Markets" by Robert Haugen If you're intrigued by the Tweedy pamphlet and wonder why value investing still works after all these years, this is your book. The prose is breezy, even quirky Ben Graham meets Hunter Thompson on bad acid. 6. "Value Averaging" by Michael Edleson An extremely useful how-to guide on deploying a lump sum of money among multiple assets. Finally back in print as a Wiley Classic Edition. 7. "The Intelligent Investor" by Ben Graham A popularized and more readable version of his earlier classic, "Security Analysis," written with David Dodd. Although it has great relevance to the markets in general and should be read by any serious investor, it is particularly pertinent to those who feel compelled to buy individual stocks. Many of today's most successful money managers obtained their original financial inspiration from these two books. It is always fun to look at excesses in the marketplace and ask, "What would Ben say about this?" This 2003 edition benefits from annotation by one of finance's most brilliant observers, Jason Zweig. (By the way, if you get bitten by the Graham bug and decide to do "Security Analysis," make sure you read the original 1934 edition, recently reprinted by McGraw-Hill.) 8. "Devil Take the Hindmost" by Edward Chancellor You simply can't learn enough about market history, and Chancellor's story of boom and bust in the capital markets, beginning in the 17th century, is pure mind candy. Supersedes Mackay's "Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds." 9. "The Millionaire Next Door" by Thomas Stanley and William Danko If you can't save, it doesn't matter if your name is Warren Buffett. If you think the road to happiness runs past a Beemer and a McMansion, this book will scare you straight. 10. "Asset Allocation" by Roger Gibson Covers much of the same ground as my own books with more emphasis on the qualities of individual assets. For hard-core enthusiasts only; oriented towards the financial advisor. Unless you're a glutton for punishment, you won't read all of these books. But however many you do, it's time for a treat: a small bon bon written in 1940 by a man named Fred Schwed called "Where Are the Customers' Yachts?" The most recent version from Wiley is graced with forewords by both Micheal Lewis and Jason Zweig should tell you something; aside from being snort-out-your-nose funny, it is also both profound and prescient, full of observations about the financial markets that would not become generally accepted for a few more generations. You won't be sorry. FREE AppDownload
Dry cleaning expert Wayne Edelman, of Meurice Garment Care,  explains why getting your suit cleaned is essential to keeping it fresh.  Produced by Justin Gmoser; Additional Camera by Alana Kakoyiannis   Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Flickr/Jonas B(Reuters) - Time Warner Inc has held talks to acquire Fullscreen Inc, one of the popular YouTube video networks, a person with knowledge of the matter said, according to an article in Bloomberg on Saturday. Officials at Time Warner were not immediately available for comment Sunday morning. Time Warner joins Yahoo! Inc and Relativity Media LLC in looking at Fullscreen, which operates a network of channels on Google Inc’s YouTube, according to three people, who all asked not to be identified because the deliberations are private, the article said. Fullscreen, backed by Peter Chernin and Comcast Ventures, is the latest online video network to arouse the interest of big media, Bloomberg said. In an April release, Fullscreen said it has 380 million subscribers and more than 3 billion monthly video views. The company generated $50 million to $70 million in revenue last year, which it shares with the YouTube channels in its network, and isn’t profitable, the person said, according to the article. (Reporting by Scott DiSavino; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a sign for Bank Street and high rise offices in the financial district Canary Wharf in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - The boom years of financial market trading, when banks made unprecedented profits from bonds, currencies and commodities, may be over for good as financial firms realize there will be no cyclical upswing on their dealing desks. Even though it's taken Western economies several years to regain pre-crisis national output levels, many doubt banks will ever revisit the pre-crisis high watermark of their trading activities. Revenues from fixed income, currencies and commodities - the so-called 'FICC' universe - continued to tumble for most major U.S. and European banks during the first quarter of 2014, increasing the pressure on them to rethink business models. Thanks to a more stringent regulatory environment and a potential turning point in the 20-year cycle of falling global interest rates, the twin peaks of just before and after the 2008 global financial crisis look unlikely to be revisited. Revenue from FICC trading, which critics sometimes dub "casino banking" and distinguish from traditional investment banking services like underwriting share issues or arranging mergers and acquisitions, still accounts for over 70 percent of banks' overall income, according to research by Freeman. FICC income at Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; last year was 72 percent of the bank's overall revenue, compared with 82 percent in 2010. Morgan Stanley's &lt;MS.N&gt; FICC revenue was 70 percent of its total, well down from 82 percent in 2003. As new regulation bites and extraordinary monetary and economic policies smother extreme market swings, the trading volumes and price volatility that middlemen banking traders thrive off has ebbed. And it looks like a structural shift rather than a cyclical or temporary lull. "The revenues have gone. The world has changed from 2007, 2008," said Grant Peterkin, head of absolute bond returns at Lombard Odier in Geneva. "The regulatory aspect is the biggest aspect." Regulation after the 2007-08 crisis such as 'Dodd-Frank' and 'Volcker Rule' legislation in the United States and Basel III banking reforms globally, effectively restrict banks' ability to hold, trade and speculate on fixed income and derivatives. This reduces liquidity, but other traditional liquidity providers like hedge funds have been unable to fill the gap because their businesses are also under pressure. The pressure on banks' FICC operations was brought into sharp focus by the broad-based slump in first-quarter earnings. British bank Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; grabbed the headlines, posting a 41 percent plunge in trading revenue compared with the same period in 2013, then announcing 7,000 of its 26,000 investment banking jobs will be cut. "Some of the pressures we saw on the business towards the end of last year are clearly structural as well as cyclical," Barclays Chief Executive Antony Jenkins told CNBC on Thursday. Other bank chief executives are likely to follow Jenkins in terms of direction if not magnitude, and reduce the size of their FICC trading desk operations, analysts say. They are expected to continue cutting costs, trimming headcount, and in some cases, exit particular markets. UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; is withdrawing from parts of fixed income trading while Barclays has consolidated its G10 currency, emerging market foreign exchange and precious metals trading operations. Elsewhere, JP Morgan Chase &lt;JPM.N&gt; is selling its physical commodities business and Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; is closing its oil, grains and industrial metals business. Although Barclays' results may be an outlier and contrast with other extremes, such as the 35 percent increase in trading revenues at the likes of Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, the average decline in FICC revenue from 10 major U.S. and European banks in the first quarter was 14 percent. That ongoing funk was all the more alarming as the first quarter is traditionally the most profitable for FICC trading, as pension and insurance funds open fresh investment positions for the year and companies and governments sell new bonds in an annual refunding splurge. The 10 banks showed FICC revenues totaled $24.18 billion in the first quarter, down from just over $28 billion a year earlier and almost $30 billion for the same period in 2012. The 10 are: Barclays, U.S. banks JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Citi &lt;C.N&gt;, and European firms UBS, Deutsch, BNP Paribas &lt;BNPP.PA&gt; and Credit Suisse. The collapse in market volatility has also contributed to the decline. This may be a relief for risk-averse investors but it also makes them less likely to use market hedging instruments sold by the banks. It also reduces the arbitrage opportunities that nimble banks and brokers feed off for in-house trading profits. Implied volatility, which measures the potential for asset price swings over a specific period, is at or close to record lows in deeply liquid and highly-traded assets like U.S. Treasuries, euro/dollar and dollar/yen. Analysts also say the whiff of scandal resulting from global investigations into alleged rigging of benchmark foreign exchange rates and Libor interest rates is clouding the FICC environment, and forcing banks to set aside billions of dollars for potential litigation costs. The final nail in the FICC coffin, analysts say, is that the world on the cusp of rising interest rate cycle, led by the U.S. Federal Reserve's reduction - or "tapering" - of its extraordinary post-crisis stimulus. It's completely uncharted territory for banks and traders, and not conducive to making easy money. "We've had the most enormous change," said Chris Wheeler, banking analyst at Mediobanca in London. "And there's more to come as the full impact of tapering is felt." (Editing by Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench advertising group Publicis Chief executive Levy and Omnicom Group head Wren attend a joint signature ceremony in ParisNEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - The collapse of the $35 billion merger of New York-based Omnicom with France's Publicis is likely to lead the world's biggest ad agencies to think small as they try to counter the challenge from internet giants like Google. Since announcing their merger last July, executives from the two firms touted the creation of the world's biggest ad agency as the best way to gain scale and capital to compete on price and invest in technology as clients squeeze the agencies on cost. One of the prime motivations for the deal was the competition coming from a host of rivals ranging from Google and Facebook, software companies Oracle and Salesforce and consulting firms Accenture and IBM, which are siphoning off business that traditionally belonged to ad firms. After this week's break-up, which was due in large part to a clash of cultures and egos, the two firms need to rethink their approach. Bankers and industry executives say buying smaller ad technology companies may be their best bet to capture the billions of dollars flowing toward digital advertising. "You have two massive organizations that singularly focused their future on a combination of scale to deliver better costs and that is not going to happen now," said Dave Morgan, the chief executive of Simulmedia, a firm that sells TV advertising. He pointed to recent deals by Google and AOL focused on small ad technology companies that provide analytics. Greater scale was supposed to give the new Omnicom-Publicis group better bargaining power in buying space for ads on TV, the internet, and print at a time when many global brands are looking to cut costs on advertising. That rationale was never completely clear, one major Omnicom client told Reuters. And with the promised increase in scale no longer an option, the two firms have to explain to their clients what they can offer instead. NEED FOR INSIGHT One thing they need to provide is greater insight on what works and how cost effective ads are, especially in digital advertising, ad executives and analysts say. Consumers now interact with media in a host of different ways, from the traditional sources of TV, radio, billboards and newspapers, to the different offerings online and on mobile including basic portals and social networks. That has forced ad agencies and clients to change how they value the influence of an ad. A consumer seeing a traditional TV commercial may then go online to search for a deal before eventually buying the product in a store some time later, having been reminded of it by a nearby billboard. With so many moving parts, the ad agencies have turned to data analytics to better understand and predict the behavior of consumers. It is the need for such insight that has put them on a collision course with the big internet and software companies. But Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at Pivotal, believes there is room for both to operate within the industry. "Marketing services and technology are becoming increasingly interchangeable," he said adding there is still room for growth since more services are needed given the fragmented media landscape. Jeff Lanctot, president and CEO of Mixpo, a company that helps companies create video ads, said the need for scale had actually decreased in recent years as digital advertising - which accounts for nearly a quarter of global marketing spend - used real-time auctions to buy media space. "Buying power has been the real pitch from the holding companies," he said. "I think what is the better approach is to get much more aggressive in technology acquisitions." SMALL BITES Two relatively small deals announced in the last week could be a sign of things to come. AOL, which has been investing in automated exchanges where machines buy and sell digital advertising, said this week it would pay $101 million to buy Convertro Inc, a platform that helps advertisers manage spending budgets across different media. On the same day Google announced it was acquiring Adometry, which offers the ability to understand the influence that different marketing tools have on consumer decisions. One sector banker pointed to providers of retargeting - which shows ads of a certain brand to consumers who have already visited that brand's site - and data analytics for advertisers as Publicis' best bet to rebound. He named Next Performance in France, Struq in the UK and myThings in Israel as the most promising sector players under the 100 million euro revenue threshold. "These companies are getting a lot of attention. The industry will now prioritize smaller deals that bring real strategic value to investors," a sector adviser said. Publicly traded marketing analytics providers such as France's Criteo, which uses tracking technology to target ads at consumers surfing the web, and Rocket Fuel, which applies big data analysis to digital advertising, are seen as other promising takeover candidates for the big groups. WPP'S DIGITAL ACQUISITIONS One of the most prolific acquirer of digital groups is Martin Sorrell's WPP, which will now retain its position as the world's largest ad group. Uncharacteristically left on the sidelines last year, Sorrell wasted little time when the deal was announced in telling both his and his rivals' clients why it was doomed to fail. Having handled 46 billion pounds of billings in 2013, WPP, he said, offered scale and insight at the same time. Omnicom's CEO, John Wren, told investors on Friday that Omnicom was still in the market for acquisitions but stressed those would be small bites. His counterpart at Publicis, Maurice Levy, demurred on other big acquisitions on Friday during a call with investors. Shares in both IPG, the world's fourth largest ad group behind WPP, Omnicom and Publicis, and France's Havas, the fifth largest player, rose on Friday on hopes they too could be involved in some form of consolidation. Japan's Dentsu Inc is also seen as playing a role. Several agency CEOs and analysts said while they expected consolidation to happen, because the industry would forever be under pressure from clients to cut costs, following the Publicis-Omnicom debacle, small may be the order of the day. (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York, Kate Holton and Pamela Barbaglia in London; Editing by Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
Jason Kempen for Getty Images/Craig F. Walker for the Denver PostSteve Ells and Monty Moran.Chipotle's business is booming, and the burrito chain's co-CEOs are being paid handsomely for it.  Steve Ells and Monty Moran made a combined $58 million last year, according to James Covert at The New York Post.  Covert writes that proxy advisory firm ISS wants shareholders to vote against the compensation package at the May 15 annual meeting.  "A combined $58 million in CEO pay for a fast food company isn’t just excessive — it’s indefensible," New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer told the Post.  In comparison, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein made about $23 million.  Chipotle said it was open to change.  "If further feedback from long-term investors suggests that changes are needed the compensation committee will no doubt consider making them," Chipotle told Covert.  Chipotle recently announced it is raising prices in the wake of increased commodity costs. The price of avocados, used to make Chipotle's famous guacamole, as well as beef, are particularly high.  Chipotle pays workers an average of $8.57 an hour according to Glassdoor, more than Taco Bell, Chick-fil-A, McDonald's, Wendy's, or Burger King.  FREE AppDownload
Bing MapsThe top of the U.S. luxury market has been on a tear.  Last month, a Greenwich, Connecticut, estate sold for $120 million, making it one of the most expensive residential properties ever sold in the U.S.  Then over the weekend, that record was smashed by the sale of a $147 million compound on Further Lane in East Hampton to hedge fund manager Barry Rosenstein. See how all these recent sales stack up. FREE AppDownload
How the rich and famous start their day. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
IN THE town of Jingjiang, a few hours’ drive from Shanghai, Yangzijiang Shipbuilding is making 21 huge container ships for Seaspan, a Canadian shipping firm. An enormous sign declares, "We want to be the best shipyard in China." It is certainly among the most profitable, earning 3 billion yuan ($481m) last year. But only two-thirds or so of that came from building ships. The rest came from lending money to other companies using a local financial instrument called an entrusted loan. This puts Yangzijiang at the forefront of another industry: shadow banking. A decade ago, conventional banks, which are almost all state-owned and tightly regulated, accounted for virtually all lending in China. Now, credit is available from a range of alternative financiers, such as trusts, leasing companies, credit-guarantee outfits and money-market funds, which are known collectively as shadow banks. Although many of these lenders are perfectly respectable, others constitute blatant attempts to get around the many rules about how much banks can lend to which companies at what rates. Although bank lending remains far bigger than the shadowy sort and is still expanding at an astonishing pace, its rate of growth has recently stabilised. The growth of some of the more worrying forms of shadow lending, in contrast, is accelerating. Shadow banks accounted for almost a third of the rise in lending last year, swelling by over 50% in the process. Thus far, most of the concerns about shadow banking in China have centred on trusts. By offering returns as high as 10%, they raise money from businesses and individuals frustrated by the low cap the government imposes for interest rates on bank deposits. The interest they charge to borrowers, naturally, is even higher. They lend to firms that are unable to borrow from banks, often because they are in frothy industries, such as property or steel, where regulators see signs of overinvestment and so have instructed banks to curb lending. Over two-fifths of Yangzijiang’s loans go to property developers in smaller Chinese cities; land makes up nearly two-thirds of its collateral. China’s economy is slowing. It has grown by 7.6% for the past two years, the slowest rate since 1990. Several trust products have defaulted, although investors in most of them have got their money back one way or another. Over $400 billion-worth of trust products are due to mature this year--and borrowers will want to roll over many of those loans. Many observers worry that investors will lose faith in trusts, prompting a run, which may, in turn, blight certain industries and other parts of the financial system. No country, pessimists point out, has seen credit in all its forms grow as quickly as China has of late without suffering a financial crisis. One reason for optimism is that trusts are regulated by the same agency that supervises banks, the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC). This, argues Jason Bedford, an independent expert who used to audit trust companies, means the CBRC can tell not only whether the trusts themselves are wobbly, but also how any wobbles would affect banks. As our special report this week explains, it and other regulators have recently strengthened oversight of trusts, requiring clearer accounting and limiting dealings with banks. The EconomistNow that regulators are tightening the screws on trusts, money is flowing to other, less closely watched intermediaries. "Shadow banking in China looks like a cat-and-mouse game," declares Liu Yuhui, chief economist of GF Securities, a brokerage house. For instance, the CBRC’s limits on the ways that banks and trusts could co-operate do not apply to securities houses. That has fuelled a boom in the assets these firms manage: they rose to 5.2 trillion yuan by the end of last year, up from 1.9 trillion yuan a year earlier. In some instances, the brokers are using loans originated by banks to back "wealth-management products" they sell to investors themselves; in others, they are acting as intermediaries to allow trusts to do the same, in spite of the new rules. These manoeuvres, in effect, allow banks to sidestep various restrictions on their lending. Trust beneficiary rights products (TBRs) are another way around the restrictions on dealings between banks and trusts. A bank sets up a firm to buy loans from a trust; it then sells the rights to the income from those loans to the bank--a TBR is born. The bank can then sell the TBR to another bank. The intention, Mr Bedford says, is often to make risky corporate loans look like safer lending between banks, thereby evading capital requirements and minimum loan-to-deposit ratios, among other rules. Entrusted loans are yet another fast-growing form of shadow banking. These involve cash-rich companies, often well-connected state-owned enterprises (SOEs), lending to less well-connected firms. There are so many SOEs now competing with Yangzijiang to offer loans, reports Liu Hua, the shipbuilder’s chief financial officer, that her firm has been forced to reduce the interest rates it charges from around 15% a year to closer to 10% a year. Such loans, often made using banks as intermediaries to get around regulations forbidding such lending, expose the financial sector to yet more risk. The value of new entrusted loans in March was 239 billion yuan, up 64 billion from a year earlier. Companies borrowed 716 billion yuan via entrusted loans in the first three months of the year; corporate bond issuance over the same period amounted to only 385 billion yuan. Entrusted loans are not the only way companies are lending to one another. Hangzhou, home to Alibaba and many other entrepreneurial outfits, is one of China’s richest cities, but it is now undergoing a quiet financial crisis. Its many small steel and textile entrepreneurs found it hard to get loans from official banks, so they banded together. Reports suggest that firms guaranteed one another’s debts, forming a web of entanglements that helped everyone get credit during good times. But now, with the economy slowing, the weaker firms are beginning to default, dragging healthy ones down too. Steel traders in Guangdong, chemicals firms in Zhejiang and coal miners and energy firms in Shanxi appear to have developed similar networks. Xinhua, China’s official news agency, has reported that in some of these industries the guarantees invoked have spread from the "first circle" of firms vouching for the original defaulters to the "second" and "third" circles, meaning guarantors of the guarantors. Just as a crisis in shadow banking could spread to the real economy, a sharp downturn in some sectors could cause trouble for shadow banks, leading to a broader financial mess. Many trust loans are secured with property, and many developers are reliant on shadow finance, but China’s raging property market is showing signs of cooling, especially in smaller cities. The fear is of a downward spiral in which the pricking of the property bubble leads to a panic in shadow finance, which reduces access to credit, pushing property prices and economic growth down further. How bad could things get? IHS, a consultancy, recently predicted that such a property crash could reduce China’s GDP from a forecast 7.5% this year to 6.6%, and to 4.8% next year. That may not sound like the end of the world, but by China’s standards, it would be an alarming slowdown. All this poses a genuine dilemma for China’s regulators. They have long desired to develop deep and versatile capital markets, and shadow banking is a natural part of that. Indeed, there is an argument that China would benefit from the expansion of certain forms of shadow banking, such as the securitisation of loans. Although some kinds of lending are clearly getting out of hand, the losses should be manageable. For all the subterfuge Chinese shadow banks indulge in, their loans usually come with decent collateral. The biggest threat to the system is that by moving too forcefully to rein in shadow lending, regulators accidentally precipitate a run on shadow banks. Instead, they are moving warily, slowly ratcheting up regulation and allowing the occasional minor default. Calibrating this curtailment, however, will be tricky. Standard &amp; Poor’s, a ratings agency, argues that reforms could lead to "a turbulent period in which funding could dry up as the domestic market struggles to re-price risk". That is a polite way of saying that there is no easy way out of China’s shadow-banking mess. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Suzanne PlunkettMelinda Gates, cofounder and co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.These women prove that motherhood is no longer a barrier to achieving greatness. Working Mother magazine has named the Most Powerful Moms of 2014, selected from the spheres of business, technology, politics, philanthropy, and news and entertainment. These women are leading nations, managing billion-dollar companies, and influencing the global conversation, in addition to doing the most important work of all — raising the next generation. From Melinda Gates to Queen Bey, here's a look at some of the moms who are shaping our world, selected by Working Mother. FREE AppDownload
The older I get and the more I research and study, the more convinced I become that one of the more important traits of a good investor or businessman is not simply to come up with the right answer but to be able to ask the right question. The questions we ask often reveal the biases in our thinking, and we are all prone to what behavioral psychologists call confirmation bias: we tend to look for (and thus to see, and to ask about) things that confirm our current thinking. I try to spend a significant part of my time researching and thinking about things that will tell me why my current belief system is wrong, testing my opinions against the ideas of others, some of whom are genuine outliers. I have done quite a number of media interviews and question-and-answer sessions with audiences in the past few months, and one question keeps coming up: “Are valuations too high?” In this week’s letter we’re going to try to look at the various answers (orthodox and not) one could come up with to answer that basic question, and then we’ll look at market conditions in general. This letter may print a little longer as there are going to be a lot of charts. I am back in Dallas today, getting ready to leave Monday for San Diego and my Strategic Investment Conference. I’m really excited about the array of speakers we have this year. We’re going to share the conference with you in a different way this year. My associate Worth Wray and I are going to do a brief summary of the speakers’ presentations every day and send that out as a short Thoughts from the Frontline for four days running. Plus, for those who are interested in my more immediate reactions, I suggest you follow me on Twitter. There are still a few spots available at the conference, as we have expanded the venue, and if you would like to see who is speaking or maybe decide to show up at the last minute (which you should), just follow this link. Now let’s jump into the letter. Take It to the Limit First, let’s examine three ways to look at stock market valuations for the S&amp;P 500. The first is the Shiller P/E ratio, which is a ten-year smoothed curve that in theory takes away some of the volatility caused by recessions. If this metric is your standard, I think you would conclude that stocks are expensive and getting close to the danger zone, if not already in it. Only by the standards of the 2000 tech bubble and the year 1929 do you find higher normalized P/E ratios.  But if you look at the 12-month trailing P/E ratio, you could easily conclude that stocks are moderately expensive but not yet in bubble territory.  And yet again, if you look at the 12-month forward P/E ratio, it might be easy to conclude that stocks are fairly, even cheaply priced.    In a Perfect World Earnings are projected to grow rather significantly. Let’s visit our old friend the S&amp;P 500 Earnings and Estimate Report, produced by Howard Silverblatt (it’s a treasure trove of data, and it opens in Excel here. I copied and pasted below just the material relevant for our purposes. Basically, you can see that using the consensus estimate for as-reported earnings would result in a relatively low price-to-earnings ratio of 13.5 at today’s S&amp;P 500 price. If you think valuations will be higher than 13.5 at the end of 2015, then you probably want to be a buyer of stocks. (Again, you data junkies can see far more data in the full report.)  But this interpretation begs a question: How much of 2013 equity returns were due to actual earnings growth and how much were due to people’s being willing to pay more for a dollar’s worth of earnings? Good question. It turns out that the bulk of market growth in 2013 came from multiple expansion in the US, Europe, and United Kingdom. Apparently, we think (at least those who are investing in the stock market think) that the good times are going to continue to roll.  The chart above shows the breakdown of 2013 return drivers in global markets, but this next chart, from my friend Rob Arnott, shows that roughly 30% of large-cap US equity (S&amp;P 500) returns over the last 30 years have come from multiple expansion; and recently, rising P/E has accounted for the vast majority of stock returns in the face of flat earnings.  The Future of Earnings What kind of returns can we expect from today’s valuations? There are two ways we can look at it. One way is by looking at expected returns from current valuations, which is how Jeremy Grantham of GMO regularly does it. The following chart shows his projections for the average annual real return over the next seven years.  If you go back to the very first chart we looked at, which showed the Shiller P/E ratio for the S&amp;P 500, you can see that it is quite high. If you break returns down to 10-year periods for the last 86 years and rank those returns from the highest to the lowest in 10 groups, you find out that, reasonably enough, if you start out at a low price-to-earnings ratio, your returns for the next 10 years are likely to be quite high. If you start from where we are today, though, the same methodology suggests that your returns might be anywhere from -4.4% to +8.3%, or less than 1% on average, not exactly a projection likely to warm an investor’s heart.  I was talking with my good friend Ed Easterling of Crestmont Research, as I often do when I’m thinking about stock market valuations – he’s one of the most thoughtful analysts I know. We were looking at some charts on his always-useful Crestmont Research website, and he offered to modify one of the reports for this letter. You can see the updated version at Crestmont P/E Report.  Here’s what he wrote to accompany the table below: The outlook may be uncertain, but that does not make it unpredictable. The current secular bear could remain in hibernation. The inflation rate could remain low and stable, thereby sustaining P/E in the range of 20 to 25. The current secular bear could succumb to a period of higher inflation or deflation, thereby P/E declines to levels associated with the end of typical secular bears (at or below 10). Alternatively, P/E might begin to migrate along its secular bear course, only to arrive near its historical average around 15. The outlook may be uncertain, yet we can assess the range of potential outcomes using these three scenarios. Consistent with a foggy crystal ball, the horizon is likewise variable. Some people may want to see the impact of a fast path (say, 5 years), while others may take a somewhat longer view of a decade or more. The result is a forecast providing a matrix of outlooks based upon your assumptions. Pick your time, pick your ending P/E, and add in dividend yield for the expected total return from the stock market. Figure 7 shows that secular bear markets are periods of below-average returns. The magnitude of the annualized return (or loss) depends upon the investor’s time period. Most notably, however, is that none of the scenarios provide average or above-average returns. As history has shown, average or above-average returns cannot occur from levels of relatively high valuation without the multiple expansion of a rising P/E. From today’s lofty levels, bubble conditions would be required… and that’s not a reasonable assumption for any investor’s portfolio. Figure 7. Crestmont Research Outlook (S&amp;P 500 Total Return) AS OF: MAR 31, 2014 TOTAL ANNUALIZED RETURN FOR S&amp;P 500   (nominal returns)           P/E Ratio (P/E10)   YEARS 10 15 22.5   5 -10.4% -3.0% 5.0%   7 -5.8% -0.3% 5.5%   10 -2.2% 1.8% 5.9%   20 2.3% 4.3% 6.4%         Notes 1-5: see footnotes in Figure 1; also, includes dividend yield of 2%   Copyright 2008-2014, Crestmont Research (www.CrestmontResearch.com) How Did We Get Here? I think we have to admit that quantitative easing on the scale that it has been practiced by the Federal Reserve for the past few years has had a great deal to do with the rise in the prices of stocks. We’re not seeing the massive inflation that was predicted with the swelling of the money supply, except in asset prices, as the chart below shows.  The tapering by the Fed is well underway and will be completed sometime this fall. It would not This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The old world tradition of adding butter to coffee has recently re-emerged as a performance enhancer embraced by the likes of Bulletproof Executive founder Dave Asprey and holistic health guru Andrew Weil.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Christian Hartmann/ReutersQueen Elizabeth gamely saluted "la combinaison de l'élan français et du pragmatisme britannique".  President François Mitterand countered with a courteous nod to Britain's help in two world wars.  A centuries-old dream of connecting Britain to France was formally realised on May 6th 1994 with the opening of Eurotunnel under the English Channel, la Manche. But the project, so inspiring on the drawing board, was a nightmare on (and under) the ground. It cost twice as much to build as budgeted. Even 20 years on, only half as many people use it as were expected to. A first dividend to shareholders, promised in 1995, was paid in 2009. By that point the 750,000 investors, mainly French, who poured their savings into shares had seen most of them vanish in the restructuring of Eurotunnel's unpayable debt in 2007. Slowly, however, Eurotunnel is coming good. As Britain's economy grows, it is pulling the company up. In 2013, 20.4m people used the tunnel, either in their own vehicles aboard the tunnel shuttle or as passengers on Eurostar's high-speed trains. The year before it was 19.9m. Rail freight increased, too. Revenues in 2013, at EUR1.1 billion ($1.5 billion), were 12% higher than in 2012. Next year Eurotunnel, which is headquartered in Paris, may begin to pay French corporate-profits taxes. Even now, the tunnel is operating at only a bit over half of its capacity. But the next two decades are likely to transform it from a useful bilateral link into a thoroughfare through which the rest of Europe can travel. The reason is more competition. The European Commission is keen to open rail infrastructure to train operators from all member states. That is already happening in freight, with companies from various countries running trains through the tunnel. Eurotunnel is cutting its freight charges from June after the commission threatened to go to court, so volumes should increase. But passenger travel has been reserved for the high-speed trains operated by Eurostar, which is 55% owned by France's state rail operator, SNCF. Britain owns 40% (though the government is thinking of selling) and Belgium has 5%. That monopoly is about to end. Deutsche Bahn, the German rail company and SNCF's great rival, has been agitating for years to run its trains through the tunnel, connecting London with Germany and the Netherlands. In June 2013, after serious nudging from the commission, Britain and France, which formally supervise Eurotunnel, said it could. Delays in getting new rolling stock from Siemens have pushed back the date of Deutsche Bahn's likely tunnel debut. Eurostar itself is not standing still. It has tested connecting London with Lyon and the south of France and announced plans to extend the network to Marseille and Amsterdam. Other countries' operators will soon join in. Dieter Helm of Oxford University says it is time to scrap Eurostar's monopoly. The important thing with infrastructure, he thinks, is to keep tracks, networks, pipelines and so on separate from the stuff that goes through them to allow competition to lower prices and improve service. As Eurotunnel opens up to new operators, he says, "over the next 20-30 years it only needs a little imagination to think you will be able to get on a train in any city in Europe and go to any other city." Imagination, and a big whack of investment. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
FRED The above chart tells one of the most important stories in the world of economics. It shows the yield on Italian 10-year bonds. Not long ago, Italy was one of a handful of so-called "PIIGS" countries, peripheral European countries that investors were avoiding like the plague. Others in this category included Greece, Ireland, Spain, and Portugal. And even France made investors nervous. These countries had (and continue to have) high levels of government debt, and generally mediocre economies overall.  The fear was that the countries wouldn't be able to service their debt, and that they would possibly default and revert to their old currencies, leaving bond investors in the lurch. But now look, Italian government bond yields are at their lowest levels in history. Not only has the trend reversed, the pendulum has swung far in the other direction. Investors are buying European government bonds like crazy. What caused the turnaround?  In the Summer of 2012, ECB chief Mario Draghi laid out a plan that would allow the ECB to backstop countries that got into fiscal trouble. Specifically, if a country was having problems in the bond market (borrowing money), then the ECB would agree to step in and buy an unlimited number of bonds (which the ECB has the ability to do, because it creates money), provided the country in question agreed to undergo further fiscal reforms. The program Draghi spelled out was known as OMT. As it turns out, Draghi never needed to use OMT. No country has actually had to call in the ECB for help. But just the knowledge of the program's existence — that it can be used as an escape valve if necessary — was all it took to produce a ferocious rally in government bonds and a big drop in yields. Today These days there's even more reason to be bullish on European government debt. Inflation is exceptionally low in Europe, particularly in peripheral countries. Going back to Italy (which we're just using as an example) the rate of inflation is about as low as it was during the worst of the economic crisis. Trading Economics Falling inflation tends to create demand for fixed income assets, like government bonds. Again, this story is being repeated all over the place in Europe. Furthermore, there's a "shortage" of safe assets in the world. The Fed has bought up a lot of U.S. debt (through QE) and we're not producing as much government-guaranteed housing debt in the U.S. like we used to. So a European government bond that has a theoretical guarantee from the ECB (if Italy ever gets into trouble) suddenly looks kind of appealing. So what we're seeing across Europe are historic lows in peripheral government borrowing costs, as low inflation, a shortage of safe debt, and an ECB backstop conspire to make these assets look very attractive. FREE AppDownload
Here is something different, but it is important when looking at demographics ...The following data is from the CDC United States Life Tables, 2009 by Elizabeth Arias released earlier this year. The most frequently used life table statistic is life expectancy (ex), which is the average number of years of life remaining for persons who have attained a given age (x). ... Another way of assessing the longevity of the period life table cohort is by determining the proportion that survives to specified ages. ... To illustrate, 56,572 persons out of the original 2009 hypothetical life table cohort of 100,000 (or 56.6%) were alive at exact age 80. In other words, the probability that a person will survive from birth to age 80, given 2009 age-specific mortality, is 56.6%. Instead of look at life expectancy, here is a graph of survivors out of 100,000 born alive, by age for three groups: those born in 1900-1902, born in 1949-1951 (baby boomers), and born in 2009. There was a dramatic change between those born in 1900 (blue) and those born mid-century (orange). The risk of infant and early childhood deaths dropped sharply, and the risk of death in the prime working years also declined significantly. Calculated RiskThe CDC is projecting further improvement for childhood and prime working age for those born in 2009, but they are also projecting that people will live longer. The second graph uses the same data but looks at the number of people who die before a certain age, but after the previous age. As an example, for those born in 1900 (blue), 12,448 of the 100,000 born alive died before age 1, and another 5,748 died between age 1 and age 5. Calculated RiskThe peak age for deaths didn't change much for those born in 1900 and 1950 (between 76 and 80, but many more people born in 1950 will make it). Now the CDC is projection the peak age for deaths - for those born in 2009 - will increase to 86 to 90!  Using these stats - for those born in 2014 - about half will make it to the next century.Also the number of deaths for those younger than 20 will be very small (down to mostly accidents, guns, and drugs).  Self-driving cars might reduce the accident components of young deaths. An amazing statistic: for those born in 1900, about 13 out of 100,000 made it to 100.  For those born in 1950, 199 are projected to make to 100 - an significant increase.   Now the CDC is projecting that 2,056 out of 100,000 born in 2009 will make it to 100.  Stunning!Some people look at this data and worry about supporting all the old people.  To me, this is all great news - the vast majority of people can look forward to a long life - with fewer people dying in childhood or during their prime working years.  Awesome! FREE AppDownload
AP On Monday, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio unveiled his long-awaited solution to the affordable housing crisis in America's biggest city. And he did it in front of the very same building in the Bronx whose then-owner he named as New York's worst landlord in 2012, as the city's public advocate.  De Blasio campaigned actively on the promise he would unveil a solution to the city's affordable housing problem. On Monday, he declared his $41 billion plan, which aims to improve housing affordability in New York over the next decade by building or preserving 200,000 affordable units, would "change the city forever." "This plan took a lot of effort, and it will take a lot more effort to implement it. But when we do, it will change the face of this city forever, and for the good of our people," de Blasio said.   "Now, it’s important to put this in perspective. This is literally the largest and most ambitious affordable housing program initiated by any city in this country in the history of the United States of America. It is the largest, fastest affordable housing plan ever attempted at the local level." Both supporters and skeptics alike praised the plan as "bold" and "ambitious." The plan, too, was largely looked upon as pragmatic — one whose central tenet of "mandatory inclusionary zoning" has particular appeal with moderate Democrats and doesn't put the progressive-leaning de Blasio on much different footing than his predecessor, Michael Bloomberg.  The skeptics come in, though, to question whether the plan is too ambitious — and whether it's not specific enough in how it will achieve its goals.  What no one questions is that there is a housing crisis in New York City. Over the last 20 years, the median income needed to afford a typical New York City apartment (median gross rent divided by 30%, multiplied by 12 months) has soared more than $10,000.  The problem is annual income hasn't kept up with that pace: NYC Mayor's Office Between 2005 and 2012, median rent in New York City grew by about 11% after adjusting for inflation. But over the same time, the real income of city renters has only increased from about $40,000 to $41,000 in 2013 dollars.  NYC Mayor's Office Combine that with the rising cost of utilities — median monthly utility costs are now about $20 more than they were 20 years ago: NYC Mayor's Office Then you get this next chart. In 2012, almost 55% of all rental households were "rent-burdened," which means its renters were paying more than 30% of their incomes on rent. That was an 11% increase since 2000. More households, too, were "severely rent-burdened," which means its renters were paying at least 50% of their incomes on rent. And the rent burden disproportionately affects lower-income households making less than $41,950. NYC Mayor's Office De Blasio's $41.1 billion plan is expected to be paid for with a combination of city, state, federal, and private funds. The plan would be a 60-40 split of preservation vs. new construction — 60% of the funding will go toward preserving existing affordable housing, while 40% will build new housing. The center of the plan proposes that in all rezonings that "substantially increase potential housing capacity" — allowing for taller buildings and greater density — the city will mandate a portion of the new development toward building low-income housing units.  The concept of the plan — mandatory inclusionary zoning — represents a break from the Bloomberg era. But even critics said it was a pragmatic shift that will allow de Blasio the potential to accomplish his goals — as one housing industry source put told Business Insider, "It's not a gigantic, left-wing liberal paradigm shift that a lot of people might have been worried about." According to various studies, mandatory inclusionary zoning in practice has produced mixed results. Its application in San Francisco, for example, was generally a success — almost all jurisdictions under the plan produced some affordable housing units.  In suburban Boston, however, it was a colossal failure — at one point well into the program, almost half of the participating jurisdictions had not reported producing any affordable units. Reuters"The most important part of the plan is that is lays out a bold vision for the city's ongoing and continuing investment in housing that serves a range of New Yorkers," said Rafael Cestero, the former Commissioner of the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development under Bloomberg who is now the president and CEO of the nonprofit Community Preservation Corporation.  "It really does step up and go beyond what other plans have done in a couple of key ways." One of those key ways, Cestero told Business Insider, is the realization that the housing crisis is based off New York City's relative success. More people are moving into the city. In 2010, 8.24 million people inhabited the city, and that number is expected to rise to more than 9 million by 2040. That makes the housing market tight.  But Cestero and others argue it's impossible to fix a tight housing market by simply building. That's why de Blasio's emphasis on preservation is important.  "While mega-developments are important, the housing stock in the neighborhoods is where the vast majority of people live," he said. "And therefore, there needs to be a concerted effort to invest in the existing stock in our neighborhoods through preservation and investments in quality, but also in building new units at the neighborhood level.  "That commitment in this plan is very broad and very important." But some have criticized the plan's commitment to specifics, noting it's light on identifying the targets for building new housing, as well as two pretty big assumptions — that some measures will be able to pass through Albany, and that the city will be able to secure federal funds. But Cestero argued one of the hardest parts is already done. De Blasio and the city have pledged a gigantic amount from the city's coffers — $8 billion in all — toward the program. Everything else from here on, Cestero said, is easy to figure out. "That step up in capital means the resources are there in order to execute on the broad goals," he said.  "There are lots of people out there who have said, 'Well, there are not enough specifics in the plan.' I think that's all true, but I think it comes from a place of unrealistic expectations. For those of us who have been in government and involved in planning these efforts, the important part about this plan is that it lays out a bold vision. The details with individual programs will come with time." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokDennis Lockhart, President, Federal Reserve Bank of AtlantaDUBAI (Reuters) - The U.S. economy will probably start picking up in the second quarter towards around an annual rate of 3 percent, but it may not be clear for some time if it is on a sustained path, a top official at the Federal Reserve said on Sunday. "It may not be clear for several months, or even quarters, whether the U.S. economy is undeniably on a stronger and sustained growth path around a run rate of 3 percent," Dennis Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, told a business gathering in Dubai in a prepared speech. Lockhart, who said he was speaking in his personal capacity, does not have a vote this year on the Fed's policy-setting board but he participates in its discussions. He is considered to be near the centre of the central bank's policy spectrum and his comments often reflect the views of the core decision-makers. (Reporting by Martin Dokoupil and David French; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
