REUTERS/Shannon StapletonPeople wait in line to enter a job fair in New York April 18, 2012.Neil Irwin has a good piece up on the NYT Upshot blog aiming to demonstrate why the recovery from the Great Recession has been so weak. He rightly highlights the drag of government spending, but I’d argue that if one narrows down on the question of how big a role has austerity played in slowing recovery, even Irwin’s numbers don’t quite capture it. Irwin’s method is to look at the various components of gross domestic product and calculates the average share of total GDP that they accounted for between 1993 and 2013. Then, he multiplies this average share by the Congressional Budget Office’s estimate of 2014 potential GDP to get the level that each of these components “should be” today. The difference between today’s actuallevel and what that level “should be” is then the contribution of the sector to today’s economic weakness. Using this method, he comes up with government spending accounting for 40 percent of the gap between today’s actual versus potential GDP. This is definitely a useful exercise, but I have three quick thoughts on why this might understate the actual effect of policy-induced austerity. Irwin is not trying to estimate an austerity effect, but I just want to be clear that if one wanted to isolate the effect of policy-induced austerity, his numbers might be too low. First, there are multiplier effects, so if actual federal government spending was $118 billion higher today (that’s the gap between actual and “should be” spending identified by Irwin), then overall GDP would be roughly $180 billion higher. So, the policy decision to pursue austerity is costlier (in GDP terms) than just the difference between government spending levels.  Second, lots of government spending doesn’t actually show up in the government category being tracked by Irwin. Government transfers—Social Security, unemployment insurance, food stamps, Medicaid, Medicare—are not classified as government consumption and investment spending in the GDP accounts. Instead, they show up as increased consumption spending. In the chart below, we include these transfer payments in our overall measure of government spending. Third, Irwin averages government spending over all phases of the business cycle between 1993 and 2013. But, during that time-period the economy spent a lot of time away from full employment. I’d at least want to measure from business cycle peak to business cycle peak (or trough to trough). Further, I’d argue that better policy proxy for the influence of austerity is to look at how the government has spent over equivalent phases of previous cycles. Put simply, government spending has tended to grow pretty fast in the first half of recoveries. Except for the current one. The chart below tracks overall government spending—federal and state, consumption/investment and transfers—over various recessions and recoveries. We center each business cycle’s spending series with an index equal to 100 on the recession’s trough. Looking to the right of this center shows the trajectory of government spending over the recovery phase of the cycle. Looking to the left of the series shows the trajectory of government spending over the recession phase of each cycle. Irwin decides to look at data only since 1993. We can do that here—though it just allows comparison with one other recession—the one that began and ended in 2001. But, comparing government spending in that recession/recovery to the current one, overall government spending (including both the government consumption and investment flows tracked by Irwin as well as the transfers payments) would be 13.6 percent higher today if it grew at the same pace in the recovery following the 2001 recession. That’s just over $700 billion. EPI Most of the political argument has centered on the recovery phase of this cycle, simply because the actual recession began before the Obama administration took office. Further, it’s really only been since 2011 that government spending has been a truly significant drag on growth. Before then, between the Recovery Act and what we have called “ad hoc stimulus measures” (like the payroll tax cut in 2010), we didn’t have real austerity until the fallout from 2011’s Budget Control Act (passed in the wake of Republican debt ceiling brinksmanship in summer 2011) began. But, even measuring from the previous business cycle peak—so fully accounting for the Recovery Act and the following ad hoc stimulus measures—overall government spending today remains 6.5 percent below what it would have been if it had followed its trajectory over the 2001 business cycle. This is about $350 billion (which is getting pretty close to Irwin’s number, pre-multiplier). Finally, two last thoughts these measures don’t fully reflect the magnitude of the policy error of austerity. First, the economy was much more damaged at the trough of the Great Recession than at the trough in 2001 (or 1991—or any post-war business cycle trough except for possibly 1982). Second, there was no room at all for conventional monetary policy to aid recovery at the 2009 trough. Short-term interest rates had already been at zero for nearly a year and yet the economy free-fell. These two considerations imply that smart policy-making shouldn’t have targeted similar increases in government spending during the 2009 recovery, but much larger increases. Instead, we ramped spending down and torpedoed a rapid recovery. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesDavid Zervos, chief markets strategist at Jefferies, is a little surprised by the market reaction to recent news.  On Friday, we learned that the U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July. This number missed estimates but Zervos points out that the three-month, six-month, and 12-month moving averages are 245,000 244,000 and 214,000. "This is an achievement, not a problem," he writes. We also learned that the U.S. economy expanded 4% in the second quarter and the FOMC's language barely changed. "Sounds like risk asset bliss right?" asks Zervos in the note, which is titled 'Why do we call these corrections'. "But the markets are reacting to this good fortune as if someone threw a Baby Ruth in the swimming pool," he says.  Zervos admits the recent market anxiety may be attributable to rising geopolitical tensions between Russia and Ukraine, Israel and Gaza, and amid concerns about Banco Espirito Santo and Argentina. "The reality is that we can consolidate in markets at any time. We don't need a fundamental/geopolitical reason." From Zervos: "In any case I certainly see no fundamental reason why we should break down and stay down. This looks like a garden variety risk-off move sparked by positioning, psychology and/or outside factors. Just like with Cyprus, Greece, the Treasury downgrade, the government shutdown, the fiscal cliff and even the increase trouble between JayZ and Beyonce; this latest rough patch will pass. We may have a little more to go before we wash out some of the weaker hands, but let's all keep our eye on the prize: a risk-on reflationary recovery! It's still the endgame. "Lastly, for most of this year (and much of last 5 years) we have been constantly warned by the hater community about a coming market "correction". And that got me thinking - why do people refer to a market drop as a "correction". This nomenclature implies that the "correct" level for the market is lower. There is NOTHING correct about a lower market. In fact, I would call these down moves "aberrations" not a "corrections". And while these states of abnormality can last a bit longer than we would like, I firmly believe a true "correction" to HIGHER levels will ultimately put us back on the path toward normalcy. Good luck trading." So who's going to play Carl Spackler and take a bite of that Baby Ruth? FREE AppDownload
Fred Prouser/ReutersDilbert creator Scott Adams is not a fan of investment advisors. In a new post titled "How to make more money in stocks" Adams, who also holds a degree in economics, argues that the financial industry is the world's biggest scam and that investment advisors make stocks risky.  From Adams: An investment advisor needs to justify his pay, and that means pretending to have stock-picking magical powers that science has never discovered. Every study on the topic shows that the professionals generally don’t beat the market average over time. But they do cause a lot of churn that causes a lot of unnecessary taxpaying on gains. And the professionals charge enough to take perhaps 25% of your potential annual gain in fees. Meanwhile, wise people such as you buy your market index ETFs and avoid all of the risks injected by the professional investment advisors. But your potential stock gains are suppressed because so many other people are using professional advice and losing money. That makes the category of “investing in stocks” look riskier than it is. So my suggestion for permanently lifting the value of the stock market to new sustainably high price-earnings ratios is to pass a law making it illegal to offer financial services without disclosing the truth – that they are mostly a waste of your time. …I know you don’t like big government getting involved when it isn’t needed. But the financial industry as it stands now is the world’s biggest scam, and most of us agree that the government is the right agency for rooting out crime, pyramid schemes and the like. And I think most people would agree that putting warning labels on cigarettes, and nutrition information on food, has served us well. It’s time to do the same with investment advice. Adams suggests that the government do for investment advice what it did for nutrition: set up a pyramid "that shows most people should own broad market ETFs under a certain set of simple conditions." Ann Marsh's piece in Financial Planning, which first pointed us to Adams' post, has planners pointing out that advisors do more than just pick stocks. They keep investors from acting impulsively.  Josh Brown, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management in New York, tells Marsh this "this is the type of thing you see toward market peaks. ...It's just one more form of overconfidence." Read the entire post here » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNow that the recovery appears to finally be taking hold, Business Insider decided to see how that recovery was being felt across the country. We ranked each state on how eight economic measures have grown or shrunk in recent years: the unemployment rate, the number of non-farm payroll jobs, gross domestic product, average wages, the working age (18-64) population, value of international exports, house prices, and auto sales. Check out how we made the ranking here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Active Mutual Funds Are Losing Out To Passive Funds (Morningstar) According to John Rekenthaler from Morningstar, passive funds are overtaking active funds. Over the past year, net sales were 68% passive funds and 32% active funds. He also mentioned the success of international active funds, as well as exploring alternatives. "One difference between domestic and international active investing is that the top international funds tend to stay that way," Rekenthaler wrote. "While star domestic funds tend to come and go, successful international funds generally remain above average. Such consistency supports the decision to invest actively overseas. Still, the indexes are knocking on the door, and knocking hard; Vanguard Total International Stock Index and Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index are each in the top 20% of their groups so far this year. Active managers won’t be able to resist such pressure for long. "...Indeed, aside from alternative investing, there’s no place remaining where active managers are safe from passive competition," according to Rekenthaler. "...However, the trend seems clear. Active managers have become the periphery. As the slogan goes, there is core and then there is explore. Active management is no longer core." Dilbert Cartoonist Scott Adams Said Financial Advisors Are The Main Source of Investing Risk (Financial Planning) "Dilbert" cartoon creator Scott Adams, who has a degree in economics, said in a blog post that advisors "are mostly a waste of your time," Ann Marsh from Financial Planning reported. His blog post said that professional investment advisors are the main reason stock investments are risky. "Every study on the topic shows that the professionals generally don't beat the market average over time. But they do cause a lot of churn that causes a lot of unnecessary taxpaying on gains," Adams wrote.  Others responded that financial advisors do more than just pick stocks for clients to generate fees. "Perhaps you have the time, inclination, knowledge, and discipline to do these things on your own. ... But most investors, left on their own, will forfeit more than the [approximately] 1% potential fee in mistakes or missed opportunities," one person told Financial Planning. Josh Brown of Ritholtz Wealth Management also told the publication, "People forget that investment advisers in general do not spend a lot of time these days picking stocks. There's a lot more to professional investing help than pretending you can beat the market." Using Strategic Beta Funds Is The Key To Incorporating Both Active And Passive Investing (Wall Street Journal) Instead of choosing whether to go with active or passive investing strategies, Brian Jacobs from Direxion suggested the best approach would be to incorporate both. Strategic beta funds use a rules-based approach to managing your portfolio. "I think the popularity of beta strategies can be attributed to three factors," Jacobs said. "The first factor is the shift in the advising world of managing client's money toward specific outcomes. No one wakes up in the morning thinking that they really need a global macro fund. Advisers look at a client's needs, whether they be lower risk, the generation of more income, or better risk adjusted return, and seek the easiest, most transparent way to deliver those outcomes. Strategic beta funds are one tool that can help do that." "If advisers can use strategic beta to manage towards client's desired outcomes while delivering better risk-adjusted returns at a lower price point, it's going to become a very valuable and powerful tool for them to draw on," he said. Jeffrey Gundlach Is Adding Assets While Most Of His Competitors Are Losing Investors (Bloomberg) Jeffrey Gundlach's DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund had the largest 12-month yield out of all other mortgage-backed securities funds at the end of July, Bloomberg reported. Now the fund's assets are increasing amid a pull out from investors from competitors. In the first half of 2014, investors gave $1.2 billion to DoubleLine, compared to the second-most popular fund which pulled in $265 million. "As the Federal Reserve began tapering its bond buying in January, signaling a possible rise in interest rates, Gundlach wagered correctly that they would fall due to a sputtering U.S. economy and a shift by pension funds to bonds from stocks. He sold cash and added Treasuries and government-backed MBS with longer durations to DoubleLine Total Return. He also bet that agency MBS prices would increase even as government purchases of the securities declined because of less issuance," Alexis Leondis from Bloomberg said. Your Financial Advisor Succession Plan Needs To Start Now (Wealth Management) As figuring out how to transition our advisory practice becomes more complicated, it's best to start as early as possible, wrote Wealth Management's Phillip Flakes. Flakes recommended starting now, developing a process, identifying internal talent, and giving yourself ample time. "One of the most important questions that you must ask is whether you want to transition to an internal candidate, or sell your practice on the open market.  If you’re interested in internal succession, which most advisors are, it may be wise to start identifying candidates among your team who might be able to lead the business one day. Smart firms don't wait until it's time to elect a new managing partner or other key player in the firm. They use a continuous identification process to select future leaders and they focus on developing the unique set of technical, professional, client and leadership competencies required for the top position," he said. "Most heads of planning firms initially hope to transition their businesses to their employees," Flakes said. "However they frequently don’t allow themselves enough time to effectively make that transfer. It is suggested to leave at least a five-year window to complete the process, and there is nothing wrong with starting much earlier. As counterintuitive as it sounds, those whose businesses are in the early growth stages should start to envision at least the broad outlines of their exit strategy. It’s never too early to start!" FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFiat Chief Executive Marchionne looks on during a meeting with Italian Prime Minister Renzi (not pictured) to mark the presentation of new "Jeep Renegade" car at Chigi palace, in RomeDETROIT (Reuters) - Chrysler Group Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne said on Wednesday the company has not resumed talks with Canadian officials about financial support to help upgrade a minivan plant in Windsor, but would entertain any proposal offered. Chrysler had reportedly sought $700 million in government support toward a $3.6 billion investment for the plant, but the deal was scuttled when federal and provincial officials pressed Chrysler on how much of its investment would be spent in Ontario, it was reported in March. Marchionne, who is also the CEO of Fiat &lt;fia.mi&gt;, which owns Chrysler, said on Wednesday that his company is already investing in the Windsor plant without government funds. Chrysler has said it will develop and produce its next-generation minivan in Windsor, Ontario, but has not detailed the scope or duration of that production work, nor how much it will spend to re-tool the plant. It is unknown if the company scaled back its investment after the government talks failed. A vocal opponent to any government incentives, Ontario conservative leader Tim Hudak, was defeated in provincial elections two months ago. The province's Liberal economic development minister said on Wednesday that the government was "always prepared" to talk with Chrysler. Marchionne said on Wednesday the automaker could not hold up its plans. "If in fact the federal government or the province of Ontario think that there is a proposal that would be of interest to Chrysler, I think we're more than willing to sit down and discuss it," Marchionne said on an earnings conference call. "But, today, I think the horse left the barn, and the (Chrysler) investment is going into Windsor and that's all there is to say." Jerry Dias, president of the Unifor union, which represents workers at the Windsor plant, said there is "no question" that federal and provincial governments are interested in coming to an agreement with Chrysler. "I would expect that the provincial government is going to reach out, but it's crystal clear that the provincial government and the federal government have left the door wide open for Chrysler," Dias said.   (Reporting by Susan Taylor in Toronto and Bernie Woodall in Detroit; editing by Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
Consumer spending still hasn't grown to pre-crisis levels, and it isn't all that close. In a post on the New York Fed's blog on Wednesday Jonathan McCarthy, VP at the Fed's research and statistics group, took a look at how sluggish the recovery in consumer spending has been since the financial crisis. From pre-financial crisis levels, real consumer discretionary fell 8%, and even still it is languishing more than 3% below pre-crisis levels.  "Discretionary expenditures have picked up noticeably over recent quarters," McCarthy writes. "But, unlike spending on nondiscretionary services, they remain well below their pre-recession peak. Even so, the pace of recovery for both discretionary and nondiscretionary services in this expansion is well below that of previous cycles." It's been a rocky road to repairing the economy since the damage suffered during the financial crisis, and as far as consumers are considered, there is still a long way to go.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Jennifer Saba and Aurindom Mukherjee (Reuters) - Time Warner Inc  will not have to worry about any overtures from Twenty-First Century Fox  for the foreseeable future. "As you know, yesterday, we walked away. This is our resolute decision," Fox Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said in a rare appearance on the company's conference call late Wednesday. Murdoch, conceding defeat, was further explaining the company's rational for pulling its bid on Tuesday. Fox Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey backed up Murdoch and went further: "Let me be clear, we are done ... We have no plans to pursue any other third party content company as an alternative to Time Warner." Earlier, Time Warner Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes, speaking on the company's own earnings conference call, also weighed in on the scuttled Fox bid, which the CNN and Warner Brothers studios owner had aggressively resisted, as well as the merits of megadeals in general. "I would just encourage everybody to look at all sides of the issue when contemplating the benefits and risks of putting very large companies together," Bewkes said to an analyst. Indeed, since taking the helm of the media conglomerate in 2008, Bewkes has trimmed down Time Warner - shedding properties like AOL , Time Warner Cable , and Time Inc  - and making it an attractive target for acquisitive-hungry rivals. Bewkes said he feels that Time Warner is already at scale, especially for its studio business Warner Bros which he described as the "biggest producer of content in the world" to its collection of cable networks which also dominate. "We are not lacking something we need," he said. Time Warner needs to show it can go it alone after fiercely refusing to engage in talks with Fox, which offered to buy it in a deal for about $80 billion and would have created one of the world's largest media companies with two major studios, a bevy of cable networks and pay-TV channel HBO. Time Warner reported higher-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday and boosted its share buyback program by an additional $5 billion. "When faced with a hostile takeover bid, Time Warner did exactly what they should have done. They crushed the numbers," wrote Michael Nathanson with MoffettNathanson Research in a note to investors. The strong results and shareholder-friendly measure could not prevent Time Warner's stock from sliding. The shares closed down 13 percent at $74.24 - well below the $85 per share offer from Rupert Murdoch's Fox. Time Warner said it will host an investor's day in the fall to unveil more details about its long-term strategy.  'GAME OF THRONES' Revenue from Time Warner's Home Box Office unit jumped 17 percent to $1.42 billion for the second quarter, helped by the popularity of "Game of Thrones" and other HBO shows. The company said the fourth season of "Game of Thrones," which ended in June, was the most watched season of an original series in HBO's history. The Emmy award-winning fantasy epic had an average gross audience of 19 million viewers. The company's Turner Networks unit — home to CNN, TBS and TNT — also posted an increase in revenue on higher subscription and advertisement sales. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Time Warner common shareholders rose to $843 million, or 94 cents per share, for the three months ended June 30, from $698 million, or 73 cents per share, a year earlier. On an adjusted basis, the company earned 98 cents per share. Revenue increased to $6.79 billion from $6.61 billion. Analysts, on average, had expected a profit of 84 cents a share on revenue of $6.87 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The company forecast full-year 2014 adjusted profit growth in the low teens in terms of percentage, off a base of 2013 adjusted earnings of $3.51 per share. Time Warner said in April it expected its full-year adjusted profit to grow in the low- to mid-teen percentage range, or better, for at least the next three or four years.  (Reporting by Aurindom Mukherjee and Lehar Maan in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das, Robin Paxton, Bernadette Baum and Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of former Samsung Group Chairman Lee leaveing after his trial at a Seoul courtBy Se Young Lee and Sohee Kim SEOUL (Reuters) - As its smartphone sales stutter and a generational leadership succession looms, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd  is under pressure to reinvent itself - to be more innovative, but not lose the rigor and focus that made it a global powerhouse. One effort this summer to foster a more worker-friendly environment and a more creative culture is to allow staff at its main Suwon campus south of Seoul to wear shorts to work at weekends. Working hours are more flexible, and female staff can take maternity leave without worrying about job security. The flagship of South Korea's dominant conglomerate, or chaebol, is also trying to address shifting cultural values at home by curbing some of the excesses hardwired into corporate Korea. Forced late-night drinking sessions, long a staple of local office life, are out. "It's 1-1-9 for evening company outings now: one type of alcohol, in one place and only until 9 p.m," said a Samsung employee in his eighth year at the firm. "Younger staff are no longer forced to stay, and the senior workers will be careful not to upset their subordinates," he said, asking not to be named as he was not authorized to speak to the media. Samsung last month posted an unexpectedly sharp drop in second-quarter earnings, squeezed by falling market share in smartphones, and with no obvious driver in sight to reverse the decline. Chairman Lee Kun-hee, 72, who has famously managed Samsung with a sense of "permanent crisis", remains hospitalized following a May heart attack. The ascension of his son and heir-apparent, the Harvard-educated Jay Y. Lee, 46, could be a breath of fresh air, but effecting wholesale change in the way the sprawling company operates would be a Herculean task and could prove a mistake. "The company is in somewhat of a Catch-22 when it comes to changing its culture," said Jay Subhash, a former senior product manager who left Samsung in April. "It desperately needs to adopt a culture that fosters openness, creativity and innovation. But doing so would jeopardize its greatest existing cultural asset, its militaristic hierarchy, which enables it to operate at lightning speed to outpace the competition."   "SOUL SEARCHING" Samsung has long emphasized the need for creativity while hiring more foreign talent as it operates in increasingly diverse markets. Along with relaxed rules on work hours, it stresses a "Work Smart" philosophy to reduce unnecessary time spent at the office. While it's hoped a looser environment will help stir new ideas, some insiders say progress is slow against what's often described as an entrenched culture of rigid, top-down management. "Samsung's doing some soul searching right now, it's asking itself 'who am I, and what should I do next?" said Chang Sea-jin, a business professor at Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and author of "Sony Vs Samsung". "In the long term, the company needs to become global and open. Giving employees more autonomy can lead to loss of control, but this will in the long run benefit the company by developing talent that can run the business from a global perspective." The drop in second-quarter profit triggered some symbolic belt-tightening at Samsung: Handset division managers gave up part of their bonuses and downgraded to economy class for shorter flights - acts of loyalty that are part of Samsung's culture, which emphasizes urgency in action. While the company is a market leader in smartphones, TVs, refrigerators and memory chips, it's saddled with a perception that it's a "fast-follower" and not an innovator like Apple Inc  or Google Inc . Samsung is hardly alone in the culture struggle. Many Korean firms deal with the same issues stemming from the legacy of the country's Confucian, conformist culture, which has also fueled its industrial success. Several Samsung employees interviewed by Reuters said that those who "stand out" from the norm struggle and often end up leaving. "The core challenge for Korea is that as a Confucian culture that has deep respect for age, hierarchy is very important and so what you'll find is that it's hard to innovate in an environment where challenging your boss is not something you can easily do," said Shaun Cochran, head of CLSA Korea.  SIGNS OF CHANGE Samsung is making efforts to address that. In July, Chief Financial Officer Lee Sang-hoon asked how Samsung can respond to rapid changes in the tech industry in the first "Grand Discussion", an initiative for more dialogue, through the company's newly launched Mosaic internal message board. The discussion generated 4,221 ideas and comments. "Samsung takes pride in the creativity and diversity of its talented people and will constantly strive to create an environment where they have the opportunity to grow," the company said in a statement to Reuters. The company did not make an executive available for an interview, but provided Reuters with written material on various initiatives. Under its "Creative Lab" program, employees can individually or in teams take a year to develop an idea they come up with if it's deemed worthy of pursuit. Samsung says it had some 14,000 ideas last year through this program and other company initiatives. Employees and Samsung watchers say cultural change is inevitable as a younger generation of Koreans increasingly demands more than just high wages. In a survey this year by job portal Incruit, Korean Air Lines Co  ranked as the country's most desirable employer, snapping Samsung's 10-year run at the top. Incruit said Samsung's reputation for imposing a heavy workload and limiting personal time jarred with a growing preference for work-life balance. That said, some two-thirds of Samsung's nearly 300,000-strong workforce is outside South Korea, and the vast majority of its revenue is generated away from home. Among leading South Korean firms, Samsung stands out in that it doesn't discriminate on where job applicants were educated, said Im Chan-soo, head of LCS Communications in the southern port city of Busan, which offers private lessons for those preparing for interviews at Samsung. Staff turnover at Samsung in South Korea was below 3 percent last year, against almost 17 percent at its overseas facilities. "Samsung looks for honest people who are crazy about the company, people who have only looked to Samsung, who have done a lot to try to get in," said Im. One former Samsung Electronics employee, an American in South Korea, said top managers are globally minded, though many employees and observers interviewed by Reuters said the core of its culture remains distinctly Korean. "I think change is inevitable," said the current Samsung employee. "It's not because the company decided to be a trailblazer, but because the societal trends are changing. There's a desire to change the system."  (Editing by Tony Munroe and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim ShafferEBay founder and chairman Pierre Omidyar in Delaware on Dec. 7, 2009. While some tech executives are quick to splurge on yachts and mega-mansions, others aren't so flashy with their riches. Mark Zuckerberg, for example, drives a $30,000 Volkswagen GTI, while Sergey Brin likes to buy things in bulk at Costco. We've rounded up 10 tech executives who have made millions or even billions with their companies yet have chosen lives of frugality and charity. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAckman, CEO and portfolio manager of Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P., speaks at the Ira Sohn Investment Conference in New York(Reuters) - Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) is backing activist investor Bill Ackman's call for a special meeting of Allergan Inc  investors that could topple the company's board and increase the chances of a takeover by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International . ISS' recommendation on Wednesday follows a similar view from shareholder advisory firm Glass Lewis on Monday, giving Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management momentum as the hedge fund tries to muster support for the meeting. ISS is the largest proxy adviser for institutional investors. Pershing, Allergan's biggest investor with a 9.7 percent stake, needs to garner shareholder support representing 25 percent of the California company, best known for its Botox anti-wrinkle injections. Pershing wants to replace most of Allergan's board, which has refused to negotiate with Valeant, which is based in Laval, Quebec. In a report, ISS said "there appear to be significant governance issues which could be addressed" in a special meeting. Ackman and Valeant said they are pleased with the ISS and Glass Lewis reports. "The ISS Report should cause Allergan shareholders to question the credibility of a Board that is pursuing frivolous litigation tactics and baseless attacks to delay or stop the right for shareholders to fix anti-shareholder bylaws, elect shareholder-friendly directors and to voice their concerns about Allergan's poor corporate governance," Ackman said in a statement. Allergan said the advisory firms were merely stating that shareholders should have the right to call a special meeting. "These recommendations do not change the fact that Valeant`s offer is grossly inadequate, substantially undervalues Allergan, creates significant risks and uncertainties for Allergan stockholders and is not in the best interests of the company and its stockholders," Allergan said in a statement. Allergan has been fighting the takeover bid since it was announced on April 22. Valeant's cash and stock offer is currently worth about $49 billion, after its shares fell 12 percent since reporting disappointing second-quarter earnings on July 31. Pershing Square and Valeant officials could not be reached immediately for comment. Allergan shares lost 1.2 percent in afternoon trading in New York to $156.56, while Valeant's U.S.-listed stock dipped 0.4 percent to $110.20.   (Reporting by Rod Nickel in Winnipeg, Manitoba; Editing by Tom Brown and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints San Diego, California temple These magnificent structures may be one of many recruitment techniques that helped the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints gain nearly 2 million new followers in the U.S. in a decade — more than any other religion — for a total of 6.14 million, according to the 2010 U.S. Religion Census. Globally, Mormon temples and meetinghouses are worth an estimated $35 billion, reported Reuters in 2012. They represent the most outward show of wealth for an organization whose finances are secret but thought to be extensive. A major source of income for the Church is tithes, donations followers are supposed to give that comprise 10% of their income, with other income from other donations, businesses, and properties. Although the federal government doesn't require public financial disclosure from religions in the U.S., a clearer financial picture is provided thanks to disclosures in other countries. Sociologist Ryan Cragun and Reuters used data from Canada to estimate the Church receives more than $6 billion annually from tithing in America. Throughout the world, the Church is estimated to make $7 billion annually through tithes and other donations. The Church's major for-profit enterprise is Deseret Management Corporation (DMC), whose subsidiaries bring in $1.2 billion of annual revenue through businesses in journalism, media, insurance, and hospitality, reported BloombergBusinessweek in 2012, though DMC CEO Keith McMullin claimed that estimate was "vastly overstated."  The Church's for-profit agricultural holding company, AgReserves, and Church-run affiliates own 1 million acres in the continental U.S., containing farms, hunting preserves, orchards, and ranches, along with significant properties overseas. Notably, the Church recently became the largest private landowner in Florida. The Church also runs for-profit real estate arms that have a hand in residential buildings, office parks, parking lots, shopping malls, and more, reports BloombergBusinessweek. Dallin H. Oaks, a member of the Church's high-ranking Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, explained in a speech how money can be used in spiritual ways: "If allowed to become an object of worship or priority, money can make us selfish and prideful ... In contrast, if used for fulfilling our legal obligations and for paying our tithes and offerings, money can demonstrate integrity and develop unselfishness. The spiritually enlightened use of property can help prepare us for the higher law of a celestial glory. " The building and operation of temples is one of the Church's five key activities supported by tithing. We've pulled together pictures and information on some of the most magnificent Mormon temples. Yes, other religions have some extremely lavish places of worship, but the Mormon church is closing the gap. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTwenty-First Century Fox Inc CEO Murdoch smiles on the second day of the Allen and Co. media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho(Reuters) - Twenty-First Century Fox Inc &lt;foxa.o&gt;, the film and TV company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, reported a 16.8 percent rise in quarterly revenue, helped by the box office success of films such as "X-Men: Days of Future Past" and growth in its cable network business. The company, separated from News Corp &lt;nwsa.o&gt; last June, said revenue rose to $8.42 billion in the fourth quarter ended June 30, from $7.2 billion a year earlier. Net income attributable to shareholders was $999 million, or 45 cents per share, compared with a loss of $371 million, or 16 cents per share in the same quarter of 2013. The company withdrew its $80 billion offer to buy Time Warner Inc &lt;twx.n&gt; on Tuesday, abandoning plans to create one of the world's largest media conglomerates.     (Reporting by Abhirup Roy in Bangalore; Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe Wall Street Journal's Andrew Grossman, Christina Rexrode and Dan Fitzpatrick report Bank of America is nearing a settlement with the Justice Department for up to $17 billion over mortgage fraud claims stemming from the financial crisis. That amount would be a record for a civil settlement between the U.S. government and a private firm, the paper says. In January 2008, Bank of America purchased Countrywide, the firm most analysts regard as having led the nation's subprime mortgage industry off a cliff. Last week, a federal judge imposed a fine of $1.3 on Bank of America over charges related to Countrywide loans sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.   If the Justice Department reaches the $17 billion mark, the Justice Department will have racked up $37 billion in penalties between JP Morgan, Citibank and Bank of America.    Bank of America shares are up 0.2% in after-hours trading.   Read the full report at WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkBy Jonathan Stempel (Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co has won the dismissal of a lawsuit by the City of Los Angeles accusing the largest U.S. bank of steering minority borrowers into mortgages they could not afford, even after similar cases against the next three largest banks were allowed to go forward. In a decision made public on Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Otis Wright said the city could not hold JPMorgan responsible for questionable lending by the former Washington Mutual Inc, under a federal law governing the wind-down of failed banks. Wright said Los Angeles may file an amended complaint focused on JPMorgan's, but not WaMu's, lending practices. Once the largest U.S. thrift, WaMu failed in September 2008, when JPMorgan acquired most of it in a $1.9 billion sale supervised by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. "We respectfully disagree with the court's ruling as to the loans made by Washington Mutual, and are exploring our options," said Frank Mateljan, a spokesman for Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer, who filed the lawsuit on May 30. "In the meantime, we are aggressively pursuing our case against JPMorgan Chase." JPMorgan spokesman Jason Lobo said: "We are pleased with this decision, and we will continue to carry out our strong commitment to Los Angeles residents." The lawsuit is part of Los Angeles' effort to hold lenders liable for lost property tax revenue and higher costs to maintain properties and ensure public safety, as a result of about 200,000 foreclosures in the second most-populous U.S. city from 2008 to 2012.  FDIC Wright accepted JPMorgan's argument that the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA), a 1989 law passed after that decade's savings-and-loan crisis, blocked plaintiffs such as Los Angeles from pursuing many claims over failed banks until they exhaust a separate FDIC claims process. The judge said that made the city's lawsuit against JPMorgan different from its similar lawsuits against Bank of America Corp, Citigroup Inc and Wells Fargo &amp; Co. Those lawsuits have survived motions to dismiss. "FIRREA bars this court from hearing the city's claims as they relate to WaMu's discriminatory lending practices," Wright wrote, in a decision dated August 5. The judge said the rest of the lawsuit also had to be dismissed because Los Angeles "lumps loans issued by both Chase and WaMu together." But he gave Los Angeles permission to file an amended complaint that tries to "excise" allegations related to WaMu. Los Angeles accused New York-based JPMorgan of engaging since 2004 in a "continuous pattern and practice" of mortgage discrimination in the city. It faulted alleged practices by the bank such as putting minority borrowers into riskier loans than white borrowers, causing a disproportionate number of foreclosures in minority neighborhoods, and denying credit to minority borrowers on the same terms as white borrowers. The case is City of Los Angeles v. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co et al, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 14-04168.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel and Dena Aubin in New York; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Kevin Coles/FlickrMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia will ban all imports of U.S. food products as well as fruit and vegetables from the European Union after President Vladimir Putin ordered retaliation for Western sanctions against Moscow, a state news agency reported on Wednesday. With Russia a major buyer of food from the United States and Europe, the ban marks a deep escalation of an economic tit-for-tat set off by the crisis in Ukraine, which has brought East-West relations to their lowest since the Cold War. Putin signed a decree on Wednesday halting or limiting imports of agricultural products from countries which have imposed sanctions on Russia, ordering his government to come up with a list of imports to be banned for a year. "(All food products) that are being produced in the U.S. and being supplied to Russia will be banned," Ria Novosti quoted Alexei Alekseenko, spokesman for the VPSS food standards agency, as saying. "Fruit and vegetables from EU will be covered by the total ban," he added. No one was available for comment at the VPSS (Phytosanitary Surveillance Service) but earlier Alekseenko told Reuters that retaliatory action would be "quite substantial", and include U.S. poultry. A spokesman for the European Commission in Brussels said he had no immediate comment. Russians are by far the biggest buyers of EU fruit and vegetables, having bought 21.5 percent of EU vegetable exports and 28 percent of the bloc's fruit exports in 2011. They also have a strong appetite for U.S. chicken, buying 276,100 tonnes of it last year, or 8 percent of U.S. exports. This made it the second largest buyer behind Mexico, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. After Putin issued his decree, the VPSS said it would discuss an option to increase food imports from Ecuador,Brazil, Chile and Argentina with the countries' ambassadors on Thursday. Brazilian producers could send an additional 150,000 tonnes of chicken per year to Russia to make up the shortfall, Francisco Turra, President of the country's animal protein association ABPA, said in Sao Paulo. Washington and the EU first imposed sanctions after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March and tightened them after a Malaysian airliner was shot down last month over territory in eastern Ukraine held by pro-Moscow rebels. Moscow rejects Western allegations that the rebels used a missile it supplied to bring down the airliner, killing all 298 people on board. East-West relations soured yet further on Wednesday as NATO said Russia might use the pretext of a humanitarian mission to invade eastern Ukraine. The prospect of tit-for-tat economic restrictions has raised concern among smaller EU nations that have close trading ties to Russia. Finland, which shares a long border with Russia, said it feared a repeat of the turmoil suffered by most Western economies in 2008-09. "This has the potential - and I stress potential - to become Economic Crisis 2.0," Prime Minister Alexander Stubb told reporters in the Finnish city of Espoo. Neutral Finland traded heavily with its huge neighbour even during the Cold War, and suffered badly when the Soviet Union collapsed almost a quarter of a century ago. Today, Russia is Finland's third largest export market, while Russian tourists spend roughly 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) a year in Finland. Stubb said he expected Moscow to retaliate but defended the sanctions, imposed after Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March and tightened after a Malaysian airliner was shot down over territory in eastern Ukraine held by pro-Moscow rebels. However, he made clear the burden of retaliation had to be shared among EU members: "If sanctions hit Finland disproportionately, we will seek aid from our EU partners." Until now, smaller or poorer countries have featured prominently among those targeted by the Russian response.Moscow has already suspended beef and cattle imports from Romania, citing an outbreak of mad cow disease, as well as banning Ukrainian juice and dairy produce, Polish vegetables and Australian beef. The central bank warned that such bans on importing cheap products could make it harder to control inflation, which fell to an annual 7.5 percent in July, but remains well above the 6.5 percent increase seen in 2013. The sanctions have effectively frozen Russian banks out of EU financial markets, and yet one Western bank active in Russia said it expected to keep making solid profits there despite losing some business. Bank Austria, the central and eastern European arm of Italian bank UniCredit, said its pretax profit in Russia rose 3 percent to 247 million euros in the first half of this year. That was more than a quarter of its total pretax profit, making Russia its most profitable market. Bank Austria said it would be able to keep raising money locally. "Given what we know now about sanctions, we assume that in Russia we will continue to have a very significant profit contributor. We feel we are set up well," Chief Executive Willibald Cernko said. Federico Ghizzoni, UniCredit's chief executive, also expressed confidence. "The bank seems strong enough to go through this storm," he said in Milan. "This is not to say that we are not looking at the situation with concern, but there is no systemic problem," he said, adding the bank estimated a hit of up to 10-15 million euros in lost revenues. In a sign of the economic slowdown, soft drinks giant Coca-Cola Co said it had taken advertisements off four television channels in Russia as a fall in second-quarter sales prompted a rethink of its marketing plans. The Russian business daily Kommersant said two of the channels where Coke's advertising would be cut were owned by St Petersburg-based Bank Rossiya, which is owned in turn by Yuri Kovalchuk, a close ally of Putin. Kovalchuk was hit by U.S. sanctions in March and blacklisted by the EU last month. However, a Coca-Cola spokeswoman said by email that "there is no political motive in this decision". (writing by David Stamp; additional reporting by Michael Shields, Fabiola Gomes; Angelika Gruber, Polina Devitt, Maria Kiselyova, Silvia Aloisi and Gianluca Semeraro; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed21st Century Fox reported fourth quarter adjusted EPS of $0.42 on revenue $8.42 billion.  Analysts were looking for adjusted earnings per share of $0.38 on revenue of $8 billion, according to data from Bloomberg.  In immediate reaction to the news, shares were up 1.6%. By segment, Fox reported cable network revenue of $3.35 billion, up from $2.95 billion a year ago, with TV revenue coming in at $1.03 billion and filmed entertainment revenue coming in at $2.8 billion.  Fox's filmed entertainment revenue grew 38% in the fourth quarter, with the company attributing this growth in part to the success of "X-Men: Days of Future Past," which has grossed $740 million to date.  In its TV segment, however, Fox's operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA, fell to $145 million from $213 million the prior year, with the company saying that increased retransmission consent revenues were more than offset by lower advertising revenues. Ad revenues in the TV segment fell 11% from the prior year led by declines in "American Idol" ratings. Fox also reported its annual results, with revenues increasing 15% over the prior year to $31.87 billion. Fox's earnings announcement comes one day after the company said it had withdrawn its offer to acquire Time Warner. Concurrent with that announcement, the company also authorized a $6 billion share repurchase program, which it expects to complete in the next year.  On the company's earnings conference call, CEO Rupert Murdoch called the company's decision to walk away from the Time Warner deal its "resolute" decision.  FREE AppDownload
DinoDirect via YouTubeGreen Mountain reported third quarter adjusted earnings of $0.99 per share, on revenue of $1.02 billion. This tops earnings expectations for $0.89 per share, though revenue fell short of the Street's $1.05 billion estimate. Shares of Keurig were down 3% in after hours trader after the company's Q4 adjusted EPS outlook came in at $0.68-$0.75 per share, lower than estimates for $0.86 per share. For the full-year, Keurig expects adjusted earnings of $3.71-$3.78, better than its previous view of $3.63-$3.73. this is also better than expectations for $3.78.  "Our solid year-over-year brewer shipment growth of 13% and our 15% unit growth in portion packs is indicative of the continued expansion of the Keurig system across the U.S. and Canada," Brian Kelley, Keurig's President and CEO said in a press release.  "We also are excited about the imminent launch of our new Keurig 2.0 hot platform; the addition of formerly unlicensed and new brands to the Keurig hot beverage system during the quarter; and, our progress on the new Keurig Cold beverage system." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amir CohenStocks went nowhere amid a light economic calendar and in the wake of more than $100 billion of proposed mergers were pulled last night.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $41.5 billion in June from a revised $44.7 billion May. Following this report, a number of Wall Street firms raised their outlooks for the second estimate of second quarter GDP. Wells Fargo raised their outlook to 4.25% from 4%, Barclays raised its outlook to 4.3% from 4%. Capital Economics also raised their outlook, to 4.2% from 4%, writing that, "Overall, we expect the trade deficit to widen modestly over the second half of this year. Exports should continue to grow, but the evident strength in domestic demand suggests that the gain in imports will be even more rapid. Nevertheless, any increase in the deficit should be relatively modest, particularly if the U.S. continues to reduce its reliance on imported oil as domestic production increases." 2. The biggest stock story of the day was 21st Century Fox withdrawing its offer for Time Warner, and Sprint no longer looking to buy T-Mobile. Fox pulled its previously announced $85 per share offer for Time Warner, saying that Time Warner management, "refused to engage with us to explore an offer which was highly compelling. Additionally, the reaction in our share price since our proposal was made undervalues our stock and makes the transaction unattractive to Fox shareholders." Following the announcement, Fox shares gained 3% and Time Warner shares fell more than 12%. Sprint shares fell nearly 19%, as the company also replaced its CEO, Dan Hesse, while T-Mobile shares lost 8% after the news. 3. Walgreen announced it would acquire the remaining stake in European pharmacy chain Alliance Boots it didn't already own for about $5.3 billion. The company also said it wouldn't move its tax base from Illinois, spurning the recently popular plan by companies to execute a so-called "tax inversion" in which they adopt the tax base of an acquired foreign company. Walgreen's announcement comes just a day after the Obama administration signaled it was reviewing options in attempts to prevent tax inversions, which have been on the rise this year. Following the news, shares of Walgreen were down more than 14%.  4. Bank of America received approval from the Federal Reserve for its 2014 capital plan, and as a result announced it would raise its dividend 400% to $0.05 per share from $0.01 per share. Bank of America shares gained more than 1% following the news.  5. Jeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital was profiled in The Financial Times, and said he sees the Federal Reserve resurrecting its quantitative easing program in 2020. Gundlach told the FT's Stephen Foley that 2020 is an "interesting timeframe" for the bond market, telling Foley that, "It seems like one of the consequences of this zero interest rate policy is you’ve pushed out the problem of refinancing, of rolling over, but you’ve really compounded the magnitude of it and it seems to be focused around the 2020s." 6. Reports from Interfax said Russian president Vladimir Putin has banned food imports, as well as some farm produce and raw materials, from countries that have issued sanctions against Russia. Don't Miss: The Two Biggest Market Trends Of The Summer Just Fell Apart » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe head offices of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. are seen in Laval, QuebecBy Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Tim McLaughlin BOSTON (Reuters) - Two of Fidelity Investments' top stockpickers unloaded most of their holdings in Valeant Pharmaceuticals Inc after the drugmaker in April unveiled its bid for Botox maker Allergan Inc in what is one of 2014's most contentious takeovers. William Danoff, who runs the $106 billion Fidelity Contrafund, a staple in U.S. 401(k) plans, slashed his Valeant position by 83 percent to about 462,000 shares during a two-month period that ended June 30, fund disclosures show. Steven Wymer, who runs the $40 billion Fidelity Growth Company Fund, cut his position in Valeant by 58 percent to about 1.2 million shares in the one-month period that ended June 30, fund disclosures show. So far, it looks like a good move, with Valeant shares down 17 percent since the end of April. Still, Valeant has been a darling with U.S. fund managers because its stock has surged 723 percent over the past five years amid its growth-via-acquisition strategy. Valeant did not rank as a top holding for either fund. But the cuts by some of the country's most successful mutual fund managers reflect concern over Valeant's prospects, fueled most recently when it cut its earnings outlook for 2014 and 2015. Working with activist hedge fund manager William Ackman, Valeant made an unsolicited $47 billion bid for Allergan on April 22 and sweetened the bid several times since. Allergan steadfastly rebuffed the planned deal now valued at $51 billion. A spokeswoman for Fidelity declined to comment, citing the privately held company's policy not to discuss individual holdings. Danoff's Contrafund has one of the best long-term track records among U.S. large-cap equity funds, but its year-to-date total return of 2.9 percent is lagging the 5.1 percent advance of the benchmark S&amp;P 500 Index, according to Morningstar Inc data. Wymer’s fund, which is closed to new investors, is also a star in the industry, outperforming 92 percent of peers over the past 15 years, according to Morningstar. Jeff Tjornehoj, head of Lipper Americas Research, said Wymer "also manages to get near the top without subjecting investors to a wild ride as his fund’s price volatility is only slightly more than the average equity fund." Ackman, whose hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management is Allergan's biggest investor, is trying to call for a special shareholder meeting to replace Allergan board members with new directors who might be more amenable to Valeant's bid.  (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Richard Valdmanis) FREE AppDownload
A Twitter user called @NewYorkologist recently tweeted the image below. It's described as "Second Avenue Looking North From 42nd Street, 1861 - Egbert L. Viele (MCNY)." NewYorkologist For reference, from Google Streetview, here's what the same intersection looks like today: Google Street View (It's easy to imagine where the rocks went. But how about the hill? Is that it in the background?) SEE ALSO: If You Want To Buy An Apartment In This Building, You Need A Minimum Of $100 Million Of Liquid Assets FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Yves LoggheMcDonald's is struggling to get back on top.  The fast food giant has lost market share to fast-casual brands like Chipotle and better-burger restaurants like Five Guys.  In a recent call with investors and analysts, CEO Don Thompson revealed the four biggest issues facing the brand — and how he planned to fix them.  1. Offering the best value. McDonald's spent several years experimenting with high-end items like Angus beef burgers and Chicken Selects. By focusing on this, McDonald's ignored one of its biggest strengths.  "Value is one of our grand pillars," Thompson said. "So we must continue to fortify our position within this key consumer attribute." The brand is luring back cash-strapped customers with offerings like the low-priced Jalapeno McDouble and Buffalo Ranch McChicken.  2. Customer service. McDonald's drive-thru wait times have gotten worse over the years, in-part because of an increasingly complex menu. Thompson acknowledged this problem and said that the company was sending corporate representatives in for a "service reset." This could include adding more workers and assigning new tasks to existing ones.  The company is also remodeling European kitchens for faster food assembly.    3. Marketing. Thompson is aware that many view McDonald's as unhealthy junk food. This problem has been exacerbated by a food factory scandal in China. To improve public perception of the company, McDonald's is doing a global audit of the marketing department. Thompson said he planned to make new internal hires. "We are also strengthening our creative messages by placing greater emphasis on the quality of our food and again re-establishing the emotional connection that our customers associate with the McDonald’s experience," Thompson said.  4. Simplifying the menu. McDonald's menu has grown 70% since 2007. The new menu items are a burden on employees and have helped contribute to long wait times. Franchisees are also angry about the overloaded menu, saying that the extra ingredients and equipment were costing them money.  Thompson stressed that the restaurant was going back-to-basics.  "We are streamlining our merchandising menu board and product offerings and in addition to making it easier for customer to order their favorite products, this will reduce complexity in our restaurants which in turn should enhance accuracy and speed of service," he said.  FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotBreaking up is never easy.  But sometimes you just gotta do what you gotta do. This is especially true if your significant other works on Wall Street — and starts to show some very telling warning signs. We get it. Finance is a demanding job. Your boyfriend or girlfriend might be busy, stressed, stretched to the breaking point, and not be fulfilling all his or her duties as your significant other. But there's a point at which the behavior becomes unacceptable. To help you out, we've created a list of some common indicators that you're headed for trouble. If your significant other starts exhibiting any of these signs, you'd better run for the hills.  FREE AppDownload
There's been another Middle Eastern crisis brewing amidst the worst violence of Syria's civil war, ISIS's attempted genocide against Iraq's Yazidi community, and the month-long war in Gaza. Libya has disintegrated rapidly in recent weeks, with the destruction of Tripoli's airport, a raging fuel tanker fire in the capital, and some the worst fighting since the country's rebels overthrew dictator Muammar Gaddafi in 2011. Libya's chaos creates as gaping safe-haven for militant groups on the southern coast of the Mediterranean. And an analyst's report from Morgan Stanley suggests that the country's major industry is in an indefinite state of decline as well.  Libya's oil production has cratered in recent years. And this past month of violence is threatening the country's energy infrastructure, triggering a projected dip in already-low production levels and throwing the future of Libya's oil industry into doubt. The report notes that Libya's oil economy was remarkably resilient in the year after Gaddafi's ouster. In 2012, Libya still accounted for 10% of oil imports to Europe's Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development member countries.  This was a slight decrease from pre-conflict years, when European governments began to re-establish commercial ties with a Gaddafi government that was supposedly moving towards greater openness and reform. But it's far greater than Libya's numbers now: OECD Europe "imported just 3% of its total import needs from Libya from Jan-April 2014." And this was long before the increased violence of the past month. According to Morgan Stanley, Libyan production will likely average 500,000 barrels of oil per day in 2014 — a decline of over 400,000 barrels in daily production compared to the year before. While the country's oil infrastructure is still relatively intact, the report cites potential threats to Libya's seven oil export terminals, and security risks for oil fields deep in Libya's ungoverned desert frontier. The violence in Libya is unlikely to have an impact on global oil prices, and the report stresses that increased exports from places like Saudi Arabia should easily cushion the blow of disrupted production in Libya.  At the same time, a slowdown in oil exports in 2013 led to a 10% drop in the country's GDP in 2013, according to the World Bank. Instability is sure to ward off any future investment in the oil sector, while the three multinationals most deeply invested in the Libyan oil sector all stand to lose in production levels and earnings per share as a partial result of the crisis, according to Morgan Stanley. In sum, Libya's primary means of economic viability is slipping away at a time when the country is already chaotic. In a country that's spiraling into state collapse and militarism, things looks primed to get even worse. FREE AppDownload
JD Hancock via www.flickr.com creative commonsDisney's red-hot third quarter earnings featured 16% year-over-year growth in consumer products, aka merchandise. The company is seeing major growth there and across divisions from brands it bought in recent years, including Pixar, which it bought in 2006 for $7.4 billion, Marvel Entertainment, which it bought in 2009 for $4.6 billion, and Lucasfilm, which it acquired in 2012 for $4.1 billion. The 91-year-old company also has its own powerful brands. On its earnings conference call, Vasily Karasyov, an analyst at Sterne Agee, asked for clarification on Disney's three billion-dollar brands and was corrected by chairman and CEO Bob Iger, who said the company now had eight: Karasyov: You mentioned that you now have three $1 billion franchise properties in consumer products revenue. I think I know two of them, Princess and Star Wars. Do you mind telling me what the third one is? Iger: The third one is followed by five others and we have eight. Pooh, Mickey Mouse, Monsters, Star Wars, Spider-Man, Cars, Disney Junior, and Princess ... And all over $1 billion in global retail sales in fiscal 2014. As the world's top licensor, Disney generated a record $41 billion from licensed merchandise in 2013, a significant increase from $28.6 billion in 2010, according to a June report by Variety. Also coming down the pipe (assuming Disney counts them separately), Disney could see major merchandise growth for Frozen and non-Spider-Man Marvel characters. Asked about further mergers and acquisitions, Iger said the company was "spending a fair amount of time and capital investing in the assets that we currently have." Appearing on the CNBC, Iger specifically called out the success of Marvel, including its latest hit in "Guardians of the Galaxy": "It's not just about a good movie, it's about that the Marvel brand has arrived." FREE AppDownload
ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - About a year ago, Texas rancher George Krueger worried about his weight, and decided it was time to downsize - his Coke cans, that is. Like increasing numbers of U.S. consumers, Krueger bet that by switching from regular-sized soda cans to 7.5 ounce "mini"-sized ones, he could make a dent in his daily calorie intake. “It’s kind of a happy medium,” said the 62-year-old, who generally drinks a can a day, but sometimes goes for an extra one for more caffeine. “I can have my sweet fix but not feel guilty for having so much.” U.S. soft drink companies are betting that soda drinkers like Krueger and their willingness to buy smaller cans, even for a higher unit price, will be a potential antidote to weak sales as consumers shift away from sugary soft drinks. The mini-can is the latest move by food and beverage companies to boost their product offerings of smaller portion sizes that supposedly help consumers limit their caloric intake - even if there are signs that some end up reaching for another package or can. Mini can sales grew 3 percent in 2013 while the rest of the carbonated soft drink category dropped, according to market research firm Euromonitor International. Coca-Cola &lt;KO.N&gt; and Pepsi &lt;PEP.N&gt; said the cans were one of the few bright spots in U.S. soda sales in their second quarter earnings calls last month. “Consumers are paying more and more attention to calories now,” said Simon Lowden, chief marketing officer at Pepsi Beverages North America, in a phone interview last week. While such concerns might have once helped diet drinks, growing health worries about artificial sweeteners have hurt that category, experts say. Coke, the world’s largest soda maker, said there was double-digit growth in mini cans even while sales volumes of sparkling beverages in North America were flat. Smaller sizes, which include mini cans, accounted for more than 60 percent of the volume growth in traditional Coke. Pepsi’s mini can business in the United States has grown 24 percent year-to-date in 2014 and was up 34 percent last year. The company said that this year, it has also seen a significant increase in the number of in-store displays of mini cans. There's still a lot of room for growth. In 2013, mini cans comprised just 3 percent of carbonated beverage cans sold in the U.S., according to Euromonitor International. Earlier this year, the mini can was featured for the first time in a television ad starring actor Cuba Gooding Jr. which ran during the Oscars, the second most visible time frame behind the Super Bowl, Lowden said. Even beer companies are experimenting in the U.S. with smaller packaging. MillerCoors, a U.S. joint venture between SABMiller Plc &lt;SAB.L&gt; and Molson Coors Co, &lt;TAP.N&gt; offers 7-ounce bottles of Miller High Life as well as 10-ounce cans of Redd’s Wicked Apple and Coors Light Summer Brew. Heineken has rolled out a new 8.5-ounce “slim” can, citing “explosive growth” in smaller sized cans in the international market. The shift toward smaller cans “is almost the industry admitting that volume is not going to be growing very much,” said Ali Dibadj, a beverage analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. It is one way that companies can drive higher prices and larger margins: Consumers may feel as though they’re buying a cheaper, smaller soda, but they are often paying more per fluid ounce, analysts said. Indeed, there is a price difference between mini cans and regular cans at retail. At a Fairway grocery store in Manhattan last week, 7.5-ounce cans of regular Coke and Pepsi were $4.49 for an eight-pack. Twelve-ounce cans, on the other hand were $4.89 for a 12-pack. That works out to roughly 7 cents per ounce versus 3 cents an ounce. Teresa Votaw, 47, of Sugar Land, Texas, doesn't mind the higher prices. "I shop a lot at Whole Foods and am very particular about my children's diet," said Votaw. "I don't want my kids drinking sugary drinks, but I don't want them to be completely deprived." Jennifer Harris, director of marketing initiatives at the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University, said that smaller package sizes can help reduce soda consumption. “Studies show that people drink whatever package it comes in,” she said. That’s not necessarily the case with all food products, such as 100-calorie snack packs. A 2008 study by Arizona State University researchers found that dieters actually consumed more of the food in smaller packages than they would if it was regular sized. Krueger, the Texas rancher, hasn’t lost weight as a result of the mini cans but said they are likely keeping him from gaining more bulge. “If I was really sensible, I wouldn’t drink them at all, but I just love the taste," he said. (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Jilian Mincer, Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Hart Lambur and Yinon Ravid spent more than a collective decade in finance, where they had access to a resource most of us can never tap: The trading floor. The hidden value in the floor, they explain, was that it served as a sounding board. "We were able to ask people, 'What do you think of this stock? What do you think of emerging markets?'" remembers Ravid. "From our perspective, it wasn't that they were financial professionals, but that there was a place to talk about this stuff with people you trust." Now, they're creating a sounding board for the rest of us in the form of their online investing tool, Openfolio. The site, founded in 2013, just announced it's raised $1.3 million in a new funding round led by FinTech Collective.  Here's how it works: Once you sign up (for free) and link your brokerage accounts, your information is aggregated into networks segmented by characteristics such as sex, age, industry, and even college. You can view the progress of these networks, or you can follow individual investors and see everything from what they're holding to how their investments are performing. Essentially, you can see how your investments stack up compared to the people around you. Openfolio was created when the cofounders realized how tricky they found personal investing, even with their backgrounds in finance. "Right now, you're reading articles, fending for yourself," says Ravid. As part of the Openfolio community, he explains, "you can rely on the people you trust to show you what you care about." Lambur adds that millennials in particular tend to value their social circles' input over the opinions of experts. "When you go to choose a restaurant," he says, "you don't pick up Zagat. You go to Yelp or Foursquare to see what the people around you think."  The site doesn't reveal dollar amounts, but rather progress in terms of percentages. For instance, here's a shot of my network's performance, with the flat blue line at the bottom representing me (who hasn't yet hooked up any accounts). Openfolio Or, you can check out an individual's activity. For example, cofounder Ravid: Openfolio Although Openfolio could be considered a robo-advisor since it's an online-only investment platform, it doesn't manage your investments for you, and it isn't meant to be a hands-off tool. "That's what's different from Wealthfront or Betterment," Lambur says. "They offer you a set-it-and-forget-it solution, but we'll keep you engaged." It's worth noting that Openfolio does assume a certain amount of knowledge on the part of the investor, highlighting the activity of individual stocks and funds that a 401(k)-only investor might find a little intimidating. In the future, they plan to build out the site in order to allow users to take action based on the feedback they've gotten, but currently, active, informed investors might find the site most useful. A previous version of this post incorrectly stated that Openfolio raised an additional $1.1 million. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottAmerica's supercenters are dying a slow death.  Huge big-box stores like Wal-Mart Supercenters and Target are being phased out in favor of "some combination of value and convenience," Goldman Sachs recently wrote.  "Just about every major trend we're following right now bodes poorly for power center retail," Doug Stephens, founder of industry website Retail Prophet and author of "The Retail Revival: Re-Imagining Business for the New Age of Consumerism" told Business Insider.  Americans are driving less than they have in decades. Populations are flocking to smaller, urban communities over sprawling suburbs. And consumers in their 20s and 30s increasingly prefer small, local shops to big-box retail.  The proliferation of e-commerce also means that consumers can order many products online rather than having to drive to the store.  "The days of swinging the doors open on a dusty warehouse and waiting for throngs of customers to descend on it are numbered," Stephens said. In response to this trend, retailers like Wal-Mart and Whole Foods are building smaller stores. But that solution still leaves empty supercenters.  Retailers could repurpose the stores in a few ways, Stephens said. Some spaces could be used to test showrooms or store formats. Retailers could also use the venues for e-commerce.  McAllen Library/FacebookA library in McAllen, Texas, is housed in a former Wal-Mart. "Either you turn them into retail spaces that are so wildly experiential and memorable that people will travel to get to, or you make them multi-purpose distribution centers that allow for direct-to-home delivery, buy-online-pickup-in-store and other types of services," he said. Many retailers have begun to use stores as e-commerce distribution centers. Wal-Mart and Sears have recently started encouraging customers to pick up pre-ordered merchandise in stores.  In some markets, communities are turning deserted stores into public spaces.  The town of McAllen, Texas, turned an old Wal-Mart into an award-winning library.  Using the old spaces for community good will probably become more common over the next 20 years, Stephens said.  "I suspect we'll see the format die a slow death," he said.  FREE AppDownload
Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) got her way on Tuesday when the Federal Reserve rejected the living will plans for most Wall Street banks. Barclays, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, and JPMorgan Chase all had their plans rejected.* The concept of living wills was born of the financial crisis, when regulators and politicians realized that they had no orderly way of unwinding systemically important banks that had failed. They didn't want to see another Lehman bankruptcy that would take three years to resolve. The wills then became a part of Dodd-Frank, so banks were legally required to write their own strategies for the "rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company." The Fed on Tuesday made it clear that it did not feel the wills that banks submitted last month (now in their second iteration) were capable of doing that — something Warren had been shouting about. When Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testified before the Senate last month, Warren completely grilled her on JP Morgan's living will, which she said was not enough to cover the bank's $2.5 trillion in assets. "I almost couldn't believe this when I read it," Warren told Yellen. Yellen said the Fed was continuing to review the wills and that it was a complicated process. Warren wasn't satisfied: I think the language in the [Dodd-Frank] statute is pretty clear. That you are required, that the Fed is required to call it every year on whether these institutions have a credible plan. And I remind you, there are very effective tools that you can use if those plans are not credible. Including, forcing these financial institutions to simplify their structure, or forcing them to liquidate some of their assets. In other words, break them up. The Fed said the wills the banks presented were "unrealistic" and that firms lacked significant structural changes necessary to carry them out. From the Fed's release: The agencies will require that the annual plans submitted by the first-wave filers on or before July 1, 2015, demonstrate that the firms are making significant progress to address all the shortcomings identified in the letters, and are taking actions to improve their resolvability under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These actions include: The next wills come out in July 2015. Let's see if those satisfy Warren and the Fed.  *An earlier version of this story reported that Bank of America's plan had been accepted. It had not. The bank's capital plan, revised from April, has been accepted. FREE AppDownload
This provisional data for 2013 was released in May and shows a possible impact of the great recession ...From the National Center for Health Statistics: Births: Preliminary Data for 2013. The NCHS reports: The most amazing data is on teen births (see 2nd graph below).Here is a long term graph of annual U.S. births through 2013 ... CDC via Calculated Risk Births had declined for five consecutive years, and are about 8.3% below the peak in 2007 (births in 2007 were at the all time high - even higher than during the "baby boom"). I suspect certain segments of the population were under stress before the recession started - like construction workers - and even more families were in distress in 2008 through 2012. And this led to fewer babies.Notice that the number of births started declining a number of years before the Great Depression started. Many families in the 1920s were under severe stress long before the economy collapsed. By 1933 births were down by almost 23% from the early '20s levels.Of course economic distress isn't the only reason births decline - look at the huge decline following the baby boom that was driven by demographics. But it is not surprising that the number of births slow or decline during tough economic times - but that appears to be over now. The second graph is from the NCHS report and shows births per 1,000 women by teen age group.  CDC via Calculated Risk From the NCHS:  The number of births to teenagers aged 15–19 in 2013 was 274,641, also down 10% from 2012 and the lowest number of teen births ever reported for the United States. The 2013 number of births was 38% less than in 2007 (444,899), the most recent high, and 57% less than in 1970, the all-time peak year for the number of teen births (644,708). Far fewer teens births is great news (and is probably related to the much higher enrollment rates).Another key trend ... women are waiting longer to have babies:  The birth rate for women aged 20–24 was 81.2 births per 1,000 women in 2013, down 2% from the previous record low rate in 2012 (83.1). Since 2007, the rate for women in this age group has declined steadily at nearly 4% per year. The 2013 preliminary birth rate for women aged 30–34 was 98.7 births per 1,000 women, up 1% from the rate in 2012 (97.3). The number of births to women in their early 30s also increased in 2013, by 2%. The rate for women aged 35–39 was 49.6 births per 1,000 women, up 3% from 2012 (48.3), reaching the highest rate for this age group since 1963. The number of births to women in their late 30s increased 3% in 2013. Waiting longer to have children makes sense (see: Demographics and Behavior) and we should expect a baby boom in a few years as the largest cohorts move into the 25 to 34 years old age groups. (for largest cohorts, see: Census Bureau: Largest 5-year Population Cohort is now the "20 to 24" Age Group).P.S. I expect that as families have babies, they will tend to buy homes (as opposed to rent)!   The demographics are favorable for renting now (see: The Favorable Demographics for Apartments), but eventually the demographics will be more positive for home ownership. FREE AppDownload
Associated PressWe recently published our list of the World's 50 Best Business Schools.  For this list, nearly 10,000 readers rated the reputation of the graduates from top business schools around the world.  We included responses only from professionals who said they had experience hiring MBAs at least half the time. We also filtered the data to obtain better geographical balance. When we filtered the results further to only include responses from people who said that they worked in finance, the results changed slightly.  Stanford took the top spot on this version of the list, bumping Harvard down to number two. The London School of Economics (#7) and Yale (#9) also moved up a few spots (from #8 and #11, respectively, on the main list). The London School of Business (#9 on the main list) got bumped off of this list.  Here are the top 10 business schools in the world, according to people who work in finance:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amir CohenStocks went nowhere amid a light economic calendar and in the wake of more than $100 billion of proposed mergers were pulled last night.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $41.5 billion in June from a revised $44.7 billion May. Following this report, a number of Wall Street firms raised their outlooks for the second estimate of second quarter GDP. Wells Fargo raised their outlook to 4.25% from 4%, Barclays raised its outlook to 4.3% from 4%. Capital Economics also raised their outlook, to 4.2% from 4%, writing that, "Overall, we expect the trade deficit to widen modestly over the second half of this year. Exports should continue to grow, but the evident strength in domestic demand suggests that the gain in imports will be even more rapid. Nevertheless, any increase in the deficit should be relatively modest, particularly if the U.S. continues to reduce its reliance on imported oil as domestic production increases." 2. The biggest stock story of the day was 21st Century Fox withdrawing its offer for Time Warner, and Sprint no longer looking to buy T-Mobile. Fox pulled its previously announced $85 per share offer for Time Warner, saying that Time Warner management, "refused to engage with us to explore an offer which was highly compelling. Additionally, the reaction in our share price since our proposal was made undervalues our stock and makes the transaction unattractive to Fox shareholders." Following the announcement, Fox shares gained 3% and Time Warner shares fell more than 12%. Sprint shares fell nearly 19%, as the company also replaced its CEO, Dan Hesse, while T-Mobile shares lost 8% after the news. 3. Walgreen announced it would acquire the remaining stake in European pharmacy chain Alliance Boots it didn't already own for about $5.3 billion. The company also said it wouldn't move its tax base from Illinois, spurning the recently popular plan by companies to execute a so-called "tax inversion" in which they adopt the tax base of an acquired foreign company. Walgreen's announcement comes just a day after the Obama administration signaled it was reviewing options in attempts to prevent tax inversions, which have been on the rise this year. Following the news, shares of Walgreen were down more than 14%.  4. Bank of America received approval from the Federal Reserve for its 2014 capital plan, and as a result announced it would raise its dividend 400% to $0.05 per share from $0.01 per share. Bank of America shares gained more than 1% following the news.  5. Jeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital was profiled in The Financial Times, and said he sees the Federal Reserve resurrecting its quantitative easing program in 2020. Gundlach told the FT's Stephen Foley that 2020 is an "interesting timeframe" for the bond market, telling Foley that, "It seems like one of the consequences of this zero interest rate policy is you’ve pushed out the problem of refinancing, of rolling over, but you’ve really compounded the magnitude of it and it seems to be focused around the 2020s." 6. Reports from Interfax said Russian president Vladimir Putin has banned food imports, as well as some farm produce and raw materials, from countries that have issued sanctions against Russia. Don't Miss: The Two Biggest Market Trends Of The Summer Just Fell Apart » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozPeople in front of the 740 Park Avenue building in New York on April 10. 740 Park Avenue is a legendary address, at one time considered (and still thought to be by some) the most luxurious and powerful residential building in New York City. The co-op, on the corner of 71st Street and Park Avenue, has an impressive past. Built in 1929 by the grandfather of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis — who lived there as a child — 740 Park has just 31 residences that have commanded some of the highest real estate prices in New York history. John D. Rockefeller, financier Saul Steinberg, and Blackstone founder Steve Schwarzman have all called the building (and in fact, the same opulent apartment) home. While many of New York's rich and powerful people have decamped to 15 Central Park West and the shiny condos rising along the new "Billionaire's Row" on 57th Street, that won't diminish classic co-ops of the Upper East Side, and 740 Park in particular, says Michael Gross. Gross is the author of "House of Outrageous Fortune" about 15 Central Park West and "740 Park: The Story of the World's Richest Apartment Building." "I think in the current condo era, [740 Park] represents a previous generation of Manhattan wealth," Gross told Business Insider. "But I think that the cyclical nature of real estate makes it a very good bet that co-ops will have a comeback, and the east side will have a comeback." FREE AppDownload
Nu SkinShares of direct selling company Nu Skin were down more than 24% after reporting second quarter earnings and revenue that missed expectations. The company also gave a third quarter revenue outlook that came in well below expectations. Nu Skin is a direct selling company that distributes anti-aging products. According to the IRS, direct selling companies market their products via independent sellers who contact customers away from a retail store. These companies can operate as single- or multi-level marketing companies, with single-level marketers compensating sellers only for products sold, while multi-level marketers allow sales reps to earn commission from sales made by their underlying sellers.  Herbalife, for example, is a multi-level marketer that hedge funder Bill Ackman is famously short. Herbalife shares are also having a rough day, falling to a 52-week low.  In Q2, Nu Skin earned $1.22 per share, below the $1.27 expected by Wall Street, on revenue of $650 million, shy of the $709 million expected by the Street.  In Q3, the company said revenue is expected to come in between $620-$640 million, well below current analysts estimates for revenue of $847 million.  Nu Skin also amended its 10-Q for the first quarter, to include a $21 million charge related to currency and tax-related adjustments.  The troubles for Nu Skin follow regulatory reviews the company faced in China earlier this year, which forced the company to suspend business promotional meetings from January until May.  On Twitter, TheStreet.com's Herb Greenberg, who has long been critical of the company, tweeted some of the "highlights" from Nu Skins' earnings conference call. $NUS on China: “Business activities are still limited…" $NUS says “lectured” by China reps “that this is just way it is in China. And it's the way you all need to get used to doing business here…" When pushed by analysts on China, it sounds like $NUS execs remain in the dark on what’s really going on in China.Lots of careful wording. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA tug boat passes in front of a freighter at the Port of Oakland in OaklandBy Lucia Mutikani WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. trade deficit narrowed more than expected in June as petroleum imports dropped to a 3-1/2-year low, suggesting that trade was less of a drag on second-quarter economic growth than initially thought. The Commerce Department said on Wednesday the trade gap shrank 7.0 percent to $41.5 billion, the lowest reading since January. That was smaller than the roughly $44.8 billion shortfall the government had assumed in its first snapshot of second-quarter gross domestic product published last week. "The improvement in June could mean a modest upward revision to the second-quarter GDP estimate," said Millan Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York. "It also implies a fairly strong hand-off to third-quarter GDP." When adjusted for inflation, the deficit narrowed to $48.8 billion from $52.0 billion in May. As a result, economists expect the GDP growth estimate for the April-June quarter to be raised by as much as 0.3 percentage point later this month. The government estimated a week ago that trade subtracted 0.61 percentage point from growth in the April-June period. In that report, it said the economy expanded at a 4.0 percent annual rate during that quarter after shrinking 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year. Economists had expected a trade gap of $44.7 billion in June, a slight widening from the previously reported $44.4 billion May shortfall. The May gap was revised to $44.7 billion. Imports fell 1.2 percent in June, the largest drop in a year, to $237.4 billion. That came as petroleum imports declined to $27.4 billion, the lowest level since November 2010, from $28.3 billion in May.  SHALE BOOM A domestic energy boom has seen the country reduce its dependence of foreign oil. In June, the petroleum deficit fell to its lowest level since May 2009. Non-petroleum imports were also weak, falling to $167.6 billion from $169.6 billion in May, suggesting a slower pace of inventory accumulation by businesses that month. They were dragged down by declines in industrial supplies, capital goods, autos and consumer goods. Food imports, however, hit a record high. The decline in imports is at odds with strong manufacturing activity and relatively firm domestic demand. "With the economy growing, consumer and business spending rising and vehicle sales robust, there is every reason to believe that imports will rebound going forward," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pennsylvania. Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley in New York, said anecdotal reports pointed to some significant front-loading of imports through the West Coast in July ahead of a feared dock workers strike, which was avoided. Exports edged up 0.1 percent to a record high of $195.9 billion in June, supported by a surge in automobiles, parts and engines, which rose to an all-time high. Consumer goods exports also hit a record high. There was also a jump in crude oil exports. "We still see net exports on pace to contribute to third-quarter GDP," said Wieseman. Third-quarter growth estimates are currently around a 3 percent pace. Exports to Canada hit an all-time high in June. Exports to China rose 1.4 percent, while imports from that country increased 3.7 percent. That left the politically sensitive trade gap with China at $30.1 billion, up 4.5 percent from May.  (Reporting By Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoInterfax is reporting that Russian president Vladimir Putin has issued a decree banning or limiting the import of foodstuffs, farm produce, and raw materials from countries that have signed joint sanctions against Russia.  Among the American companies with exposure to Russia are Philip Morris, Pepsi, and Avon Products, according to a report from Robert Buckland the global strategy team at Citi.  The companies most exposed to Russia, according to Citi, are Germany-based Coca-Cola Hellenic and Danish beer maker Carlsberg.  Following the latest headlines, U.S. markets, as well as the ETF tracking Russia, were little changed. On Tuesday, stocks sold off sharply in the afternoon after headlines crossed that Russia has increased its military presence along the Ukraine border. However, in his morning commentary on Wednesday, however, UBS' Art Cashin said the sell-off, however, didn't pass the "Sherlock Holmes" test, attributing yesterday's decline in stocks to "internal technicals," not anything related to geopolitical developments.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike CasseseFiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne.DETROIT (Reuters) - Amid concerns that Fiat shareholders will prevent a merger of the Italian automaker with Chrysler Group, the American automaker reported that second-quarter profit was up 22 percent to $619 million. Fiat shares fell as much as 8.5 percent on Wednesday to their lowest of the year on concerns that investors who voted against the merger with Chrysler would exercise their right to sell the stock, potentially jeopardizing the tie-up. Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of both Fiat and Chrysler, spoke to industry analysts on a conference call on Wednesday. Chrysler posted a rise of 14 percent in net revenue to $20.5 billion. (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — Donald Trump has a message for the two Atlantic City casinos that still bear his name, five years after he gave up anything to do with running them: You're fired. The real estate mogul and reality TV star, who presided over a casino empire in the glory days of Atlantic City, filed a lawsuit on Tuesday demanding that his name be stripped from the remaining two. He told The Associated Press he sued Trump Entertainment Resorts, a descendant of a corporate entity he once controlled, because it has allowed its two Atlantic City casinos, the Trump Plaza and the Trump Taj Mahal, to fall into disrepair, tarnishing his personal brand and confusing customers. "I want it off both of them," Trump said in an interview Tuesday evening. "I've been away from Atlantic City for many years. People think we operate (the company), and we don't. It's not us. It's not me." It was the latest manifestation of Atlantic City's struggles: One casino closed in January, two others are slated to do so by next month and another is up for a bankruptcy auction on Thursday and will shut down if a buyer doesn't materialize. Trump's lawsuit, filed in state Superior Court in Atlantic County, seeks a court order directing Trump Entertainment Resorts to immediately cure what it terms a breach of Trump's licensing agreement with the company or remove his name from the casinos and the company itself. "Since Mr. Trump left Atlantic City many years ago, the license entities have allowed the casino properties to fall into an utter state of disrepair and have otherwise failed to operate and manage the casino properties in accordance with the high standards of quality and luxury required under the license agreement," Trump wrote in his lawsuit, filed in the name of Trump AC Casino Marks LLC. "The Trump name ... has become synonymous with the highest levels of quality, luxury, prestige and success." Trump Entertainment Resorts CEO Robert Griffin declined to comment on the lawsuit. Trump appears particularly vexed at the impending closing of Trump Plaza on Sept. 16. In the lawsuit, he asserts Trump Plaza failed two quality review tests carried out by a third-party consulting firm, one in 2012 and the other three weeks ago. Days later, Trump asserts, the company sent letters to its employees and announced it would close Trump Plaza in September without notifying him. "Not only does the issuance of these WARN notices further harm the Trump name and brand, but it also underscores the (company's) inability to remedy the appalling conditions that gave rise to the defaults under the licensing agreement in the first place," the lawsuit says. Trump said the casinos fail to meet industry standards regarding hotel services, food and beverage operations and overall cleanliness, which he said guests had been complaining about for years. Trump does not run or control Trump Entertainment Resorts, which was formed after the Trump casino empire emerged from the second of its three bankruptcies. But he retains a 10 percent stake, which enables the company to use his name for licensing purposes. Trump told the AP he has not considered whether to divest his remaining ownership stake in the company. ___ Wayne Parry can be reached at http://twitter.com/WayneParryAC Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
America is aging.  As a result, the country is seeing an explosion in jobs in involving caring for the elderly. The BLS now projects personal and home care aids will be the fastest-growing occupations in the next decade, climbing 49% through 2022. At the same time, the retirement and assisted living industry is now the least-profitable industry in America, according to Sageworks.   Sageworks' analyst Libby Bierman told BI by phone that the industry has lots of overhead, though wages in the aforementioned positions are usually among the lowest in the country. Instead, she said, most of the spending goes to a never-ending series of facilities upgrades and expansions.  Here's the table showing the lowest-margin industries in America. Retirement and assisted living actually suffers from negative margins on average, the only industry to do so.  Sageworks If you're interested, below are the most profitable industries. Bierman said the ones at the top generally enjoy low overhead — basically, anything you can run out of an office. It's not clear why religious corporations make the list, Bierman said. She suggested this was an anomaly.   Sageworks FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozShares of Herbalife slipped below $50 on Wednesday morning. That means hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, could be getting closer to breaking even on his infamous short. It's believed that Ackman shorted Herbalife in the mid-$40s. (In October 2013, he repositioned about 40% of his $1 billion equity short position for put options in an effort to reduce risk.) The stock has dipped as low as $48.92 on Wednesday. That's also a 52-week low.  Shares of Herbalife are down about 26% since Ackman's presentation two weeks ago.  For more than 18 months, Ackman has been on a crusade against Herbalife — a multi-level marketer that sells nutritional shakes and weight-loss products. In late December 2012, Ackman publicly declared via a 342-slide presentation that he was short $1 billion worth of Herbalife. He believes the company is operating as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. It's his contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut the company down. (Back in March, the FTC opened an investigation into the company.) Since Ackman first revealed his short position, shares of Herbalife have surged. What's more is a number of other fund managers, most notably his long-time rival Carl Icahn, have gone long the stock. Icahn, who seems to have made up with Ackman, said last month at a conference that he hadn't sold a single share of Herbalife. Two weeks ago, Ackman gave what he called "the most important presentation" of his career. It ended up being a disaster. As Ackman spoke, shares of Herbalife soared to end the day up 25%. Ackman later called it a "PR failure."  He told the audience at the time not to pay attention to the day-to-day stock price. Perhaps he's pleased with Wednesday's price movement, though.  Since 2012, Ackman had racked up hundreds of millions in paper losses. Wednesday has to be looking better for him.  Yahoo! Finance    FREE AppDownload
Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesThe San Antonio Spurs took home their 5th NBA title in June. This morning we learned the U.S. trade deficit unexpectedly narrowed to $41.5 billion, a five-month low. As a result, Wall Street firms' GDP models are climbing. "Trade data are always a lagging economic indicator as it takes time to get things boxed and shipped, but this is yet another sign that the economy is normalizing six years after the recession ended," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey said in a note. " The trade deficit narrowed in June to $41.5 billion from $44.7 billion in May, which may revise 4% GDP in the second quarter a little higher, not that it needs it." Capital Economics says it now sees 4.2% annualized Q2 GDP growth, up from the initial reading of 4% . Barclays' model ticked up to 4.3% from the 4.0% initial reading.   And Wells Fargo has now adjusted its model to 4.25% from 4%.  Not bad at all. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiThe Federal Reserve is currently on pace to end its quantitative easing program in October, but Jeff Gundlach sees this program making a comeback — in the 2020s. In an interview with The Financial Times, Gundlach, the founder, CEO, and CIO of DoubleLine funds says that 2020 is an "interesting timeframe." The FT's Stephen Foley notes, however, that, "When a bond market maven says 'interesting,' be scared." Foley writes that on Gundlach's list of "interesting" developments are the Fed's holdings maturing, soaring deficits due to a drain on social security, and high-yield debt issuers needing to refinance. Gundlach told the FT, "It seems like one of the consequences of this zero interest rate policy is you’ve pushed out the problem of refinancing, of rolling over, but you’ve really compounded the magnitude of it and it seems to be focused around the 2020s." One reason the Fed may have to resurrect quantitative easing by then, Gundlach said, is that investors seem to be deluded about growth prospects. They all cling to the notion of "escape velocity," he said, "and then all of a sudden they won't." Gundlach still doesn't expect 2014 GDP to exceed 2% for the full-year. Foley's whole interview is well worth a read, providing yet another bit of insight into the mind of one of the most important people in the bond market. (via FT) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCompany logo of the Bank of America and Merrill Lynch is displayed at its office in Hong Kong(Reuters) - Bank of America Corp  said it would increase its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per shares from 1 cent per share, its first dividend increase in seven years. The bank withdrew its previously planned increase in April after it found errors that reduced a key capital level by $4 billion.  (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Google MapsThe Wildenstein Townhouse on E. 64th St.The nation of Qatar has pulled the plug on a $90 million purchase of an Upper East Side townhouse at 19 East 64th Street, putting an end to what would have been the city’s priciest commercial townhouse deal, The Real Deal has learned. In January, Qatar, represented by Douglas Elliman’s Oren and Tal Alexander, entered into contract to buy the 20,500-square-foot townhouse from the Wildenstein family with the intention of using it as a consulate, as TRD reported. At the time, the Alexanders said the contract was for $100 million, but a source familiar with the property confirmed yesterday that the contract was for $90 million. The Wildensteins, who are prominent New York City art dealers, were being represented by the Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang. They were using the townhouse as an art gallery, but it now lies vacant, and questions remain as to whether they will look for a new buyer. The closing was slated for late June. Shortly before then, however, lawyers representing Qatar approached the Wildensteins and indicated that the deal could die, according to a well-placed source. A new closing date was set for late July, but once again the Qataris’ lawyers expressed that their clients were not going to complete the acquisition. “The deal did not close as scheduled,” a spokesperson for the Wildensteins told TRD yesterday, but declined to comment further. When approached by TRD last month, Oren Alexander said that he was “patiently waiting for closing.” He cited certificate of occupancy issues as a reason for the delay, but insisted that the deal would be sealed in July. Chiang didn’t respond to requests for comment. This week, both Alexander brothers did not respond to multiple requests for comment. The deal, which they aggressively publicized when it went into contract, would have been the largest single sale of their careers. Ahmed Yousef Al-Rumaihi, consul general for the state of Qatar in New York, told TRD in a statement in January that the property was in “move-in condition.” But he couldn’t be reached for comment this week. What caused the Qataris to get cold feet remains unclear. It’s unlikely to be an issue of money – the nation’s sovereign wealth fund has about $170 billion in assets under management, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute. And Qatari royals have shown a penchant for buying trophy Manhattan real estate, including the $35 million Ellen Biddle Shipman Residence at Beekman Place, a $47 million townhouse at 22 East 71st Street formerly owned by Aby Rosen, and multiple apartments at Gary Barnett’s One57, according to news reports. But sources speculated the Qatari government may be looking to lower its profile, in the light of severe criticism heaped against it after a report concluded that hundreds of migrant construction workers have died due to poor working conditions in the oil-rich nation. A recent ESPN documentary estimated that, at the current rate, more than 4,000 migrant workers will die by 2022, by the time Qatar hosts the FIFA World Cup. In anticipation of the closing, the Wildensteins had already vacated the art gallery and cleaned out the space, a source said. It’s uncertain what the fate of the property will be, and the Wildensteins’ spokesperson declined to comment about whether the family would pursue litigation. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank of America sign is pictured in Encinitas, CaliforniaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve said on Wednesday it had approved a resubmitted capital plan from Bank of America &lt;BAC.N&gt;, part of an annual stress test of banks' financial robustness. Bank of America subsequently announced that it is raising its dividend to $0.05 from $0.01 per share. In April, the Fed required Bank of America to resubmit its capital plan and to suspend planned increases in capital distributions after the bank disclosed it had incorrectly reported data used in its calculations. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Bill Trott) FREE AppDownload
Federal regulators have told 11 major U.S. banks that their so-called "living wells" describing how they'd take themselves apart in the event of a major financial clock make unrealistic assumptions about how clients and customers would behave. In a joint statement announcing their review of the resolution plans, the Fed and FDIC said the banks had apparently done nothing to prevent a disorderly unwinding like those that occurred at the height of the financial crisis.    The firms have failed to "make, or even to identify, the kinds of changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for orderly resolution," the agencies said.  The firms on the receiving end of this rebuke included Barclays, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, and JPMorgan Chase. Full text is here and below: Agencies Provide Feedback on Second Round Resolution Plans of "First-Wave" FilersFirms required to address shortcomings in 2015 submissions The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the completion of reviews of the second round of resolution plans submitted by 11 large, complex banking organizations in 2013. The agencies have issued letters to each of these banking organizations. In their review of the resolution plans, the agencies noted some improvements from the original plans submitted by these "first-wave filers" in 2012. Among the improvements were the narratives and the attempts to address the five obstacles identified in guidance issued by the agencies in April 2013. These improvements notwithstanding, the agencies have jointly identified specific shortcomings with the 2013 resolution plans that will need to be addressed in the 2015 submissions. The letters to each first-wave filer detail the specific shortcomings of each firm's plan and the expectations of the agencies for the 2015 submission. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires that certain banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial companies designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council for supervision by the Federal Reserve periodically submit resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Each plan, commonly known as a living will, must describe the company's strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company. The 11 firms in the first group of filers include Bank of America, Bank of New York Mellon, Barclays, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, State Street Corp., and UBS. Overview of Plan ShortcomingsWhile the shortcomings of the plans varied across the first-wave firms, the agencies have identified several common features of the plans' shortcomings. These common features include: (i) assumptions that the agencies regard as unrealistic or inadequately supported, such as assumptions about the likely behavior of customers, counterparties, investors, central clearing facilities, and regulators, and (ii) the failure to make, or even to identify, the kinds of changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for orderly resolution. The agencies will require that the annual plans submitted by the first-wave filers on or before July 1, 2015, demonstrate that the firms are making significant progress to address all the shortcomings identified in the letters, and are taking actions to improve their resolvability under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. These actions include: The agencies are also committed to finding an appropriate balance between transparency and confidentiality of proprietary and supervisory information in the resolution plans. As such, the agencies will be working with these firms to explore ways to enhance public transparency of future plan submissions. As noted earlier, the agencies will require that the annual plans submitted by the first-wave filers on or before July 1, 2015, demonstrate that the firms are making significant progress to address all the shortcomings identified in the letters. Agency staff will work with each of these firms to discuss expected improvements in the resolution plans and the efforts, both proposed and already in progress, to facilitate each firm's preferred resolution strategy. Based on the review of the 2013 plans, the FDIC Board of Directors determined pursuant to section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act that the plans submitted by the first-wave filers are not credible and do not facilitate an orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Federal Reserve Board determined that the 11 banking organizations must take immediate action to improve their resolvability and reflect those improvements in their 2015 plans. The agencies agreed that in the event that the first-wave filers have not, on or before July 1, 2015, submitted plans responsive to the identified shortcomings, the agencies expect to use their authority under section 165(d) to determine that a resolution plan does not meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesKim Stolz Former "America's Next Top Model" contestant Kim Stolz has been hired as a director for equity-derivative sales at Bank of America, Bloomberg News reports. She started at Bank of America last month. She previously worked as a vice president in its equity-derivative sales at Citigroup. Stolz, 31, finished in fifth place in cycle five of the popular reality modeling television show hosted by supermodel Tyra Banks. She was the first out lesbian contestant on the show.  In 2010, Stolz joined BTIG's equity-derivatives team. She's also a Goldman Sachs alum.  She interned at the bank in 2004, FINRA records show.  Before Wall Street, she was employed by MTV as a host from June 2006 to June 2010.  She has also worked for Ford Models and has contributed to The Huffington Post, her LinkedIn profile shows. She has also modeled for American Eagle, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, Nordstrom and others.  She graduated from Wesleyan University in 2005 with a bachelor's in government and international politics.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray The two biggest trends of the summer have fallen apart: mergers &amp; acquisitions and tax inversions. On Tuesday, more than $100 billion worth of proposed mergers was withdrawn as Fox pulled its bid for Time Warner and reports said Sprint would not make an offer for T-Mobile. Additionally, Walgreen Co. announced that it would acquire the remaining stake in European pharmacy chain Alliance Boots it did not already own, but as part of the deal the company will not move its tax base overseas in a tax inversion deal. These pieces of news represent a dramatic and rapid shift in the behavior of companies in the market. And what's more, investors are punishing these companies.  Following the news that Fox is pulling its deal for Time Warner, shares of Time Warner are down more than 11%. And shares of both Sprint and T-Mobile are reacting negatively to that deal not coming together, with Sprint falling more than 17% and T-Mobile losing almost 9%.  Shares of Walgreens are also getting punished, falling more than 13% after the announcement. In the first half of 2014, total proposed merger volume was running at a roughly $1.5 trillion annualized pace, the highest since 2007. Following Fox's offer for Time Warner, this chart showing Rupert Murdoch's three latest acquisitions made the rounds, showing Murdoch nailing the previous two market tops.  @SaraEisen And while this chart is a facile illustration of Murdoch's acquisitions against the stock market, the reaction gave us an interesting window into the psychological state of the market.  Walgreens' announcement that it would not execute a tax inversion, a controversial but legal maneuver that has seen companies acquire foreign companies and move their tax base to avoid paying U.S. taxes on foreign sales, also signals a change in corporate behavior.  Walgreens' announcement follows news on Tuesday that the Obama administration is reviewing possible actions to stem the tide of companies shifting their tax base overseas.  In addition to commentary out of the White House, tax inversions have drawn the ire of other commentators ranging from Mark Cuban to Stephen Colbert, but this chart from Goldman Sachs shows that rhetoric hasn't really stopped companies from trying these deals. Until now, it seems.  Goldman Sachs Last week saw the S&amp;P 500 endure its worst week in two years, dropping more than 2%. And while the benchmark index is still less than 5% off its most recent highs, many are wondering if the market is getting ready for a long-anticipated correction.  On Monday, we highlighted commentary from Jonathan Krinsky of MKM Partners, who wrote that for the past year and a half, the market has been effectively "crying wolf" at every small decline by quickly recovering any losses and again moving higher. Krinsky said that now, the wolf may finally be coming.  In an environment in which investors seem to be looking for an excuse to sell stocks, the breakdown of two powerful corporate trends might be enough to really spook the market. FREE AppDownload
Success at work stems from face-to-face communication with others. Here's how to take advantage of small talk – it will go a long way. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
Thomson ReutersA tug boat passes in front of a freighter at the Port of Oakland in OaklandWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. trade deficit narrowed more than expected in June as petroleum imports dropped to a 3-1/2 year low, suggesting that trade was less of a drag on second-quarter economic growth than initially thought. The Commerce Department said on Wednesday the trade gap dropped 7.0 percent to $41.5 billion, the lowest reading since January. May's trade deficit was revised up to $44.7 billion. Economists polled by Reuters had expected the deficit to widen slightly to $44.7 billion in June from a previously reported $44.4 billion shortfall in May. When adjusted for inflation, the deficit narrowed to $48.8 billion from $52.0 billion in May. June's overall trade deficit was far smaller than what the government had assumed in its first snapshot of second-quarter gross domestic product published last week. That suggests the GDP growth estimate for the quarter could be revised up. Trade subtracted 0.61 percentage point from growth in the April-June period. The economy expanded at a 4.0 percent annual rate during that quarter after shrinking 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year. In June, imports fell 1.2 percent, the largest drop in a year, to $237.4 billion. That came as petroleum imports declined to $27.4 billion, the lowest level since November 2010, from $28.3 billion in May. A domestic energy boom has seen the country reduce its dependence of foreign oil, helping to ease pressure on the current account deficit. In June, the petroleum deficit fell to is lowest level since May 2009. While non-petroleum imports fell to $167.6 billion from $169.6 billion in May, food imports hit a record high. In June, exports edged up 0.1 percent to a record high of $195.9 billion. Exports were supported by a surge in automobiles, parts and engines, which rose to a record high. Exports of consumer goods were also the highest on record. Rising exports bode well for economic growth prospects for the rest of the year. Exports to Canada hit an all-time high in June. Exports to China rose 1.4 percent, while imports from that country increased 3.7 percent. That left the politically sensitive trade gap with China at $30.1 billion, up 4.5 percent from May.  (Reporting By Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyThe U.S. trade deficit in June narrowed to $41.5 billion. Expectations were for the trade deficit to widen some to $44.8 billion. The deficit for May was revised to $44.7 billion from $44.4 billion. From the BEA: "In June, the goods deficit decreased $3.0 billion from May to $60.3 billion, and the services surplus increased $0.1 billion from May to $18.7 billion. Exports of goods increased $0.1 billion to $136.9 billion, and imports of goods decreased $2.9 billion to $197.2 billion. Exports of services increased $0.1 billion to $59.0 billion, and imports of services were virtually unchanged at $40.2 billion." Following this report, Captial Economics wrote that this decline points to Q2 GDP being revised higher, likely to about 4.2% from the initial 4% print. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures fell on Wednesday, with S&amp;P e-minis at a more than two-month low, on worries of an escalation of the conflict in Ukraine and as key merger and acquisition deals fell through. NATO said Wednesday Russia has amassed around 20,000 combat-ready troops on Ukraine's eastern border and could use the pretext of a humanitarian or peace-keeping mission to invade. A further souring of relations between Russia and the West could hurt the European economy, already struggling to recover from a deep recession. Data on Wednesday showed German industrial orders dropped in June at their steepest rate since September 2011 and Italy's economy unexpectedly slid back into recession in the second quarter. Sprint dropped its bid for carrier T-Mobile U.S. after regulatory resistance showed no signs of softening despite months of lobbying. Sprint shares fell 13.9 percent and T-Mobile dropped 7.8 percent in heavy trading before the opening bell. Rupert Murdoch's Twenty-First Century Fox pulled its $80 billion offer to buy Time Warner Inc that would have created one of the world's largest media conglomerates. TWX shares slid 11.1 percent in premarket despite reporting better-than-expected results, while Fox jumped 8 percent. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures were down 7 points and fair value - a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract - indicated a lower open. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures fell 60 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures lost 21 points. Walgreen Co shares fell 11 percent in premarket trading after it said it wouldn't use a full takeover of Europe's biggest pharmacy chain Alliance Boots to move its domicile overseas, following fierce criticism of such tax-cutting deals at home. Shares of Cognizant Technology fell 10.2 percent in premarket trading after the IT services provider said it expected slower full-year sales growth than previously forecast. Groupon shares tumbled 16.5 percent in premarket trading a day after it slashed its full-year profit outlook.  (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
I often receive questions on which color shoes to wear with which color pants. None of the questions are bad questions; sometimes it is hard to tell if things work together. So I have decided to make a chart to try to help all of us out. I hope the chart is easy to understand. On the left we have the pant color and the right, the shoe color. If you can wear a given color of shoe with a color of pants, the color is present. If you cannot, ‘NO’ will be present. The Fine Young Gentlemen  Now, obviously, there are exceptions to everything. Sometimes certain shades of burgundy won’t go with burgundy pants, or the grays and browns just won’t mix. So this is only to act as a general guide and not as law, for it is mostly a subjective view on what I have seen done well and not well over the past few years. I should note that some of you may disagree with some of the approved and not approved combinations, such as my lack of support for tan pants and black shoes. Disagree all you want, but I don’t think I’ve ever seen the pairing done well. Anyway, you should get the idea by now. Justin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman -- a blog on mens style founded on the belief that men can and should dress better.  He was previously an auditor at one of the Big Four in New York City.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth England's Jack Laugher, left, and Chris Mears compete in the men's Synchronized 3m Springboard final at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, Scotland, on Friday.  Markets around the world are coughing up gains on fears of how Russia might respond to the latest round of Western sanctions, and on nasty data out of Europe. The Wall Street Journal's Patrick O'Connor reports that Russia may be considering restricting parts of its airspace to Western airlines, which could significantly drive up the cost of flying. O'Connor cites a Russian newspaper report, while Moscow has so far denied that that is an option. But that they will respond is not in doubt. "The government of Russia has already proposed a series of retaliatory measures against the so-called sanctions of certain countries," Russian President Vladimir Putin said recently according to O'Connor. "I think that in current conditions, with the goal of protecting the interests of domestic producers, we could certainly think about that," he added. Russia has also now amassed 20,000 troops on the Ukrainian border after declaring the eastern part of that country to be on the verge of a "humanitarian disaster." Meanwhile, the Italian economy fell into recession after posting two straight quarters of negative GDP. "Italy only briefing emerged from deep two-year recession in the last quarter of 2013," reports the FT's Rachel Sanderson. "The figures show Italy's GDP in the second quarter at its lowest level since 2000, according to the national statistics office report from news agency Ansa." U.K. industrial production also came in well under expectations, at 0.3% versus 0.6% forecasted by analysts.  As a result, markets are tanking around the world. Japan's Nikkei fell 1.1%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.3%. In Europe, Britain's FTSE was off 1.1%, while Germany's DAX was down 1.3%. U.S. futures were off 0.3%. The German two-year note was trading at zero as investors fled to safe assets. The last time that happened was during the Eurocrisis of 2011-12. The 10-year note also fell to record lows.  FREE AppDownload
Paul Schiraldi/HBO/APTime Warner reported second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.98, topping estimates for $0.84, but shares of the media company were still lower after 21st Century Fox last night pulled its takeover offer.  In pre-market trade, Time Warner shares remained sharply lower, down about 10%.  Time Warner's Q2 revenue increased 3% to $6.8 billion, below expectations for $6.87 billion. Revenue for the company's HBO segment totaled $1.42 billion, up from $1.2 billion a year ago, while revenue at its Warner Bros. unit slipped to $2.87 billion from $2.94 billion last year. In addition to reporting second quarter results, Time Warner reaffirmed its full-year business outlook, saying it still sees adjusted EPS growth in the low-teens.  Following Fox's announcement that it withdrew its offer for Time Warner, BI's Henry Blodget, citing an insider familiar with the situation, reported that the deal is dead. "That's it. Game over," the insider told Blodget.  Ahead of Fox's offer, which was announced back on July 16, shares of Time Warner were trading at about $71 per share, and had closed as high as $88, but in pre-market trade had moved back to about $76. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe AOL logo is seen at the company's office in New York(Reuters) - Digital media and entertainment company AOL Inc  reported a 12 percent increase in quarterly revenue, helped by a jump in advertising sales. Net income attributable to AOL fell to $28.2 million, or 34 cents per share, for the second quarter ended June 30, from $28.5 million, or 35 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $606.8 million from $541.3 million. Advertising revenue increased 20 percent to $451.7 million, said AOL, which owns the Huffington Post news website and the TechCrunch blog.  (Reporting by Mridhula Raghavan in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration shows U.S. 100 dollar bank notes taken in TokyoLONDON (Reuters) - The U.S. economy continues to recover from the depths of the Great Recession, although its speed, trajectory and cruising altitude remain the subject of fierce debate. What's indisputable, however, is that one of the economy's engines has persistently failed to ignite, despite record fuel levels in the tank. Corporate America has never been more flush with cash. But business investment or capital expenditure - "capex" - has remained depressed, puzzling economists and strategists who have long predicted its resurgence and attendant impact on growth. Instead, companies have chosen to dip into their collective $1.8 trillion pile of cash to re-hire workers, fund merger and acquisitions activity or buy back their own shares. Boosting growth and returns through long-term investment in their business hasn't registered nearly as highly. This suggests underlying demand for goods and services is weak - certainly weaker than it should be, given that the economy is five years into a recovery - and not strong enough to sustain a potential growth rate of around 2.5-3 percent. The problem then becomes circular: weak demand holds back capex, which drags on growth, which depresses demand. "Waiting for business investment to accelerate has been a painful and thankless exercise," wrote Morgan Stanley in a recent 14-page report on capex. "A close examination of this underinvestment paints a grim picture of productivity rates and the economy's trend growth potential." Since the 2008-09 economic and financial meltdown, U.S. capex has fallen short of the trend seen over 1990-2007 by more than 15 percent. That's an annual $400 billion gap today, never mind the shortfall accumulated over the previous five years. On some levels, this reluctance from firms to invest is puzzling. Productivity growth in the United States - the rate of growth in the level of output per worker - is near its lowest in 30 years, according to Bridgewater Associates. Spending on research, development and technology, would surely improve this trend. The need for capex spending is also pressing because firms are reaching the point where they simply have to replace aging equipment. According to Morgan Stanley, the average age of industrial equipment is now almost 10.5 years, the highest since 1938. But just replacing old equipment will not be enough to have a notable impact on economic growth. That will require businesses to spend over and above simple replacement rates, and so far that hasn't happened. If company executives can be convinced demand can hold up, the conditions for splashing the capex cash are certainly there. Firms have nearly $2 trillion cash, they've reduced their leverage and indebtedness, and funding remains cheap and easy. The positive impact of capex spending would be felt both in the long- and short-term, according to Bridgewater. The effect of boosting productivity helps the economy's longer-term growth potential, while corporate profits and margins are "front-loaded" because outlays are amortized over time, yet related sales are booked instantly. But executives have instead preferred to hoard cash in record amounts. And even when it has been spent it has been diverted to pretty much anywhere but capex. The global year-to-date dollar volume of M&amp;A deals stands at $2.5 trillion, or an increase of 70 percent on the previous year, led by North America ($1.2 trillion, up 83 percent) and Europe ($773 billion, up 85 percent), according to Deutsche Bank. This year is almost certain to be the best year for M&amp;A since the crisis. There has also been a drive to increase dividend payments to shareholders and a resurgence of high-profile share buybacks. Oil services company Halliburton &lt;HAL.N&gt; has just increased its buyback authorization to $6 billion, oil major Exxon Mobil &lt;XOM.N&gt; spent $3 billion in the second quarter alone, and consumer goods giant Johnson &amp; Johnson &lt;JNJ.N&gt; announced a $5 billion repurchase program last month. Buybacks and dividends may not be giving the U.S. economy any discernible boost, but they've done the stock market no harm at all, as Wall Street roared to a record high late last month. Despite the numerous false dawns since the Great Recession, analysts still expect capex to pick up. If it does, then the broader economy should benefit. Morgan Stanley is confident it will, and predicts growth of around 5 percent. Bridgewater also expects a "gradual acceleration", which could strengthen the economic recovery. But the danger is that it fails to pick up enough. "A more historically normal cyclical pickup, something in excess of 8 percent annually, simply looks unrealistic," Morgan Stanley said. (Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer Rescue workers try to help a driver out of his car after the vehicle was stuck over an alley in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, on Monday. The car rolled off the edge of a road after the driver was late to brake, according to local media. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Here Comes Putin. Russia says it is preparing retaliatory measures in response to new U.S. and EU sanctions. One measure reportedly under consideration would be to block sections of Russian airspace for Western flights, though Moscow has denied that that is on the table, according The Wall Street Journal's Gregory White. Russia has also amassed 20,000 troops on the Ukrainian border in response to what it says is a pending humanitarian disaster in eastern Ukraine.  2.  Fox Ends Time Warner Bid. Rupert Murdoch will no longer pursue the cable giant. Henry Blodget talked to insiders who explained why: Time Warner's board and management demonstrated zero interest, while Fox shares themselves had dropped significantly once the bid leaked. Instead Fox announced a share buyback after the bell Tuesday. Fox shares are up more than 7% before the bell, while Time Warner's are down 10%. Fox and Time Warner will both post earnings Wednesday. 3.  Tesla Resolves China Trademark Spat. Zhan Baoshang, a Chinese national, had previously claimed copyright on "Tesla." Reuters' Samuel Shen and Norihiko Shirouzu report the settlement "[removes] a hurdle that had threatened CEO Elon Musk's ambition to expand rapidly in the world's biggest auto market." Tesla recently announced it was planning to open 100 service stations in China. 4.  Troubled Tech Stocks. Shares in First Solar, Zillow, and Groupon were all down significantly Wednesday after each reported problematic earnings after the bell Tuesday. First Solar's profits fell to $4.5 million from $33.6 million on project delays, and Groupon announced revenues of $751.6 million, well short of the $762 million expected by analysts. Zillow said its adjusted Q2 loss per share came in at $0.05 versus earnings of $0.01 a year earlier.  5.  Walgreens Buys Alliance Boots. The Chicago-based pharma retailer is buying out the remaining 55% of the European pharma retailer. Its headquarters will remain in Chicago, and the firm insists it will not attempt a tax inversion, the AP says.  6.  Trade. Our only major datapoint for Wednesday is the U.S. trade balance. Consensus is for a reading of -$45 billion versus -$44.4 billion prior. "The headline deficit should be little changed at $44.5B, with slightly better core numbers and a modest increase in the aircraft surplus offset by a temporary price-induced jump in the oil deficit," Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson said in a note.  7.  Italy In Recession. The Italian economy contracted 0.2% in Q2, following a negative 0.1% reading in the prior quarter. The recent reading was Italy's worst Q2 performance since 2000. Germany's two-year bond yield went to zero on the news.   8. Russian Hackers Steal 1.2 Billion Passwords. The login credentials were scraped from 420,000 different websites, "including household names," The New York Times' Nicole Perlroth and David Gelles report. “Companies that rely on user names and passwords have to develop a sense of urgency about changing this,” said Avivah Litan, a security analyst at the research firm Gartner. “Until they do, criminals will just keep stockpiling people’s credentials.”    9.  Earnings. Wednesday morning we get the aforementioned AOL, Chesapeake, Molson, Mondelez, Ralph Lauren, Time Warner, and Viacom. After the bell we get the aforementioned Fox. 10.  Markets. Everything is tanking on weaker Europe data and Russia jitters, among other things. U.S. futures are off 0.5%. London's FTSE was off 1.1%, Germany's DAX was down 1.6%, France's CAC40 fell 1.3%. Japan's Nikkei was down 1%; Hong Kong's Hang Seng was off 0.3%; and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 fell 0.1%.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wells Fargo Bank sign is seen through a motorized cable car in San FranciscoBy Peter Rudegeair NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wells Fargo &amp; Co  has relaxed its standards for loans for some high-priced homes as the largest U.S. mortgage lender tries to combat an industry-wide drop in mortgage volumes. The bank has eased its lending standards on mortgages it acquires from other banks, said spokesman Tom Goyda, for "jumbo" loans that are too large to receive a guarantee from government-backed mortgage companies. In late July, the San Francisco-based bank lowered the minimum credit score on these fixed-rate jumbo mortgages to 700 from 720, Goyda said. Credit scores range from 300 to 850, and levels below 640 are often considered subprime. The lower requirements for jumbo loans are the latest effort by Wells and other banks to loosen mortgage criteria that are still tight by historical standards. Of the large banks surveyed by the Federal Reserve in July, thirty-nine percent said they were somewhat relaxing requirements on prime residential mortgages, and all banks reported that demand for prime mortgages was at its highest level in a year. The mortgage industry is seeking to replace lost revenue after a spike in mortgage rates in the second half of 2013 made refinancing less attractive. But for many lenders the search for revenue is tempered by the fact that the housing market is still recovering from the worst crisis since the Great Depression. New rules and regulations designed to prevent the next mortgage implosion have also made some banks less willing to take risk in the market. In June, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said, "It is difficult for any homeowner who doesn't have pristine credit these days to get a mortgage. I think that is one of the factors that is causing the housing recovery to be slow." In addition to lowering minimum credit scores, Wells Fargo is now willing to buy jumbo loans from other lenders that go toward the purchase of a second home, Goyda said. For a refinancing, the bank is now willing to buy mortgages whose balance exceeds the size of the borrower's previous loan, known as "cash-out refinancing." Wells Fargo's standards for mortgages it buys from other lenders remained more conservative than those it offers directly to consumers via its branches and online, Goyda said. The minimum credit score on those jumbo mortgages is 680. The latest expansion of Wells Fargo's mortgage lending comes six months after the bank began to offer home loans directly to borrowers with credit scores as low as 600 that were eligible for insurance with the Federal Housing Administration. Its previous minimum credit score for FHA-insured loans was 640. Wells Fargo executives have said its steps to expand access to mortgage credit are low-risk, as all borrowers must demonstrate an ability to repay the loan in accordance with rules issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that came into effect in January. Most products the bank offers are 30-year, fixed-rate loans that do not allow borrowers to defer principal payments, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage President Mike Heid said at the bank's May investor day. "This talk about returning to subprime is just nonsense," Heid said. As industry-wide lending volumes have declined over the last year, Wells Fargo's drop has been even sharper. The bank said last month that it made $47 billion in home loans in the second quarter, 58 percent less than the same period of 2013, compared with a 50 percent fall in industry-wide volumes, according to estimates from the Mortgage Bankers Association. "The purchase market is softer than we thought that it would be," said Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer John Shrewsberry on a July conference call with analysts. "We're not seeing breakout returns to pre-crisis levels of the enthusiasm around homeownership." Chief Executive John Stumpf told Reuters in a July interview that the volume of mortgages it purchased from other banks in the second quarter was lower because those lenders are now selling directly to investors under government programs.  (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Enzo Figueres/ Getty ImagesThe Treasury has launched a review looking to turn the UK into a centre for virtual currency trade, the chancellor, George Osborne, announced at Canary Wharf in London. Officials will study the benefits and threats unregulated digital currencies including bitcoin, which peaked with a market capitalisation of around $14bn at the end of 2013 but has since declined to about $8bn according to bitcoin market watcher BlockChain. The study, due in the autumn, will detail the role that cryptocurrencies could play in business, as part of the government’s plan to stimulate innovation in the financial technology (fintech) sector. “It’s only by harnessing innovations in finance, alongside our existing world class knowledge and skills in financial services, that we’ll ensure Britain’s financial sector continues to meet the diverse needs of businesses and consumers, here and around the globe, and create the jobs and growth we all want to see in the future,” Osborne said at the launch of Innovate Finance, a new industry body established to promote the interests of the UK’s rapidly growing fintech sector. “Key to the government’s long term economic plan is cementing Britain’s position as the centre of global finance,” Osborne said. Claire Cockerton, chief executive and director of Innovate Finance, said: “The time has come for radical transformation of the financial services industry. Whether you are a consumer, banker or young entrepreneur – we all see enormous potential for innovation and growth in the financial services sector. “While London and the UK provide the right talent, expertise, and market conditions, we believe our collective entrepreneurial spirit will lead us to compete and prosper on a global stage.” The move comes after New York State proposed a licensing scheme for the trading of bitcoin, which would see companies accepting or trading bitcoin keep records of the identities and addresses of customers. Companies will also be forced to keep an amount of bitcoin that is larger than or equal to the sum owed to customers. • Independent Scotland ‘could be bitcoin testbed’ This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Walgreens logo is seen outside its store in New York City(Reuters) - U.S. retailer Walgreen Co &lt;WAG.N&gt; will make a full takeover of Europe's biggest pharmacy chain Alliance Boots &lt;ABN.UL&gt;, but won't use the deal to move its tax domicile overseas after fierce criticism of such tax-cutting moves at home. Walgreen said on Wednesday it would buy the 55 percent it does not already own of Alliance Boots for 3.13 billion pounds ($5.27 billion) in cash and 144.3 million Walgreen shares, after first taking a 45 percent stake in 2012. It added the combined company would keep its tax domicile in the United States, with headquarters in the Chicago area. The announcement from Walgreen follows news Tuesday that the Obama administration is reviewing its options in attempts to stop companies from moving their tax base abroad.  In pre-market trade, shares of Walgreens were down more than 10%.  (Reporting by Emma Thomasson; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
APSHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - China's antitrust regulator said on Wednesday it would punish Audi and Chrysler for monopoly practices, potentially paving the way for the automakers to be fined up to 10 percent of their domestic annual sales revenue in the world's biggest car market. Chrysler is owned by Fiat SpA &lt;FIA.MI&gt; while Volkswagen &lt;VOWG_p.DE&gt; owns Audi, and both are premium brands in China. The regulator, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), said an ongoing investigation into the two companies showed they had "conducted anti-competitive behaviors". "They will be punished accordingly in the near future," NDRC spokesman Li Pumin told a press conference in Beijing. Audi and other global automakers have recently rushed to change their pricing strategies in China in response to the government investigation into the auto industry, and amid domestic media complaints that foreign carmakers were overcharging Chinese customers on vehicles and spare parts. The NDRC also said it was launching a probe into Mercedes-Benz, owned by Daimler AG &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt;, and that it had finished investigating a dozen Japanese spare-part manufacturers on similar anti-trust charges. The regulator did not name the companies or give further details. "The purpose is to maintain a sound competitive order in the auto market and protect consumer interest," said NDRC spokesman Li. The China-based spokesperson for Chrysler declined to comment. Both Audi China and Mercedes-Benz said they were cooperating with the NDRC. Audi says China, including Hong Kong, accounts for a third of its global sales by volume. Chrysler's market share was not immediately available. The NDRC did not specify the punishment for Chrysler or Audi. Under the six-year-old anti-monopoly law, the NDRC can impose fines of between 1 and 10 percent of a company's revenues for the previous year. "NDRC would normally set a percentage of annual sales in relevant markets as fines based on how cooperative the companies are," said Colin Liu, a lawyer in the automotive industry. Industry experts say automakers have too much leverage over car dealers and auto part suppliers, enabling them to control prices, considered as a violation of China's anti-trust laws. "Monopolistic practices are quite rampant in the auto industry. NDRC is first targeting imported luxury brands because the problem is most severe in this area," said Yale Zhang, managing director of consultancy Automotive Foresight (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. "It's also a warning signal to the industry. If top brands like Audi gets punishment, others would know what to do." Zhang said imported luxury cars in China cost, on average, 2-1/2 to three times their price in the United States. The price difference is due to higher import duties and other taxes, foreign carmakers have argued. China's government has in the past few years intensified its enforcement of the anti-monopoly law, slapping several multinational companies, including Mead Johnson Nutrition Co &lt;MJN.N&gt; and Danone SA &lt;DANO.PA&gt;, with fines. The government is also currently conducting an anti-monopoly probe into U.S. tech giant Microsoft Corp &lt;MSFT.O&gt;. The regulators also recently said U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm had a monopoly. (Reporting by Wang Lan in BEIJING, Samuel Shen and Fayen Wong in SHANGHAI; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
AFPWith a fortune made in Chinese finance, Li Wang already has six cars including a Bentley and a Porsche, and his eye on his next multi-millionaires' toy: a boat. "I only know a little about yachts at the moment," acknowledged the chubby 27-year-old, strolling in golden sunglasses among the sailboats, catamarans and motor cruisers lining the jetties at a boat show in Dalian. "It's not a big deal. Buying a yacht is on my schedule." Li epitomises the Chinese buyers being targeted by the world's yachtbuilders, whose vessels can cost as much as $100 million, taxes not included. Despite its long coastline and 1.35 billion-strong population -- including thousands of multi-millionaires -- China has only an estimated 3,000 pleasure boats, and yachting remains a niche pastime. In contrast the US is said to have one watercraft, albeit including small boats, for every 15 inhabitants. Traugott Kaminski, head of China operations for Italian yachtmaker Sanlorenzo, brought two yachts to China in 2003. "There were no regulations, no port, no yachting culture," he said, and even now the firm still has to "educate" first-time buyers. But others are "sophisticated customers who know what they want". "Think about the car industry, 10 or 15 years ago nobody expected China would become the biggest market worldwide and the same thing will happen to the yachting industry," he went on. In another parallel with the global vehicle business, two major European yachtbuilders, Sunseeker of Britain and Italy's Ferretti, have been bought by Chinese firms in recent years. Several thousand visitors attended the event in Dalian, on the shores of the Yellow Sea, and despite the constraints of 43 percent import taxes, limits on infrastructure, and bitter northern winters, organisers said that "on-site sales occurred". Chinese buyers have different requirements to Westerners, explained Kaminski. "In Europe you will use the boat for a two- or three-week cruise," explained Kaminski. "In China, you are using it for a day cruise, so you don't need so many cabins, you need a big spa, you need entertainment space." In the West, the captain and crew are often seen as part of the family. Not so in China, where the wheelhouse and kitchen need to be separate. Chinese clients also want a round table to eat at, a karaoke machine, a mah-jong table and more shade. Marco Valle, sales director for Azimut, one of the world's major yachtbuilders, remembers the first yacht he sold in China, around a decade ago, to a rich Shanghai businessman. The client asked if it could be delivered without an engine, as he intended to keep it moored to show off to his contacts. There are other contrasts. "The market is really working in reverse," said Paul Blanc, Asia-Pacific director for boatbuilder Jeanneau, which is targeting China's upper middle classes, with boats from five to 25 metres (16 to 82 feet), starting from 1.5 million yuan ($240,000). "In China we're starting with big boats and the market is going to expand to smaller sizes," he said. "In Europe it is the other way round, people start with small boats and as they gain more experience and money they buy bigger and bigger ones." Growth has been rapid, says Blanc, but as well as the import taxes, another major obstacle is a near total absence of public marinas, so that almost all the infrastructure is run by elite private yacht clubs, with memberships costing 700,000 to one million yuan. Such sums are irrelevant to the buyers of superyachts, says Jona Kan, sales director for Silver Yachts, which specialises in aluminium-hulled vessels more than 70 metres long. His firm has only ever sold three ships -- two to Middle Eastern buyers and one in the US -- but with prices confidential it is still enough to sustain the business. Now he is looking for an Asian customer. "Our yachts will be bought by modern Chinese who already have been to all the best hotels in the world and now they want something special to go to places where nobody has been, and with their own accommodation," he said. According to an academic paper released last month, the top one percent of households in China control more than one third of its wealth -- an illustration of the breadth of social inequality in the Communist-ruled country. Demand for yachts saw a hiccup last year in the face of a much-publicised austerity and anti-corruption drive by Chinese President Xi Jinping, several vendors said. But Kan is targeting customers in a different league, so rich that their money is clean. "Their wealth is public and is acknowledged by the government," he said. They would not need to import their vessel to China, he added. "They can buy it offshore. The boat is built in Australia but has an Cayman island flag. It's already an offshore boat." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Sky TVAlex Salmond as he is asked about Scotland's currency if it becomes independent.Eyes downcast, his brow fallen, Scottish Nationalist Party leader Alex Salmond consulted his notes as he was battered by questions from an unexpectedly feisty Alistair Darling on what currency the new country would use in a live TV debate Tuesday night (video below). You can see it on Salmond's face: he stares into space, mouth open, gasping for air — or at least inspiration — while trying to think of an answer. This was the moment Salmond finally realized that the currency question would doom his chances of winning the Scottish independence referendum on Sept. 18. Sky NewsAlex Salmond, looking for inspiration."You can't tell us what currency we'll have!" said Darling, leader of the "Better Together" campaign. "Aw, I can't ..." Salmond appears to say, almost drowned out by a roar from the audience. The moment ought to doom the entire independence vote. Salmond might also have been trying to say "I can." It's not clear from the audio. Even so, Salmond doesn't finish the thought and goes on to argue for the British pound instead, which is the weakest part of the case for Scottish independence. You can't be a strong, viable country without a strong, viable currency. Scotland hasn't got one, and it won't get one in the future either. The biggest issue — the economic factor on which the whole independence referendum hinges — is what currency will the new country use? Salmond has said Scotland would continue to use the British pound, but the U.K. government has made it clear that Scotland will not be allowed to keep using the pound if it breaks away. That has left Scottish nationalists in an uncomfortable position: continue to use the pound anyway — the way Panama uses the U.S. dollar — or float a new Scottish currency. (It could use the Euro, but that process might take years, during which time Scotland's economy would float adrift.) The first option leaves Scotland dependent on the whims of the Bank of England for interest rates and monetary policy (the exact opposite of independence in many ways). The second exposes Scotland to the risk of bank runs and devaluation like that faced by Iceland in the post-2007 financial crisis. Salmond's failure on the currency issue left most people with the impression that he had lost Tuesday night's debate. As The Telegraph put it: Alex Salmond’s campaign for Scottish independence suffered a major setback after he lost the first referendum TV debate on Tuesday night and was booed by the audience for repeatedly refusing to name his Plan B currency. Here's a transcript of the exchange that doomed Salmond's bid: Darling: "Any 8-year-old can tell you the flag of the country, the capital of a country, and its currency. Now I presume the flag's the Saltire, I assume our capital will still be Edinburgh, but you can't tell us what currency we'll have. What's an 8-year-old going to make of that?" Salmond: "Aw, I can't ... Alistair, we'll keep the pound because it belongs to Scotland as much as it belongs to England. It's our pound as well as your pound." Here's the video:  According to The Guardian's live blog of the debate, Salmond later added: The first minister adds that keeping the pound is “best for Scotland and best for the rest of the United Kingdom.” You don’t have a central bank, says Darling. It would be in another country and the financial services in an independent Scotland would be at risk. “Remember, the financial markets are listening,” he adds. (In fact, a bunch of companies have hinted they will flee Scotland if it breaks away.) At another point in the debate, Darling argued that keeping the pound would leave Scotland economically dependent on Britain: Darling: "It seems to me a bit like getting a divorce and keeping the same joint bank account. If you do that, you've got to get agreement, and the other side are saying no. So it won't happen. What's Plan B? Salmond: "We'll keep the pound Alistair because it's our pound as well as England's pound." You can see that and other debate highlight on the video below. Skip to 2:45 for the "Plan B' moment:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerBEIJING (Reuters) - A Hong Kong court has ruled that a local tycoon can sue Google Inc for defamation because searches for his name on Google suggest adding the word 'triad', Hong Kong's notorious organized crime groups. Searches in both English and Chinese for Albert Yeung Sau-shing, the founder and chairman of Hong Kong-based conglomerate Emperor Group, will automatically suggest phrases related to organized crime using Google's 'autocomplete' function. On Tuesday, the High Court of Hong Kong dismissed Google's argument that it was not responsible for the autocomplete suggestions related to Yeung and that the court did not have personal jurisdiction over the U.S. search giant. Google frequently finds itself embroiled in legal issues over what results are shown by its search engine. The European Union's top court in May ruled that people have a right to request that years-old personal information that is no longer relevant be removed from Internet search results. "There is a good arguable case that Google Inc is the publisher of the Words and liable for their publication," said Marlene Ng, the deputy high court judge, in her ruling. Google declined to comment on the verdict. Yeung is seeking damages from Google for libel and wants the company to remove the defamatory search suggestions, court documents said. Google argued that autocomplete works according to an automated algorithm and the company is not responsible for the resulting suggestions, which change depending on what a critical mass of users search for. "The entire basis of the internet will be compromised if search engines are required to audit what can be assessed by users using their search tools," court documents attributed Gerard McCoy, Google's lawyer, as saying. "It would be impossible for Google Inc to manually interfere with or monitor the search processes given the billions of searches conducted by Google Search," McCoy said according to the documents. Because Google did not protest that the autocomplete suggestions were defamatory and they have criminal associations, Google may end up paying a large amount of money if Yeung sues successfully. "In my view, it cannot be said at this stage that damages for reputational damage in Hong Kong are likely to be minimal if Yeung wins at trial," Ng said. (Reporting by Paul Carsten; Additional reporting by Venus Wu in HONG KONG; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAttorneys Jonathan Blackman and Carmine Boccuzzi, lead lawyers representing Argentina in its ongoing debt talks, arrive at federal court for a hearing in New YorkBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina said on Tuesday it will formally demand that intermediary banks charged with delivering the country's debt payments make hundreds of millions of dollars in payouts that were due in June but that have been blocked by a U.S. court. Argentina defaulted last week after losing a long legal battle with hedge funds that rejected the terms of debt restructurings in 2005 and 2010. The government deposited payments owed to holders of its restructured bonds with intermediaries Citibank Argentina and Bank of New York Mellon. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said the deposits were illegal because he had ordered Argentina not to pay restructured bondholders without paying the holdouts at the same time. The economy ministry late on Tuesday issued a statement saying it will formally demand that Bank of New York Mellon [BKNYK.UL] and Citibank Argentina make the payouts despite Griesa's order. "The money belongs to the holders of restructured Argentine bonds," the statement said. The economically ailing South American country defaulted on about $100 billion on sovereign bonds in 2002. Most holders of those bonds accepted less than 30 cents on the dollar in the 2005 and 2010 restructurings. A minority of holders opted to sue in the U.S. courts for full repayment. Griesa stepped in on Monday to defend the mediator he appointed to help settle the dispute after Argentina accused the go-between of bias. The country's gross domestic product is expected to shrink this year, according to the United Nation's body for Latin America, as fallout from the debt crisis keeps the region's No. 3 economy out of foreign debt markets.   (Reporting by Walter Bianchi, Hugh Bronstein and Daniel Bases; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
FlickrLONDON (Reuters) - European stocks fell on Wednesday while nervous investors took refuge in high-rated bonds on reports of a build-up of Russian troops near the border with Ukraine. The euro came under pressure, trading at nine-month low against the dollar amid threats of retaliatory Russian sanctions against the European Union, and signs the crisis in Ukraine was hitting Europe's biggest economy Germany. German industrial orders slid in June at their steepest rate since September 2011, with the economy ministry saying geopolitical tensions had probably led to more cautious ordering. "We are getting closer to a situation where we really have an escalation of the conflict...sanctions being stepped up, and things moving out of control," said Elwin de Groot, senior market economist at Rabobank. European stocks &lt;.FTEU3&gt; fell 0.6 percent shortly after Wednesday's open, while MSCI's world equity index &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; - which tracks shares in 45 countries - was down 0.3 percent. Dollar-traded Russian stocks hit a three-month low. &lt;.IRTS&gt; In China, the CSI300 &lt;.CSI300&gt; of the leading Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share listings recovered after falling as much as 1 percent during Asian hours. German 10-year bond yields fell 3 basis points to 1.15 percent. The move starting shortly after Poland's foreign minister said Russia's military presence on the Ukrainian border was designed to put pressure on the neighboring country or as a prelude to entering it. &lt;DE10YT=RR&gt; Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev also threatened on Tuesday to retaliate for the grounding of a subsidiary of national airline Aeroflot because of EU sanctions, with a newspaper reporting that European flights to Asia over Siberia could be banned. Risk aversion and upbeat U.S. economic data, which included a spike in service-sector activity to a nine-year peak and a uptick in factory orders, helped lift the dollar to an 11-month high against a basket of major currencies. &lt;.DXY&gt; The dollar index rose to as high as 81.637, its highest level since last September, before falling back to 81.555 after Europe's open. The New Zealand dollar skidded to two-month lows after milk prices fell again at an auction held by Fonterra Co-operative Group, the world's biggest dairy exporter. Oil prices remained under pressure as plentiful supplies in Europe and North America outweighed fears that violence in the Middle East and North Africa could disrupt production. Brent crude &lt;LCOc1&gt; edged up 25 cents on Wednesday to $104.88, but that followed its weakest close since November 2013. U.S. crude &lt;CLc1&gt; was 21 cents firmer at $97.59, following its lowest settlement since early February. Gold failed to get much of a lift from safe-haven flows and idled at $1,291.70 an ounce &lt;XAU=&gt;.  (Editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesGerman chancellor Angela Merkel.BERLIN (AP) — German factory orders were down in June compared to the previous month due to a decrease of large orders. The Federal Statistics Office said Wednesday that industrial orders were 3.2 percent lower than in May, when they also fell by 1.6 percent. Orders from inside Germany dropped 1.9 percent and those from countries outside the euro zone fell by 4.1 percent. New orders from other countries in the 18-nation Eurozone fell by 10.4 percent. The Federal Statistics Office said that geopolitical developments and risks were a likely cause for the decrease in new orders and that they expected only moderate development in the coming months. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a Standard Chartered bank in London(Reuters) - Standard Chartered PLC &lt;STAN.L&gt; is back in the crosshairs of New York's banking regulator over alleged failure to flag high risk transactions for further review, according to a person familiar with the matter. The British bank is in discussions with the New York Department of Financial Services over a possible penalty, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly and so declined to be identified. The penalty is likely to be somewhere between $100 million and the $340 million the bank paid the regulator two years ago, the person said. In August 2012, Standard Chartered agreed to pay $340 million to the regulator over stripping information from transactions linked to Iran so they would not be detected by U.S. bank filters. As a result, a New York bank could unwittingly process a payment for the benefit of a party in Iran or other sanctioned entity in violation of U.S. law. Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for Standard Chartered, declined comment. The bank is scheduled to report earnings on Wednesday. A monitor, who was installed in the bank as part of the 2012 agreement with the regulator, discovered the remediation problems, the person said. The transactions at issue should have been flagged by Standard Chartered's computers for further review, the person said, because of concern that sanctioned parties would re-route transactions through high risk countries or entities that are not subject to sanctions before entering the U.S. financial system. It is unclear exactly what transactions are at issue in the current investigation. The monitor, Ellen Zimiles, a former federal prosecutor who is now with Navigant Consulting Inc &lt;NCI.N&gt;, was to keep checks on the bank for two years. That oversight is likely to be extended, the person said. (Reporting by Karen Freifeld in NEW YORK; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoSYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian stocks fell broadly on Wednesday while the U.S. dollar held firm after a slump on Wall Street and tensions over Ukraine smothered markets with a mood of risk aversion. Geopolitical concerns overshadowed upbeat U.S. economic data which included a spike in service-sector activity to a nine-year peak and a surprisingly large increase in factory orders. Yet there was potentially positive news for the global economic outlook as oil prices continued their slide, with Brent crude hitting its lowest in nine months. Higher energy prices essentially act as a tax on consumers and businesses, so the drop should give a fillip to spending power and demand. For now, the drag from Wall Street was too much for regional markets and MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; slipped 0.4 percent. Europe also looked like opening down, with spreadbetters predicting losses of between 0.7 percent and 1 percent for the FTSE 100 &lt;.FTSE&gt;, DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; and CAC 40 &lt;.FCHI&gt;. German industrial orders posted their biggest monthly fall since September 2011 in June as geopolitical developments and risks made companies more cautious about taking out contracts, data from the Economy Ministry showed on Wednesday. In China, the CSI300 &lt;.CSI300&gt; of the leading Shanghai and Shenzhen A-share pared its early losses to be down 0.2 percent. Japan's Topix &lt;.TOPX&gt; gave up 0.97 percent, while the Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; fell 1 percent. Index heavyweight SoftBank &lt;9984.T&gt; slid 3.6 percent on reports its U.S. subsidiary Sprint had dropped a bid to acquire No. 4 U.S. carrier T-Mobile because of regulatory hurdles. Sprint's shares &lt;S.N&gt; slid 11 percent after hours, while T-Mobile Inc &lt;TMUS.N&gt; lost 8 percent. In another failed bid, Twenty-First Century Fox &lt;FOXA.O&gt;, the media company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, said it had withdrawn its offer to buy Time Warner Inc &lt;TWX.N&gt;. Shares of Fox jumped, gaining 8.6 percent in after-hours action, while Time Warner shares fell over 11 percent. The Dow &lt;.DJI&gt; had already dropped 0.84 percent on Tuesday, while the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; lost 0.97 percent and the Nasdaq &lt;.IXIC&gt; 0.71 percent. All 10 S&amp;P 500 sectors ended lower, led by a 2.1 percent drop in energy stocks &lt;.SPNY&gt;. Wall Street had been soft for most of the Tuesday session, but selling accelerated in the afternoon on reports that Russian troops were massing near the Ukraineborder. The unease over Ukraine helped put a mild bid into Treasuries, with yields on 10-year notes &lt;US10YT=RR&gt; down a tick at 2.48 percent. In currencies, the dollar hit its highest against a basket of currencies &lt;.DXY&gt; since last September after the Institute for Supply Management said service-sector growth hit an eight-and-a-half-year peak on strength in new orders and employment. &lt;TOP/CEN&gt; U.S. factory orders were also solid in July and data showed positive revisions to durable goods orders, a sign that the economy continues to improve. The dollar index &lt;.DXY&gt; was last at 81.580, not far from the overnight peak of 81.626. The euro languished at $1.3363 &lt;EUR&gt;, having plumbed a nine-month trough of $1.3358. The dollar had less luck on the yen, lapsing back to 102.58 &lt;JPY=&gt; from Tuesday's high of 102.93. The standout currency was the New Zealand dollar, which skidded to two-month lows after milk prices fell again at an auction held by Fonterra Co-operative Group, the world's biggest dairy exporter. In commodities, gold got a slow-motion lift from safe-haven flows and edged up to $1,291.60 an ounce &lt;XAU=&gt;. Oil prices remained under pressure as plentiful supplies in Europe and North America outweighed fears that violence in the Middle East and North Africa could disrupt production. Brent crude &lt;LCOc1&gt; inched up 20 cents on Wednesday to $104.81, but that followed its weakest close since November 2013. U.S. crude &lt;CLc1&gt; added only 8 cents to $97.46, following its lowest settlement since early February.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
FlickrThe Rosetta spacecraft is set to become the first-ever probe to rendezvous with a comet after a 10-year journey through space.Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Wednesday.  1. The World Health Organization is holding a two-day emergency meeting in Geneva to discuss the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. Summit members will determine whether the disease outbreak is a "public health emergency of international concern," the United Nations said in a statement. The outcome will be announced at a press conference on Friday, Aug. 8.  2. A Russian hacker group stole 1.2 billion usernames and passwords, a U.S. security firm has said. The New York Times, which first reported the findings, described the breach as the "largest known collection of stolen Internet credentials." 3. Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox withdrew a $71 billion bid for Time Warner. Time Warner rejected Fox's initial offer made in June. Speaking to the FT, a source close to the company said no future deal would be made.  4. A high-ranking Army officer, Maj. Gen. Harold J. Greene, was killed by an Afghan solider in an attack on a military training academy on Tuesday. General Greene was "an engineer by training whose missions usually did not involve guns and grenades," The New York Times wrote. "His goal was to integrate smartphones, video conferences and even virtual worlds into a military culture that often prized hardware rather than software." 5. The first television debate between the leaders of the "yes" and "no" campaigns over Scottish independence — Alex Salmond and Alistair Darling — was held on Tuesday night. According to a Guardian poll, Salmond, the Scottish National Party chief arguing for Scottish independence, lost the live debate to Alistair Darling, the leader of the Better Together campaign.  6. In an interview with the BBC, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. "stands squarely behind Israel's right" to defend itself against rocket attacks. "I believe that the situation now that has evolved will concentrate people's minds on the need to get back to the negotiation and try and resolve the issues of the two states," Kerry added.   7. New York State's financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, is discussing a possible settlement with British bank Standard Chartered over allegations that the bank failed "to detect transactions vulnerable to money laundering," The New York Times said, citing people familiar with the matter. In 2012, Standard Chartered was fined $340 million by the same regulator for money-laundering violations.  8. Apple and Samsung announced they have settled all patent disputes over smartphones and tablets outside the U.S. In a joint statement, the two companies said: "This agreement does not involve any licensing arrangements, and the companies are continuing to pursue the existing cases in U.S. courts." 9. A new study about the effects of aspirin says the drug "could dramatically cut people's chances of getting and dying from common cancers," the Guardian said. A team from Queen Mary University of London concluded that taking a low-dose of aspirin everyday for at least 5 years could reduce the risk of certain cancers, but warns that it could increase the risk of stomach bleeds.  10. The Rosetta spacecraft is about to become the first-ever probe to orbit around and land on a comet. The spacecraft, operated by the European Space Agency, has been on a 10-year, 4 billion mile journey through space.  And finally... Are you a narcissist? A new study from researchers at Ohio University has determined that one simple question can identify this group of people.   FREE AppDownload
