REUTERS/Sukree SukplangAsian markets are up after China’s official manufacturing PMI climbed to a five-month high of 50.8 in May. The State Council in China also announced additional policy easing measures on May 30. Premier Li Keqiang promised targeted reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cuts to support economic growth. This includes more targeted monetary and credit easing and measures to lower burden on companies in China.   U.S. futures are flat and markets in China and Hong Kong are closed. FREE AppDownload
Recent weeks have been all about elections and broken promises: from early April to mid-May, half-a-billion Indians went to the polls in what many described an astonishing display of democratic prowess. Later, millions of European citizens elected their representatives to the often-criticised and never much-loved European Union parliament.  Meanwhile, Australian prime minister Tony Abbott decided to break many of his 2013 election promises in his first budget. Many have rightly seen in that document an open assault on the economic welfare of low-income households, and more than a courteous nod to the rich. If the budget is approved, the divide between rich and poor in Australia will most likely increase. Once more, voters will be left wondering: what is the point of elections if they cannot even solve the problem of socioeconomic inequality? It would be easy to answer: the problem is that Abbott’s party is Liberal. But the truth is unfortunately more problematic: inequality has become in the recent past the Achilles’ heel of democracy. A left-leaning party in government would unlikely make any difference. Democracy and capitalism are two highly contested models. On paper, throughout the past two centuries, they have proven the most successful systems of economic and political order. Following the demise of Soviet-style socialism and the transformation of China’s economy, capitalism has become predominant across the world. Democracy has followed a similar path. Compared to capitalism, however, its success is much less complete. Today, about 120 countries can be called “electoral democracies”, but only around 60 can be classified as functioning democracies based on rule of law. More importantly, if on the one hand the popularity of democracy seems on the rise, on the other established democratic systems have entered a phase of chronic decline. Scholars increasingly speak of “post-democracies” (Colin Crouch) or “façade democracy” (Wolfgang Streeck). Most critics seem to agree that capitalism is to be blamed for this late development. During the past 40 years the relationship between democracy and capitalism has radically changed. What Karl Polanyi called socially “embedded capitalism” became “neoliberalism”, “deregulation”, “globalisation” and “financialisation”. The increasing “denationalisation” of the economy and of political decision-making has progressively weakened the power of democratic elected parliaments in favour of governments and deregulated globalised markets. MPs play second fiddle to powerful financial CEOs and more often than not to only scarcely legitimated and monitored supranational bodies such as the World Trade Organisation, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. This power shift accelerated the increase of socioeconomic inequalities within OECD countries. Alongside this trend, established democracies have witnessed a steady worrying decline of electoral participation. In the US, on average, less than 50% of voters turn out on election day. Only countries with obligatory voting – such as Australia – have proven to be more resilient against this trend. The problem, however, is not so much low turnout, but the social selectivity that it implies. The lower the turnout is, the higher the social exclusion. Evidences show that the voters at the lower economic end of the social spectrum are the ones deserting the polls. In the US, people with a disposable annual household income of more than US$100,000 are more likely to vote than those with an income of US$15,000 or less. The proportions who vote are 80% versus 30%. At a closer look, the American system shows strong resemblance to an electoral apartheid, where the lower half of society is excluded from political participation. The long-term consequences cannot be underestimated. The US might well represent the shape of things to come for other democracies around the world. In an ideal democratic system, the antidote to inequality should be voting. It could be argued that members of low-income households should reasonably vote for political parties that fight for economic redistribution. Data tell us a different story: low-income households, much more so than those of middle and upper classes, tend to abstain from going to the polls altogether. The platforms of social-democratic and other left-wing catch-all parties still claim to represent the interests of low-income classes. This is, however, more a public relations device to keep alive the parties’ anachronistic image as defenders of “social justice” than a real get-out-the-vote effort aimed at those chronically absent voters. On the other hand, conservative, liberal and right-wing parties do not have an interest in active top-down redistribution, for both ideological and electoral reasons. When in office, however, left-wing parties face a paradoxical dilemma: to effectively support redistributive policies such as minimum wages, maintenance of the welfare state and taxation of higher incomes would likely harm their historical constituency, low-income households. Such policies would result in threats by investors to move capital and investments abroad. That, in turn, would cost jobs in the national market and result in less economic growth, less public revenue, less social investment and, eventually, fewer votes. The problem lies in the relationship between capitalism and democracy: the survival of governments depend on the confidence of their voters. But to maintain such confidence they also depend on the performance of their real economies and, increasingly, on the confidence of financial markets. It is hence less risky for rational centre-left parties to mobilise the middle class than the voters at the lower end of the economic scale. The rationale of economic voting is only a partial explanation why elections fail to stem the increase of social inequality. Socioeconomic conflicts are cross-cutting the lines of cultural conflicts. The latter can be religious or ethnic in nature, but it can also be seen through the prism of the left-libertarian versus right-authoritarian political divide (Herbert P. Kitschelt). Particularly the lower and lower middle classes (mainly men) are more receptive to authoritarian and ethnocentric policies. Many examples of this trend can be found in the increasingly successful electoral campaigns of the right-wing populist parties of Scandinavia, Austria, France and Switzerland, and more recently in the United Kingdom. In these countries, a sizable part of the low-income electorate opts for authoritarian, xenophobic and neoliberal parties. The recent exploits of the UK Independence Party in the European elections is the latest evidence of this growing trend. Across Europe, low-income voters have turned to xenophobic and authoritarian right-wing parties such as Marine Le Pen’s National Front in France. EPA For most of the 20th century, the right to vote was the “paper stones” of the lower classes (Adam Przeworski). They were used to tame and socially entrench capitalism by electing left-wing (mostly reformist social democratic) parties to establish worker’s rights, a redistributive tax system and expand the welfare state. This long period of social expansion witnessed a top-down redistribution in most of the industrially advanced countries, especially after 1945. This trend was turned around in the 1970s. The paper stones lost their effectiveness and transformed into what the Chinese would call “paper tigers”. Democratic elections have turned into powerless challengers of social inequality. The opposite has become the norm: in democratic countries, the rich become richer, while the poor are hopelessly stuck in a never-changing state of chronic poverty. THe Abbott government seems to follow this line quite religiously. Its first budget is another nail in the coffin. Another major issue has been the cultural turn within the Left. Since the late 1970s protest movements began to focus more on cultural than on economic issues. The importance of trade unions steadily declined. In countries like France or Spain, once home of powerful unions, less than 10% of the workforce is unionised. New political NGOs emerged, from environmental organisations to Amnesty International or Transparency International. Their importance notwithstanding, these organisations’ main goals are far removed from economic redistribution. The core of their members and supporters comes from the middle and upper classes. The days of representative democracy are numbered if we are unable to devise an effective antidote to socioeconomic and political inequality. Political tools such as referenda, deliberative assemblies and monitoring institutions may help save the whales and other endangered species; they may also be useful in limiting corruption and human rights violations. They have little relevance for the re-regulation of markets, for restoring social welfare and stopping the rise of inequality. The cultural turn of progressive democratic politics has undoubtedly had many merits, but unfortunately one major drawback: we have sacrificed the problem of economic redistribution on the altar of capitalist progress. Now we find ourselves with no reliable cure for democracy’s most obvious disease: social, economic, and political inequality. An earlier version of this text was presented during the first Conversation on Democracy lecture series organised by the Sydney Democracy Network at the University of Sydney.  Wolfgang Merkel is the director at the Belin Science Center and Prof. of Political Science at the Humboldt University in Berlin. He is a member of the Basic Values Commission of the Executive Committee of the German Social Democratic Party (SPD) and a member of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Science. His research focus on democracy, democratization and political regimes.. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Anja NiedringhausSheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir of Qatar, holds the World Cup trophy after the announcement of Qatar hosting the 2022 soccer World Cup in Zurich, Switzerland, Thursday, Dec. 2, 2010.The chairman of the Football Association has called for Qatar to be stripped of the World Cup if it is proven that the Gulf state’s top football official paid millions of dollars to African counterparts in the run up to the vote. Greg Dyke said that if the process of awarding the World Cup in 2022 was “corrupt”, it had to be “looked at again”. He spoke out after the discovery of emails showing that hundreds of thousands of dollars were channelled to dozens of African football officials before and after the votes for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. His call was echoed by one of Fifa’s vice-presidents. Jim Boyce, who sits as Northern Ireland’s member on the Fifa executive committee — the body responsible for awarding the World Cup — said he would be in favour of re-running the vote if the allegations, published in The Sunday Times, were proven by an independent Fifa report. Mohammed Bin Hammam, the former president of the Asian Football Confederation, is accused of masterminding the Qatari bid, and showering gifts and money on football officials around the world. He has been accused of channelling tens of thousands of pounds to the presidents of small football associations in Africa over several years. Many of the payments were made shortly before the Fifa vote in 2010, leading some to claim that executive committee members could have felt pressured into voting for Qatar. Along with the payments, football officials received all-expenses paid trips to top hotels and gifts including cars. Senior figures in football and politics lined up to condemn Fifa’s management of the World Cup. This year’s event opens in Brazil next week. Mr Boyce told Radio 5 Live that any evidence of bribery should be given to Michael Garcia, an American lawyer who has been appointed by Fifa to investigate the bidding process. “If Garcia’s report comes up and his recommendations are that wrongdoing happened for that vote for the 2022 World Cup, I certainly as a member of the executive [committee] would have absolutely no problem whatsoever if the recommendation was for a re-vote,” said Mr Boyce. “If Garcia comes up with concrete evidence and concrete evidence is given to the executive committee and to Fifa then it has to be looked at very seriously at that time, there’s no doubt about that.’ The decision to award Qatar the World Cup has been mired in controversy, with serious concerns about its ability to host the tournament. The Daily Telegraph has previously disclosed that a senior Fifa official and his family were paid almost $2<U+2009>million (£1.2<U+2009>million) from a Qatari firm controlled by Mr Bin Hammam, shortly after the decision to award the tournament to the country. Lord MacDonald of River Glaven, the former director of public prosecutions, called Fifa a “cesspit” following yesterday’s disclosures and suggested that a “very serious crime” might have been committed. He added: “The fact that the allegation is that they used dollars, means that the Justice Department in Washington has jurisdiction over this… the United States of course are in the World Cup finals. If the Justice Department started to take an interest in this, I think Fifa would feel the heat very, very quickly.” Anna Soubry, the defence minister, said someone has to get a “serious grip” on Fifa, and Nicky Morgan, the financial secretary to the Treasury, said it was “galling” that countries that play by the rules might have lost out to “money talking”. Gary Lineker, the former England footballer, said Fifa should re-run the contest for the 2022 tournament. Clive Efford, the shadow sports minister, called on Mr Blatter to resign. “The question has to be asked whether anyone has any faith in a Fifa run by Sepp Blatter?” he said. The Qatar 2022 Bid Committee said it had always upheld the highest standard of ethics and integrity in its successful bid to host the World Cup. It said in a statement: “In regard to the latest allegations from The Sunday Times, we say again that Mohamed Bin Hammam played no official or unofficial role in Qatar’s 2022 Bid Committee. As was the case with every other member of Fifa’s executive committee, our bid team had to convince Mr Bin Hammam of the merits of our bid.” It said it was cooperating fully with the ongoing investigation of Mr Garcia and remained totally confident that any objective inquiry would conclude it won the bid to host the World Cup fairly. It added: “Following today’s newspaper articles, we vehemently deny all allegations of wrongdoing. We will take whatever steps are necessary to defend the integrity of Qatar’s bid and our lawyers are looking into this matter. “The right to host the tournament was won because it was the best bid and because it is time for the Middle East to host its first Fifa World Cup.”  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghPeru's Hansell Riojas reacts after being hit by a paper airplane thrown from the crowd during their international friendly soccer match against England at Wembley Stadium in London May 30, 2014. Good morning! It’s a huge week ahead. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Mixed markets. The Dow managed to eke out some gains (0.11%) on Friday but the Nasdaq was down 0.12%. The continuing fall in the iron ore price is weighing on the Australian markets though, with the ASX futures contract 8 points lower at 5495 bid. In the region, Japan’s huge inflation number on Friday – CPI rose 3.4% year on year, the highest in two decades – has led to calls for an end to to QE in Japan. The Nikkei fell 0.34%. 2. Epic data week. It’s one of the busiest weeks of the year so far on the data front with a raft of numbers out each day that can move markets. PMIs for countries around the world are out today – important leading indicators for the health of the global economy. There’s also the AiG PMI, expected to show further contraction in the Australian manufacturing sector, as well as TD inflation. Tomorrow there’s retail sales for April in Australia and the RBA issues its monthly statement on interest rates – there’s no change expected but the market will be on the lookout for any commentary on the impact of the federal budget, which has clearly been a drain on consumer confidence. On Wednesday there’s Australian Q1 GDP and on Thursday there’s the April trade balance. That night there’s the monthly ECB statement where more stimulus including an historic negative interest rate is expected, and then on Friday night there’s the US jobs report. There’s a full preview here. 3. Who’s buying DJs shares? David Jones is trying to figure out who bought 50 million of its shares last week. The shares changed hands on Friday, the same day it was reported that Solomon Lew had taken a $14 million (0.65%) stake over the past fortnight. There is some speculation that Lew may be attempting to block the takeover proposal from South African retail giant Woolworths. He hasn’t commented. More here. 4. Goldman’s rate cut call. In a note to clients on Friday, Goldman Sachs said it expected the RBA to cut interest rates to 2.25% in September. It had previously forecast a cut as early as July but says “growth momentum has slowed materially in 2Q14, financial conditions have tightened and an audible snapping in consumer sentiment post the Budget has taken sentiment to levels not seen since prior to the current rate easing cycle”. Tim Toohey and team say some time is needed to regroup on the changes in the economy in recent months, including from the federal budget, but conclude an “assessment of forces that shift the RBA policy bias in the past has reinforced our belief that further monetary accommodation is required”. 5. Abbott’s tin-ear D-Day statement. The Australian Prime Minister released a video yesterday which linked together two incongruous themes: D-Day commemorations in Europe and Coalition trade policy. In a statement, accompanied by a video, Abbott noted that “Over 3,000 Australians were involved – including 2,500 air force personnel who provided air support for the Allied landings.” He continues: “Following the D-day commemorations, I will be travelling to Canada and the United States – and will be joined by Australian business leaders. My message to overseas investors is that Australia is open for business.” It goes on to talk about cutting red tape and getting rid of the carbon tax. You can see what he was trying to do – linking freedom and common values with trade – but it misreads the solemn place of D-Day in European history and just comes across as, well, weird. Here’s a sample of the reaction: 6. World Cup corruption. There’s now pressure on FIFA to re-run the vote for hosting rights to the 2022 World Cup after the UK’s Sunday Times exposed alleged payment of around $US5 million to officials in return for support of Qatar’s bid. Australia spent tens of millions on its campaign for that vote only to receive support from just one country. A story to follow this week. 7. Apple’s big rollout. Apple shares rose on Friday in US trade with anticipation building about the company’s product rollout in the coming months, especially around the iPhone 6. Apple, remember, has been losing market share and under fire for its apparently slowdown in innovation. But Apple SVP Eddy Cue said last week that the company had “the best product pipeline that I’ve seen in my 25 years at Apple”. It starts today: the company will brief on software updates at a developer conference in San Francisco tonight, and there will also be some sort of new hardware. 8. Detroit in decay. If you tuned out on the weekend, you missed this heads-up on the state of one of the hardest hit cities in the US housing crisis. On his Tumblr “goobingdetroit”, Alex Alsup has stitched together incredible images of neighbourhoods literally falling down before Google Street View’s eyes since 2008. 9. The Ken Cowley quotes. Former News Corp CEO and chairman Ken Cowley is seeking legal advice over an article in the AFR which contained a range of quotes highly critical of his former company. He was critical of Rupert Murdoch’s choice of Julian Clarke as CEO and described The Australian as “pathetic” and said News Corp co-chair Lachlan Murdoch was “not a great businessman”. The Australian explains today  that Cowley believes the story was “not a true reflection” of the interview; the AFR is standing by its story. 10. Alice has died. Yes, the Bradys’ housekeeper, who could always be turned to for sensible advice whenever the kids’ parents never understood them. Alice seemed ageless in the 60s and 70s, but succumbed to a hemetoma at 88 just this morning after falling and hitting her head in her bathroom. Bonus item: A guy throws a paper airplane from the nosebleed seats, and it gets caught by a player on the field way down below. What a moment.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enny NuraheniEmployees from various Indonesian private banks deposit bundles of rupiah at the central bank in Jakarta March 5, 1998.The Financial Times' Tracy Alloway has a piece on the state of the repurchase, or repo, market, and what she finds is a little unsettling.  The repo market allows parties to pledge securities as collateral in order to gain access to short-term loans. For example, a hedge fund could pledge U.S. Treasury bonds it owns as collateral in exchange for capital to use for another transaction. Alloway reports that institutions and REITs have replaced banks as the biggest players in the repo market: "What remains of the $4.2tn market is increasingly being taken up by non-bank entities such as real estate investment trusts (Reits), mutual funds and hedge funds ... The growing use of repo has been particularly marked among Reits, which have overtaken banks and broker-dealers as the largest borrowers in the market, according to Federal Reserve data." Alloway adds that, "[i]ndustry participants say there is ample anecdotal evidence that other types of big investors are lending out more of their assets to generate greater returns." Last year, the FT highlighted potential risks financial markets could face amid a shrinking repo market. Alloway also notes that a sudden loss of confidence from lenders in the repo market ahead of the 2008 financial crisis "proved destabilizing." With interest rates low and markets experiencing less volatility than they have in decades, investors are seeking returns wherever and however they can find them, commonly known as the "search for yield." As the composition of the repo market changes, the question is: what happens next? Read the FT's full report here » (via Reformed Broker)  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Chineasy is a strategic, easy-learning project by entrepreneur ShaoLan Hsueh that teaches people to recognize Chinese characters through simple illustration. Watch ShaoLan's presentation at the DLD conference, and learn key characters and phrases. Many thanks to our friends at DLD for giving us permission to publish this presentation. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The Economist When workers retire, they need to know that their pension will not only last for the remainder of their lives but will also be robust enough to cope with the ravages of inflation. Old-style final-salary pensions did the trick, for those workers lucky enough to have them. But the rise of defined contribution (DC) pensions means that workers are on their own; employers put money into the scheme but the payout depends on the investment returns. This can be a lottery, as is shown by the chart, compiled by the OECD. It illustrates the retirement income (as a proportion of final salary) that workers might have expected had they put 5% of their salary aside for 40 years in a fund split 60% between equities and 40% government bonds. (The calculation probably exaggerates the share of final salary, as it does not allow for charges or the effect of post-retirement inflation, but what matters here is the variation.) Compare the fortunes of Japanese retirees in the late 1980s with those leaving their jobs today; or the similar contrast between Americans who retired at the peak of the dotcom boom and those who quit in 2012. This variability of outcome helps explain why so many employers have been keen to discontinue defined benefit (DB) plans; under such schemes, they were required to make up any shortfall. Another way of illustrating the problem comes in a paper* from GMO, a fund-management company. Suppose a worker invests $1 in an asset with an average return of 5% a year, subject to an average annual variation of 14%. The mean pension pot after 40 years would be $11. But that number is skewed by a few outcomes in which returns are exceptionally high. The median pot would be $7 and the most likely outcome, the mode, just $3.40. The most important thing for the typical worker is to avoid the worst outcome, not aim for the best. Yet, understandably, few feel they have the expertise to allocate their investments accordingly. As a result many opt for what appears to be the safe option in the form of target-date funds (in America) or default funds (in Britain). These funds are certainly a lot better than the choices employees might make if left to their own devices--placing their entire portfolio in cash or in their employer’s shares, for example. Such funds generally follow a "lifestyle approach" in which the bulk of the portfolio is invested in equities when the employee is young and then switched into government bonds as retirement draws near. But is that the best strategy? GMO argues that the lifestyle approach implicitly assumes that returns from asset classes are constant over time. That is clearly not the case with government bonds. Given the current yields of 2-3% on Treasury bonds, long-term returns are likely to be far lower than they were for an investor in the early 1980s, when yields were in double digits. But it is also true, says GMO, of equities: investors can prosper if they invest more when shares are undervalued and less when they are expensive. The trick, of course, is to identify the moments when shares are cheap or dear. GMO favours the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio (which averages profits over ten years), a measure popularised by Robert Shiller of Yale University. Over the past 130 years, this ratio has ranged between seven and 44 with an average of 16. The Shiller p/e is not a particularly good short-term valuation guide but it works much better over the long term: there is a 60% correlation between the starting ratio and the subsequent ten-year return from equities (the higher the initial p/e, the lower the return). That makes it potentially useful for the long-term process of building up a pension pot. Under GMO’s assumptions, if equity valuations are normal, a 25-year-old would have a 90% weight in equities and a 65-year-old 40%. But when equities look expensive, the weight would fall. On a Shiller p/e of 19, the 25-year-old would have a weighting of 45% and the 65-year-old just 25%. Following this approach would have reduced the chance of the retiree running out of money by the age of 95 from around 50% to 13%. Naturally, caveats are needed. Backtest enough theories and you will arrive at a good result. Whereas we know the historical valuations of equities in retrospect, investors did not know at the time what the range would be. But GMO is right. Now that workers have responsibility for their own pensions, they need to think harder about where to put their money--and when to move it elsewhere. Economist.com/blogs/buttonwood Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesDOHA (Reuters) - On New Year's Day, 1914, Abe Pheil squeezed into the open cockpit of a Benoist Type XIV boatplane in St. Petersburg, Florida, and became the world's first airline passenger, flying 20 miles in 23 minutes for a specially auctioned fare of $400. Last year three billion people followed in his footsteps. But while the first century of paid flight has transformed the passenger experience from a bone-shaking wooden biplane to frills such as flat beds, for many investors it provides the same risk of getting wet as the original hop across Tampa Bay. Global airlines are set to make $13 billion this year, but a centennial gathering in Doha this week will hear that margins remain thin and the industry has rarely if ever covered its cost of capital since the original St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line. At the heart of the problem is a debate about whether a unique system of ownership controls and bilateral agreements, which make it hard for airlines to combine, should be relaxed. "We as an industry wish that we were treated like any other industry and were able to buy and sell across borders, and merge and do business like any other business," said Tony Tyler, director general of the International Air Transport Association, whose more than 200 members are meeting in Doha until June 3. "After 100 years, we haven't found a way of doing that and governments haven't found a way of letting us do it - not yet," he told Reuters ahead of IATA's annual meeting, where a replica of the first boatplane has been given pride of place. About 3,000 people gathered to watch the original plane make the first scheduled flight, which took place a long way from the storm clouds of conflict gathering in Europe. But experts say the background to today's ownership debate lies in decisions taken after the last century's wars, when airspace was deemed sovereign partly due to fears of militarization. The alternative, treating the sky like the high seas, was rejected. Those fears have retreated but the bureaucratic landscape remains, with the industry ruled by bilateral traffic rights limiting market access, and backed up by ownership restrictions that help to preserve more than 1,000 airlines. Despite extensive deregulation and consolidation in the United States and Europe, airline leaders say ownership barriers are hampering efforts to cope with high fixed costs. "It is a very fragmented industry because you can't consolidate across political borders," Tyler said. "If you take the rules that run airlines and translate them into another industry, you do get some pretty funny ideas. The consequences seem bizarre, yet those are the ones we work in." The sheer scale of the IATA event staged each year is proof of the industry's dispersal. Without foreign ownership controls, such a summit of industry leaders might look rather different. "You could have five, 10 or 20 big global brands competing with each other wherever they go, possibly with differing regional strengths in different parts of the world," Tyler said, asked what the industry would look like with free ownership. "I am sure you would still find regional airlines would make a tidy living as specialists in particular regions." Privately, some airline chiefs put it more bluntly. "There are quite a few airlines here that just shouldn't be around," one delegate said, asking not to be named. Some IATA members are fighting to repel incursions by foreign airlines into their markets through subsidiaries. Still, airlines have been creative about getting around the foreign ownership curbs that exist in most of the world's markets, forging global alliances and setting up powerful revenue-sharing ventures on key markets such as the Atlantic. Abu Dhabi's Etihad took a step towards expanding an alternative model based on building minority equity stakes and sharing procurement decisions when it offered a long-awaited tie-up on Sunday with Italian carrier Alitalia. Others such as Asia's largest low-cost airline AirAsia, which is not a member of IATA, opt to franchise a single brand through numerous loosely controlled affiliates. Tyler said the cost structures of low-cost airlines and the traditional network carriers would converge, especially when the time comes to share the cost of new airport infrastructure, and that more non-traditional airlines would be welcome in IATA. "I see the world differently: I just see airlines," he said. ICAO, the United Nations aviation agency, which oversees rules dating back to the 1944 Chicago Convention, last year called for looser control of ownership and more liberalization. But analysts say that could take decades to achieve. "Until the laws are changed, which is very unlikely, the industry is not going to change in the way it operates," said UK-based aviation consultant James Halstead. (Additional reporting by Victoria Bryan, Siva Govindasamy; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
One of the few consensus ideas that I took away from the Strategic Investment Conference is that China has the potential to become a real problem. It seemed to me that almost everyone who addressed the topic was either seriously alarmed at the extent of China’s troubles or merely very worried. Perhaps it was the particular group of speakers we had, but no one was sanguine. If you recall, a few weeks back I introduced my young colleague and protégé Worth Wray to you; and his inaugural Thoughts from the Frontline focused on China, a topic on which he is well-versed, having lived and studied there. Our conversations often center on China and emerging markets (and we tend to talk and write to each other a lot). While I’m on the road, Worth is once again visiting China in this week’s letter, summing up our research and contributing his own unique style and passion. I think regular TFTF readers are going to enjoy Worth’s occasional missives and will want to see more of them over time. Now, let’s turn it over to my able young Cajun friend. Editors’ note: With John up to his eyeballs in prosecco and peaches there on the patio in Trequanda this morning and with Worth just getting the sleep out of his eyes in Houston, we are hereby making an executive decision to split this 22-page beast masterpiece right up its middle and bring you the second half next week … which will give both these guys some well-earned rest!  – Charley &amp; Lisa Sweet By Worth Wray (Houston, TX) In my Thoughts from the Frontline debut this past March (“China’s Minsky Moment?”), I highlighted the massive bubble in Chinese private-sector debt and explored the near-term prospects for either (1) a reform-induced slowdown or (2) a crisis-induced recession. Unfortunately, it was not an easy or straightforward analysis, considering the glaring inconsistencies between “official” state-compiled data and more concrete measures of real economic activity. More Questions Than Answers Although John and I spend hours every week searching for the truth in a murky stream of official and unofficial reports, we always reach the same conclusion about the People’s Republic: There is really no way to know what is happening in China today, much less what will happen tomorrow, based on widely available data. The primary data is flawed at best and manipulated at worst. Sometimes the most revealing insights lie in the disagreement between the official and unofficial reports… suggesting that official data is useful only to the extent that we think about it as state-sanctioned propaganda. In other words, it tells us what Chinese policymakers want the world to believe. This shortfall in credible and actionable data from one of the global economy’s largest and most interconnected members leaves us with more questions than answers – especially in the presence of a massive Chinese credit bubble, with clear signs of overinvestment and unsustainably high debt-service ratios. These are troubling signs for all investors, in every asset class, everywhere in the world today… and everyone should be paying close attention. (I should note that John has access to a massive amount of research from a very wide variety of both traditional and nontraditional sources… and I say that after having extraordinary access myself as the portfolio strategist for an $18B Texas money manager. I am seeing and reading things every day that I could only imagine before, and the information flow is addictive. John’s sources give us a big, if sometimes overwhelming, head start on thinking through all the implications for investing around the constant collisions of macroeconomic forces. While we legally and ethically cannot share some of the best research we see, we can share a lot of the core ideas and do our best to give you a head start, too. That’s what this letter is about.) Read the Tea Leaves Carefully &amp; Expect Miscues Most China economists – who do the best they can to read the economic tea leaves by focusing on a handful of economic indicators ranging from gross domestic product (GDP), purchasing managers’ indices (PMI), consumer/producer inflation (CPI/PPI), total social finance, and industrial production – end up expressing a rather bipolar view on Chinese economic activity, with wild swings in their outlooks from quarter to quarter. On this front, I was particularly impressed by an explosive letter (viewable by Over My Shoulder subscribers only) from our friends at Political Alpha, which remains one of the elite political intelligence/analysis firms on the Street. While China watchers tend to trade reactively around official and unofficial manufacturing PMI releases as monthly proxies for the broader economy, very few investors realize that “not only is manufacturing no longer the bellwether of the [Chinese] economy, more often than not it now performs counter-cyclically.” Although China is the world’s largest producer of value-added manufactured goods, it has not been an export-led economy for a very long time. As I detailed in last month’s letter, China’s growth has largely relied on extraordinarily high levels of fixed investment, supported by even higher levels of domestic savings and an unsustainable rise in private-sector credit. Source: Wayne M. Morrison, China’s Economic Rise: History, Trends, Challenges, &amp; Implications for the United States. Congressional Research Service, February 3, 2014 Even so, industry experts often fall into the trap of extrapolating flash manufacturing readings into forecasts for the broader economy. Our friends at Political Alpha describe one such situation where HSBC’s China team (which puts out the unofficial monthly PMI each month in partnership with MarkIt) “was forced to backpedal from its September 23rd announcement that the flash PMI data was ‘further evidence [of] China’s ongoing growth rebound’ to a much more somber conclusion just seven days later: ‘There are still a lot of structural headwinds ahead. This is as good as it gets for the time being…. [D]on’t expect too sharp an acceleration from here.’” Feel free to compare the clips yourself: On a side note, I don’t mean to disparage the China research team at HSBC or question their competency by reprinting the comments above. I’m sure they get up each morning (just like I do) with a genuine intent to understand changing economic conditions as best they can and to help their clients protect and grow their savings. If anything, this example is a broader indictment of investors’ widespread reliance on a handful of flawed or misunderstood data points in the absence of credible Chinese economic data. I don’t mean to be cute or coy on this issue. The lack of transparency of the Chinese economy is not just a problem for individual and institutional investors who make the choice every day to put their money at risk; it also carries enormous policy implications for central bankers and elected politicians in a highly unstable global system where total debt-to-GDP has risen across the world’s major economies by nearly 35% since 2008… and continues to rise. Source: Hoisington Investment Management Company, May 2014 As you can see in the table above (which Dr. Lacy Hunt was kind enough to share with us at this year’s Strategic Investment Conference), China has seen its total debt-to-income ratio jump by more than 100% (another full turn of GDP) in the last five years… more debt growth than any other major economy on the planet, including Japan. Pulling Back the Bamboo Curtain  Fortunately, my last letter on China’s debt build-up sparked a flurry of introductions and fresh conversations with investors, economists, and policymakers from around the world – in places like London, Spain, South Africa, Singapore, Dubai, Australia, Hong Kong, and Finland. Of course, John has also eagerly introduced me to many of his close friends (who happen to be serious A-list economists and money managers)… so needless to say, it has been an incredibly fun and enlightening couple of months. But John introduced me to one man, in particular, who was able to pull back the curtain on the Chinese economy in a way I had not imagined… and it feels like I am looking at the Middle Kingdom with fresh eyes. Meet Leland Miller, President of China Beige Book International. Along with Dr. Craig Charney, who oversees the firm’s vast research efforts, Leland spearheads the effort to supply the world’s elite institutions (from central banks and heads of state to multinationals, mega-banks, and hedge funds) with a comprehensive look into China’s economy, by applying the same survey methodology employed by each of the regional US Federal Reserve Banks in preparing their submissions for the national Beige Book.  Aside from the fact that Leland is an Oxford-educated China historian, a brilliant economist, and a genuinely nice guy, what first caught my attention was his remarkable track record of contrarian calls since the inaugural issue of the China Beige Book in Q1 2012… from the initial slowdown; to unexpected bounces in economic activity; and even the June 2013 cash crunch where interbank interest rates spiked dramatically in a matter of weeks, signaling that a wave of defaults was on the way. (I should note that John has sat on China Beige Book International’s advisory board and has worked closely with Leland for most of the firm’s history.) Before we proceed, here is a short but important description of the history and methodology behind the China Beige Book. Although survey data has its limits in any economy, this is as good as it gets for a semi-closed economy like China’s.   Beginning in early 2010, our team set out to craft a Chinese analogue of the US Federal Reserve’s Beige Book. Over the next twelve months, we conducted a study of the Beige Book and the methods used to prepare it, including contact with officials at each of the regional Federal Reserve Banks involved in its preparation. We then worked to develop a method that would be similar, but more comprehensive and systematic, in its approach to the world’s second largest economy – a Beige Book “with Chinese characteristics.” Our approach triangulates three methods, repeated every quarter: a quantitative survey of over 2,000 leading firms from key sectors across the country; qualitative one-on-one in-depth discussions with C-Suite executives in the same industries across every region; and a separate, targeted banker survey of loan officers and branch managers, designed to home in on the complexities of both the official and shadow economies. With the data from this approach, we are able to compare regions and industries within a quarter, as well as track changes over time, both in near and real time. The result of these efforts is the largest and most comprehensive survey series ever conducted on a closed or semi-closed economy… I cannot share the report in its entirety or reveal too much of its contents, but Leland did give me permission to share part of the regional overviews and research highlights from the Q1 2014 report. If you are able and willing to pay the six-figure annual subscription fee, Leland’s work will blow your mind and dramatically change your perspective. For the rest of us, the following excerpt can at least point us in the right direction… and I am discovering that Leland’s media interviews and tweets (@ChinaBeigeBook) are quite telling, as well. (You can also follow John and me on Twitter at @JohnFMauldin and @WorthWray, respectively.) China Beige Book, Regional Overview (Excerpts from the Q1 2014 report)  China Beige Book regions (listed below Region 1: Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang Growth slowed – retail &amp; real estate gains weakening sharply – despite stability in manufacturing and pickups in services, transport, and agriculture. Borrowing was stable with rates down at banks and up at non-bank lenders. Hiring slowed, as did margin growth. On-quarter weakness was modest, but the on-year drop was worrisome. Region 2: Guangdong, Fujian Despite the national slowdown, Guangdong’s pickup continued, driven by manufacturing and transport. Growth was steady in retail, off in services and property. Wage growth remained high but costs inflation eased, boosting margins. Borrowing ticked up, with bank rates steady and shadow rates up. The export power-house found an encouraging second wind. Region 3: Beijing, Tianjin, Shandong, Hebei The capital region saw Q1’s worst results, due to trouble in services and manufacturing. Property and mining were stable, retail slightly better. Margin growth suffered. Borrowing was stable and moved to banks, on the country’s lowest interest rates. Beijing is leading the national economic slowdown. Region 4: Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning The Northeast slowed as mining contracted and manufacturing, property, and farming growth eased. Services was stable and retail saw a pick-up. Hiring and wages strengthened, while pricing weakened, pressuring margins. Borrowing ticked up, rates easing. Rebalancing does not look easy in this old industrial region. Region 5: Hubei, Henan, Chongqing, Sichuan, Anhui, Jiangxi Growth slowed sharply, slipping in retail, services, property, farming, and mining, with only manufacturing stable. Hiring was steady but input costs grew faster, narrowing margin gains. Borrowing slid again, with lower interest rates in both formal and shadow finance – not an encouraging trend. Region 6: Shaanxi, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia Growth took a hit, gains slowing in this crucial mining sector. Manufacturing, real estate and, especially, retail weakened. Services and transport were the bright spots. Hiring and margin growth both eased. Borrowing was flat as rates went up. The North remains dependent on struggling mining. Region 7: Guizhou, Guangxi, Yunnan, Hainan, Hunan Again out of sync with the rest of China, the Southwest sped up. Manufacturing, transport, and mining improved, but retail, services, and real estate saw growth slow. Hiring and input costs picked up, but so did pricing and margins. Borrowing ticked up, as shadow lenders’ rates moved back above banks’ rates. Region 8: Xinjiang, Tibet, Gansu, Qinghai The West again boasted China’s best overall growth, though manufacturing, retail, and services slowed. Only property picked up, with mining and transport stable. Hiring and input cost growth were steady, but pricing and margin growth eased. Borrowing remained China’s least frequent as rates jumped. China Beige Book, Research Highlights (Excerpts from the Q1 2014 report) Manufacturing is fine, yet the economy is not The pace of Chinese economic expansion has painfully slowed. Revenue, sales, profit, and wage growth are all weaker than a year ago. The slowdown is particularly steep in the North [region 6] and Northeast [region 4] and also pronounced in Beijing [region 3] and Central China (region 5). By sector, stable first-quarter growth in manufacturing confirms our long-standing thesis that it is no longer the economy’s bellwether... A bounce-back later this year is possible The worst performer according to CBB figures, both on-quarter and on-year, is real estate and construction. While property companies are getting crushed, the sector is also notoriously unstable for both structural and political reasons. It would be no surprise if real estate were to rally before the end of the year. More immediate reason for optimism: Growth in new domestic orders was solid (save in the Northeast), and domestic orders and export orders were both stronger in powerhouse Guangdong. The results do not indicate a boom later in 2014, but they do suggest that linear forecasts of continued deterioration are overly simplistic. Financial segmentation is profound The ongoing debates about monetary policy assume that anticipated loosening or tightening applies across the spectrum of borrowers. CBB data say otherwise, and in multiple ways. First, while the number of firms reporting that they borrowed stabilized in Q1, it did so at a very low level. Shoving more liquidity at the credit market will have limited effects until participation expands. This includes RRR cuts – though of course these may occur for political reasons. Second, shadow finance may be revving up for a comeback. CBB numbers show a recovery in the sales of wealth management products (WMPs), likely due to competition from online banking. This is cash leaving the traditional banking sector and, while non-bank lending did not pick up in the first quarter, the groundwork is being laid for it to do so. Online banking may be encouraging riskier behavior Online lenders are typically viewed as a force for liberalization, as well as a potentially healthier alternative to unregulated shadow finance. Yet our data show their proliferation would impart significant costs as well… What appears to be happening is the higher returns available in online banking are forcing banks to move more transactions off-balance sheet, in order to avoid the interest rate cap. While this may accommodate policy goals in the short term, an uptick in off-balance sheet funding portends more shadow bank lending down the line. Interest rate spread between banks &amp; shadow banks highest in a year Bank loan rates and bond yields eased slightly this quarter, but the cost of capital increased again for those borrowing from non-bank lenders. While the shifts were not dramatic, the spread between bank and non-bank loan rates nationwide is now the largest since Q1 2013. This highlights the still more challenging road for those firms, principally domestic private entities that are pushed outside formal lending channels. Growth Is Slowing But Not Collapsing (So Far…)  After reading through the latest report, consulting with friends who are also familiar with the research, and bombarding Leland with a never-ending stream of questions for the last month, John and I still cannot claim to have enough information to make a directional call on the world’s most powerful (and least understood) macro force… but we know more about the inner workings of China’s economy than we did when we wrote to you a couple of months ago. Great data often has that effect – it’s like shining a light into the shadows (including China’s shadow banks). We can see the nuanced regional contrast in economic activity, the modest (but still insufficient) rebalancing between sectors, and pressure points in the credit markets that suggest last summer’s interbank volatility may return in 2014. We also see a far more mixed picture of economic activity than a lot of the widely followed headline data suggests. The overall pace of Chinese economic growth is clearly slowing but not collapsing. The credit transmission mechanism is obviously broken, as you can see in the chart below (with government and government-sponsored borrowers in zombie industries consuming the majority of the country’s credit… in turn forcing households to borrow through shadow banks at massive risk premiums); but so far, the credit bubble is not imploding. On that note, China Beige Book International is the only independent research firm in the world that tracks the non-bank (shadow) lending rates not just nationally, or by region, but for every sector in every region over time. Leland and his team have essentially solved the most difficult China puzzle of all: what is true cost of capital in the Chinese economy, and who is able to actually access it? Source: Wei Yao, “China: A whiff of debt deflation.” Societe Generale Research, May 9, 2014 Of course – and Leland was emphatic on this point – China’s greatest challenge will lie in deleveraging the economy while also rebalancing toward a consumption-driven growth model for the first time in modern history. That cannot happen as long as households remain repressed by unequal access to credit markets or intentionally suppressed exchange rates, which essentially represent a transfer of household wealth from workers to state-favored firms. But reforming the system will require a greater slowdown than China’s policymakers are letting on. And, Leland warns, Beijing runs the risk of blowing its credibility and instigating capital flight if the divergence between official forecasts and China’s actual economic experience grows too large. To be continued next week  Trequanda, Nantucket, New York, and Maine It is very early Saturday morning here in Rome (still late Friday night in the US) as I finish this letter, or at least my part of it. Worth is still up and reworking this piece (I really can’t keep up with him); then the editors, Charley and Lisa Sweet, will do their final runs; and then a whole team will make sure you get your letter. A far cry from the early days when your humble analyst did everything. And the mistakes I made showed up in print far more often. I am grateful to have a whole group of dedicated people working to keep the machine humming. In a few hours I will meet George Gilder at the train station. I will buy a few local phones (I already have local sim cards for the iPads from the airport yesterday), find some cash, and have lunch before we hop the train to Chiusi with my daughter Melissa and some friends and then meet Tiffani and Lively, who are already there with the cars. We’ll drive to Sinalunga to shop for groceries and other stuff for the week before going the last short leg to Trequanda. Other guests will come and go over the next few weeks, using the villa as a base to explore the Tuscan region; but I will probably stay “home,” reading and thinking and working out, doing some preliminary writing on my next book, and trying to take the speed of life down a gear or two. Vacation for me is being in the same place for an extended period. And getting to talk with Gilder in the evenings about our books is such a treat. He is one of the finest philosophical/sociological/economic/technological minds in the world (in my opinion), and having him to talk with in the evening will help me lay the proper intellectual framework for my book, though I have to work on not distracting him too much. Last night I had dinner arranged here in Rome with my friend Steve Cucchiaro, his daughter (who was celebrating her birthday), and his son. My group was running late, even though our driver from the airport was driving like we were in a Formula One race. That is typical, but it was not long before we realized he was also drunk and half mad, talking and gesturing to himself the entire time. Obviously, we survived. When we got to our hotel, I was busy getting people to get ready ASAP so we would not be too late. I asked the concierge for directions, and he gave them to me but then said, “Signor Mauldin, you cannot wear that to the Imago restaurant. It is a very nice place.” I pointed out that I had not brought a tie, and he offered me one. So I went to the room and called Steve to tell him we would be a little late. He said jackets were required but no ties. It turned out he had booked one of the finest places in Rome and got the corner window table overlooking the Spanish Steps and St. Peter’s, with a spectacular sunset/nighttime view. Another special night for the memory book. It is time to hit the send button, as trains will not wait. I will report from Tuscany next week, by which time Worth and I should have China all figured out – not! But we’ll keep after it. Also, I hope to summarize the speech I did in San Diego. Until then have a great week! Your thinking I need to get to China analyst, John Mauldin, Editorsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
In anticipation of this, the euro has been sold.  It declined by about 1.8% on the month.   The net speculative position in the futures market swung to favor shorts.   We suspect the market is particularly vulnerable to "sell the rumor and buy the fact" activity.  This is what has happened when the Fed has announced its quantitative easing programs:  the dollar would sell off in anticipation and then rally on the announcement.  The euro's four cent decline pushed it below $1.3600 briefly.   The 38.2% retracement objective of the rally off last July's lows is found near $1.3520.  However, the decline has stretched the technical indicators.  The RSI has already turned up, and the MACDs are about to cross higher.   This dovetails with our suspicion of "sell the rumor buy the fact" behavior in response to the ECB.  This may be counter-intuitive, but this is essentially what happened in the past.  When the Fed announced QE, it was often well anticipated, and the dollar sold off until it was announced and then rallied.   We suspect that the challenges the ECB faces are not something that 10-15 bp of rate cuts, and even a negative deposit rate, will convincingly address.   Once the event risk passes, investors may return to form and chase yield.  If this analysis is correct, what kind of bounce can the euro have?  The first objective is the $1.3720-40 area,    The next target would be in the $1.3780-$1.3820 area.  If  the ECB does genuinely surprise, the $1.3520 is the initial target on a break of $1.3580.  Sterling declined 3 cents against the dollar in May.  This was among its worst monthly performances in the past year.  The technical outlook is somewhat similar, though sterling's 200-day moving average (just below $1.6400) was not tested.  The RSI has turned up, but the MACDs do not appear as close to turning as the euro's.  The initial upside objective is the $1.6810-40 band.  On the downside, a break of the $1.6700 area risks a move toward $1.6625.  There are two forces underpinning the yen.  First, the US 10-year premium over Japan has fallen to its lowest level since last August.  Second, market expectations of new stimulus by the BOJ are being reconsidered.  Previously the overwhelming majority expected new measures by the end of July.  We have long argued this was jumping the gun and, if there is to be more monetary stimulus, it would likely be later. The technical indicators for the yen are broadly neutral.  The two yen range that confined the dollar in May looks set to continue.  A trend line off the April high near JPY104.10 and the May high near 103 caught the past week's high near JPY102.15.  On the downside, the dollar, the market appear cautious about pushing the dollar much below the 200-day moving average found near JPY101.40.  Over the past two week, the euro has carved out a shelf near JPY138.  Technical signals here seem clearer than against dollar-yen.  Provided the shelf holds, the euro can rise toward JPY139.65 and possibly JPY140.  This fits in well with a sell the rumor buy the fact activity around the ECB meeting.  The Canadian dollar was the strongest major currency in the month of May, appreciating 1% against the US dollar.  However, the US dollar recorded a low near CAD1.0815 on May 8-9 and the retest at the end of last week was aborted after the weaker than expected Q1 GDP figures (1.2% rather than 1.8% consensus) and industrial product prices actually declined (-0.2% whereas the consensus anticipated a 0.4% rise).   The Bank of Canada, which meets on June 4, is particularly sensitive to the downside risks of inflation.  It follows soft retail sales and jobs report.  No rate cut can be reasonably expected, but a dovish statement could see the US dollar move back toward CAD1.0950. The Australian dollar was the best performing major currency last week, rising about 0.8% against the greenback.  This was roughly four times the advance of the yen, which was the strongest currency.  The decline in global interest rates helped solidify the $0.9200 base, which was tested half a dozen times in May.   The downtrend line drawn off the April and May high comes near $0.9375 at the end of next week.  However, more immediate resistance near $0.9335 held Aussie upticks in check ahead of the weekend.  Support is pegged near $0.92870-85.  The Mexican peso was flat in the past week, though the dollar saw its recent losses extended toward MXN12.825, which represents the new 2104 low.  The RSI and MACDs look neutral, but fresh downticks have been difficult to sustain.   There has been a large build-up of speculative peso longs in the futures market.  A dollar advance through the MXN12.90 would encourage a test on the down trendline drawn off the late-January high, the March high and the late April high.    It comes in near MXN12.95.   Observations from the speculative positioning in the CME futures market:  1.  With a couple week lag behind the euro, the net speculative position swung to the short side for the Swiss franc in the latest Commitment of Traders report that covers the week through May 27.  It is the first net short franc position in three months. 2.  The net speculative position is short four of the seven currency futures we track here:  euro, yen, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar. 3.  There were no major (10k contract shift of more) gross position adjustment over the past week.  The largest position adjustment was the gross long peso positions, which grew 9.1k contracts to 101.8k. This is the largest gross long position since last June.  The net position of 83.3k contracts is also the largest since last June. 4.  The general pattern in the latest reporting period was for the gross short currency futures positions to have increased.  The only exception was for sterling.   Gross shorts were pared by 3.8k contracts to 43.1.  The gross long positions were cut for the euro (-4.3k contracts to 70.8k), the yen (-1.7k contracts to 17.0k), sterling (-1.6k contracts to 78.4k) and the Swiss franc (-5,8k contracts to 11.6k). 5.  The other three currencies saw an increase in the gross long positions: Canadian dollar (+6.1k to 32.6k contracts), the Australian dollar (+1.9 to 52.k contracts), and the Mexican peso, that we already discussed as the largest gross position adjustment. 6.  The month of May saw the net speculative position for both the euro and franc shift to the short side. During the month, the net short yen and Canadian dollar positions were reduced, while the net long sterling position was also cut.  The net position in the Australian dollar was little changed.  The net long peso position grew. 7.  Given the focus on the US bond market rally, we looked at the Commitment of Traders for the 10-year Treasury note futures.  There was a large adjustment to positions.  Both long and shorts were cut. The latter more than the former and this led to sharp reduced in the net short position to 19.1k contracts from 97.9k.  The gross short position was slashed by 131k contracts to 398.4k.  This is the largest short covering since December 2012.  The gross short position returned to late April levels. The gross long position was cut by 52.1k contracts to 379.3k.  Up until now there was no evidence from the futures market that the bond rally was a product of short-covering.  The reporting week ending May 20 saw the net short position rise to it highest level since before the financial crisis. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
1. ECB:  In this eventful week, the ECB meeting is by far the most significant. Draghi came the closest the ECB does to pre-committing to moving this week, with the new staff forecasts in hand. There is some uncertainty of precisely what the ECB will do. However, the range of options appear be narrowed to interest rate adjustment, forward guidance, and perhaps a targeted funding-for-lending scheme. There does not seem to be a consensus for outright asset purchases, but Draghi is likely to emphasize in his press conference that the ECB is prepared to do more if necessary. A move to negative deposit rates is the most important of the measures that may be announced. It is unprecedented among key central banks. Even combating deflation for years, the Bank of Japan never charged banks for depositing money with it. Most observers do not seem to think it will have much impact. We remain concerned about the knock-on disruptive indicators to large economic agents, including the government itself, money market funds and businesses. In a perverse way, a negative deposit rate may also aggravate the contractionary impulse in the financial sector by leading. The flash May CPI will be released on Tuesday. After softer Italian and Spanish figures before the weekend, the risk would seem to be on the downside to the April 0.7% reading. We suspect the 4 cent decline in the euro over the past month to have largely discounted a 10-15 bp cut in key lending rates. Such a rate cut is unlikely to cover in full the reduced inflation estimates the ECB staff is likely to project. Technically, the euro may be poised to bounce. The event has long been anticipated. "Sell the rumor, buy the fact" behavior is not uncommon. It was also what appeared to be the case in the US. A case in point is the dollar's sell-off in anticipation of the third round of QE. It recovered after it was announced. 2. US Jobs:  The monthly US employment data always attracts attention. However, we argue that this report has lost some of its market impact. The Federal Reserve appears to be on something close to auto-pilot. It will take more than a 1% contraction in quarterly GDP to prompt the Fed to reassess its tapering. At the same time, the modest rise being seen in a broad range of inflation indicators does not appear to increase the pace of tapering. According to a Reuters survey, the consensus is for a 220k increase in non-farm payrolls but sees the unemployment rate ticking up to 6.4% from 6.3%. Yellen has encouraged market participants to look beyond the usual headlines and toward more nuanced measures of the labor market. These include weekly earnings, the participation rate, and the taking part-time jobs because they cannot find full-time work. 3. Bond Rally: Until now there was not compelling evidence that short-covering was driving US Treasury prices. However, latest the Commitment of Traders for the 10-year Treasury note future a large adjustment to positions. The shorts appeared to capitulate. The gross short position was slashed by 131k contracts to 398.4k, which was highest since before the financial crisis. The short covering was the largest since December 2012. The net short position fell to 19.1k contracts from 97.9k. At the same time, the longs took profits. The gross long position was cut by 52.1k contracts to 379.3k. Separately, at the end of last week the FDIC confirmed that US banks had boosted their Treasury holdings by nearly a quarter in Q1, the largest increase since before the crisis. The regulatory pressure that leads bank and pension funds to hold more Treasuries is taking place at the same time the deficit is falling, and the issuance schedule had been reduced. The issuance schedule increases now and price pressures have stopped falling and may have begun increasing (albeit slowly) 4. Reserve Bank of Australia: The cash rate is expected to remain stable at the record low 2.5% for many months ahead. Guidance from the central bank has been clear on this. On a trade-weighted basis, the Australian dollar rose in late Q1 and into early Q2 and has since gone broadly sideways. RBA comments on the Australian dollar are headline risks but do not typically have lasting impacts. At mid-week, Australia reports its first estimate of Q1 GDP. The market expects the economy expanded at a 0.9% quarter-over-quarter pace. However, below the surface, the domestic economy remains weak. The key is the external sector likely accounted for the bulk of the growth as iron ore exports increased while the imports of capital equipment likely fell. This is not sustainable. Iron ore prices have collapsed. In part, the decline in capital equipment shows the economy is struggling to transition away from mining. 5. Bank of Canada: The mid-week meeting is unlikely to result in a change in policy or the general neutral bias. Core inflation ticked up to 1.4% since the BoC last met, and the year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings (3.1% year-over-year in March), coupled with benchmark effects suggests the low point in consumer inflation be likely behind Canada. The unexpected decline in industrial prices (-0.2% vs. consensus +0.4%) and the weaker than expected raw material prices (0.1% vs. consensus 0.5%) may be constructive for producer's margins. Separately, Canada reports May employment figures at the end of the week. After being surprised by a decline in jobs in April (-29k), the consensus is sticking to its guns that it was a fluke and believes the job loss will be completely recouped in May (Bloomberg consensus is for 32k new jobs). 6. BOE:  The Bank of England meets Thursday. As it is not expected to do anything, no statement is expected. Carney may have a similar experience as his predecessor King. King, as it will be recalled, was outvoted repeatedly by a less dovish majority. The debate over the extent of spare capacity, which is difficult to measure in any event, suggests the opposition will grow to Carney's dovish tilt in favor of earlier rate hikes. We suspect that it is likely several months too early to be expressed in dissents at the MPC. 7. China PMI:   China reported its official manufacturing PMI over the weekend. The 50.8 reading was slightly above expectations and the rise in May was the third consecutive increase. It stands at a five-month high. Of note, the forward looking new orders rose to 52.3 from 51.2. Export orders, however, only ticked up to 49.3 from 49.1. This underscores our argument that the decline in the yuan is not aimed to boost exporters and, that in terms of orders (rather than profit-margins), they do not appear to be benefiting much from the weaker currency (even though it appears export bottomed in February with an 18% year-over-year decline--Lunar New Year and crack down false exports to hide capital inflows). HSBC will report the final reading for its PMI (initially 49.7) and the service readings will start the week, while the latest trade figures are at the end of the week. China has taken a number of stimulative measures, including cutting required reserves for more banks and boosting housing and railway investment. Some spending is being accelerated. In other areas, administrative measures, such as encouraging banks to expedite the mortgage approval process, also offer greater support for the economy. We note a number of economists have begun revised up Chinese growth forecasts. 8. South Korea reported surprising May trade figures over the weekend. The consensus expected exports to have risen 1.4% on a year-over-year basis, according to a Wall Street Journal poll. Instead, they fell 0.9%. Imports were expected to have risen by 6.5% and instead rose by a negligible 0.3%. We do note their were few working days, but calendar effects are not usually the cause of big forecasts errors. Of interest, South Korea imported 71.3 mln barrels of oil in May, down from 77.5 mln barrels a year ago. This may point some economic weakness more than energy efficiency. The won rose to new multi-year highs against the dollar, despite reports of central bank intervention, at the end of last week. South Korea report PMI, CPI and GDP figures this week. The disappointing trade figures may encourage a bout of profit-taking on long won positions. Foreign investors have bought $1.7 bln of South Korean equities in May after having bought a net $100 mln in the first four months of the year. Initial dollar resistance is seen ahead of KRW1030. 9. G7 and European Politics: This week’s G7 meeting was to have been a G8 meeting before Russia annexed Crimea. With the Ukrainian elections having taken place and Russia withdrawing some troops from the Ukrainian border, many including Obama will seek to credit the sanction regime. Rather than announce new policies, on his numerous visits in Europe, Obama will try to convey a pragmatic course in between isolationist and interventionist. While the US mid-term election in the middle of Q4, the implication of the recent European elections are still not clear. We recognize that it is in interests of the partisans to play up the significance. Objectively, about four of ten who were eligible voted and then about one of those voted for an ant-EU party. Note most countries have their own anti-EU party. We also some truth in that the EU parliamentary elections serve as a venting mechanism for domestic angst, without having to bear direct impact from it.  Many of UKIP voters, for example, want the UK to remain in the EU.  There is also difference between an anti-austerity agenda and anti-EU.  Simply put, the opposition to the EU is fragmented. Even if they were to cooperate, which seems highly unlikely on any kind of large scale, they will be marginalized by the two main party groupings. Juncker must be considered the front-runner to be the next EC President, it is not done deal by any means. There are many forces at work, and one of the key ones, which might be under-appreciated is the balance of power between the Council of Ministers (representing the nation-states) and the EU parliament (which presents some supra-national authority). Lastly, the EU delivers its convergence report at mid-week. In addition to the annual check up, which is always worth a look, the report is likely to endorse Lithuania’s candidacy for monetary union as of Jan 1, 2015. Besides being important for Lithuania itself is also is important for governance issues. The ECB may move to rotating voting scheme, for example. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotWhen the SEC got a bunch of private equity execs in a room earlier this month, Special Inspector Andrew J. Bowden did not have good news. His discussion was basically a warning that the SEC was going to start looking deeper into the industry. And one of the things the agency would be looking into, per his comments, is the very basis of the PE industry's dealmaking — the agreement between PE firms and their portfolio companies, or limited partnership agreements (LPAs), which are considered trade secrets. "Many limited partnership agreements are broad in their characterization of the types of fees and expenses that can be charged to portfolio companies (as opposed to being borne by the adviser)," said Bowden. "This has created an enormous grey area, allowing advisers to charge fees and pass along expenses that are not reasonably contemplated by investors. Poor disclosure in this area is a frequent source of exam findings. We’ve also seen limited partnership agreements lacking clearly defined valuation procedures, investment strategies, and protocols for mitigating certain conflicts of interest, including investment and co-investment allocation." In other words, some of these agreements are written so that firms make a bundle at everyone else's expense. Moreover, they're considered trade secrets so not a lot of people get to see them. Over the holiday weekend, though, blog Naked Capitalism managed to get their hands on 12 LPAs from the Pennsylvania Treasury's public e-contracts library and published them. (Via Fortune's Dan Primack) This is complex stuff so we'll give you two big ideas people are taking from the documents. "By far, the most common observation our examiners have made when examining private equity firms has to do with the adviser’s collection of fees and allocation of expenses. When we have examined how fees and expenses are handled by advisers to private equity funds, we have identified what we believe are violations of law or material weaknesses in controls over 50% of the time," said Bowden last month. If that doesn't get some people in Congress angry, what can? FREE AppDownload
ReutersA replica of the Statue of Liberty in Shenyang, Northeast China, has been making the rounds on Twitter this morning. But this isn't the first time we've seen large-scale replicas of global tourist destinations in China. The Asian giant with a rich cultural heritage of its own, has also incorporated architectural styles from around the world and in some instances tried to replicate Paris and towns in England. Shanghai rolled out a "One city, Nine Towns" scheme with small towns built in a different international style. We compiled 16 spots that China ripped off — admittedly, some of these are part of larger theme parks. FREE AppDownload
AmazonJPMorgan just released its 15th annual summer reading list.  Every year, the firm compiles book suggestions from their advisors all over the world. From more than 500 entries, the bank narrows it down to just ten titles they think are timely and innovative. We've included the ten books in the slides that follow.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from NetflixA screenshot from the original "Freakonomics" documentary.For a pair of economists, Stephen J Dubner and Steven D Levitt are good company. In 2005, the American duo wrote "Freakonomics: a Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything".  It challenged conventional wisdom by applying economics to a diverse range of subjects, including drug dealing and abortion. Their theories – legal abortion reduces crime; good parenting has a negligible effect on education – were controversial, but the book sold millions of copies. Their third book, Think Like a Freak, was released earlier this month and on Monday afternoon at the Hay Festival, Dubner and Levitt, revealed the tricks that can help all of us think like a freak. "If you are the prime minister of a great nation which is facing possible extinction at the hands of Nazi Germany, then yes, giving up is not a good idea. For the rest of us, however, the stakes are usually not so high. So whether it’s a job or a relationship, we encourage quitting much more often than most people would. "There are two good reasons why people don’t quit enough. The first one is that it’s been drummed into us that we shouldn’t quit. The second one is that the cost of quitting usually comes right away and the benefits come in the future. It’s painful to tell your boss that you’re going to quit; it’s painful to tell your girlfriend that you don’t want to date her anymore and so you put it off and what really makes it hard is that, even if you really want to quit today, you always think: ‘I could stick it out and quit tomorrow.' It’s the tomorrow that really kills you. If you actually faced a deadline which says you could either quit today or never quit forever, it becomes much easier to quit." "When you feel strong emotionally about a problem it clouds your ability to actually understand the data. Let’s say you care deeply about climate change and you’re very emotional about climate change, it’s very difficult to think about the solutions to that because you’re so tied up in the emotional side. "When you’ve come up with a range of possible solutions, we completely believe that you should put your morality and ethics back into it and say: ‘what’s the positive and right thing to do now that we actually understand how the world works' as opposed to jumping to conclusions before you understand. Listen: The Freakonomics authors talk to the Telegraph about Thomas Piketty "For all the idea that we want to do the right thing and tell others, especially publicly, that we will do the right thing, humans are complicated, and solving problems by listening to what people say they want and then doing that doesn’t necessarily work. "Sometimes you have to nudge or trick or knead people into making it easier for people to do the right thing because we know we don’t necessarily do the right thing by ourselves. This doesn’t make us bad, it makes us human." "I [Levitt] went to the Harvard Society of Fellows, which is this incredibly snooty, academic club in Harvard where the only obligation for three years was to show up at dinner and drink really fancy wines with really smart people. The thing was, I didn’t really value the fancy wines and their nightly budget for my own wine was $80 and I wasn't getting paid very much. "They were very surprised when I asked if I could be the guy who ran one of the wine-tasting sessions. I went to the wine cellar and got two very expensive wines of the same grape and went to the liquor store and bought a $6.99 version of the same grape and then poured them into four decanters. We had a blind wine tasting with all the snooty wine experts. The $6.99 bottle did just fine. "The most interesting thing was when I asked them to tell me which varieties of wine had been most different, the most frequent combination was the same wine from two different decanters." Hay Festival in Pictures  FREE AppDownload
In 2013, financial institutions brought in $31.9 billion in overdraft fees alone — and that doesn't include fees for things like maintaining a checking account or withdrawing from an out-of-network ATM. Magnify Money, an educational financial website founded by two former bankers, breaks down FDIC bank fee data into revenue per branch in the infographic below. It shows that Fort Hood National Bank — a bank with branches inside Walmart stores that focuses on lending to military families — is the leading fee collector in the country, gathering about $1.2 million a year per branch. Check out what your local bank is making in fees: Magnify Money FREE AppDownload
As tempting as it is to wear short-sleeved dress shirts to work during the summer, they are undoubtedly your least fashionable option. Try this classic double-roll technique to keep your shirtsleeves tidy, prevent unraveling, and stay cool. Thanks to our friend Style Girlfriend, who turned us on to this neat trick. By Alana Kakoyiannis.
REUTERS/Daniel Munoz Hedge funds, those financial funds run by extraordinarily rich men, are going mainstream. Not content to be investments for just the super rich and super connected, they are starting to offer services to the average investor. A good example comes this week from hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman, who is famous on Wall Street but not yet a household name. He wants to start a small fund with a public listing to collect money from the public that he can then invest. Ackman's new fund itself is not a hedge fund, but because he is a giant in the hedge-fund world, regular investors may be attracted to the mystique of a world that usually locks them out. Let's be clear: the average investor should not be too excited. Hedge funds are certainly powerful, but it is not clear they all deserve the power or are using it well — not based on performance at least. When I was a trader at a big bank, several years ago, I learned about that power of hedge funds. In a moment of luck, I made $1m in 10 seconds trading with a large hedge fund. They made a bad bet — buying bonds from me that dropped in price seconds later. I was up a cool $1m and they were down $1m. That didn't sit well with them. Hours after the trade I received a tap on the shoulder from a senior member of my bank, asking me to rewrite the trade and give half of my profit back to the hedge fund. My bank was doing the fund a favor. The hedge fund was an important and connected client, and the trade was, well, embarrassing to them. That embarrassment might jeopardize other business with the bank, threatening millions in fees. Over my objections, my bank renegotiated the terms of the trade to give the hedge fund a better price. It was a perfectly legal, but unusual concession. It was also a lesson: hedge funds can even bully the biggest banks in the country. Hedge funds, to the regular citizen, seem shadowy and strange. Super secretive, absurdly paid, massive investment firms that manage, in total, close to $2.2tn. Who are these guys and why do they deserve the royal treatment and enormous pay? They're bad boys of finance, with lots of money. Hedge fund managers are often glamorized as super wealthy hotshots with special insight into how to invest. They are also generally rich. Collecting-modern-art rich. Last year, the total pay of the top 10 hedge fund managers was $15bn. One gentleman, David Tepper, was paid $3.5bn. Because of their reputations, hedge fund managers can collect money — anywhere from a few million to a few billion — from rich people and big institutions like pension funds and college endowments. Demand is only increasing; in the last 20 years, hedge funds have collectively grown by 1,000 times. Hedge funds have almost complete freedom, for one reason: the government allows them to approach only the very rich, with assets of at least more than $1m — and usually, over $10m. These are called "sophisticated investors". The assumption is that lots of money gives you enough investing knowledge to lose it however you'd like. Because hedge funds deal only with the sophisticated investor, they have almost no restrictions on what they can invest in, or how they can invest, short of breaking the law. They can put their money in everything from the stock market to farmland to gold mines. For the privilege of exclusivity, they charge their "sophisticated investors" huge fees. The general rule is "two and 20"; the hedge funds pay themselves 2% of all the assets they oversee, and 20% of any gains in a given year. For that kind of cash, you'd expect them to deliver. Are these sophisticated investors making sophisticated investments? It's hard to find the proof that they are. By many measures — and it is hard to measure — hedge fund returns are pretty much just average. That hedge funds can charge such high fees for such average returns has economists and many others confused. It's not exactly rational. Theories abound. People may invest in hedge funds for many reasons, but there is something simpler at work: the idea that you'd rather be with hedge funds than against them. Sophisticated investors assume hedge funds have an informational edge, either legal or illegal. They're so well connected and so informed, the thinking goes, that they must know something we don't. It is not a bad assumption, as far as assumptions go. Information is everything to trading. Knowing more, knowing it quicker, or being the only one to know, will make you money. It’s often the only guaranteed way to try to outsmart the markets. Hedge funds strive for that edge, certainly the legal one. Every trader does. Yet with less regulation and less observation, hedge funds can do it in a far more aggressive manner. They do it by hiring the best and the brightest. Some have more PhD’s than many college math or economic departments. They do it by trying to know everything about whatever they are trading. A country has laws making it illegal to run polls the week prior to elections? No problem. Hedge funds will hire their own pollsters for private polls. They do it by hiring, and paying very well, people with connections. The number of former officials and present officials who have hedge-fund ties is staggering. It is almost now considered normal. Leave public service related to politics and finance? Go directly to hedge fund. Do collect large payment. Larry Summers, after his stint at the Treasury, and before his job of chief economic adviser to President Obama, spent two years working for one of the largest and most opaque hedge funds, DE Shaw. He was paid close to $5m for that work. Wall Street is about collecting and trading in information. Yet the rules concerning trading in information, what is legal what is illegal, are notoriously gray. So hedge funds hire teams of lawyers to navigate and at times push right into the gray. Sometimes hedge funds go from fiddling around in the gray, and just allegedly break the law. This year the hedge fund SAC Capital paid a $1.8bn fine stemming from charges against eight of its employees for insider trading. Two years prior, the founder of the firm, Steve Cohen, did well enough to collect a paycheck worth $1.4bn. Now hedge funds are trying to expand their services, hoping that their reputation for having an edge will also appeal to investors who are not ultra-wealthy. There's even a hedge-fund TV channel for advertising their financial wares. Before throwing in any money, the average investor should be careful. Hedge funds are opaque. Don't put in any money you can't lose. Keep Bernie Madoff in mind. Madoff was not technically a hedge-fund manager, but he acted like one. His fund’s eerily consistent strong performance and his reputation as an investment hotshot attracted lots of money, and many investors who were convinced Madoff had an edge. His returns also attracted skepticism that perhaps his fund was doing something illegal. The skepticism was justified. Madoff was just outright running a $17bn Ponzi scheme: According to reports, some of those who put their faith in Mr Madoff suspected that he was engaged in wrongdoing, but not the sort that would endanger their money. Many of the losses came from investors who were in no position to suspect Madoff was doing anything illegal. Even though they had money, they weren't sophisticated enough. In the end, no one was. That's not to say all hedge funds are bad. Not even close. There are thousands of hedge funds, and there was only one Bernie Madoff. The main lesson, instead, is to know as much as possible about where your money is going, and don’t let the allure of secrecy fool you. In a mutual fund you can see every stock. In a hedge fund, you often only have a black box built by someone with a reputation. The bottom line: investors, sophisticated or not, can't know in detail what many hedge funds are doing. But as long as the mystique exists, perhaps many don’t want to know. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk.  FREE AppDownload
Commercial space travel is now a reality. That's only true if you're one of the lucky few that can afford it.  A seat on Richard Branson's commercial space travel venture Virgin Galactic will cost you $250,000. When will regular, working-class people without that kind of spare change lying around be able to afford to fly into space?Produced by Graham Flanagan.
REUTERS/Fred ProuserA tray of cupcakes is pictured at a Crumbs Bake Shop, which specializes in over 50 varieties of cupcakes.It's getting hot in Crumbs' kitchen.  In Crumbs Bake Shop's most recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC, the company disclosed that its auditors, Rothstein Kass, "expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern."  A company is considered a "going concern" when it has sufficient resources to continue operations. When a company is no longer a going concern, it's out of business.  Earlier in May, two members of the company's board resigned.  Since Crumbs went public in 2011 as part of a $66 million reverse merger with 57th Street General Acquisition Corp., it's been mostly bad news for the company. Last year, we chronicled the problems facing the gourmet cupcake business here, here and here.  In short, charging a premium price for a product that can easily be made at home is a big ask for a successful business. According to Crumbs' website, a 6-pack of its signature cupcakes goes for $27. A quick Amazon search turns up results for a 12-pack of Duncan Hines cupcake mix that goes for $19.99 (and each pack makes a dozen cupcakes). And while Duncan Hines cupcake batter is not the premium product Crumbs sells, the 144 cupcakes yielded for less than the price of 6 Crumbs cupcakes is an enormous disparity.  At the time of the company's IPO, it had 34 locations, and in its first earnings report as a public company, the company reaffirmed its commitment to open 200 stores by the end of this year. As of March 31, Crumbs had 65 shops opened. By the time it filed its 10-Q with the SEC on May 15, that number was down to 58.  Crumbs investors have been experiencing pain almost since the time of the stock's debut. By the end of 2011, shares were near $4 after trading as high as $14 that summer. Today, Crumbs shares are at around $0.35. But Crumb's present problem is not just that its auditor doesn't think the company will make, but that the company itself sees a number of obstacles to continuing operations.   From its 10-Q (emphasis theirs): "We need additional capital to fund future cash flow requirements, and we may not be able to obtain such funds on acceptable terms. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through lending or licensing arrangements may cause dilution to [Crumbs'] existing security holders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. Management believes that our cash flow requirements will likely consume our existing capital resources and cash from anticipated sales unless we are able to raise additional funds prior to June 30, 2014." Crumbs' filing contains plenty of additional ominous language. And while much of the language describes the company's troubles in somewhat detached legalese, any prospective investor that wants to take a long shot on Crumbs right now should be able to read through the lines and discern that it does not get much worse for a company. (via Crain's New York) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - The European Central Bank will eclipse all else in economic terms this week, following heavy hints that monetary policy will be loosened in a variety of ways. Financial markets have been buoyed by the prospect of cheaper money in the euro zone and would react sharply if the central bank does not deliver on Thursday. Its policymakers have done nothing to disabuse investors of the notion of imminent action. A clutch of senior sources told Reuters earlier this month that the ECB was preparing a package of policy options for its June 5 meeting, including cuts in all its interest rates and targeted measures aimed at boosting lending to small- and mid-sized firms (SMEs). Action being readied includes taking the ECB's deposit rate negative for the first time - effectively charging banks to park money at the central bank in the hope they will lend it out instead. The ECB insists it sees no threat of deflation but euro zone figures for May, due before it meets, are forecast to show inflation at just 0.7 percent. That is within what ECB President Mario Draghi has termed the "danger zone" below 1.0 percent for the eighth successive month. "We are aware of the risks of a too prolonged low inflation period," Draghi told an ECB conference outside Lisbon last week, adding that he and his colleagues had to be "particularly watchful" for any negative price spiral. At the last policy meeting in May, Draghi said the ECB was comfortable with acting in June if updated staff forecasts merited - as close as a central banker gets to a nod and a wink. "Draghi’s May press conference raised market expectations of action, and the ECB will want to appear bold," said Nikolaus Keis, economist at Unicredit. "The risk is that monetary conditions may quickly start tightening anew if the ECB’s moves are perceived as too timid." What is not yet on the cards is the ECB following the Federal Reserve and Bank of England down the road of printing money. The British central bank delivers its latest policy decision on the same day as the ECB. While it is too early for an interest rate rise, a now strong economic recovery and a housing market running hot are dismantling the consensus that no tightening is in prospect until next year. "There are clear indications in the May minutes that some of the more hawkish MPC (Monetary Policy Committee) members are starting to get twitchy," said Howard Archer, Chief UK &amp; European Economist at IHS Global Insight. India's central bank meets for the first time since Narendra Modi's landslide election win. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) chief Raghuram Rajan has hiked interest rates three times since he took office in September, in an attempt to corral stubbornly high inflation even as economic growth slowed to decade-low rates. Investors expect Modi to bring down inflation by cutting subsidies, improving food distribution and promoting investment in infrastructure, breaking years of policy stasis. The market consensus is that the RBI will now keep its repo rate at 8.0 percent until at least January.   U.S. JOBS REPORT The monthly U.S. employment report, rarely anything other than the most important global economic indicator, is on Friday. A Reuters poll of economists forecast 220,000 jobs will have been added in May, putting the jobless rate at 6.4 percent. Data last week showed the U.S. economy contracted in the first quarter for the first time in three years as severe winter weather bit, but there are signs activity has since rebounded. Minutes of the Federal Reserve's last meeting showed first discussions about an eventual retreat from near-zero interest rates after it finishes winding down its money creation program. The Fed's policy committee meets next on June 17/18. The minutes showed some divergence of views about the state of the labor market but general agreement that any sustained uptick in inflation may still be years away. Not all economists agree. "With domestic measures of economic slack elevated and current readings of inflation pressures well below Fed targets, the Fed’s current accommodative stance is fully appropriate," said Gilles Moec, economist at Deutsche Bank. "However, we expect these data, particularly inflation, to change meaningfully over the course of the year." Leaders of the Group of Seven nations meet in Brussels on Wednesday and Thursday, but a decisive Ukrainian election result and signs Moscow has pulled back from direct intervention in the restive east of the country mean any talk of the more sweeping sanctions against Russia that had unnerved emerging markets are likely to be firmly on the backburner.   (Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
screenshot from Ben HurBen HurCEOs have always made more than their employees. However, it's stunning to see how much faster CEO pay has increased relative to the average worker's pay. In 2013, the average Fortune 500 CEO made 331 times as much as the average worker, according to the AFL-CIO's "Executive Paywatch" project. AFL-CIO provided Business Insider with data on the historical trends of CEO pay going back in five year increments to 1983, which we show on the following chart. The ratio of CEO pay to worker pay has blown up in the last thirty years. In 1983, the average CEO made 46 times the pay of the average worker, and this ratio would skyrocket through the boom years of the 90s, with CEOs making 455 times what workers made. After the tech boom receded, the CEO to worker ratio leveled off somewhat, but has risen a little in the last few years. The overall upward trend is yet another example of growing inequality in America. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from AFL-CIO Executive Paywatch FREE AppDownload
Jay YarowApple is typically a tight-lipped company when it comes to future products. But, with people getting antsy for the next big thing, its executives have become uncharacteristically talkative about what it's planning.  Naturally, they're not explicitly saying what they've got coming, but they're hyping what's in development.  "Later this year, we've got the best product pipeline that I've seen in my 25 years at Apple," Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and service, said last week at the Code Conference. "I believe the products we've got coming are great." In February CEO Tim Cook said, "There will be new categories. We're not ready to talk about it, but we're working on some really great stuff." Remember, Apple released the iPhone and the iPad in the past 25 years that Cue is referring to. Whatever it has in development is supposedly going to be better than those products. So the pressure is now on for Apple to deliver.  Apple kicks off its year of exciting new products on Monday, June 2, in San Francisco at WWDC, its annual developer conference. At 10 a.m. local time, it will have a keynote to preview new software for the Mac and the iPhone. It's also going to have some sort of new hardware, but don't expect anything like the iWatch.  Here is what everyone is expecting: This will set up Apple for the rest of the year. In the coming months Apple will likely launch a bigger-screen iPhone, new iPads, and possibly the rumored iWatch. Mark this as the beginning of the next big Apple era.  FREE AppDownload
New York and San Francisco are more expensive than the rest of the U.S., and the Bureau of Economic Analysis has made it much easier to see just how much more expensive they are. The Consumer Price Index, the most commonly used measure of price inflation, measures changes in prices over time. The Bureau of Economic Analysis has created a spatial analog of the index, comparing prices between different places at a given point in time. These are called Regional Price Parities (RPPs), and they make it possible to compare the cost of living in different places. RPPs are an index based on comparing local prices to national price levels. For example, the New York metropolitan area has an RPP of about 122. This means that prices in New York are about 22% higher than national average prices. Meanwhile, the part of Minnesota that falls outside of a metropolitan area has an RPP of 86, indicating that prices are 14% lower than the national average there. Here's a map showing the 2012 RPPs for the country's major metropolitan areas, and the nonmetropolitan parts of each state. Blue areas have prices lower than the national average and red areas are more expensive: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Economic Analysis The most expensive place was Honolulu, with an RPP of 122.9. The big coastal cities also had prices much higher than the national average. The least expensive metro area in the country was Danville, IL, with an RPP of 79.4. Nonmetropolitan areas of states, that is, rural areas and smaller towns, tended to have lower prices than the U.S. as a whole, especially in the South and Midwest. Here are the ten most expensive metro areas: Bureau of Economic Analysis And the ten least expensive: Bureau of Economic Analysis FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - BlackRock Inc Chief Executive Larry Fink this week dropped a stink bomb on a small corner of the $2.5 trillion global market for exchange-traded funds. Fink, who runs the world's largest asset manager and ETF provider, said structural problems with leveraged ETFs have the potential to "blow up the whole industry one day." Sponsors of leveraged ETFs and related products, which make up only about $60 billion of global industry assets, called his remarks an exaggeration. Leveraged ETFs use derivatives and debt in an attempt to enhance returns - often by two or three times - that an investor would receive from putting money in stocks, bonds or other financial instruments. The only problem: if the underlying securities or indexes drop, the losses can be fast and heavy. Fink, who was speaking at a Deutsche Bank conference in New York, drew parallels between the embedded leverage in some ETFs and two obscure Bear Stearns hedge funds that collapsed in 2007. That ignited an initial wave of panic over Wall Street's exposure to sketchy mortgages - a warning of much worse to come in the 2008 financial crisis. A systemic risk could emerge from packaging inherently hard-to-trade securities, such as leveraged bank loans, into ETFs. The value of the ETF could collapse if the market for the underlying assets freezes up. That could touch off a rout within the ETF industry if skittish investors decide that many other funds are too dangerous for them. Fink’s pointed remarks on Wednesday also raised questions about whether too many risky financial products are entering the marketplace. In the aftermath of the financial crisis, a growing number of complicated and risky products are being aimed at Main Street investors. Hedge funds are making some of their strategies available to Mom and Pop investors willing to come up with as little as $1,000. Part of the pitch is that they need to look beyond plain vanilla investments if they want to have enough money to retire – the downside is that they could lose their shirts if markets take a sharp turn. Last month, top money managers aired their concerns during a meeting with New York Federal Reserve President William Dudley. The group, including hedge fund manager David Tepper of Appaloosa Management LP, worried aloud that investors may be stretching too far for returns in a low volatility, low interest rate environment, prompting "some market participants to take on additional leverage to meet investment targets," according to recently released minutes from the April 10 meeting of the Fed’s Investor Advisory Committee on Financial Markets. Fink on Wednesday suggested there's systemic risk lurking in leveraged ETFs, in comments that resonated with some other investors. "I agree with the notion that the leveraged ETFs have the potential to possibly be very upsetting to the market. It is the leverage that concerns me." said Dan Fuss, vice chairman of Loomis Sayles. Fink said U.S. and European regulators, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, don't pay enough attention to individual financial products hitting the market. The SEC in 2012 stopped giving new applicants permission to launch leveraged ETFs, because it was concerned about such funds. However, two fund sponsors – ProShares and Direxion – are still launching leveraged ETFs, using exemptive relief issued by the securities watchdog earlier. The SEC declined to comment on what Fink said. Fink, whose firm oversees $4.4 trillion in client assets, declined to comment for this story. BlackRock's iShares ETFs owned 39 percent of the global ETF market with $953 billion in assets at the end of April. State Street Corp was a distant No. 2 with $409 billion in assets, followed by No. 3 Vanguard Group's $368 billion. None of those three offer leveraged ETFs. Vanguard and State Street executives said they don't share Fink's view that the products pose a systemic risk. Dave Mazza, head of ETF research for State Street Global Advisors, said, "This is an extreme example of buyer beware." He said it is possible a leveraged ETF meltdown could disrupt industry-wide compound annual growth rates that have topped 25 percent in recent years. “These products work as advertised,” said Joel Dickson, Vanguard’s senior ETF strategist. “Now, whether investors understand how they work is an education issue.” Meanwhile, top leveraged ETF providers denounced Fink's comments. "Direxion Investments completely reject his contention that leveraged ETFs pose a systemic risk," the company said in a statement. As of this week, the gross assets in 140 leveraged ETFs run by Direxion and rival ProShares totaled $22 billion. The Direxion Daily Gold Miners Bull 3X Shares fund is one of the hottest leveraged ETFs on the market, attracting $1.07 billion in net flows from investors over the past 12 months, according to Lipper Inc, a unit of Thomson Reuters. A three times leveraged ETF like Direxion's gold miners fund has $2 of leverage for every $1 of capital invested in the product. The ETF is rebalanced daily to maintain the same ratio of capital to exposure each day. This means, as Direxion explained, that leveraged ETFs respond to losses by reducing exposure. "It is hard to understand how Mr. Fink could conclude that a relatively small, highly liquid, completely transparent suite of products, which systematically reduce risk in response to losses, could generate systemic risk," Direxion said. But Fink said this week that an inherently illiquid asset doesn't become more liquid because it is wrapped inside a leveraged ETF fund. "We will not do a bank loan ETF," Fink said at the Deutsche Bank conference. "Why? We believe that the underlying asset is far less liquid than daily liquidity of an ETF. And you know as a banker, sometimes a bank loan market freezes." (Reporting By Tim McLaughlin; Additional reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - Activity in China's vast factory sector increased to a five-month high in May on rising new orders, official data showed on Sunday, reinforcing views that the world's second-largest economy is regaining momentum in the second quarter following Beijing's targeted measures to bolster growth. The official Purchasing Managers' Index rose to 50.8 in May from April's 50.4, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Sunday, beating market expectations of 50.6. "The PMI reading continued to improve in May, indicating that a trend of economic stabilization is becoming more evident," Zhang Liqun, a researcher at the Development Research Centre said in the statement accompanying the data. A sub-index for new orders, a measure of foreign and domestic demand edged up to 52.3 in May from 51.2 in April. The PMI survey also showed export orders inched higher to 49.3 in May from 49.1 in April, though the indicator remained below the 50-level threshold that separates growth from contraction. As one of the first leading indicators gauging economic momentum, the improved reading could bode well for other May data, reinforcing expectations that the economy is starting to regain strength in the second quarter after dipping to a 18-month low in the first three months. Beijing has unveiled a slew of targeted measures this year to help shore up the economy, including cutting reserve requirement ratios for rural banks, quickening construction of railways and public housing, and tax cuts for smaller enterprises. China's cabinet announced fresh measures on Friday to help lower funding costs and reduce operating burdens for companies to give more support for the real economy. The measures included lowering the reserve requirement for more banks, increasing the scale of re-lending and bond financing to support smaller firms, and a further reduction of administrative fees for businesses. Chinese leaders have ruled out the possibility of any big fiscal stimulus to spur economic growth as they tolerate a slower growth rate while pushing ahead with structural reforms. China's finance ministry had earlier urged their local branches to quicken the pace of budget spending to guarantee the completion of key projects and lift the slowing economy. A preliminary HSBC/Markit PMI issued late last month showed the factory sector turning in its best performance in five months, although the reading remained below the 50-point level that suggests contraction in manufacturing activities. The final HSBC PMI is scheduled for release at 01:45 GMT on Tuesday. Unlike its official peer, it favors smaller and private companies.   (Reporting by Aileen Wang and Matthew Miller; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
