China's economic boom in recent decades is hard to fathom. Since Deng Xiaoping began market reforms in 1978, GDP growth reached around 10% annually — with recent slowdown — lifting more than 500 million people out of poverty. With a population of 1.3 billion, the country recently became the world's second largest economy. On the way, Chinese cities have grown at an unprecedented speed. Some have even expanded faster than population growth can keep up, leading to talk of ghost cities, possibly a natural part of China's future. But the massive shift is no illusion: China is trying to use urbanization to drive growth, and analysts expect China to add more city-dwellers between 2009 and 2030 than the entire population of the U.S. We've picked out some of the fastest growing cities, shown via satellite images recorded over time by Google's Earth Engine, and turned them into GIFs. Take a look at the expansion in action. Google Earth Engine Changsha, capital of the central Hunan province, has expanded incredibly fast in the past decade, with some areas of apparently unoccupied residential developments labeled as ghost cities. Between 2001 and 2005, Changsha's economy grew an average of 14% per year, compared to the national average of 9% during that period. From 2000 to 2010, the city population grew from around 6 million to 7 million, according to the China National Bureau of Statistics. In 2012, this central Chinese city unveiled a $130 billion investment plan for airports, subways, and other expansion, Bloomberg reported. Changsha also plans to build the world's largest skyscraper, appropriately named Sky City, at about 2,750 feet tall.  Google Earth Engine From 1998 to 2008, Chongqing's economy increased from approximately $23 billion to about $83 billion, according to East Asia Institute. Between 2007 and 2012, Chongqing became the fastest growing city in China with growth averaging over 15% every year, according to Meg Rithmire at the Harvard Business School.  Most credit the Chongqing Model, a radical deviation from China's usual social and fiscal policies, for the city's successes. Implemented by controversial politician Bo Xilai, the policy improved public security, rebuilt infrastructure, pulled in foreign direct investment, and innovated urbanization. By some measures, Chongqing takes the unofficial title as China's most populous municipality with a total population of about 29 million in 2010, according to the China National Bureau of Statistics. Google Earth Engine As the largest city in the Anhui province, Fuyang's population rose from 142,000 in 1990 to 874,000 in 2010, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities in 2012/2013. The study also estimated the 2025 population at 1,119,000, a potential increase of 688% from 1990.  Known as a paper and textile industry city, Fuyang's economy increased by 11.7% from the previous year, according to Fuyang Economic and Social Development Report in 2012. Google Earth Engine The capital and most populous city in the Hainan province, Haikou's population has risen from 331,000 in 1990 to 1,586,000 in 2010, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013. The population is expected to grow to 2,065,000 in 2025, a 524% increase from 1990.  The word "Haikou" roughly translates as "seaport," and the water to the north also contributes to the growing population and economy. The automobile industry accounted for about 22% of the city's total economy in 2009. Google Earth Engine In the south of China's Guangdong province, Jiangmen sits only a few hours Hong Kong. From 1990 to 2010, the city's population grew from 190,000 to 1,103,000, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013. By 2025, another 340,000 people are expected to appear, putting potential growth at 504% since 1990.  One of China's electric energy bases, Jiangmen's government supports proactive foreign investment and encourages sustainable and innovative manufacturing. The region hosts 19 national-level industrial bases, ranging from bathroom hardware, electric energy, auto parts, and more. In 2011, the city's economy hit $29 billion. Google Earth Engine Linyi is the largest and most populous city in the Shandong province. From 1990 to 2010, the population increased from 260,000 to 1,427,000, and the population is expected to hit 1,827,000 by 2025, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013.  As one of the biggest wholesale markets in China, Linyi brings in $8.15 billion annually in economy and recently, Dubai has focused trade efforts in the area, totaling about $5 billion in projects there. Google Earth Engine As the capital of China at various points, Nanjing holds a deep cultural history, with "five pillars of  industry" including electronics, cars, petrochemicals, iron, steel, and power. In 2012, the city's economy stood at about $160 billion, the 16th largest in the country, up about 23% from 1993, according to the Brookings Institute and JPMorgan, which also listed the city as one of globe's most diverse and connected metro areas.  The city's urban area population went from nearly two million in 1980 to nearly six million in 2012. Google Earth Engine Located in the Henan province, the city's population has grown from 228,000 in 1990 to 867,000 in 2010. By 2025, the population is expected to hit 1,135,000, a potential increase of 398% since 1990, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013. Nanyang's economy hit a record high of 38.5 billion in 2012, representing steady growth — 10.2% over the previous year. Google Earth Engine China's most famous ghost city, Ordos remains mostly empty. The city helped drive China's economy through construction and coal mining, but population increase didn't seem to follow. In fact, most initial migrants fled the city after underground lending collapsed.  Many analysts predict the "Ordos bubble" will soon burst, following years of annual economic growth as high as 18.5%. Google Earth Engine According to Wendell Cox's latest Demographia, Shanghai is the world's sixth largest "mega-city" — an urban area with a population over 500,000. Shanghai's population is approximately 23 million. From just 2008 to 2010, the city gained nearly another two million people. Population density is also astonishingly high here, at 16,200 people per square mile — compared with a little over 4,000 in New York City. Shanghai also faces worrying sustainability and environmental impacts, especially the smog. Google Earth Engine Located in China's Zhejiang province only a few hours from Shanghai, Shaoxing's population has grown from 181,000 in 1990 to 853,000 from 2010. By 2025, the population is expected to hit 1,066,000, a 547%  increase since 1990, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013. In 2012, the economy of Shaoxing increased 9.7% from a year earlier to $58 billion. The manufacturing industry, the largest contributor to the city’s economy, composed 53.8% of the city’s economy, according to the Hong Kong Trade Development Council.  Thailand-based Lotus and Japan-based Panasonic have also established businesses in the city, along with two major airports. Google Earth Engine Located in the Zhejiang province, Taizhou's population has increased from 158,000 in 1990 to 795,000 in 2010. By 2025, the population is expected to hit 1,101,000, a potential 597% increase from 1990, according to UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013 In 2012, the economy of Taizhou was about $47 billion. The city houses car manufacturer, Geely, which acquired Volvo in 2010. It's also a big producer of foods products, like canola oil and wild rice. Google Earth Engine Located in the Fujian province, Xiamen's population has grown from 639,000 in 1990 to 2,207,00 in 2010. The projected population by 2025 is 3,112,000, a potential 387% increase since 1990, according to the UN Habitat's State of the World's Cities 2012/2013.  As one of the nation's five special economic zones, the city's economy amounted to about $46 billion, showing growth of 12% over the previous year. Its main industries are electronics and machinery. FREE AppDownload
Warner Bros.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Biggest Concern Of The Wealthiest Americans (Vanguard) A new report from Spectrem Group and Vanguard finds that the health of the spouse is the top concern of millionaires and ultra high net worth (UHNW individuals — those with $5 million to $25 million in net worth. Meanwhile, the mass affluent, those with $100,000 to $1 million in net worth, say that maintaining their current financial position is their top concern. The report suggest that advisors ask their clients about their health care concerns and help them with their "'what if?' scenarios." 4 Reasons Capital Spending Could Pick Up Soon (iShares Blog)  Stock market bulls cite increasing capital expenditures as one of the reasons they think stocks will rise. But capital spending by companies rich with cash have been restrained because of concerns about consumer spending and policy uncertainty. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich however argues that there are four reasons capital spending could "marginally improve this year." 1. "Improving consumer confidence" - The Conference Board's measure of consumer expectations averaged 78 in the second half of last year, "a material improvement from the previous four years when this measure of consumer sentiment averaged below 60," writes Koesterich.2. "Better economic growth" – The U.S. economy should expand 2.5% this year, compared to 2% in 2013.3. "Normalization in real interest rates" – "To the extent the macro environment continues to improve and the Federal Reserve (Fed) exits its quantitative easing (QE) program by year’s end, I would expect real long-term yields to continue to normalize, a development that in the past has been associated with higher levels of capital spending."4. "Companies have little choice" – The capital stock is "rapidly aging" and this will likely force more capital spending in many industries. SIFMA And Chamber Of Commerce Oppose FINRA's Data Collection Plan (Investment News)  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) and the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce have come out in opposition of FINRA's data collection proposal, reports Mark Schoeff Jr. at Investment News. The proposal called Comprehensive Automated Risk Data System (CARDS) would collect customer trade data to better detect fraudulent practices. Those opposed to CARDS have raised concerns about the financial privacy of customers.  "CARDS would require firms to develop new systems and/or dramatically modify existing systems to collect data elements that they do not have currently, create storage capacity to store vast amounts of new data, develop methods to standardize data format … and save the data for an unspecified period of time,” Ira Hammerman, SIFMA vice president wrote. "The information that will be requested through CARDS is a road map to an individual's financial life and virtually all investors' information will be housed in one place." Sometimes, The Stock Market And The 'Fear Index' Will Surge Together For Years (Charles Schwab) The VIX, a gauge of volatility, also known as the fear gauge doesn't always move in the opposite direction of the market, as seen during the financial crisis. In the 1990s the two climbed together. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders thinks we could see that happen again in coming years. "Stress in [the emerging markets] has been a contributing factor behind the recent uptick in volatility, but I believe we may be entering a period similar to the mid-to-late 1990s, when the stock market and volatility both rose for an extended period (the only time in history). As most know (and you can partly see in the chart below), the two generally move inversely," she wrote in her recent commentary." Charles Schwab Advisors Need To Better Guide Their Clients As The Fed Tapers (The Wall Street Journal) The Fed's tapering of its monthly asset purchase program "will contribute to GDP and corporate earnings growth over the next six months," writes Kevin Clewley of KD Clewley Capital Management in a new WSJ column. While many are worried about a correction and want to hold cash Clewley thinks advisors need to explain the impact of quantitative easing and guide their clients better.  "As the Fed continues to taper and stops artificially lowering long-term interest rates via QE, the spread between long-term and short-term rates should continue to widen, making lending more profitable to banks, expanding the availability of credit, and boosting growth. In December, when the Fed decided to taper the purchase of government bonds by $10 million a month, stocks prices rose on the news, which could mean that investors are becoming less concerned that the eventual end of QE will hurt the economy." Note: The chart accompanying the Vanguard write-up was removed on request. FREE AppDownload
On the surface, the FOMC statement seemed quite dovish, stating that it would be appropriate to maintain the target range for the fed funds rate for a “considerable period of time” after the end of Quantitative Easing (QE), even after employment and inflation approached the Fed’s goals.   Taken alone, there was nothing in the statement to justify the market’s harsh reaction.  If anything, it would seem as if policy was even easier than it was prior to the meeting. There were, however, two factors that made investors take notice.  First, the so-called “dots” that indicate the views of all the Fed Governors as to where the fed funds rate is likely to be at some future period indicated a slight rise in projections.  Specifically, the forecast showed a funds rate of 1.13% for year-end 2015 and 2.42% for year-end 2016, compared to their previous forecast of 1.06% and 2.18%.  Although this was an increase of the projection by a mere .07% for a point almost two years away and 0.24% for a point three years out, the change loomed large in the eyes of investors. Second, in answering a question by a reporter as to what was meant by “a considerable period of time”, Yellen said, almost casually, that it was hard to define, “but probably means something on the order of around six months or that type of thing, but what the statement is saying is that it depends on what conditions are like.”  The answer, seemingly given reluctantly in the most off-hand manner, was immediately pounced upon by the market as virtually the only significant item to come out of the meeting, although Yellen tried to emphasize that, in the end it really depended on the data. The problem is that in analyzing the Fed’s statements, projections, press conferences and speeches, investors are desperately seeking a kind of transparency that is impossible to achieve.  Neither the Fed nor anyone else can possibly know future economic conditions with anywhere near enough precision to know exactly what they are going to do even six months out, let alone one to three years. In addition, in its efforts to be transparent about future policy moves, the Fed is reliant upon forecasts that have proved to be highly inaccurate in the past.  In January 2011, the Fed forecast GDP growth of 3.7% for 2011, 4% for 2012 and 4% for 2013.  The actual respective results were 1.7%, 1.5% and 2%. Rather than looking for the elusive transparency from the Fed, we are focused on what they are doing now, and what the domestic and global economies are telling us.  The Fed is gradually reducing QE at a rate that will end the program at the October meeting, effective November.  That, to us, is the first step in tightening monetary policy, and it is happening at a time when the U.S. economy is still stuck in its 2% growth rut, as it was before the weather became the major factor to blame.  In addition, as we discussed last week, the Chinese economy is becoming a heavy burden on all of the economies dependent on their exports to China.  The stock market has come a long way in the last five years and is now priced close to perfection at a time when global economic growth is under pressure and geopolitical problems proliferate.  We continue to believe that the risks, at this point are exceedingly high.   FREE AppDownload
A rare area of agreement about the financial crisis of 2008 is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were at the core of the meltdown and are in urgent need of reform. On March 16th the leading Republican and Democratic members of the key Senate Banking Committee belatedly released a plan for restructuring the two publicly traded mortgage giants. The plan has received widespread attention in part because it appears to address the most evident problems of Fannie and Freddie and because it is deemed likely to be approved by Congress. Yet neither of these assumptions, on deeper examination, seems to be true. To satisfy those who want low-priced mortgages on terms that private markets would never endorse, the plan makes explicit the government guarantee on debt which had been implicit for Fannie and Freddie. This would lower the interest rate on high-risk loans, while obscuring the cost of the subsidy. To placate those who worry that this in turn would leave the government stuck with mountains of dud loans, a 10% capital cushion must be provided by investors to absorb initial losses. A fee of 0.1% would be charged on all mortgage-backed bonds, with the proceeds going to three funds, two pre-existing, that will provide subsidies for housing. An as-yet undetermined insurance charge will be levied on top. The result, said Mike Crapo, the ranking Republican senator on the committee, "would be a strong step forward" to fixing "our flawed housing system". If only, say critics, who include investors and both friends and foes of Fannie and Freddie. The first objection is that the law would create an unwieldy bureaucracy, with a regulator atop other entities devoted to overseeing functions such as syndicating loans or bundling the loans of small banks. When the plan was announced, the price of shares in Fannie and Freddie, which account for about two-thirds of the mortgage market, did not budge at first. Then they tanked--presumably because investors reached page 387 of the 442-page text and found enshrined in legislation an earlier 2012 order by the Treasury that expropriated from private investors all profits made by Fannie and Freddie. The move is unlikely to help attract the private money needed to supply the 10% in equity underpinning bonds issued under the new plan. Opponents of Fannie and Freddie contend that the two played a key role in the crisis by encouraging the issuance of loans with tiny down payments through a benign-sounding "affordable housing" mandate. Nothing much has changed. Under the new plan, downpayments of as little as 3.5% of the loan value would be permitted. Strewn through the proposed law are words such as "affordable", "equal access" and "underserved communities", which suggest that lending decisions will be based on political rather than credit criteria. "The result", says Edward Pinto of the American Enterprise Institute, a think-tank, "will be risky lending for those least able to cope." The underlying problem with the new plan is that, like Fannie and Freddie before it, it tries to reconcile two conflicting goals: protecting the financial system and providing low-cost housing loans to favoured groups. A better approach would be to handle these goals separately and explicitly. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
A rare area of agreement about the financial crisis of 2008 is that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were at the core of the meltdown and are in urgent need of reform. On March 16th the leading Republican and Democratic members of the key Senate Banking Committee belatedly released a plan for restructuring the two publicly traded mortgage giants. The plan has received widespread attention in part because it appears to address the most evident problems of Fannie and Freddie and because it is deemed likely to be approved by Congress. Yet neither of these assumptions, on deeper examination, seems to be true. To satisfy those who want low-priced mortgages on terms that private markets would never endorse, the plan makes explicit the government guarantee on debt which had been implicit for Fannie and Freddie. This would lower the interest rate on high-risk loans, while obscuring the cost of the subsidy. To placate those who worry that this in turn would leave the government stuck with mountains of dud loans, a 10% capital cushion must be provided by investors to absorb initial losses. A fee of 0.1% would be charged on all mortgage-backed bonds, with the proceeds going to three funds, two pre-existing, that will provide subsidies for housing. An as-yet undetermined insurance charge will be levied on top. The result, said Mike Crapo, the ranking Republican senator on the committee, "would be a strong step forward" to fixing "our flawed housing system". If only, say critics, who include investors and both friends and foes of Fannie and Freddie. The first objection is that the law would create an unwieldy bureaucracy, with a regulator atop other entities devoted to overseeing functions such as syndicating loans or bundling the loans of small banks. When the plan was announced, the price of shares in Fannie and Freddie, which account for about two-thirds of the mortgage market, did not budge at first. Then they tanked--presumably because investors reached page 387 of the 442-page text and found enshrined in legislation an earlier 2012 order by the Treasury that expropriated from private investors all profits made by Fannie and Freddie. The move is unlikely to help attract the private money needed to supply the 10% in equity underpinning bonds issued under the new plan. Opponents of Fannie and Freddie contend that the two played a key role in the crisis by encouraging the issuance of loans with tiny down payments through a benign-sounding "affordable housing" mandate. Nothing much has changed. Under the new plan, downpayments of as little as 3.5% of the loan value would be permitted. Strewn through the proposed law are words such as "affordable", "equal access" and "underserved communities", which suggest that lending decisions will be based on political rather than credit criteria. "The result", says Edward Pinto of the American Enterprise Institute, a think-tank, "will be risky lending for those least able to cope." The underlying problem with the new plan is that, like Fannie and Freddie before it, it tries to reconcile two conflicting goals: protecting the financial system and providing low-cost housing loans to favoured groups. A better approach would be to handle these goals separately and explicitly. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
"In people's hearts and minds," Vladimir Putin told Russia's parliament this week, "Crimea has always been an inseparable part of Russia." He annexed the peninsula with dazzling speed and efficiency, backed by a crushing majority in a referendum (see "The Ukraine crisis: Responding to Mr Putin"). He calls it a victory for order and legitimacy and a blow against Western meddling. The reality is that Mr Putin is a force for instability and strife. The founding act of his new order was to redraw a frontier using arguments that could be deployed to inflame territorial disputes in dozens of places around the world. Even if most Crimeans do want to join Russia, the referendum was a farce. Russia's recent conduct is often framed narrowly as the start of a new cold war with America. In fact it poses a broader threat to countries everywhere because Mr Putin has driven a tank over the existing world order. Foreign policy follows cycles. The Soviet collapse ushered in a decade of unchallenged supremacy for the United States and the aggressive assertion of American values. But, puffed up by the hubris of George Bush, this "unipolar world" choked in the dust of Iraq. Since then Barack Obama has tried to fashion a more collaborative approach, built on a belief that America can make common cause with other countries to confront shared problems and isolate wrongdoers. This has failed miserably in Syria but shown some signs of working with Iran. Even in its gentler form, it is American clout that keeps sea lanes open, borders respected and international law broadly observed. To that extent, the post-Soviet order has meaning. Mr Putin is now destroying that. He dresses up his takeover of Crimea in the garb of international law, arguing for instance that the ousting of the government in Kiev means he is no longer bound by a treaty guaranteeing Ukraine's borders that Russia signed in 1994, when Ukraine gave up nuclear weapons. But international law depends on governments inheriting the rights and duties of their predecessors. Similarly, he has invoked the principle that he must protect his "compatriots"--meaning anybody he chooses to define as Russian--wherever they are. Against all evidence, he has denied that the unbadged troops who took control of Crimea were Russian. That combination of protection and subterfuge is a formula for intervention in any country with a minority, not just a Russian one. Brandishing fabricated accounts of Ukrainian fascists threatening Crimea, he has defied the principle that intervention abroad should be a last resort in the face of genuine suffering. He cites NATO's bombing of Kosovo in 1999 as a precedent, but that came after terrible violence and exhaustive efforts at the UN--which Russia blocked. Even then Kosovo was not, like Crimea, immediately annexed, but seceded nine years later. Mr Putin's new order, in short, is built on revanchism, a reckless disdain for the truth and the twisting of the law to mean whatever suits those in power. That makes it no order at all. Sadly, too few people understand this. Plenty of countries resent American primacy and Western moralising. But they would find Mr Putin's new order far worse. Small countries thrive in an open system of rules, albeit imperfect ones. If might is right, they have much to fear, especially if they must contend with an aggressive regional power. Larger countries, especially the new giants of the emerging world, face less threat of bullying, but an anarchic, mistrustful world would harm them all the same. If international agreements are robbed of their meaning, India could more easily be sucked into a clash of arms with China over Arunachal Pradesh or Ladakh with Pakistan. If unilateral secession is acceptable, Turkey will find it harder to persuade its Kurds that their future lies in making peace. Egypt and Saudi Arabia want Iran's regional ambitions to be tamped down, not fed by the principle that it can intervene to help Shia Muslims across the Middle East. Even China should pause. Tactically, Crimea ties it in knots. The precedent of secession is anathema, because of Tibet; the principle of unification is sacrosanct, because of Taiwan. Strategically, though, China's interests are clear. For decades, it has sought to rise peacefully within the system, avoiding the competition that an upstart Germany launched against Britain in the 19th century and which ended in war. But peace is elusive in Mr Putin's world, because anything can become a pretext for action, and any perceived aggression demands a riposte. For Mr Obama, this is a defining moment: he must lead, not just co-operate. But Crimea should also matter to the rest of the world. Given what is at stake, the response has so far been weak and fragmented. China and India have more or less stood aside. The West has imposed visa sanctions and frozen a few Russians' assets. The targets call this a badge of honour. At the very least, the measures must start to exceed expectations. Asset freezes can be powerful, because, as the Iran sanctions showed, international finance dreads being caught up in America's regulatory machinery. Mr Putin's kleptocratic friends would yelp if Britain made London unwelcome to Russian money linked to the regime (see "Russian money in Britain: Honey trapped"). France should withhold its arms sales to Russia; and, in case eastern Ukraine is next, Germany must be prepared to embargo Russian oil and gas. Planning should start right now to lessen Europe's dependence on Russian energy and to strengthen NATO. Ukraine needs short-term money, to stave off collapse, and longer-term reforms, with the help of the IMF, backed by as much outside advice as the country will stomach. As a first step, America must immediately pay its dues to the fund, which have been blocked by Congress for months. Even if the West is prepared to take serious measures against Mr Putin, the world's rising powers may not be inclined to condemn him. But instead of acquiescing in his illegal annexation of Crimea, they should reflect on what kind of a world order they want to live under. Would they prefer one in which states by and large respect international agreements and borders? Or one in which words are bent, borders ignored and agreements broken at will? Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
"In people's hearts and minds," Vladimir Putin told Russia's parliament this week, "Crimea has always been an inseparable part of Russia." He annexed the peninsula with dazzling speed and efficiency, backed by a crushing majority in a referendum (see "The Ukraine crisis: Responding to Mr Putin"). He calls it a victory for order and legitimacy and a blow against Western meddling. The reality is that Mr Putin is a force for instability and strife. The founding act of his new order was to redraw a frontier using arguments that could be deployed to inflame territorial disputes in dozens of places around the world. Even if most Crimeans do want to join Russia, the referendum was a farce. Russia's recent conduct is often framed narrowly as the start of a new cold war with America. In fact it poses a broader threat to countries everywhere because Mr Putin has driven a tank over the existing world order. Foreign policy follows cycles. The Soviet collapse ushered in a decade of unchallenged supremacy for the United States and the aggressive assertion of American values. But, puffed up by the hubris of George Bush, this "unipolar world" choked in the dust of Iraq. Since then Barack Obama has tried to fashion a more collaborative approach, built on a belief that America can make common cause with other countries to confront shared problems and isolate wrongdoers. This has failed miserably in Syria but shown some signs of working with Iran. Even in its gentler form, it is American clout that keeps sea lanes open, borders respected and international law broadly observed. To that extent, the post-Soviet order has meaning. Mr Putin is now destroying that. He dresses up his takeover of Crimea in the garb of international law, arguing for instance that the ousting of the government in Kiev means he is no longer bound by a treaty guaranteeing Ukraine's borders that Russia signed in 1994, when Ukraine gave up nuclear weapons. But international law depends on governments inheriting the rights and duties of their predecessors. Similarly, he has invoked the principle that he must protect his "compatriots"--meaning anybody he chooses to define as Russian--wherever they are. Against all evidence, he has denied that the unbadged troops who took control of Crimea were Russian. That combination of protection and subterfuge is a formula for intervention in any country with a minority, not just a Russian one. Brandishing fabricated accounts of Ukrainian fascists threatening Crimea, he has defied the principle that intervention abroad should be a last resort in the face of genuine suffering. He cites NATO's bombing of Kosovo in 1999 as a precedent, but that came after terrible violence and exhaustive efforts at the UN--which Russia blocked. Even then Kosovo was not, like Crimea, immediately annexed, but seceded nine years later. Mr Putin's new order, in short, is built on revanchism, a reckless disdain for the truth and the twisting of the law to mean whatever suits those in power. That makes it no order at all. Sadly, too few people understand this. Plenty of countries resent American primacy and Western moralising. But they would find Mr Putin's new order far worse. Small countries thrive in an open system of rules, albeit imperfect ones. If might is right, they have much to fear, especially if they must contend with an aggressive regional power. Larger countries, especially the new giants of the emerging world, face less threat of bullying, but an anarchic, mistrustful world would harm them all the same. If international agreements are robbed of their meaning, India could more easily be sucked into a clash of arms with China over Arunachal Pradesh or Ladakh with Pakistan. If unilateral secession is acceptable, Turkey will find it harder to persuade its Kurds that their future lies in making peace. Egypt and Saudi Arabia want Iran's regional ambitions to be tamped down, not fed by the principle that it can intervene to help Shia Muslims across the Middle East. Even China should pause. Tactically, Crimea ties it in knots. The precedent of secession is anathema, because of Tibet; the principle of unification is sacrosanct, because of Taiwan. Strategically, though, China's interests are clear. For decades, it has sought to rise peacefully within the system, avoiding the competition that an upstart Germany launched against Britain in the 19th century and which ended in war. But peace is elusive in Mr Putin's world, because anything can become a pretext for action, and any perceived aggression demands a riposte. For Mr Obama, this is a defining moment: he must lead, not just co-operate. But Crimea should also matter to the rest of the world. Given what is at stake, the response has so far been weak and fragmented. China and India have more or less stood aside. The West has imposed visa sanctions and frozen a few Russians' assets. The targets call this a badge of honour. At the very least, the measures must start to exceed expectations. Asset freezes can be powerful, because, as the Iran sanctions showed, international finance dreads being caught up in America's regulatory machinery. Mr Putin's kleptocratic friends would yelp if Britain made London unwelcome to Russian money linked to the regime (see "Russian money in Britain: Honey trapped"). France should withhold its arms sales to Russia; and, in case eastern Ukraine is next, Germany must be prepared to embargo Russian oil and gas. Planning should start right now to lessen Europe's dependence on Russian energy and to strengthen NATO. Ukraine needs short-term money, to stave off collapse, and longer-term reforms, with the help of the IMF, backed by as much outside advice as the country will stomach. As a first step, America must immediately pay its dues to the fund, which have been blocked by Congress for months. Even if the West is prepared to take serious measures against Mr Putin, the world's rising powers may not be inclined to condemn him. But instead of acquiescing in his illegal annexation of Crimea, they should reflect on what kind of a world order they want to live under. Would they prefer one in which states by and large respect international agreements and borders? Or one in which words are bent, borders ignored and agreements broken at will? Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was likely just repeating the views of private analysts and investors when she said the central bank could raise interest rates six months after ending a bond-buying program, a top policymaker said on Friday. "On the 'considerable period' being six months, the surveys that I had seen from the private sector had that kind of number penciled in," St Louis Federal Reserve President James Bullard said during a lunch with journalists. "That wasn't very different from what we had heard from financial markets. So, I just think she's just repeating that." Bullard's remarks were the first by a Fed policymaker since Yellen made her comments on Wednesday. (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Bob Donnan-USA TODAYDuke Blue Devils guard Quinn Cook (2) walks off the court after losing to the Mercer Bears in a men's college basketball game during the second round of the 2014 NCAA Tournament at PNC Arena.The tech-stock-heavy Nasdaq led the market lower. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
House of Outrageous Fortune: Fifteen Central Park West, the World’s Most Powerful Address. By Michael Gross. Atria Books; 394 pages. "Limestone Jesus" is the nickname of 15 Central Park West, Manhattan’s residential building of the moment, and not just because its 201 extraordinary apartments are clad in expensive rock. "It represents the resurrection and the life of our era’s aristocracy of wealth," writes Michael Gross in "House of Outrageous Fortune", the "story of the property-lust-making building and the cohort that calls it their tower of power". If anyone needs convincing that the richest of the rich have continued to get richer, unaffected by the financial crash of 2008 and the subsequently misfiring economy, here is the proof. In 2005 when Carl Icahn, a septuagenarian billionaire activist investor, was outbid for a penthouse in the then-unbuilt building, his successful rival, Daniel Loeb, a younger hedge-fund boss, paid $45m. In 2011 Sandy Weill, a former boss of Citigroup, sold his slightly smaller penthouse for $88m, twice what it had cost him four years earlier and the highest price ever paid for a Manhattan apartment. 15CPW, as it is known locally, has special appeal to the new-money types frowned upon by the sniffy blue-bloods across the park on Fifth Avenue. There are hedgies and investment bankers galore, especially from Goldman Sachs, which helped the Zeckendorf brothers finance the development, and got a discount for its boss, Lloyd Blankfein, when he splashed out $26m on a duplex. Russian oligarchs, left out of the initial sales process due to concerns about their character, have been busy buyers in the secondary market. Celebrity residents include Sting, Denzel Washington and Alex Rodriguez, a steroid-pumping batter for the New York Yankees who, one anonymous neighbour tells Mr Gross, is "not a nice guy, an unfriendly narcissist" and is thus the "exact opposite" of the delightful Mr Blankfein. (For anyone expecting serious tittle-tattle, this is about as good as Mr Gross gets, alas, along with his account of Mr Loeb’s failed attempt to lower the temperature of the water in the swimming pool and subsequent resignation from the building’s gym committee.) KWDesigns, FlickrWhen the Occupy Wall Street movement heard that Mr Blankfein lived in the building it organised a protest outside, and Bill de Blasio, New York’s mayor, got elected last year by attacking the sort of wealthy people who call 15CPW home. If only Mr Gross had made a serious attempt to analyse whether their rise is really due to policies that simultaneously harmed the less well-off, and whether there have been more of the sort of special favours for residents like those apparently extended by the police to the triple-parked limos out front. Still, he demonstrates conclusively the abiding truth of Clare Boothe Luce’s observation, "Money can’t buy happiness, but it can make you awfully comfortable while you’re being miserable." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoThis morning Gary Cohn, COO of Goldman Sachs, fired a warning shot at stock exchanges. In an op-ed about high frequency trading, Cohn wrote that the entire business model of exchanges like the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ hurts markets. The exchanges get paid based on the volume of quotes (order instructions) that flow through them. That's quotes, not actual executed trades. From the op-ed: The economic model of the exchanges, as shaped by regulation, is oriented around market volume. Volume generates price discovery and liquidity, which are clearly beneficial. But the industry must recognize how certain activities related to volume can place stress on a market infrastructure ill-equipped to deal with it. Electronic-order instructions connect the objectives of buyers and sellers to actions on exchanges. These transaction messages direct the placement, cancellation and correction of orders, and in recent years they have skyrocketed. In the 2010 "flash crash," a spike in the volume of these messages exacerbated volatility, overwhelming the market's infrastructure. Think about it like this — having a ton of order instructions going through exchanges is like having a ton of browsers that you're definitely not going to use open on your computer at the same time. It takes up memory, it makes your computer do extra work. As a result, sometimes your computer can crash. Now think about that happening in the market. That is what Cohn says caused the Flash Crash. Cohn's suggests that HFT firms be penalized for sending out excessive orders that aren't meant to be filled. Currently there is no cost to market participants who generate excessive order-message traffic. One idea would be to consider if regulatory fees applied on the basis of extreme message traffic—rather than executions alone—are appropriate and would enhance the underlying strength and resiliency of the system. Regulators in Canada and Australia have adopted this approach. This week, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced that he was initiating an investigation into high frequency trading firms and their relationships with exchanges. He thinks that they way HFT firms communicate with exchanges is hurting the market, in part, because there's so much unnecessary quote volume going to exchanges all the time. One way he's proposed to do away with that is by having frequent auctions that would render sending constant quotes to exchanges totally moot. This, also, would eat into exchange profits by lowering volume. The CFTC and SEC have launched their own investigations as well. The SEC's investigation is into whether or not exchanges give some customers a faster connection because those customers provide more volume (read: profits) to exchanges. They even made a handy diagram about it. The Securities and Exchange Commission As you can see, the SEC's point is that some customers get to bypass an extra layer between themselves and the exchanges. That means their orders get placed faster. People like market research firm Nanex's CEO Eric Hunsader have been talking about this since the Flash Crash, but obviously its an uncomfortable topic for exchanges. Now it's not just the SEC taking up the issue, it's the New York Attorney General, and Goldman Sachs — a big player in the markets was billions of dollars and an interest in stability. No one wants to see another crash that shaves a thousand points off the market in a matter of minutes. No one wants another 2010. The NYSE and NASDAQ declined to comment for this story.  FREE AppDownload
It's hard out here for a pimp," complains the Three 6 Mafia, a rap group. A new study by the Urban Institute, a think-tank, casts doubt on this assertion. After investigating the sex trade in eight big American cities, researchers concluded that pimps can do rather well for themselves. Some in Atlanta bring in $33,000 a week, the study estimates. Tracking the sex trade is hard. It is legal only in parts of Nevada. Elsewhere there are no receipts; researchers relied instead on interviews with lawyers, police, prostitutes and pimps. Their fat report, commissioned by the Justice Department, brought squeals of pleasure from journalists everywhere, who tended to play up evidence that the oldest profession is booming. But it doesn’t appear to be. In five out of seven cities, the underground sex industry shrank between 2003 and 2007, the study found. (In one place, Kansas City, Missouri, there was not enough evidence to decide.) In Washington, DC, takings fell by 34%. In Denver, with a population of 2.5m in 2007 if you include the suburbs, the sex trade grossed a mere $40m. The demand for sex probably does not change much over time, but other things do. A century ago, when sexual mores were stricter, prostitution was more common and better paid (see table). Men’s demand for commercial sex was higher because the non-commercial sort was harder to obtain--there was no premarital hook-up culture. Women were attracted to prostitution in part because their other job opportunities were so meagre. And they commanded high wages partly because the social stigma was so great--without high pay, it was not worth enduring it. The price for a trick today ranges from miserable ($15) to ample ($1,000 or more). Prostitutes have many options besides street-walking. The internet makes it easier for them to set up "dates" and negotiate prices, and harder for the police to catch them. They feel less vulnerable using social-media sites than doing the "stroll". But 36% nonetheless report that some clients were violent or abusive. Pimps, who are often women, tend to follow a business plan. They impose rules, such as "no drugs" or "no young clients" (who are more likely than older men to be violent). They are flexible with pricing, offering special deals for loyal customers and swiftly adapting to economic downturns. A third of pimps delegate management, training and even recruitment to an experienced employee called a "bottom girl". About 15% admitted to beating up their staff. Others, however, thought violence was bad for business. One pimp said: "One bad girl can knock your whole stable loose. Get rid of the bad apple. If I needed to hit them, I didn’t need them." Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Slowly but surely, the cost of keeping the Great American Shale Boom going has been increasing for the players that lie at the heart of it.  According to the FT's Ed Crooks, the breakeven oil price needed to keep the most expensive drilling projects going has climbed to $100. "That is why even with internationally traded Brent crude at about $110 per barrel – up from about $20 in the 1990s – this has not been a good time to be an investor in the oil industry." BernsteinResearch's Scott Gruber recently showed how gains in rig efficiency — the amount of wells that can be drilled at a given rig site in a given quarter — appear to have begun plateauing:  BernsteinResearch And uncertainty at the heart of the shale revolution has caused the rest of the world to approach their own unconventional reserves with caution. So where is the boom going? The Oxford Institute for Energy Studies' Ivan Sandrea has summed up the state of the game in the group's latest note: This new industry has been focused on drilling; the drilling of infill wells is likely to remain the focus for years to come as companies delineate acreage spacing, increasing the longevity of these plays and the span of drilling that may require decades not years. But who can, or will want to, fund the drilling of millions of acres and hundreds of thousands of wells at an ongoing loss? The lifetime capex for just the Appalachian and Permian exceed $1.5 trillion. After all, the benevolence of the US capital markets cannot last forever for all players, especially the marginal players, regardless of how deep and specialized the US market is. A more realistic outcome is that sections of the industry will have to restructure and focus more rapidly on the most commercially sustainable areas of the plays, perhaps about 40 per cent of the current acreage and resource estimates, possibly yielding a lower production growth in the US than is currently expected, but perhaps a more lasting one. Ironically, this dramatic change may just be what the industry needs to maintain growth. Outside of the US, the revolution is still a distant hope.  Crude was up 0.5% today to a little over $100. FREE AppDownload
    When companies set out to design logos to brand their products, they often go above and beyond to create recognizable and memorable graphics. Over and over again we see examples of corporate logos with hidden visual messages buried inside. FREE AppDownload
BIIA digital advertising group called ThinkLA was kind enough to ask me to speak at a massive event in Los Angeles yesterday. (Same stage as the Golden Globes!) The topic was an overview of the mobile industry. Analyst Tony Danova and the BI Intelligence team put together an excellent deck for the event, using data from the BI Intelligence archive. A link to the deck is below. Hope you enjoy it. BI Intelligence is a research and analysis service focused on mobile computing, digital media, payments, and e-commerce. BII members can download the PowerPoint and PDF versions of this deck, and download all the charts and data in Excel. Please sign up for a free trial here.
ReutersEditor's note: Below is an interview with Stephen Green, head of greater China research at Standard Chartered. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Thursday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: China fears have resurfaced as a catalyst for risk aversion in global markets. Are those fears justified? STEPHEN GREEN: Well, it depends on what you’re scared about. More non-performing loans (NPLs) and some defaults on bonds and trust products? You bet, they’re coming. A systemic financial crisis and a hard landing for the economy? Unlikely, we think. There are a number of reasons but the main one is that for all the worry about “shadow banking” in China, the credit intermediation by non-banks is no more than 15% of GDP, and its unleveraged and unsecuritised. So, unlike in the U.S. system, a few bad loans do not have to generate a financial crisis. Now, of course, a large amount of NPLs within the banking and trust systems will be a problem, and there will likely need to be a recap of the system in the next 2-3 years, but that can be accomplished without too much disruption for the broader economy we believe. Overall, the new administration has decided that to do the reforms that everyone has been asking them to do, they need to run some risks. So for the bears to turn around and argue that the results of slower credit growth etc. for which they were calling will be the collapse they predicted is a bit cheeky, I think. BI: The People's Bank of China (PBoC) has been moving to shake investors out of carry trades designed to make money on a rising renminbi. Do you think they will be successful in having a lasting effect, or will trades just get put on again when the renminbi resumes strengthening? SG: As an economist, I think the problem is simple: still large current and capital account surpluses. In 2013, the PBoC bought at least $430 billion in intervention operations, and $70 billion in January alone. I don’t think the PBoC has dissuaded the market of a medium-term CNY appreciation story, but it's clearly raised the costs, and potential costs, of betting on that expectation. As a central bank in the last few months, the PBoC has discovered the utility of behaving a little crazy — both in the interbank system and now in the FX market. It affects behaviour — domestic banks are more cautious about their liquidity management, and now speculators are more cautious about positioning on the CNY. To keep that up, I think the CNY continues to be moved around — and maybe even breaks 6.20 on the upside, while 6.30 would I think be pretty aggressive. More volatility on the way down to a 5.9 handle by the end of the year I think. BI: What do you think the impact of the sell-off in the copper market has had on the state of affairs in China's shadow banking system? SG: Limited. The sell-off has been partly triggered by local regulators guiding banks away from accepting copper as collateral on loans. Some firms have liquidity problems repaying loans since the funds they borrowed having been tied up in business, or in loans. To raise cash, they sell their copper, which has pushed prices down. It's generated a lot of noise, and it’ll probably carry on for a while, but we think it will have limited impact. Most copper traders do not appear to be under financial pressure to unwind their positions. Fundamental physical demand for copper at present has weakened a bit — housing construction appears to have slowed, and onshore air conditioner manufacturers are holding quite a bit of inventory. That said, this year’s grid build-out is expected to be strong, which could impact demand a lot.BI: More generally, the prospects of corporate defaults have many investors wondering what's next in China's onshore bond market. What should they expect? SG: A few more defaults — which is what the central government wants (though local governments will often to their best to restructure and evergreen the debt). Credit conditions will remain tough this year — as loan growth slows. And this is the third year of relatively slow growth, and some parts of the corporate sector, especially heavy industry, are leveraged up. High leverage and weak cash flow means more trouble. If we are going to solve the issues of over-capacity in a few industries, and remove some of the moral hazard problems, this is needed. I think Beijing is ready to accept some bankruptcies. They also believe that the banks and other losses will be absorbed and written-off without systemic effects. In the U.S., which had a housing bubble and a financial crisis, much of the seriousness of that crisis was created by leverage in the financial sector and securitisation of assets. Neither of these things — leverage or securitisation — exists to any meaningful scale in the Chinese financial system. So we’ll likely be dealing with simpler and cleaner financial market problems — rising NPLs and the need to recapitalise banks over the next few years. As long as nominal growth can remain around 10%, that growth will ultimately forgive many of those sins. BI: The Standard Chartered Renminbi Globalization Index has been surging, and the PBoC took historic action over the weekend in widening the daily trading band in which the yuan is allowed to fluctuate. When do you expect them to abandon the daily reference rate and embrace a fully market-determined exchange rate? SG: Well, let's be patient. They've got their hands full with the current ambition — to limit FX intervention and at the same time prevent excessive moves. Given the current account is in significance surplus, they need a certain amount of capital account outflow to balance things up. With the weaker CNY trading, they seem to have achieved that. For the moment. At the back of my head though I still think we are on an appreciation path, but with more volatility, which will mean some of the speculative money will leave. A lot of people say that the CNY has appreciated a lot; it is now near fair value. It's just PBoC bought at least $430 billion last year, and $70 billion in January. I don't see any fundamental change since then. FREE AppDownload
ReutersProtesters in San Cristobal clash with a member of Venezuela's National Guard behind scraps used as barricades and defenses.As protests continue in Venezuela, some regions have turned against the government more than others. One of them is San Cristobal, capital of the western state of Tachira. It's right on the boarder with Colombia. This week, authorities arrested the mayor of the city, Daniel Ceballo, in a Caracas hotel.  "This is an act of justice for a mayor who not only did not meet his obligations as required by law and the constitution, but also facilitated and supported all the irrational violence in San Cristobal," said Justice Minister Miguel Rodriguez Torres in a television appearance confirming the arrest. Today, Bloomberg has a killer piece on what it's like to be in San Cristobal. It's one of the places hardest hit by the food shortages plaguing the country. Part of that is because residents have built barricades to keep government forces out as demonstrators fill the street. Those barricades keep goods from flowing into the region. But the protestors don't care. From Bloomberg: “We’ve got to be prepared. Next time they are really coming for us,” Mendoza, a 17-year-old student, said in front of the wall of metal sheets, old washing machines and garbage bags. “We have to carry on this fight until the government resigns.”... “Bullets are flying from both sides, the fear is now real,” Jeickson said, while standing outside a barricade rebuilt last night after the National Guard attack in San Cristobal’s Pueblo Nuevo. The government fears that if a city of 700,000, like San Cristobal, can carry on with its activities, other groups will get inspired to do the same — groups who have traditionally stood with the government and its Chavez legacy, like trade unions and poor Venezuelans. And in case you've never seen it, this is what a food line in San Cristobal looks like. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, Feb. 27, 2014. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderLONDON (Reuters) - A top U.S. Federal Reserve official critical of the U.S. central bank's super-easy monetary policy on Friday questioned the very core of the Fed's current approach, which rests on giving markets a better sense of the future path of interest rates. That approach, known as forward guidance, received a makeover on Wednesday, when Janet Yellen wrapped her first policy-setting meeting as Fed chair with a decision to jettison narrow economic guideposts in favor of a much broader set of measures to determine the timing and pace of future rate hikes. Dallas Federal Reserve President Richard Fisher, in brief remarks released ahead of a planned speech in London, appeared to question even the basis of that approach, which Yellen has credited with keeping borrowing costs lower than otherwise and boosting an economy in great need of stimulus. "Is 'Forward Guidance' a crotchet .... to which exaggerated importance is attributed?," Fisher said in the brief prepared remarks. "Have we at the (Fed) just taken up another fad? Or is this a real, lasting practice?" Fisher did not answer that question in the prepared remarks. Fisher is a member of the Fed's policy panel this year and is one of the U.S. central bank's most hawkish policymakers. He wants the Fed to wind down its bond-buying stimulus as quickly as possible. (Reporting by Ana Nicolaci da Costa and Natsuko Waki; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Though the calendar now says spring, atmospheric gremlins are conspiring to make winter linger a bit longer. Thanks to a Rex Block over Alaska, the jet stream will take another deep dive from the North Pole to the eastern United States this weekend. That pattern will be locked in place throughout much of next week, plunging most of the eastern part of the country back into the deep freeze. Temperatures from Sunday to Thursday will be 10 to 25 degrees colder than long-term averages across most of the East, more fitting of mid-January than late March. But the crown jewel of the wintery encore will be a major late-season nor’easter. Born of a combination of bitterly cold air and a core of rapidly intensifying low pressure, a big storm is increasingly likely to buzz the East Coast early next week. The National Weather Service did not mince words in their headline of a technical discussion of the potential beast: “Nor'easter bomb indicated off the mid-Atlantic coast late Tuesday night.” The scary-sounding descriptor “bomb”—also known as “explosive cyclogenesis”–is a technical word meteorologists use when low pressure centers deepen at a rate faster than 24 millibars in 24 hours, which happens in only the most intense storms. The NWS continues: The East Coast cyclone has the potential to produce late-season heavy snowfall over a wide swath of real estate from Virginia to New England; that is a generality at this point. Much remains in terms of refining the forecast state by state. Another high-impact factor will be the powerful winds generated by this sprawling, intense circulation, along with high seas, beach battery, coastal flooding, and so forth. Again, at this point, such sensible weather effects are simply attendant to the potential of such a storm. That’s a bold forecast, especially five days before the storm arrives. In this case, however, forecasting an extreme storm next week is becoming an increasingly easy call. Weather models have been showing the possibility of a big storm for days now and are displaying the kind of consistency meteorologists look for before going out on a limb. In fact, one particular model, the GFS—the best long-range model produced by the United States—is forecasting the storm to strengthen at more than twice the rate necessary for a bomb, from 995 millibars Tuesday evening off the North Carolina coast to 968 millibars Wednesday morning off Long Island, just 12 hours later. That same model is forecasting the storm to peak with sustained surface winds of hurricane force over the ocean by Wednesday afternoon. At that same time, in the jet stream well above the surface, winds are expected to top 170 mph—fueling the rapid growth of the storm and increasing its “bomb”-making potential. Map of 00z GFS surface winds, via americanwx.comBy Wednesday morning, the storm’s sustained winds off the East Coast could peak above hurricane force.The extremely strong jet stream will form a direct link between the Arctic and the East Coast, energizing the storm and turning it into a major snow producer. While the National Weather Service is understandably skittish about making snowfall predictions when the storm is still five days away, thanks to the wonders of technology, we can get a sneak peak of what the totals might be. Another model, the GGEM (created by the Canadian Meteorological Centre), has a snow forecast that would rank as one of the biggest the New York City area has ever seen—more than two feet by Wednesday. Now, the GGEM is more than likely wrong—the New York City office of the National Weather service conservatively noted the double-barreled center the GGEM is currently showing is probably unrealistic—but barring big changes in the forecast, there’s an increasingly strong line of evidence that someone’s going to get walloped on that order somewhere along the East Coast. Map of 00z GGEM model, via americanwx.comSomebody’s going to get hella snow next week. It may not be New York City, as this particular model suggests, but signs are increasingly pointing to a big snowstorm somewhere on the East Coast. The Cooperative Institute for Precipitation Systems at Saint Louis University has applied a pattern-recognition algorithm to a compendium of 6-hourly weather maps for the last 30+ years. The top 15 hits for next week’s storm, when averaged together,produced a snow map from Georgia to New England with a reasonable six inches or snow from roughly Washington, D.C., to NYC to Boston. It’s important to note that the CIPS result isn’t technically a forecast: It’s an average of historical storms that are strongly correlated with the current forecast. The analog method is a pretty straightforward big-data way of tackling a tough forecast, and answers the question: "Of the historical weather maps that look the most like the current one, what happened afterwards?" Many of the storms in this CIPS map produced less than six inches of snow, a few produced much more. And one of those matches was a doozy. As I mentioned Wednesday, one of the top analogs from NOAA’s Climate Prediction Center for next week’s weather remains the Superstorm of 1993, one of the biggest March blizzards of all time. According to a National Weather Service archive, that storm brought hurricane force winds and all-time low pressure records (which still stand today) to parts of the South and dropped an astounding 13 cubic miles of snow from Florida to Maine. Simply put: It was one of the most extreme late-season winter storms in U.S. history. Here’s the Weather Channel’s coverage of the 1993 Superstorm:  Now, to forecast a historic storm five days in advance would be premature. All we really know right now is there will be a storm, and it’s probably going to be big. In an earlier weather discussion, the National Weather Service cautioned that despite the strong signal the weather models are showing, the storm is still so far out in time that chaos theory dictates that small changes now could lead to big shifts in the forecast down the road. In fact, part of the atmospheric energy that is expected to become the East Coast storm down the line is still over the Gulf of Alaska and won’t make landfall in British Columbia—where it can be better sampled by weather stations—until Sunday. The Rex Block complicates things further and could potentially siphon off a bit of the energy before it ever reaches shore. By Sunday evening, weather models should have ingested these critical datapoints and forecast reliability should improve. If the storm is still showing up then, buckle up. FREE AppDownload
Economists have reacted to the turmoil in Russia and Ukraine in recent weeks by slashing their forecasts for economic growth in Russia. As chart 1 shows, consensus expectations for consumer price inflation this year are considerably higher than they were a few months ago, while expectations for GDP growth and the current account surplus are lower. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1: The evolution of median forecasts of market economists polled by Bloomberg for Russian GDP growth, inflation, and the current account balance in 2014. Russia's recent incursion into Ukraine has sparked significant turmoil in Russian financial markets and capital outflows, both of which have in turn clouded the outlook for economic growth. The Russian ruble has fallen sharply against the U.S. dollar (chart 2). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 2: The U.S. dollar-Russian ruble exchange rate (number of rubles worth one dollar). A weaker ruble is not necessarily bad for the Russian economy in and of itself, but the volatility associated with the move is. Chart 3 illustrates the associated plunge in the Russian stock market, and chart 4 displays the concurrent surge in Russian borrowing costs. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 3: Russian stocks. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 4: Russian borrowing costs. All of this market turmoil forced Bank Rossii (Russia's central bank) on March 6 to hike its benchmark short-term policy interest rate, which many believe to be a serious headwind for growth, even if it is eventually lowered again later this year. Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist and trading desk strategist at Danske Bank, says the rate hike "will seriously damage the country’s economic growth through a sharp slowdown in private consumption, an extended fall in fixed investments and increased volatility in money market rates." "We cut our 2014 GDP forecast to 1.0% year over year from 2.6% previously and even consider the new forecast to be optimistic in such an uncertain geopolitical environment," said Miklashevsky in a note to clients following the hike. The rate hike was designed to stabilize financial markets and capital outflows, but it probably has not been very successful to that end. As chart 5 shows, Russia has been facing accelerating capital outflows for a number of quarters, and its shrinking current account surplus is no longer large enough to offset them, presenting a structural driver of ruble weakness. CBR, Citi ResearchChart 5: Russia's current account balance versus capital flows. We don't have data for Q1 2014 yet, but given the recent market turmoil, the outflow is probably going to be substantial. On Thursday, credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's revised its outlook on Russia's current BBB sovereign rating to negative from stable. "In our view, the deteriorating geopolitical situation has already had a negative impact on Russia's economy," said S&amp;P analysts. "The Central Bank of the Russian Federation appears to have abandoned its policy of increased currency flexibility and limited intervention in the foreign-exchange market. The Central Bank is now focused on stabilizing financial markets in light of the inflationary impact of the around 10% depreciation of the currency so far this year and the significant capital outflow, which we estimate at about $60 billion in the first quarter of 2014, similar to the level for the whole of 2013." Like Danske Bank, Citi also recently slashed its 2014 Russia GDP growth forecast to 1.0% year over year from 2.6%. In a note explaining the decision, Citi economist Ivan Tchakarov explained how Russian business investment and consumer spending were likely to suffer: Investment spending will be the key avenue via which market volatility will affect growth performance. The sectoral breakdown of last year’s investment suggested that private-sector consumption-related investment has been growing, while it was oil and gas investment that was holding back overall investment activity. Our more positive view on 2014 GDP was critically dependent on the assumption that government-led oil and gas investment would come out of its 2013 doldrums, with new projects coming on stream. However, given the uncertain backdrop, we now have much less confidence about this scenario playing out, even if, in principle, the government may feel more pressure to ‘take control’ of SOE investment plans. We, therefore, cut our real investment growth forecast to zero from 3.8% previously. Consumer spending will also feel the pain. While consumption is the only bright spot in Russian macro, it has been on a downtrend recently as fears of a consumer boom turning into a bubble have led to more restrictive regulatory behavior. Now broader uncertainty will further weigh on real private consumption spending, which we cut to 3.2% from 4.2% previously. Finally, it's important to remember that, as Financial Times correspondent Joseph Cotterill puts it, "The entire economy is a giant oil-price proxy." S&amp;P spent some time on this point in its discussion of its ratings outlook revision. "The Russian government's finances continue to be buoyed by strong commodity revenues, particularly from oil," said the rater. "Based on our expectation that commodity revenues will decline slightly on the back of a slightly weaker oil price (falling to $95 by 2015), we think the general government deficit will gradually worsen, reaching 1.5% of GDP by 2016, just outside the level targeted by the fiscal rule, and implying an average annual change in general government debt of 1.5% of GDP over 2013-2016." It's clear that the Russian incursion into Ukraine has already come at a significant cost. If the conflict escalates and financial sanctions take a more serious, damaging form, market volatility is likely to worsen, and forecasts could be revised even lower.   FREE AppDownload
U.S. stock indices are trading lower in the final session of the week. Notably, hot biotech stocks are selling off — IBB, the iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF, is down 3.5%. Other recent high-flyers in the alternative energy space, like Plug Power and FuelCell Energy, are sharply lower as well. The Nasdaq itself is trading almost 0.6% below Thursday's closing levels, while the S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average are flat. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.75%, down two basis point. The U.S. dollar is down about 0.1% against both the euro and the Japanese yen. The charts below show price action in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom from left to right are gold futures, 10-year Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
An erroneous report about China banning Bitcoin caused prices to tank this morning, according to Coindesk's Pete Rizzo. The report, published on mega Chinese social network Sina Weibo but since retracted, indicated the People's Bank of China had set a deadline of April 15 for all firms to halt Bitcoin trades. The PBOC later stated its ruling from Dec. 5 prohibiting financial institutions from dealing in the digital currency was still in place. The incident illustrates that information about Bitcoin, whether true or false, can still pretty much drop out of the sky and instantly up-end markets. Here's what the drop looked like: Coindesk FREE AppDownload
Everyone will die someday, and it is only a question of when. Through the power of actuarial estimates, it is possible to figure out approximately how long you are likely to live. We made a set of charts, based on data from the Social Security Administration's cohort life tables, that show, given your gender and current age, the probability that you will reach some particular later age. Naturally, these are based on averages for a particular age group — health conditions and lifestyle choices like diet, exercise, and smoking can vastly alter one's life expectancy. Regardless, this is important information for anyone who has to think about things like retirement and estate planning. Here are the charts, in descending order by present age: If you are an 80 year old man, your long-term odds are not great. There is a 30% chance of making it to your 90th birthday, and only about 14 in 1,000 will see 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration 70 year olds have a somewhat better prognosis. Almost 2/3 of 70 year old men and almost 3/4 of 70 year old women will live at least another ten years, and over 1/5 of men will make it to 90, as will 1/3 of women. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For 60 year olds, we see some of the benefits of modern medicine kicking in. The overwhelming majority of 60 year olds will live until at least 70, and majorities will get to at least 80. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Similarly, very few people who make it to 50 die before they turn 60. As we look at younger and younger cohorts, we see better and better long-term odds as well.  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration For people turning 40, comfortable majorities will see 80, and one in twenty women who are currently 40 will be able to blow out 100 birthday candles someday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Dying in your thirties is an extremely old-fashioned idea. Only 1.5% of thirty year old men, and just 0.9% of thirty year old women will die before their fortieth birthday. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration The late 21st century will have more than its fair share of elderly millenials. 60% of twenty year old men and 70% of twenty year old women will live to see the year 2074. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration One interesting aspect of this data is that the Social Security administration projects that the gap in longevity between men and women will continue into the future. Even among today's ten year olds, girls are likely to outlive boys. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration Finally, children born today will live longer than any other generation. About 2/3 will live past 80, and 1/3 past 90. Almost one in ten girls born now will live past 100. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Social Security Administration FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyEarlier today, restaurant chain operator Darden reiterated plans to divest its Red Lobster business. The seafood chain has been struggling to deliver on earnings. Among other things, management blamed shrimp inflation, reported Buzzfeed's Mariah Summers. Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, has been extremely low. And food prices, while higher, have generally been pretty modest. But shrimp prices have just been total chaos. Morgan Stanley's John Glass recently published this chart of shrimp prices. While price growth has been cooling off, they're still astronomical. "Shrimp inflation is expected to increase in our third and fourth fiscal quarters, primarily related to production issues in Asia," said Darden CFO Brad Richmond in December. "We don't anticipate relief on shrimp until early in fiscal 2015." FREE AppDownload
    Sure, you have that "classic" bottle of cologne sitting on your dresser. Every day you reach for it hoping to make a good impression. But you've probably wondered many times if you're making the right choice. What's the best scent to wear to work? A black tie event? A night out on the town? We went to the Bloomingdale's in Manhattan to find out once and for all. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/FlexMusselsNYThe Upper East Side has long been associated with high-end shops, hoity-toity residential buildings, and ladies who lunch at overpriced restaurants. However, there was a dearth of affordable, cool, high-quality restaurants.  All that has changed as rents in the area have become increasingly affordable, luring in young people who are priced out of the more trendy neighborhoods downtown. And with the young people come more innovative and affordable restaurants. When I moved to the Upper East Side last year, I was surprised to see how many cool new restaurants have made their home there.  For the purpose of this list, we're defining the Upper East Side as the area between 70th and 96th Street and between 5th Avenue and the East River.  Here are 25 UES restaurants and bars that are hip, affordable, and excellent. FREE AppDownload
First SolarA bunch of "hot" tech stocks, especially in biotech, are getting clobbered today. But Tempe, Ariz.-based solar device developer First Solar is up nearly 4%, and it's actually poised to end the week up at least 30%.  The catalyst was its latest analyst meeting, at which the company said it sees FY 2013 EPS beating its own guidance. It also said FY14 revenues would come in at $3.7B-$4.0B versus analysts' consensus forecast of $3.77B. In addition, the company announced a new, ramped-up efficiency schedule for its solar modules. They are now targeting 16.2% in Q4 2015 and 17.2% by Q4 2017. In other words, their panels would convert 17% of the sunlight directed at them into electricity. The worldwide average is currently around 15%.   "This would place First Solar ahead of standard silicon-based technology by the end of 2015 by GTM's estimate," Shyam Mehta, lead upstream analyst for solar at GTM Research, told BI in an email. "This matters because gains in module efficiency decrease both module manufacturing costs and BOS costs, which also explains why First Solar is now aiming for lower targets in these areas as well (99c/W system cost by 2017 and ~37c/W manufacturing cost)."  FREE AppDownload
Reuters After years of booming credit expansion, we're now seeing slower economic growth in China and a rising number of domestic bond defaults. This has prompted many to ask has China's "Minsky moment" arrived? The phenomenon is named after economist Hyman Minsky who articulated that periods of speculation and credit growth inflate assets, only to end in crisis. Societe Generale's Wei Yao was one of the first to write this up a year ago.  Morgan Stanley's Cyril Moulle-Berteaux and Sergei Parmenov, argue that China is approaching its 'Minsky moment' (via Zerohedge).  "In recent weeks, a trip to the region and further research into China’s shadow banking system have convinced us that China is approaching its “Minsky Moment,” (Display 1) which increases the chances of a disorderly unwind of China’s excesses. The efficiency with which credit generates economic activity is already deteriorating, as more investments are made in non-productive projects and more debt is being used to repay old debts." Morgan Stanley via Zerohedge But UBS economist Tao Wang argues that China's "Minsky moment" isn't here. Wang points to a few reasons she thinks China pessimists are wrong. China's first domestic bond default and the recent collapse of a property developer have kicked off chatter about the systemic risk to China's financial system. Wang, however, posits that a loss of confidence in China's shadow banking system would most likely see liquidity "flow back to the banking system (large banks especially), as the latter offer an implicit guarantee and China's capital account is still largely closed." So why doesn't she expect a systematic crisis? Wang expects that the government will ask banks to backstop some of the trust and wealth management products and slowly restructure their debt, rather than "the rapid and market-forced write offs or a spiral of deleveraging that China 'bears' speak of." She also argues that banks still "have liquidity in the form of stable and cheap deposits trapped by a largely closed capital account." Wang expects China's economy to grow 7.5% this year and thinks "fears of an imminent credit-crunch and hard landing will prove unfounded." FREE AppDownload
The CBOE Volatility Index, aka the VIX, is a pretty weird metric in the financial markets. Volatility isn't exactly quantifiable because you can't observe it directly. However, options gurus figured out that you can derive it from options prices. An option offers the option holder the right to buy or sell an asset within a set period of time. Already, that agreement includes several easily observable and quantifiable variables including the current price of the underlying asset, the exercise price, the time the option expires, and therefore the risk-free interest rate for that period. The price of the option factors in those variables, but also includes a premium to account for potential swings in the price of the asset. That premium captures volatility, which allows us to price the VIX. Because volatility is calculated indirectly, most people call it implied volatility; it's implied by all of those other variables. The VIX, aka the "fear gauge,"  got a lot of attention during and after the financial crisis because it exploded when the markets crashed, and it tumbled as the markets rallied. However, it's important to note that the VIX and the market don't always move in opposite directions. Indeed, in the late 1990's, they surged together. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders thinks we could see a repeat of that in coming years. "Stress in [the emerging markets] has been a contributing factor behind the recent uptick in volatility, but I believe we may be entering a period similar to the mid-to-late 1990s, when the stock market and volatility both rose for an extended period (the only time in history). As most know (and you can partly see in the chart below), the two generally move inversely," she wrote in her recent commentary." Sonders charted of the 12-month moving average of the VIX on top of the S&amp;P 500. Notice the shaded area. Charles Schwab Sonders bulleted some other similarities she has already observed between today and the late 1990s. Here they are verbatim: Read Sonders' whole comment at Schwab.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith Bedford(Reuters) - Darden Restaurants Inc, battling activist investors over the future of its struggling Red Lobster business, reiterated plans to divest the seafood chain and reported third-quarter results in line with analysts' lowered expectations. Darden, which also owns the Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse chains, had on March 3 warned that severe winter weather hurt sales and profit in the quarter. The company has been under pressure from Starboard Value LP and Barington Capital Group LP to improve business at Red Lobster and Olive Garden, both of which on Friday reported a fall in same-restaurant sales for the third straight quarter. Darden plans to spin off or sell the 705-restaurant Red Lobster chain, but Barington wants Olive Garden and Red Lobster in one company and the higher-growth chains, including LongHorn Steakhouse, as a second company. Starboard, which owns about 5.5 percent of the largest U.S. full-service restaurant operator, says the plan to spin off Red Lobster should be delayed and put to a shareholder vote. Barington, which said it owns about 2 percent of Darden, has asked the Orlando-based company to create a publicly-traded real estate investment trust (REIT) to unlock the value of its property holdings. Same-restaurant sales fell 8.8 percent at Red Lobster and 5.4 percent at Olive Garden in the third quarter. They rose 0.3 percent at LongHorn Steakhouse. Total sales fell 1 percent to $2.23 billion in the quarter ended February 23. Darden's net income fell to $109.7 million, or 82 cents per share, from $134.4 million, or $1.02 per share, a year earlier. Analysts on average had expected the company to earn 82 cents per share, on sales of $2.25 billion, according to Thomson Reuters. The company also maintained its forecast for a 15-20 percent fall in full-year profit. Darden's shares closed at $49.30 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. (Reporting by Aditi Shrivastava and Lisa Baertlein; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia The Oxford Institute for Energy Studies is out with a note on the Ukraine crisis' potential impact on Europe gas imports (spotted by Mike Levi). The conclusion: most of the continent would not be affected should Russia step on the gas hose leading out of Ukraine.   Europe is in a better position to handle a potential disruption than it was on previous occasions (2006 and 2009). Following the completion of the Nord Stream pipeline in 2012, only about 50% of the Russian gas to Europe transits via Ukraine, down from 80% previously. Russian gas to Northwest and Central Europe is largely supplied through the Nord Stream pipeline (from Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea) and the Yamal-Europe pipeline (from Russia via Belarus and Poland to Germany).   Oxford views the threat of a shutdown of the non-Ukraine infrastructure as remote.  Here's the list of overall Russia import totals. The leader, Italy, has a number of different fallback options, including beefing up imports from Northwest Europe or North Africa. Turkey, No. 2, remains slightly more exposed, though it could simply increase its LNG imports, a not-inexpensive but perfectly viable option. OxfordThe list of countries that get the greatest chunk of their gas on a percentage basis from Russia also have some built-in cushions. Although Bulgaria and the Czech Republic get huge percentages of their gas from Russia, they both have more than a month's-worth of backup storage. Mosts at risk, then, is Greece and Romania, who get about 50% of their supplies from Russia with no apparent backup storage. Not listed are Serbia and Bosnia, which also get at least half their supplies from Russia — Oxford says those countries were most affected Oxford The most enlightening nugget in the report is the scenario by which a gas cut-off is most likely to occur. It turns it would have less to do with geopolitics and more to do with finance: Naftogaz Ukrainy, the principal gas firm in Ukraine, is $2 billion in debt to Gazprom, the Russian state oil giant. In the past, Oxford says, this debt build-up has led to a gas cut-off.  Such a dispute now seems possible, even likely, (i) because the political and strategic dispute between Russia and Ukraine is so serious, and political tensions so high, that the possibilities of reaching a negotiated settlement of the financial issues are limited, and (ii) because Naftogaz’s indebtedness is chronic, and is part of a larger problem – that of Ukrainian state indebtedness.  But overall, the means at Russia's disposal for striking back at increased sanctions, at least as far as energy goes, seem more limited than ever. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderMinneapolis Federal Reserve Bank President Narayana Kocherlakota speaks at a macro-finance conference hosted by the Boston Federal Reserve Bank and Boston University in Boston, Massachusetts, November 30, 2012.Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota was the lone dissenter in Wednesday's FOMC decision to maintain the pace of its wind-down of quantitative easing and modify its forward guidance to make it more qualitative and less dependent on a 6.5% unemployment rate threshold. He just released a statement detailing his decision to dissent, copied below. ----------- I view the March 19 Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement as an unusually significant one. In that statement, the FOMC adopted new forward guidance about the evolution of its target for the federal funds rate. I see that new guidance as being intended to describe the Committee’s decisions for some time to come. I dissented from the new guidance for two reasons. The first reason is that the new guidance weakens the credibility of the Committee’s commitment to target 2 percent inflation. The second reason is that the new guidance fosters policy uncertainty and thereby suppresses economic activity. In what follows, I’ll elaborate on these reasons, discuss an alternative form of forward guidance, and conclude by strongly endorsing one aspect of the FOMC’s new forward guidance. In terms of credibility: the Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) inflation rate has drifted downward over the past few years and is currently near 1 percent. The FOMC’s new forward guidance does not communicate purposeful steps being taken to facilitate a more rapid increase of inflation back to the 2 percent target. The absence of this kind of communication weakens the credibility of the Committee’s inflation target, by suggesting that the Committee views persistently sub-2-percent inflation as an acceptable outcome. In terms of uncertainty: Currently, most labor market metrics imply that the economy is still well short of maximum employment. In its forward guidance, the Committee provides little information about its desired rate of progress toward maximum employment. Indeed, the guidance provides little quantitative information about what would characterize maximum employment. These omissions create uncertainty about the extent to which the Committee is willing to use monetary stimulus to foster faster growth, and this uncertainty is a drag on economic activity. How could the FOMC have done better? I believe that, over the past 15 months, the Committee’s forward guidance about the fed funds rate has been highly effective at shaping market expectations. That guidance has relied on an unemployment rate threshold of 6.5 percent and an inflation outlook guardrail of 2.5 percent. Given the effectiveness of this quantitative approach, I would have favored adopting a similar approach going forward. For example, the Committee could have adopted language of the following form: “the Committee anticipates keeping the fed funds rate in its current range at least until the unemployment rate has fallen below 5.5 percent, as long as the one-to-two-year-ahead outlook for PCE inflation remains below 2 1/4 percent, longer-term inflation expectations remain well-anchored, and possible risks to financial stability remain well-contained.” This alternative guidance communicates the Committee’s willingness to use monetary policy tools to push inflation back up to 2 percent. It reduces macroeconomic uncertainty by being clearer about the kinds of labor market and inflation conditions that are likely to be associated with an increase in the fed funds rate. Finally, it deals with the unlikely possibility of risks to financial stability through an explicit escape clause. There is one key aspect of the Committee’s new forward guidance that I strongly endorse. The guidance provides information about the Committee’s intentions for the behavior of the fed funds rate once employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels. Those intentions are appropriate, and communicating them should help stimulate economic activity by reducing uncertainty about the likely path of the fed funds rate once the Committee’s goals are reached. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan FundsIn the good ol' days, young Americans went to work for an employer who would promise a comfortable retirement in the form of a pension plan — that is, a defined benefit plan. Today, it's increasingly become the responsibility of the worker to put money away for retirement in the form of a 401(k) plan or an IRA — that is, a defined contribution plan. The goal of this post is not to explain the mechanics of retirement plans. Rather, we want to show you the importance of saving sooner than later. It all comes down to one elementary mathematical principle: compound interest. Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself. It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball. This is why it's the concept that is at the core of all finance. The folks at JP Morgan Asset Management demonstrate the true power of compound interest in their 2014 "Guide to Retirement." Their example consists of three people who experience the same annual return on their retirement funds: Intuitively, it makes sense that Chris would end up with the most money. But the amount he has saved is astronomically larger than the amounts saved by Susan or Bill. Interestingly, Susan, who saved for just 10 years, has more wealth than Bill, who saved for 30 years. That discrepancy is explained by compound interest. You see, all of the investment returns that Susan earned in her 10 years of saving is snowballing — big time. It's to the point that Bill can't catch up, even if he saves for an additional 20 years. Of course, if Susan saved like Chris ... well, if you haven't noticed, Chris' savings are just the savings of Bill and Susan combined. The longer you wait to start saving for retirement, the more you miss out on the benefits of the incredible power of compound interest. Here's the chart, in slide form, from JP Morgan Asset Management. JP Morgan Asset Management
Stephen Lam/ReutersFacebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergCan’t stand the big boss at work? Try getting a job at LinkedIn, Facebook, or Starbucks. Employees at these companies claim to have three of America’s most beloved CEOs. That’s according to a new report by Glassdoor, an online jobs and careers community. The 2014 Highest-Rated CEOs report relied solely on the input of employees who elected to participate anonymously in an online company review survey. Respondents were asked to rate their CEO and say whether or not they approve of the way he or she is leading the company. To be eligible for the final ranking, each CEO had to have at least 100 approval ratings, senior management ratings, and company ratings between February 2013 and February 2014.  “There are some common traits that these highest-rated CEOs share,” says Scott Dobroski, Glassdoor’s community expert. “For instance, we see that employees say these CEOs communicate clearly on where the company is headed, how it’s going to get there, and how each employee plays a vital role on this path, along with being accessible, personable, and transparent to employees. These CEOs also know how to motivate their employees and rally the troops to get the job done.” Dobroski says there’s a strong correlation between highly rated CEOs and high employment satisfaction at their respective companies. “This isn’t necessarily a surprise because leadership and company culture comes from the top down, starting with the CEO. When employees approve of the way their CEO is leading the company, it tends to mean that they respect them, appreciate them, and want to work hard for them, which can lead to business success and growth.” FREE AppDownload
When you buy a home, a lot of the money you spend isn’t going toward your home equity. The cost of homeownership includes the money you spend on fees, taxes, and interest. These costs do not increase the value of your home nor do they reduce the principal on your mortgage. We did some analysis on the cost of homeownership versus the cost of renting. Rental costs are offset by the interest you make on the cash you did not have to put toward a down payment. Homeownership costs are offset by the tax deduction you get on your mortgage interest payments. The cost of owning a home will typically exceed the cost of renting when the price-to-rent ratio (the cost of buying a home divided by the annual rent of similar property) is greater than 20. We used the data provided by Zillow for this analysis. There are a number of other factors that should be considered when deciding whether to rent or buy a home. But start by figuring out if the cost of owning is relatively cheap or expensive based on your specific needs. Go out and do your own research. Find homes for sale and for rent in your ideal neighborhood that are the size you want. Calculate the ratio of sale price to annual rent. If home prices are cheap (less than 20 times rent) it may be time to jump into homeownership. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Berkshire HathawayIt's always good idea to follow what the best investors are putting their money into, and there are probably no two more intriguing names right now in Berkshire Hathaway's  Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, the successors-in-waiting to the Oracle of Omaha, Warren Buffett. From recent filings, we can see that they are betting big on two media companies: Viacom and Liberty Media .  Liberty Media has been a Berkshire holding for a while, and the company has earned good returns from its investment. Berkshire owns slightly above 5% of Liberty Media shares, which amounts to $775 million, an investment likely made by Ted Weschler, as he owns shares of Liberty Media under his name according to Liberty's 13G filing. However, Berkshire did trim its stake in Liberty Media by a modest 5% in the last quarter and recorded some gains.  The media holding company under the stewardship of John Malone recently decided to break-up its stock into two tracking stocks -- Liberty Media Group and Liberty Broadband Group. And this creation has been well received by the market: the company stock price shot up 7%, as investors expect the discount to net asset value to shrink from current levels after the stock splits. Liberty will not be pursuing its plans to fully own Sirius XM, but will be raising cash for consolidating the cable industry through the offering of subscription rights to Liberty Broadband Group shareholders. The company will be utilizing the cash to help Charter Communications expand and grow its customer base and revenues. And the company's Liberty Media Group will be benefiting from share repurchases of its major holding, Sirius XM, which has $2.2 billion in authorized shares to repurchase including $340 million from Liberty.   John Malone's Liberty has always utilized complex financial structures for making deals and creating value for shareholders. And this recent move will benefit believers in the company, thanks to cable consolidation, share repurchases, and the acquisition of subscription rights to own the tracking stock of the Broadband Group at a 20% discount to its 20 day volume-weighted average trading price.  Buffett has always been a vocal proponent of share buybacks of companies with rock-solid businesses, adequate financial resources and a stock price at a discount to intrinsic value. And Viacom meets all three of these factors, making it a company that will generate a lot of value for shareholders through share repurchases. The company's highly valued entertainment content is broadcast to more than 160 countries and reaches more than 700 million households. Viacom's media line-up of MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, VH1, Nick Jr., etc., are a must-have more than the line-ups of most cable providers, and its film studio, Paramount, produces high-quality films as well. And Viacom still has $8.87 billion left from its share buyback program yet to be executed. As the company will be repurchasing what amounts to roughly 23% of its outstanding market cap, the stock price of Viacom will go higher over time. And the market certainly agrees with Berkshire Hathaway, as the shares of Viacom are sitting near 52 week highs.  It's never a good idea to follow marquee investors blindly. But investors should get an idea of how experts like Buffett and his investment managers are thinking. Berkshire's investment bets in the media space demonstrate the company's belief in leveraged share repurchases, as both Liberty Media and Viacom are buying back a lot of shares by adding debt to their balance sheets. As a result, the insurance giant will benefit from its media holdings in the long-run.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia An anti-government protester takes cover behind a makeshift shield from police water cannon in Caracas March 20, 2014. Venezuelan intelligence agents on Wednesday arrested one opposition mayor accused of stoking violent protests, while another was jailed for 10 months in the latest moves against rivals of Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro. Fed custody holdings. Following a record $104.5 billion decline in the previous week that stumped observers, U.S. Treasuries held in custody at the Fed for foreign official accounts increased by $32.3 billion — a big swing in its own right. "Although not enough to offset last week's selling, it does show significant adding of exposure and presumably reflects large foreign purchases at the 3s/10s/30s auctions (settled Monday)," says Ian Lyngen, a senior government bond strategist at CRT Capital. "In contrast to the prior week's record decline, we have no reason to believe the $32.2 billion  was a custodian transfer and so assume it's simply net purchases — a read that's consistent with the bullish price action in and around the 10s/30s auctions." Fed speakers. A number of Fed officials are hitting the circuit today following Wednesday's FOMC decision that sent interest rates shooting higher. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard speaks on a Brookings panel about nominal GDP targeting at 11:45 AM ET. At 1:45 PM, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher discusses forward guidance in a speech in London. At 4:30 PM, Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota — the lone dissenter in Wednesday's decision — will speak. Fed governor Jeremy Stein will wrap things up with a speech at 6:30 PM. Markets moving higher. S&amp;P 500 futures point to a positive open and equity indices across Europe are in the green to start Friday's session. U.S. Treasury futures are little changed, and the dollar is down slightly against the euro and the yen. Japanese markets were closed for a holiday on Friday, but the Hong Kong Hang Seng rose 1.2% and the Shanghai Composite advanced 2.7%. A big exception to the market gains is Russia, where stocks are down 2% after Obama's toughened sanctions. Fed stress tests. 29 of America's 30 largest banks passed the Fed's annual stress tests, with the only exception being Zions Bancorporation, a super-regional based in Salt Lake City. Bank of America's and Morgan Stanley's tier-1 leverage ratios came close to the 4% minimum in the "severely adverse" scenario in the test. Record euro zone surplus. The euro zone current account surplus rose to an all-time high of €25.3 billion in January on an adjusted basis from €20 billion in December. The goods trade surplus rose to €15.9 billion from €14.5 billion, and the services trade surplus advanced to €11.8 billion from €9.6 billion. Euro zone consumer confidence. The latest reading on euro zone consumer confidence is due out at 11 AM ET. Economists predict the index rose slightly to -12.3 in March from -12.7 in February. Canadian inflation. The Bank of Canada releases February consumer prices data today at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict consumer price growth accelerated to 0.6% month over month in February from 0.3% in January, and the year-over-year inflation rate falling to 1.0% from 1.5%. Core consumer price growth is expected to have accelerated to 0.5% from 0.2%, bringing the year-over-year change in core consumer prices to 1.1% from 1.4%. Data dearth. There are no economic data releases scheduled today in the United States. The cycle picks up again on Monday with the release of the Chicago Fed's monthly National Activity Index and the preliminary results of Markit's U.S. manufacturing PMI survey. Over the weekend we also get HSBC/Markit flash China manufacturing PMI data as well. French elections. Another item of interest over the weekend is municipal elections in France. "Although the Socialists may hold on to Paris, the risk is that the prime minister's party is soundly trounced this weekend," says Marc Chandler, head of global currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Many will watch how Le Pen's National Front does, which is running around twice the candidates they did in the last municipal elections, as it gears up for the EU Parliamentary elections in May." Turkey blocks Twitter. Turkey blocked access to Twitter for Internet users there on Thursday ahead of upcoming national elections. The government of Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been battling allegations of corruption in recent weeks and months, and Twitter has been a key medium for spreading the news. "Twitter and the rest, we will root out all of them. I don't care what the international community says, they will see the power of the Republic of Turkey," said Erdogan. FREE AppDownload
AirbnbBrian Chesky, Nathan Blecharczyk and Joe Gebbia are all in their early 30s. And each of them will soon be worth more than $1 billion, Forbes reports. The trio cofounded Airbnb, a short-term, peer-to-peer apartment rental service that’s an alternative to hotels. They’re raising a new round of financing at an estimated $10 billion valuation. Once that fund-raising is complete, each founder will be worth a little more than $1.5 billion, Forbes’ Alex Konrad and Ryan Mac say. Chesky, 32, Blecharczyk, 30, and Gebbia, 32, will each maintain just over 15% stakes after the fund-raising, according to a Forbes source. They’ll become the first billionaires of the budding sharing economy, otherwise known as the rent-don't-buy fad. Other startups in the space include Rent the Runway (a store that rents out designer dresses) and GetAround (borrow a neighbor’s car). Until now, Airbnb's founders have chosen to live modestly. Chesky often rents out his pad and opts to live in Airbnbs to test the product. He and Gebbia still live in the same apartment in which they founded Airbnb in 2008. Blecharczyk rides a bike to work. Blecharcyzk will be the fourth-youngest billionaire, behind Mark Zuckerberg, Dustin Moskovitz, and Perenna Kei.   FREE AppDownload
Here's some fun Friday-morning viewing! Gold guy Peter Schiff and economist/investor/hedge-fund manager Mark Dow (author of the Behavioral Macro blog) squared off about inflation and gold. Obviously, Schiff did his thing about how the economy is a sham and gold will soar. But Dow calmly dismantled him, pointing out how reality says the exact opposite of what Schiff is claiming it says. Good times.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRussian stocks are tumbling today after President Obama announced a new round of stricter sanctions on Russian officials and banks. So what happens if more countries keep imposing sanctions on one another? Citi's Steven Englander has a big note about "financial market warfare" and the ramifications. He writes: Long-term implications: If the use of financial market warfare intensifies, the risks are: 1) More home bias in investing, 2) Official investors gravitating to jurisdictions and custody arrangements that insulate their assets from seizure 3) Premium on gold, physical commodities and other unattachable assets This would unwind many years of international capital market liberalization. Moreover, it would have the greatest impact in discouraging long-term, illiquid investments, as these would be most vulnerable to seizure. It is much easier to cut positions in short term liquid assets if there is trouble brewing. External deficit EM economies would probably suffer the most since creditors would see an extra force majeure risk premium added. Apolitical safe havens would probably benefit the most. Where there is an interaction with the traditional currency war discussion is that the damage to EM borrowers would probably be greater than to G10 borrowers. When EM countries depreciate, they often get hit by higher bond yields as well. G10 countries, even when they depreciate sharply, often do not face big pressures on their bond markets. Moreover, higher food prices from depreciation are not nearly the same social issue in G10 that they are in EM. As if emerging markets don't have enough problems, now they will possibly be collateral damage from a retrenchment in foreign investment. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirGermany's Chancellor Angela Merkel looks through her window as she arrives at a European Union leaders summit in Brussels March 21, 2014. BERLIN (Reuters) - If an escalation of Europe's stand-off with Moscow over Ukraine results in economic sanctions, more than 6,000 German companies who do business with Russia would suffer catastrophic losses, Germany's main trade body has warned. "About 6,200 German companies are engaged in Russia, some of them very strongly," Anton Boerner, head of the BGA exporters' body, told the Dortmunder Ruhr Nachrichten newspaper in an interview published on Friday. "For them, economic sanctions would be a real catastrophe." European Union leaders, including Chancellor Angela Merkel who played a leading role in the frustrated attempt to persuade Russian President Vladimir Putin not to annex Ukraine's Crimean peninsula, have retaliated with travel bans and asset freezes on 33 people close to Putin and are preparing economic sanctions. Boerner said energy prices would rise if the crisis endures but Moscow was unlikely to cut off all of its energy deliveries to Germany, which imports more than 30 percent of its oil and gas from Russia. Germany's "wise men" council of economic advisers said on Thursday the Ukraine crisis was the biggest threat to global growth, and especially Germany, because of Russia's importance of an energy exporter. The BGA said last week that while a trade conflict would be damaging for Germany, "for the Russian economy it would be life-threatening." Bilateral trade with Russia, which totals about 76 billion euros, fell last year. (Reporting by Stephen Brown; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The most startling part of Washington's sanctions on Russian businessmen loyal to President Vladimir Putin may be a single sentence that contains an explosive allegation: that Putin himself profits from the world's No. 4 oil trading company, Gunvor. Among the people the United States sanctioned on Thursday as part of its drive to put pressure on Russia for its intervention in Ukraine was businessman Gennady Timchenko, a long-time acquaintance of Putin and, until this week, co-owner of Geneva-based Gunvor, which trades nearly 3 percent of the world's oil. In announcing the sanctions, the Treasury Department went a step further, adding a single sentence that hits squarely at one of the most controversial topics that Putin has faced in 13 years as the Kremlin ruler and head of the government. "Timchenko activities in the energy sector have been directly linked to Putin. Putin has investments in Gunvor and may have access to Gunvor funds," the statement said. The U.S. Treasury Department declined further comment on what information it has about Putin's investments in Gunvor and how exactly he could have access to Gunvor's funds. It provoked a quick and furious response. Gunvor said the statement was "outrageous" and "blatantly false." "Gunvor categorically denies that Vladimir Putin has or has ever had any ownership or that he is a beneficiary of our business directly or indirectly," Gunvor said. Gunvor has repeatedly said that Timchenko and Chief Executive Officer Torbjorn Tornqvist had equal stakes each of around 45 percent and the remaining 10 percent was owned by the staff. Timchenko has repeatedly denied that Putin helped him create his vast business empire, yet because of his long and close relationship with Putin speculation has persisted. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the sanctions "unacceptable" and said the Kremlin was studying the impact of the inclusion of Timchenko on the list. He did not comment on the allegations that Putin has investments in Gunvor. Later in the day a Treasury official clarified that Timchenko's designation would not affect Gunvor since Timchenko owned less than 50 percent. At the same time, Gunvor announced that Timchenko had sold his share to Tornqvist on Wednesday, a day earlier. Tornqvist now owns 87 percent, while 13 percent belongs to the employees. Still, the growing concern among analysts is that the accusation, and the direct blow at Putin's closest allies, may provoke an even more dramatic response from Moscow - potentially even using its vast energy supplies as a weapon against the West. Putin said this month he believed the West "crossed the line" in Ukraine after leaked audio recordings have shown U.S. diplomats discussing how to oust Kremlin-backed Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich and which pro-Western politicians should form the new government. Russia responded on Thursday by sanctioning several U.S. politicians but analysts said more will likely follow after U.S. accusations about Putin's personal enrichment. "We expect asymmetrical moves by Moscow in coming days," said think-tank and risk consultants Eurasia group. "These could be in the security area (suspending an arms control agreement) or they could involve measures against U.S. business." Russia supplies a third of Europe's gas and between a fifth and a fourth of its oil. It has previously twice suspended gas supplies to Ukraine and Europe following pricing spats with Kiev. The wording of the statement goes far beyond anything that has been said previously about Putin. He has faced accusations for years, typically from political opponents, that he helped Timchenko create the Gunvor empire. None have ever provided any evidence, and no media outlets have ever reported any proof of ownership interests in Gunvor. Putin worked in the mayor's office in the early 1990s when Timchenko and his friends, Putin said, spun off an oil trading unit of the Kirishi oil refinery. Gunvor grew spectacularly since then with a turnover of $93 billion in 2012 compared with $5 billion in 2004. It traded large volumes of oil of Russian state companies such as Rosneft at the end of last decade but since then ceded its leading positions and now focuses on trading in Europe and Asia. According to WikiLeaks cables, released in 2010, John Beyrle, the former U.S. ambassador to Moscow, reported that Gunvor's "secretive ownership is rumored to include prime minister Putin." A call made by Reuters to Eurasia Foundation, where Beyrle works now after leaving the foreign service, was not answered late on Thursday evening. The first time Putin addressed the issue directly was in 2011. "I assure you, I know that a lot is being written about it, without any participation on my part... I have known the citizen Timchenko for a very long time, since my work in St. Petersburg," Putin told a group of Russian writers. "I never interfered with anything related to his business interests. I hope he will not stick his nose into my business either," Putin said. Putin has repeatedly said that he has read in the press reports about his immense wealth and that he was even the world's richest man but denied those reports as nonsense. "Yes it is true. I'm not only the richest man in Europe but in the whole world. I'm collecting emotions," he told reporters in 2008. Talk of vast personal riches "is all rubbish." In response to the statement from Washington, Gunvor said its ownership structure was confirmed during its 2013 $500 million bond issue, co-led by Goldman Sachs. "They can attest to the fact that, although not required, Gunvor undertook an enhanced level of due diligence in our prospectus, normally only required in the U.S. to demonstrate confidence in our business and in acknowledgment of the high level of scrutiny we withstand," a Gunvor's spokesman said. Goldman said it could not immediately comment on the issue. (Reporting by Dmitry Zhdannikov; Editing by Jonathan Leff and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Grigory DukorRussian billionaire Gennady Timchenko sold his stake in Gunvor a day before being named in sanctions announced by the United States over the Ukraine crisis, the Swiss-based commodity trading company said Thursday. Forbes has ranked oil and gas tycoon Timchenko as Russia's sixth richest man, with a $15.3 billion fortune from Gunvor. Timchenko, reputedly a close confidant of Russian President Vladimir Putin, offloaded all his shares in the company he co-founded after "anticipating potential economic sanctions" a Gunvor statement said. On Thursday, the US Treasury placed the 61-year-old tycoon on a sanctions blacklist established in retaliation for Russia's absorption of the Crimean Peninsula after it voted to break away from Ukraine. The Treasury said Timchenko's business activities in the energy sector were "directly linked" to Putin. Any US assets belonging to Timchenko were frozen as a result of the sanctions. Gunvor said Timchenko had sold his holdings in order "to ensure with certainty the continued and uninterrupted operations of Gunvor Group Ltd's activities." His stake had been sold to business partner Torbjorn Tornqvist, who now controls 87 percent of the company. A US Treasury spokesman said the share sale made it unlikely Gunvor could now be hit by sanctions because Timchenko no longer owned 50 percent or more of the company. "Under the 50 percent rule, only entities in which a designated individual or entity owns a 50 percent or greater interest are blocked by operation of law," the spokesman said. "Our understanding is that Timchenko's ownership stake in Gunvor is less than the 50 percent required to trigger an automatic blocking." The Treasury had earlier said Putin held a financial interest in Gunvor, but the Swiss company denied the allegation in a comment on Twitter.  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Council President Herman Van Rompuy holds a news conference at an EU leaders summit in BrusselsBRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union and Ukraine signed the core elements of a political association agreement on Friday, committing to the same deal former president Viktor Yanukovich rejected last November, a move which led to his overthrow. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk, EU leaders Herman Van Rompuy and Jose Manuel Barroso, and the leaders of the bloc's 28 nations signed the core chapters of the Association Agreement on the sidelines of an EU summit in Brussels. The deal commits Ukraine and the EU to closer political and economic cooperation, although more substantial parts of the agreement concerning free trade will only be signed after Ukraine has held new presidential elections in May. Van Rompuy, the European Council president, said the agreement would bring Ukraine and its 46 million people closer to the heart of Europe and a "European way of life". "(This) recognizes the aspirations of the people of Ukraine to live in a country governed by values, by democracy and the rule of law, where all citizens have a stake in national prosperity," he said. Two sets of the documents were passed around the table for the EU's leaders and Yatseniuk to sign in a solemn atmosphere. Van Rompuy and Yatseniuk then shook hands and exchanged the documents to applause, witnesses said. Coinciding with the signing in Brussels, Russia's upper house of parliament unanimously approved a treaty annexing Ukraine's Crimea region, clearing the way for President Vladimir Putin to sign it into law. Yanukovich turned his back on signing the EU agreement last November in favor of closer ties with Moscow, prompting months of street protests that eventually led to his fleeing the country. Soon afterwards, Russian forces occupied Crimea, drawing outrage and sanctions from the United States and EU. As well as the closer political ties, the European Commission has agreed to extend nearly 500 million euros worth of trade benefits to Ukraine, removing customs duties on a wide range of agricultural goods, textiles and other imports. Once Ukraine has held presidential elections on May 25 and a new administration is in place, the EU plans to move ahead with signing a free-trade agreement with Ukraine, giving the country unfettered access to the EU's market of 500 million consumers. That has far more potential to strengthen Ukraine's shattered economy, but also runs the risk of provoking retaliatory steps from Russia, which has already imposed stricter customs checks on trade with Ukraine. The other burden for Kiev is meeting the obligations that come with EU political association, including instituting changes to the rule of law and justice, and adopting business and environmental standards that will require hard work and long-term investment to meet. (Reporting by Adrian Croft and Luke Baker; editing by Luke Baker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Natalia Kolesnikova/Pool Russia's President Vladimir Putin (R) speaks with then-First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev (L) at a session of the Council for National Projects in Moscow's Kremlin on March 7, 2007. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian Prime Minister Medvedev said in a meeting with President Vladimir Putin on Friday that in total Ukraine owes Russia $16 billion, local news agencies reported. Medvedev said that Ukraine owes Russia $11 billion because the treaty under which Russia provides Ukraine with cheap gas in return for the Sevastopol naval base was "subject to denunciation". In addition, he said that Ukraine owes Russia $3 billion for a recent loan in the form of Russian purchase of Eurobonds, and that around $2 billion is owed to Gazprom, Russia's state-controlled gas concern. (Reporting by Jason Bush; Editing by Lidia Kelly) FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - When President Vladimir Putin signed a treaty this week annexing Crimea to great fanfare in the Kremlin and anger in the West, a trusted lieutenant was making his way to Asia to shore up ties with Russia's eastern allies. Forcing home the symbolism of his trip, Igor Sechin gathered media in Tokyo the next day to warn Western governments that more sanctions over Moscow's seizure of the Black Sea peninsula from Ukraine would be counter-productive. The underlying message from the head of Russia's biggest oil company, Rosneft, was clear: If Europe and the United States isolate Russia, Moscow will look East for new business, energy deals, military contracts and political alliances. The Holy Grail for Moscow is a natural gas supply deal with China that is apparently now close after years of negotiations. If it can be signed when Putin visits China in May, he will be able to hold it up to show that global power has shifted eastwards and he does not need the West. "The worse Russia's relations are with the West, the closer Russia will want to be to China. If China supports you, no one can say you're isolated," said Vasily Kashin, a China expert at the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies (CAST) think thank. Some of the signs are encouraging for Putin. Last Saturday China abstained in a U.N. Security Council vote on a draft resolution declaring invalid the referendum in which Crimea went on to back union with Russia. Although China is nervous about referendums in restive regions of other countries which might serve as a precedent for Tibet and Taiwan, it has refused to criticize Moscow. The support of Beijing is vital for Putin. Not only is China a fellow permanent member of the U.N. Security Council with whom Russia thinks alike, it is also the world's second biggest economy and it opposes the spread of Western-style democracy. Little wonder, then, that Putin thanked China for its understanding over Ukraine in a Kremlin speech on Tuesday before signing the treaty claiming back Crimea, 60 years after it was handed to Ukraine by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. Chinese President Xi Jinping showed how much he values ties with Moscow, and Putin in particular, by making Russia his first foreign visit as China's leader last year and attending the opening of the Winter Olympics in Sochi last month. Many Western leaders did not go to the Games after criticism of Russia's record on human rights. By contrast, when Putin and Xi discussed Ukraine by telephone on March 4, the Kremlin said their positions were "close". A strong alliance would suit both countries as a counterbalance to the United States. WARM EMBRACE, BUT NO BEAR HUG But despite the positive signs from Beijing, Putin may find China's embrace is not quite the bear hug he would like. There is still some wariness between Beijing and Moscow, who almost went to war over a border dispute in the 1960s, when Russia was part of the Communist Soviet Union. State-owned Russian gas firm Gazprom hopes to pump 38 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas per year to China from 2018 via the first pipeline between the world's largest producer of conventional gas to the largest consumer. "May is in our plans," a Gazprom spokesman said, when asked about the timing of an agreement. A company source said: "It would be logical to expect the deal during Putin's visit to China." But the two sides are still wrangling over pricing and Russia's cooling relations with the West could make China toughen its stance. Russian industry sources say Beijing targets a lower price than Europe, where Gazprom generates around half of its revenues, pays. Upheaval at China National Petroleum Corp, at the centre of a corruption investigation, could cause also delays, and Valery Nesterov, an analyst with Sberbank CIB in Moscow, said China also needs time to review its energy strategy and take into account shale gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG). "The bottom line is that the threat of sanctions on energy supplies from Russia has indirectly strengthened China's position in the negotiations," Nesterov said. BOOSTING BUSINESS Russia meets almost a third of Europe's gas needs and supplies to the European Union and Turkey last year exceeded 162 bcm, a record high. However, China overtook Germany as Russia's biggest buyer of crude oil this year thanks to Rosneft securing deals to boost eastward oil supplies via the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline and another crossing Kazakhstan. If Russia is isolated by a new round of Western sanctions - those so far affect only a few officials' assets abroad and have not been aimed at companies - Russia and China could also step up cooperation in areas apart from energy. CAST's Kashin said the prospects of Russia delivering Sukhoi SU-35 fighter jets to China, which has been under discussion since 2010, would grow. China is very interested in investing in infrastructure, energy and commodities in Russia, and a decline in business with the West could force Moscow to drop some of its reservations about Chinese investment in strategic industries. "With Western sanctions, the atmosphere could change quickly in favor of China," said Brian Zimbler Managing Partner of Morgan Lewis international law firm's Moscow office. Russia-China trade turnover grew by 8.2 percent in 2013 to $8.1 billion but Russia was still only China's seventh largest export partner in 2013, and was not in the top 10 countries for imported goods. The EU is Russia's biggest trade partner, accounting for almost half of all its trade turnover. DILEMMA FOR JAPAN, SUPPORT IN INDIA Sechin, whose visit also included India, Vietnam and South Korea, is a close Putin ally who worked with him in the St Petersburg city authorities and then the Kremlin administration, before serving as a deputy prime minister. In Tokyo, he offered Japanese investors more cooperation in the development of Russian oil and gas. Rosneft already has some joint projects with companies from Japan, the world's largest consumer of LNG, and Tokyo has been working hard under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to improve ties with Moscow, despite a territorial dispute dating from World War Two. But Japan faces a dilemma over Crimea because it is under pressure to impose sanctions on Moscow as a member of the Group of Seven advanced economies. It does not recognize the referendum on Crimea's union with Russia and has threatened to suspend talks on an investment pact and relaxation of visa requirements as part of sanctions. Closer ties are being driven by mutual energy interests. Russia plans to at least double oil and gas flows to Asia in the next 20 years and Japan imports huge volumes of fossil fuel to replace lost energy from its nuclear power industry, shut down after the 2011 Fukushima disaster. Oil imports from Russia rose almost 45 percent in 2013 and accounted for about 7 percent of supplies. But if the dilemma is a tough one for Japan, it is unlikely to cause Putin much lost sleep. "I don't think Putin is worried much by about what is said in Japan or even in Europe. He worries only about China," said Alexei Vlasov, head of the Information and Analytical Center on Social and Political Processes in the Post-Soviet Space. Putin did take time, however, to thank one other country apart from China for its understanding over Ukraine and Crimea - saying India had shown "restraint and objectivity". He also called Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to discuss the crisis on Tuesday, suggesting there is room for Russia's ties with traditionally non-aligned India to flourish. Although India has become the largest export market for U.S. arms, Russia remains a key defense supplier and relations are friendly, even if lacking a strong business and trade dimension, due to a strategic partnership dating to the Soviet era. Putin's moves to assert Russian control over Crimea were seen very favorably in the Indian establishment, N. Ram, publisher of The Hindu newspaper, told Reuters. "Russia has legitimate interests," he added. For Putin, the Crimea crisis offers a test case for ideas he set out in his foreign policy strategy published two years ago as he sought a six-year third term as president. He said at the time he wanted stronger business ties with China to "catch the Chinese wind in the sails of our economy". But he also said Russia must be "part of the greater world" and added: "We do not wish to and cannot isolate ourselves." Two years on, he is closer to securing the first goal, but it is not yet clear how his population feels he has done on the second. (Additional reporting by William Mallard, Aaron Sheldrick and Linda Sieg in Tokyo, Ben Blanchard in Beijing, Jack Frank Daniel and Douglas Busvine in New Delhi, and Lidia Kelly in Moscow; editing by Philippa Fletcher) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersStaff member is reflected in Temasek Holdings logo before presentation of Temasek's annual review in SingaporeHONG KONG (Reuters) - Singapore state investor Temasek Holdings &lt;TEM.Ul&gt; has agreed to buy a 24.9 percent stake in Li Ka-shing's retail business A.S. Watson for about HK$44 billion ($5.7 billion). Li's Hutchison Whampoa &lt;0013.HK&gt;, which owns A.S Watson, said in a statement on Friday that it would use part of the proceeds from the stake sale to pay a special dividend of HK$7.00 per share to its shareholders. Hutchison launched a strategic review of its retail operations in October, with an aim to list part of the company in Hong Kong, among other financial centres. Temasek's investment in A.S Watson values the company at HK$144 billion ($18.6 billion). A.S. Watson's business includes ParknShop, the Watsons and Superdrug and Kruidvat personal care stores. (Reporting by Denny Thomas; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Seven of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2013, led by grain with 21,045 carloads, up 21 percent. Commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year were led by motor vehicles and parts with 17,936 carloads, down 8 percent. For the first 11 weeks of 2014, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 3,009,897 carloads, even compared with the same point last year, and 2,677,098 intermodal units, up 2.3 percent from last year. Total combined U.S. traffic for the first 11 weeks of 2014 was 5,686,995 carloads and intermodal units, up 1.1 percent from last year.&#8221;   Muddle through will not be enough to justify the expectations built into equities now. 1. Significant service issues at one of the western railroads has forced some Agricultural commodity shippers to ship via intermodal rather than in traditional shuttle covered hopper service. This &#8220;Ag in a box&#8221; is a  mix phenomenon and does not indicate economic expansion.   2. There is a moderate trend increase in railroad market share vs. long haul trucking which makes this measure look more favorable. Again, not an indicator of economy wide expansion Back in the day, Cullen posted all RR traffic. But that was being skewed by the rapid growth of crude by rail and so he switched to just intermodal. But similar problems are still imbedded.
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eliseo FernandezOne of the star performers of 2014 has been gold. It started the year around $1200/oz and recently nearly got to $1400/oz before slipping back a bit.  In a new note, Goldman argues that the rise in gold has been driven by three unsustainable factors: Weather-induced economic slowdown in the US, a spike in Chinese demand due to credit concerns, and increased geopolitical tension. The firm argues that all of these tailwinds will fade and that gold will hit $1050 this year: While we see clear catalysts for the recent rally in gold prices, this move has been large relative to US real rates which are a key input into our forecasts and benchmarking of gold prices. As a result, we see potential for a meaningful decline in gold prices towards the level implied by 10-year TIPS yields, which our rates strategists expect to rise further this year, and reiterate our year-end $1,050/toz gold price forecast. More broadly, we believe that with tapering of the Fed’s QE, US economic releases are back to being a key driving force behind gold prices. As a result, we expect that the decline in gold prices will likely be data dependent, in contrast to our 2013 bearish gold view which was driven by the disconnect between stretched long gold speculative positioning and stabilizing US growth.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWhen President Obama first launched sanctions against a handful of Putin "cronies," the markets laughed at how weak they were. Nobody's laughing at Obama's sanctions now. The Russian stock market is tanking today, as the MICEX is down 3.7% 2.0% in early going. This comes after Obama introduced sanctions against a new round of Russian officials, as well as a key bank used by Putin's cronies, Bank Rossiya. One thing that's making the sanctions sting is that Visa and Mastercard have announced they're freezing the accounts of cardholders at that bank. The ruble is also falling. The other big move today is that the Shanghai Composite finally caught a strong bid, with stocks rising 2.7%. Meanwhile, U.S. stocks are slightly higher.   FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Mt. Gox said on Friday it found 200,000 "forgotten" bitcoins on March 7, a week after the Tokyo-based digital currency exchange filed for bankruptcy protection saying it had lost about $500 million worth of bitcoin, nearly all its holdings. Mt. Gox made the announcement on its website. Online sleuths had noticed the same amount of bitcoin moving through the crypto-currency exchange after the bankruptcy filing. The exchange said the bitcoins were found in an old-format online wallet which it had thought no longer held any bitcoins, but which it checked again after its bankruptcy filing. "On March 7, 2014, MtGox Co., Ltd. confirmed that an old format wallet which was used prior to June 2011 held a balance of approximately 200,000 BTC," the statement said. "For security reasons, the 200,000 BTC which were at first on the 7th moved to online wallets, were moved between the 14th and 15th to offline wallets. These bitcoin movements, including the change in the manner in which these coins were stored, had been reported to the court and the supervisor by counsels." (Reporting by Sophie Knight; Editing by Ian Geoghegan and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
