It looks like Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX) has learned its lesson. On Friday, the company raised the price for new subscribers to its streaming video service from $7.99 to $8.99 per month. Existing customers have their price of $7.99 locked in for two years. Wouldn’t you know it, no one seems to be complaining. The reason this is notable is because of what happened last time it raised its prices. Back in 2011, subscribers paid $9.99 per month to watch streaming video and receive DVDs in the mail. Then the company decided to split the two services and charge $7.99 for each. That meant that if you wanted to maintain your access to their DVD rental and streaming services, you had to pay $16 per month, which amounted to a 60 percent price increase. New subscribers had to pay the new price immediately, but existing subscribers got a two-month window of paying the same amount. Customers were not happy and were very vocal. A 60 percent price increase was too much for many subscribers, leading some people to drop one service, and many others to drop Netflix altogether. To make matters worse, Netflix also planned to rebrand its DVD rental service under the name Qwikster. The idea was to make Qwikster a completely separate company from Netflix, which would mean it’d have two separate websites and two separate subscription platforms. Customers to both services would have had to maintain two watch lists, two profiles, and two sets of movie ratings in order to keep their accounts in sync. All the while, apparently no one at Netflix had checked the availability of the @qwikster Twitter handle, which belonged to an often-unintelligible, pot-smoking teenager. The whole idea was very ill-conceived, causing investors to abandon ship in droves. Netflix’s stock quickly took a downturn, going from nearly $300 per share down to around $60 in four months. A few weeks later, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings wrote a blog post retracting some of the changes. “It is clear that for many of our members two websites would make things more difficult, so we are going to keep Netflix as one place to go for streaming and DVDs. This means no change: one website, one account, one password … in other words, no Qwikster.” The turnaround worked, but it took a long time for Netflix to regain the trust of its detractors and for the stock price to get back to its previous high. It certainly helped that it didn’t have any other major shake-ups, and were able to generate lots of buzz around their original programming, like House of Cards and Orange Is the New Black. It also probably helped that it didn’t raise its prices again until just now. So what did it do differently with this price increase? Just about everything. First, Hastings announced the price increase last month, giving customers time to get used to the idea. He also assured customers that the price would only go up a dollar or two per month — a far cry from the 60 percent increase customers saw in 2011. Since he had prepared customers for a possible increase of two dollars a month, the actual increase of one dollar doesn’t seem so bad. The kicker is that the company locked in the cheaper rate for existing customers for two years. In short, we’re looking at a company that made a giant misstep three years ago, but learned its lesson and won’t repeat the same mistake. FREE AppDownload
If you're worried that a tech bubble is imminent, I can tell you with authority that it is not. But before you relax, I can also report with the very same authority that the bubble is coming. There you have it. The fact is that our capitalist economy is cyclic. We are always experiencing either the run-up to a cyclic high or careening toward a low. There is no stable status quo. I have experienced five such cycles in my professional life. A few were real whoppers, like the stock market crash of ‘87, the dot-com bust, and the most recent brush with depression in ‘08. Yet during these same four decades, we have experienced the most amazing explosion in innovation in human history. So, though our economy is constantly gyrating, the pace of innovation never abates. That innovation has been the backbone of the U.S. economy's strength and world leadership. So, why should you care about the bubble chanters? I certainly don't. The real question is this: Are you a speculator or a value builder? A speculator makes money betting on upward and downward changes in the market. A value creator builds things that are meant to thrive despite the changes in the market. This might seem a clear distinction, but many entrepreneurs are really speculators in disguise, trying to catch a wave. This was at the heart of the famous dot-com bubble. A buoyant market was hungry for Web-based businesses that would form the basis of an all-new economy that magically defied the fundamental physics of P&amp;L. So-called entrepreneurs worked fast to develop ideas that were intended only to ride that giant wave. A sustainable business model was not in the calculus. When that tsunami receded, they found their fragile businesses smashed to smithereens. Yet out of this era emerged many giant household names, such as Google and Amazon--epic companies that created real value and never looked back, even through the great recession of 2008. That's why it's vital, if you're a value creator, to tune out all the bubble talk. The business press thrives on our economic spasms. As in the movie Rocky, everyone loves the underdog's struggle to the top, inevitable fall, and final comeback. It's hard to avoid getting caught up in the frenzied debate while chewing your nails off worrying. But, as a leader, it's your job to keep it all in perspective. Begin by tuning out the white noise. The press will tee up expert after expert prognosticating about where we are in the boom/bust cycle. No matter how smart these people sound, no one really knows--even the guy who miraculously predicted the last crash (bring me the person who predicted the past five downturns, and maybe I'll pay attention). #IGNORE. Instead, you should be visualizing our current cycle. Every economic cycle can be charted like a sine wave. Your job is to determine the general location on the sine wave that you believe we currently occupy. We really can be in only one of four places: at the bottom, ascending to the top, at the top, or descending to the bottom. If you are a speculator, all you care about is cashing out at the top or bottom (depending on whether you are long or short). If you are a value builder, you must have real operational plans for each of these zones. They can't just be ideas in the back of your head. They must be real, written plans. Here are a few tips that will keep you on solid footing no matter what the economy is doing. If you really are a value builder, you'll have a plan to survive the next down cycle, which I guarantee will come at some point. And if you are really excellent at creating something special, you will live to see the economic-bubble movie over and over. So, are we in a bubble? I say, bubble, shmubble--just go back to work. BARRY SCHULER is managing director for DFJ Growth and the former chairman and CEO of America Online. He is credited with being one of the pioneers of the modern Internet. He's on Twitter at @BSchuler. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA sales woman takes a nap at a shop selling shoes at a shopping mall in Beijing September 3, 2013. FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Sign up here »  Nothing Is Happening (Josh Brown) Markets have been really boring this year, and that may not be a terrible thing. "How okay are you with a period of time in which nothing much is happening in the markets? Your answer to that question probably says a lot about the way you think about investing. Many market participants have gotten into a mindset lately in which they expect either rallies or sell-offs to be occurring at all times. This year, the broader US stock market is doing absolutely nothing and it seems to be frustrating lots of people I talk to...After a rollicking year like 2013, I’m not so sure that’s such a bad thing." Internet Stock Growth Is Almost Back To Earth (Bespoke) Here's a chart from Bespoke showing how fall momentum stocks, in the form of Internet-based firms, have fallen: They're almost back to S&amp;P500 levels. "...the Internet group is still outperforming the S&amp;P 500 by roughly 12 percentage points since the start of 2013, but another week like this one where the momentum names tank and the broad market holds up, and the tortoise could catch up to the hare." Bespoke How Do You Make More Money? Pension Funds (FT) The FT's Dan McCrum discusses how the guys in Institutional Investor’s Alpha's new hedge fund rich list got so rich. The answer: Acquiring pension fund accounts. "...Recognise the incentives for the investment banks to push money from those pension funds and endowments towards hedge funds. At its most obvious the parts of banks which lend to hedge funds for trading purposes, prime brokers, offer free capital introduction services to help their customers raise cash. The relationship is deeper, though. Throughout their trading arms banks want customers and counterparties who have plenty of capital to risk, generating the activity that produces fees. Finance thrives on the friction from activity, however socially redundant." Demographically, U.S. Is Cleanest Dirty Shirt (538)  Yes, the U.S. population is aging. But not as fast as in other developed countries. From 538's Ben Casselman: As bad as the U.S. demographics look, things are worse in much of the world. The U.S. has fewer residents over 65, as a share of its population, than most developed countries, and the disparity will only grow in coming decades. In 2050, about 21 percent of the U.S. population will be 65 or older compared to more than 30 percent in much of Western Europe and an incredible 40 percent in Japan. China, as a result of its “one child” policy, faces its own, somewhat different,demographic crisis. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hazir RekaForeign veterinarians and local staff carry out a check-up on a brown bear at the Four Paws Bear Sanctuary in Pristina, May 2, 2014.  Stocks went nowhere, although the Dow closed at a new all-time high. Scoreboard: Dow: 16,580.64, +0.18%S&amp;P500: 1,877.96, +0.12%NASDAQ: 4,071.36, +0.49% And now the top stories: A Strange Week. Stocks capped off five days of uneven gains to finish marginally higher. The S&amp;P500 gained 0.50%. The Dow finished the week up 1%. The NASDAQ closed down 0.44%. Treasuries saw a similar theme, with yields on 10-years climbing 1.65% to $2.622.   Apple Flat Friday. Apple shares barely budged in the wake of its reported acquisition of Beats, falling just 0.42%.  Job Openings Go Nowhere. JOLTS data from the BLS was little changed from last month. There were 4 million job openings in March, down from 4.1 million. Quitting rates were unchanged at 1.8%  Dick Parsons Named New Clippers CEO. The former Time Warner CEO will take over until new ownership is appointed following Donald Sterling's ban. NYAG Probes Big Banks' Links To HFTs. The Wall Street Journal reported New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is investigating big banks' dark pools, which are private trading venues that are often associated with high-frequency trading. "Their proliferation also has left the stock market more fragmented, contributing to the risks of a technical glitch that could roil investors," the Journal says. Brazil Probes Batista. Brazil is investigating whether billionaire Eike Batista may have engaged in insider trading. Pfizer Deal Under Pressure. Both U.S. and U.K. regulators are now questioning the soundness of a blockbuster deal that would see Pfizer purchase AstraZeneca for $106 billion. DON'T MISS: Americans Are Yearning To Break Free From Crash — Here's How To Make It Happen » FREE AppDownload
On Sunday, New Yorkers will crowd onto King Street in Tribeca and dance for hours in daylight to remember DJ Larry Levan, a former de facto leader of underground nightlife. The party is sponsored by Red Bull Music Academy, and the purpose is to get the street named in his honor.  You see, starting in 1977, Levan held unquestionable dominion over it and the raging dance party he led on it at club Paradise Garage for an entire decade. That was, of course, before AIDS truly ravaged New York City. Levan himself succumbed to the disease in 1992. The stories you hear about 'The Garage' and Levan, its head DJ, are impossible not to retell. They slide off the tongue. There was the time Boy George broke the heel of his pump in the middle of the dance floor and just kept dancing, one legged and carefree. There was the time — and some argue this flat out isn't true — that not even Diana Ross could talk her way into the club. She didn't have a membership card. Those that didn't sometimes dropped hundreds of dollars to go in with members. The music was that good and that unique. The Garage, after all, was one of the first clubs to bring house music from Chicago to New York City. Levan is the man to thank for that. In the DJ world he was so large a figure that people sent him music from all around the country. Unlabeled records flew in and out of the club carried by the radio jockeys who decided what songs ruled America's airwaves. On Friday and Saturday nights Levan commanded a crowd of 3,000 dance addicts including pop stars, club rats, gay kids hiding from home, socialites who were tired of mirrors, and anyone else who knew what was really good. And he wasn't afraid to play whatever he wanted, even if it was some weirdo synth band from Germany (Kraftwerk). Because of that, Levan had the power to make hits. Mick Jagger was there, and so was Madonna. Grace Jones graced the stage as did Loleatta Holloway. The sound system was titanic.  No alcohol was served but, yes, there were drugs. Poppers and ethyl rags mostly (Google it). There was free food and drinks, a movie theater, and a party that didn't stop until noon on Sunday mornings. The crowd was diverse but dominated by gay African-Americans and Latinos. They called it by many names, including "Church," and "Saturday Mass." Some say it was because when partiers left the club they rode the same train home as people heading to church. Others say it was because Levan's DJing itself was a religious experience. The Paradise Garage closed in 1987, but not because it wasn't cool. It closed because people were dying. Imagine the panic of the AIDS crisis, when people saw their friends one weekend and those friends were dead the next. It happened so fast, no one knew what it was, and it hit the Paradise Garage community particularly hard. The club's owner, Michael Brody, closed the club because he was too sick to scout for a new location when its lease ran out. People say that when Levan found that out, he went up to his DJ perch and turned up the club's speakers so loud that some of them blew out completely.  Garage veterans still get together sometimes for reunion parties and raise money for Gay Men's Health Crisis, a charity Brody helped to found during the most terrifying days of the crisis. The DJs who learned under Levan, like David Depino and Joey Llanos, play those parties (as they will play on Sunday). They tell survival stories and dance. "We came through a war," Depino once told me. "AIDS was a war. It was a battle." Listen to one of Levan's DJ sets from 1983 below.  FREE AppDownload
Oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens, who Forbes claims fell out of its billionaires list even though he's given about $1 billion to charity, just welcomed Dr. Dre to the 1%.  Congratulations @drdre. Welcome to the 1%. #YouBuiltThat @tim_cook #apple #beats This isn't the first time Pickens has tweeted something very funny at a rapper. His earlier tweet to Canadian rapper Drake is widely considered to be one of the greatest tweets of all time.  Twitter Apple is said to be in talks to acquire Beats Electronics, the maker of popular Beats headphones, for $3.2 billion. Dr. Dre, the founder, stands to make a ton of money if the deal goes through.  FREE AppDownload
But what about the short term? Many gamblers believe winning streaks, known as "hot hands", are real, and that if they are in such a streak it makes sense to keep on betting.  Conversely, many also believe bad luck is sure to reverse itself not merely by reverting to the mean, as a statistician would predict, but to the extent that the gambler will recoup his losses. This is known as the gambler's fallacy. Non-gamblers might reasonably assume both approaches to be equally fantastical. But research by Juemin Xu and Nigel Harvey at University College, London, just published in Cognition, has shown that in some areas of gambling hot hands do actually exist. Conversely, and just as oddly, they found that in these same areas the gambler's fallacy is yet more fallacious than a statistician would predict. Punters who continue to punt after losing do not even manage to revert to the mean. Using the power of the internet to round up a huge sample, the two researchers examined 565,915 bets made by 776 people on sports such as horse-racing and football. Because these were online bets their timing could be established precisely. Ms Xu and Dr Harvey looked at winning and losing streaks up to six bets long. The probability of a first bet winning was 48% and that of a follow-up winning again was 49%. After that, the streak took off. The third bet won 57% of the time. The fourth, if the third had won, won 67% of the time, the fifth, 72% of it and the sixth 75%. As for the losers, after ploughing their first bets, their success with their second slipped to 47% and thence held at 45%. The explanation of the puzzle, Ms Xu and Dr Harvey found, was not that Lady Luck actually does smile on winners and frown on losers. Rather, as winners' winning streaks increased in length they started choosing safer and safer odds, which led them to win more often, though less profitably. In contrast, those who had experienced a losing streak went for ever riskier bets, making it more likely the streak would continue. Hot hands, then, are real. But they are created by a gambler's behaviour rather than by fortune's wheel. The gambler's fallacy, though, is made worse by his behaviour. The moral is to believe in maths, not luck, and probably not to bother betting in the first place. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
No matter how many times you have visited Walt Disney World for vacation, these Disney hacks for adults will make you forget about those long lines and overpriced food.  Leonard Kinsey has been visiting the park for 33 years, and has compiled some extensive tips in his book "The Dark Side of Disney," now the subject of a new Kickstarter initiative for a film. He knows Disney World like the back of his hand, and even has done some behind-the-scenes exploring. These are some of his best tips for travel.  Produced by Justin Gmoser.   Follow Bi Video: On Twitter    
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannAt first blush, the first-quarter earnings reports from American companies over the past three weeks look like a triumph. Seventy-five percent of the 375 firms that had reported as of May 5 beat estimates, well above the long-term average of 69 percent. Financial, technology, health care, and energy stocks accounted for three-quarters of those beats.  But the news wasn’t universally positive. For one thing, the expectations that many companies handily beat had already been revised down 4 percent since the start of the year. Beating reduced expectations is certainly better than missing them, but it’s not cause for unqualified celebration. Top-line numbers weren’t quite as compelling, either. Just 52 percent of companies beat revenue expectations, less than the historical average of 59 percent. Given those mixed results – and the fact that we’re now in the fifth year of an equities bull market – it’s worth asking whether we’re close to the end of a surprisingly strong bull run. The market has gyrated up and down over the last several months, and the S&amp;P 500 has had trouble sustaining any sort of forward momentum in 2014. It’s up just 1 percent (about 19 points) since the beginning of the year. Barbara Reinhard, Chief Investment Officer for Credit Suisse Private Banking Americas, says the road ahead for equities will continue to be “bumpy and volatile,” but it’s not time to prepare for a bear market just yet. Reinhard points out that U.S. credit spreads, which tend to widen several months ahead of equity market peaks, have actually gotten tighter since the beginning of the year. High-yield corporate bonds were paying an average of 371 basis points more than U.S. Treasuries at the end of April – less than the 377 basis-point spread in March and the 421-point spread at the end of January. One way to preserve upside opportunity with a little bit of downside protection, says Reinhard: Seek out cash-rich companies. Why now? Because American corporations seem finally to have decided that it’s time to start returning some of the cash that’s been piling up on their balance sheets to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and dividend increases. The $214 billion spent on share buybacks and dividends in the final three months of 2013 was the largest quarterly outlay in the last six years — and companies were still sitting on $1.6 trillion at year-end. “Apple’s announcement that it has earmarked another $30 billion for buybacks and that it would increase its quarterly dividend by 8 percent is certainly an indication that the trend may continue,” Reinhard said in a recent note to clients. A long-awaited M&amp;A boom may finally be making its appearance, too, with a rash of high profile deals like Comcast’s proposed $45 billion purchase of Time Warner Cable. Companies have announced $638 billion worth of transactions so far this year, which makes this the busiest January-to-May period since 1995. What’s more, in a departure from normal M&amp;A trends, shares of both acquisition targets and their buyers have jumped on the news, with average next day increases of 18 percent and 4.6 percent, respectively, according to Dealogic data cited in the Wall Street Journal. Among cash-rich corporates, Credit Suisse’s private bank analysts point to select “old tech” companies – the software and hardware firms that came before Google and Facebook, such as Microsoft, SAP, and Intel. Indeed, since late February, there’s been a marked rotation out of today’s technology stars into yesterday’s, leading the old guard to outperform both the sector and the market as a whole. Even so, “new tech” companies still have relatively high valuations compared to “old tech”, and the latter are sitting on bigger cash cushions. The original horsemen of tech, it seems, are riding again. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
A big focus among innovators these days is payments. We just profiled 10 of the worst things about how we pay for stuff, and what kind of progress is being made to address them. The San Francisco Fed has just put out its own study breaking down how Americans pay for stuff. It reveals that 40% of all payments involve cash — but just 30% of Americans use cash willingly.  It also shows where and how we should be attacking the cash problem: By changing how we do person-to-person and food transactions, and through something that looks like a debit card.   Cash is by far the most dominant form of payment by absolute transaction volume. Debit cards are next, at 25%. Most large-value payments, meanwhile, occur through online banking and bill pay.  FRBSF As for the second finding, here are Americans' payment preferences. Debit cards come out on top at 43%, followed by cash at 30%. Only 22% of Americans like paying for stuff through credit cards. FRBSF This is a recent phenomenon. San Francisco Fed So when we're forced to use cash, what's it for? The Fed tells us: paying our friends, and paying for food. San Francisco Fed In general, small-dollar stuff:San Francisco Fed So what does this all mean? First, that there is definitely a huge opportunity for someone to crack cash — but it hasn't happened yet. Second, it's clear where the problem lies: Small payments, which, paradoxically, are often too expensive or physically impractical for existing payment rails to process. Finally, the study hints that the folks tinkering with payments engineering should look to debit cards and their attributes as a model. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermiRichard Parsons NBA.com's David Aldridge reports Richard Parsons, the former chairman of Citigroup and former CEO of Time Warner, has been tapped as the new CEO of the L.A. Clippers.  The NBA had previously announced it planned to name a new executive after it banned owner Donald Sterling from the league for life. Team president Andy Roeser, who technically took charge of the team after Sterling's ban, stepped down earlier this week. But ESPN's Arash Markazi reported he wasn't going to be long for the job. "Roeser...drew the ire of many in the organization after he released a statement initially giving Sterling the benefit of the doubt in the wake of Sterling's remarks," he wrote. Parsons, 66, was president of Time Warner when the company sold itself to AOL in an ill-fated $350 billion deal. He served on Citi's board for 16 years. He is currently a senior advisor of Providence Equity Partners. He also now owns two restaurants in Harlem.  FREE AppDownload
                &laquo; Can Investors Use Momentum to Beat the U.S. Treasury Market? |                Main                | Treasury Term Premia: 1961-Present &raquo; James Narron and David Skeie  As we observed in our last post on the Continental Currency Crisis, the finances of the United States remained chaotic through the 1780s as the young government moved to establish its credit. U.S. Congress was finally given the power of taxation in 1787 and, in 1789, Alexander Hamilton was appointed as the first Secretary of the Treasury. Hamilton moved quickly to begin paying off war debts and to establish a national bank—the Bank of the United States. But in 1791, a burst of financial speculation in subscription rights to shares in the new bank caused a tangential rally and fall in public debt securities prices. In this edition of Crisis Chronicles, we describe how Hamilton invented central bank crisis management techniques eight decades before Walter Bagehot described them in Lombard Street.   &#0160;&#0160;&#0160;&#0160; In fact, Hamilton’s actions even predated the predecessor to many of Bagehot’s principles contained in Henry Thornton’s 1802 An Enquiry into the Nature and Effects of the Paper Credit of Great Britain. So who deserves credit for the original doctrine of lender of last resort? Do Bagehot’s words speak louder than Hamilton’s actions? Tell us what you think.  DisclaimerThe views expressed in this post are those of the authors and do not necessarily&#0160;reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New&#0160;York or&#0160;the&#0160;Federal&#0160;Reserve&#0160;System. Any errors or omissions are the responsibility of&#0160;the&#0160;authors.   James Narron is a senior vice president and cash product manager at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.  David Skeie is a senior economist in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Research and Statistics Group.  The views expressed are those of the authors, and do not necessarily reflect the position of the New York Fed or the Federal Reserve System.
Perfecting steak usually requires a kind of singular dedication. The kind of dedication that makes it impossible for a restaurant to focus on anything else. That is why it is rare to find a steak outside of a steakhouse with the transcendental capabilities that a peerless steak possesses (yes, we've thought about this a lot). But of course, Momofuku Ssäm Bar is no regular restaurant. David Chang's dedication to perfection in all things is well known all over the world. So when Business Insider found out that his East Village restaurant, Momofuku Ssäm Bar was launching a dry aged ribeye large format dinner, we had to try it. Here's how it works: Like many things that have to do with Momofuku making a reservation for this dinner requires patience. The meal is family style, feeding 3-6 people. Figure out your squad, fill out this online application, put down a deposit, and prepare to wait a few weeks before you can get a seat. It will be well worth the $244.97 (this includes tax, not tip). Now, Momofuku is not a steakhouse experience. Wall Street, I'm sorry, but you will not have friendly white-clad waiters fluffing your sunshine-smelling linen napkins for you. The quarters are tighter. There's little leg room. That said, what banker can resist a dinner that their assistant has to schedule weeks in advance? Not one I've ever heard of. The meal comes with a Caesar salad and fries. That's it and that's all you need. The steak comes from cows that have been humanely raised without anti-biotics. The meat is dry aged for a minimum of 50 days. Business InsiderSteak and condimentsEat it rare. Maybe medium rare — cook it any more and you're a Philistine. The steak is served with the cap and exterior fat left on and a laundry list of condiments —beef jus, dry aged fat and brown butter roasting juices, red wine and shallot marmalade, béarnaise sauce and bacon ketchup. It's a great list (we especially recommend the wine and shallot marmalade, and obviously the bacon ketchup) but if it weren't there, you'd never notice. The steak is perfect. It melts in your mouth with that rich, velvety flavor that only comes from well-cooked cow. You'd be hard pressed to find a better steak anywhere in Manhattan. (Yes, I realize what I just wrote and I don't care.) On top of all this, Momofuku's steak dinner is an incredible deal. Throw a $50-60 bottle of red on it, invite a full party of 6 (there's more than enough to go around), and you'll leave the place having spent less than $80 a person. That's highway robbery for a steak this memorable. David Chang, thank you for caring. FREE AppDownload
HedgeyeKeith McCullough, Hedgeye's CEO An under-the-radar financial blog is at war with one of the most polarizing companies in finance: Hedgeye Risk Management.  Stay-at-home dad Carmine Pirone runs the blog, named Cramer's Shirt. It's a shout-out to "Mad Money" star Jim Cramer, who memorably duked it out with Hedgeye's CEO, Keith McCullough, on Twitter in 2012. In March of this year, Pirone assessed Hedgeye's business actions, and specifically McCullough's, labeling them as fraudulent on his blog. Pirone claims McCullough passes himself off as a trader, especially through his language on Twitter. On top of that, Pirone says, McCullough doesn't accurately report his "trades" — he picks and chooses what wins to tell his followers. But Hedgeye's terms of service and McCullough have addressed that. McCullough doesn't trade. No one at Hedgeye does. The company is an "actionable investment research" agency, aka a tip sheet, not a fund with a portfolio. And it claims to hold transparency in high esteem. Pirone republished his allegations again on April 7. Four days later, a law firm representing Hedgeye slapped him with a lawsuit. The complaint seeks a jury trial on Hedgeye's defamation claims against Pirone for his accusations of fraud. In late April, he was served with an amended complaint, that time with a summons to appear in court attached. McCullough is a former hedge-funder — as you can read in his book "Diary of a Hedge Fund Manager" — but Hedgeye doesn't run any money. The employees there spend their time analyzing and researching markets, not buying and selling. Instead, Hedgeye sells research to clients, likely both institutional investors and mom-and-pop day traders, the latter for a subscription fee of $29.95 a month. Institutions pay a much heftier sum, anywhere from $40,000 all the way up to half a million, according to McCullough. He's said that institutional investors account for 90% of Hedgeye's subscriber base. What's helped give McCullough's research firm a recognizable name in the finance world is his self-assured, combative Twitter presence. McCullough does not hesitate to insult or attack people, and often gleefully ridicules the brokerage firms and analysts he describes as "Old Wall Street." Add CNBC's Steve Liesman (and, more generally, CNBC, from whose air McCullough has been banished), Doug Kass, anonymous finance blogger ZeroHedge, and the Fed to the list of people and institutions that McCullough has battled. McCullough also uses Twitter to tease a Hedgeye subscription service, #RealTimeAlerts, which provides clients with buy, sell, short, and other signals on a variety of different securities. Potentially addressing the recent controversy, McCullough has even tweeted screenshots of exactly what subscribers see.  The horror that is Real-Time Alerts (18 for our last 19 on timing signals) #timestamped http://t.co/OrsZdH0vSl   As any businessperson would, McCullough uses his presence on social media to market himself and his company. But his tactics have attracted considerable criticism, most notably from the man his company is suing. Pirone, who became interested in finance at about age 12, now has two daughters, a 3-year-old and a 6-month-old. He often scrolls through CNBC articles with one hand — while the other holds a baby bottle. Pirone openly discloses he hasn't been employed since 2011, but he day trades (although not frequently).  "I think three times in my life I’ve sold in the same day because it was an option ... maybe 'swing trader' is a better term for me. I usually hold stuff for years, sometimes, especially stocks," Pirone told Business Insider. Pirone became interested in Hedgeye and its real-time alerts. But before subscribing, he decided to follow the recommendations and see how they did.  "I was, like, 'Well, this is crap.' It doesn’t take very long to figure it out. Surely people are on to this, but I was watching and [McCullough] seems to be suckering these people in," he said. Hedgeye has declined to comment on the lawsuit. In the simplest terms, Pirone thinks McCullough and his company don't tell the whole truth about their real-time alerts' recommendations. From McCullough's feed, Pirone claims that a newbie to "finance Twitter" might even think that McCullough trades. Remember, he doesn't. Last time I had a bad day like this was the best day of the yr to sell In fact, I enjoy short selling so much, I'm going to short something else here in #RealTimeAlerts   "I mean, if you can merely give out paper trades and charge an admission price to see them, why take the actual risk of investing real money, right? In that sense he's smarter than all of us," Pirone wrote of McCullough in a post. At some point — Business Insider hasn't confirmed when — Hedgeye appeared to change the language explaining its real-time alerts (as CalibratedConfidence noted on ZeroHedge via screenshot). “Every day, you will receive email alerts in real-time whenever Hedgeye CEO Keith McCullough makes any trade,” the company’s previous explainer read. The version currently reads: “Receive email alerts every day in real-time whenever our proprietary model flashes a Buy or Sell signal.”  Moreover, the day after Pirone's post was published, Hedgeye posted this video, making its intentions with real-time alerts clear. "This is what I would do in this security, right here, right now, timestamped. That's it. It's not a portfolio. I don't run a portfolio," McCullough noted.  Hedgeye's SEC public disclosure says the same: Neither McCullough nor anyone else at the company trades. An SEC technical-assistance associate says the file or revision date isn't available to the public on these documents. McCullough also argues that, regardless of his tweets, he can't hide from Hedgeye's subscribers. "I've shown over 2,700 signals since 2008. If you’re a subscriber, you can actually see all of those signals ... Every single timestamp we’ve ever had is open for anyone to look at," McCullough explained on Yahoo Finance's Breakout. Hedgeye's real-time alerts also omit details — dividends, trading commissions, capital-gains taxes — from financial advice, Pirone points out. In fairness, though, the firm's terms of service, last updated in September 2012, specifically say that the company doesn't account for those factors.  A Question Of Performance Pirone analyzed Hedgeye's real-time alerts record from 2013. "The weighted average return of all trades last year from Jan 1, 2013–Dec. 11, 2013 was .3382%, that’s not 33% that’s a fraction of ONE PERCENT," he wrote in his post. Soon after, McCullough tweeted his "reality," which didn't address his 2013 real return. His scorecard showed information from 2014 without percentage gains. Real-Time Alerts reality (the score) YTD #timestamped http://t.co/6d7t9fyqpl   "Perhaps my favorite was when after he had gotten his face torn off shorting TWTR [Twitter] this past December, he shorted again near the all time high. When it fell back down to the low 60’s soon after he of course let everyone know that he shorted it at 73, but he conveniently left out he covered $1 lower just north of 72, not in the low 60’s," Pirone wrote. While Pirone's blog analyzed McCullough's hypothetical success, Griffin Asset Management had taken it a step further. In 2012, the company offered a fund based on McCullough's real-time alerts. The aim was to create a low-volatility fund with exposure to numerous asset classes from around the world, Doug Famigletti, president and CIO of Griffin, told Business Insider.   Griffin Asset ManagementGriffin's fund based on Hedgeye's alerts lasted about a year."We attempted to take the trades and create a portfolio," he said. "And obviously whenever you take any trade recommendation you need to take a lot of things into consideration" — including the various types of assets and the ratio between longs and shorts.  The trading didn't go well. Griffin used a back-tested model to scale real-time alerts into workable trading. But the project lasted only a little over a year. "With any sort of investment management product, you have to have a product big enough to be sustainable to make the costs not very high, especially on a fund format," Famigletti said. "You're trading quite a bit, to move exposures around, which works much better in a fund format, than in a single account format." Famigletti said that Griffin may not have seen the success it had hoped for because of size limitations, even though he and his associates control about $400 million for both institutions and individuals.  "I went into that partnership thinking we could build something very successful. And I think the reason we weren't as successful as we wanted to be was because we're not that large of a firm. I, personally, think that there are a lot of big firms right now that are running mutual funds that look a lot like Real-Time Alerts," Famigletti said. Full disclosure, as Famigletti wanted: He has more than a passing professional relationship with Hedgeye and McCullough. He roomed with Daryl Jones, Hedgeye's current director of research, back in the day in New York City, and the three of them played hockey together. Famigletti's endorsement even appears on the back of McCullough's book.  As previously mentioned, Hedgeye doesn't spend much time addressing dividends or taxes. But both can, of course, affect returns. "If over the next year, you have more longs than shorts, you're going to have a net positive from dividends, as long as the yield is comparable," Famigletti noted. "It really depends on which securities are held." On the other hand, if you short often, as McCullough seems to encourage, paying dividends can gouge profits.  "Taxes are an incredibly important piece of that because it's all short-term gains. If you make 10% and it's all short-term gains, you're paying it all out in marginal-income tax rate. So that's important," Famigletti said.  But he also doesn't feel Hedgeye has a responsibility to account for these factors in its real-time alerts' profits. Wall Street brokerage firms, for example, do not. Nor do many mutual funds, hedge funds, or other investment companies that tout their returns. "I mean, Goldman Sachs publishes a conviction buy list. They move that around quite a bit. When they say they gained 20% in a stock, they don't say [whether] you took gains based on taxes," Famigletti said. While Hedgeye hasn't revealed the precise demographic composition of its clients, McCullough has said 90% of them are institutional investors. And the company's ADV Form, a public disclosure filed with the SEC, reveals even more. Eric Chaffee, a law professor with expertise in securities regulation at the University of Toledo, helped Business Insider interpret the document. "It is fair to say that the company is reporting no individual clients .... [and] appears not to focus on serving individuals," Chaffee told Business Insider in an email after reviewing the document.  The screenshot below outlines the rest of Hedgeye's clients, as the company reported them. ADV FormHedgeye's ADV Form, filed with the SEC. But then there's Will Hassell, a 17-year-old subscriber to Hedgeye's Morning Newsletter, from Huntsville, Alabama. He signed up a little under three months ago but has followed McCullough and Hedgeye on Twitter for about nine months.  "I kind of almost use [McCullough] as contrast to some of the other analysts and ideas out there ... a more macro view rather than stock specific," Hassell told Business Insider.  Hassell considered subscribing to real-time alerts. The low cost attracted him. But on second thought, he realized the tool wouldn't really help him.  "Especially with real-time alerts, [McCullough's] doing a lot of shorting. With me, I’m more cautious of shorts ... I’m not really a big day trader, so for me, it’s not that useful," Hassell said. So far, though, Hassell feels good about his subscription to Hedgeye's newsletters. They've benefitted him on a larger scale. “For what I use it for, I think it has given me more of a clarity. I have gone and done stuff that he’s recommended, like being long on the euro. That’s been paying off a lot," he explained. "It's not really stocks. It’s generally more macro level." Considering Hassell's subscription, the company's SEC reportings may not be accurate, according to Chaffee. "Which is especially troubling considering the warning at the top of the form," he said. That warning reads: "You must keep this form updated by filing periodic amendments." A technical-assistance associate at the SEC told Business Insider that the search function would return the most recent information on Hedgeye that the SEC possesses. The site, updated nightly, would also show any amendments. Hedgeye, however, did submit its brochure with the SEC on March 14, 2014. That document states that the company "welcomes individual investors to subscribe" but doesn't report any currently. It also reports "no material changes as of October 2013." Further, individual, potentially less-experienced traders such as Hassell — to whom the $29.95 subscription fee might appeal — won't have resources nearly as large as institutions like Griffin. And even this firm struggled to apply real-time alerts to a real portfolio. Famigletti, however, thinks the benefit depends on how subscribers apply real-time alerts to their trades. In his mind, most people interested in subscribing would understand the complexities of the market.  "I caution anybody that thinks they can subscribe to something for $29.95 a month and think it's going to make them rich," he said. "I've been in this business for 17 years, and a lot of people who read blogs, subscribe to newsletters, they're not totally naive." Hedgeye's lawsuit, brought by Raipher D. Pellegrino &amp; Associates, alleges that Pirone falsified the accusations of fraud and intended to harm McCullough's and Hedgeye's reputations. And as a result, the company has lost subscribers and money. In defamation cases, the burden of proof lies with the plaintiff, First Amendment lawyer Bob Corn-Revere, a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine LLP, told Business Insider. "The basics don't change ... But whether you're dealing with a public figure or private figure matters a lot," he said.  To prove that damage, Hedgeye would likely have to release company information, such as subscription numbers and profits, in court. As a private company, Hedgeye's apparent success has created conjecture in the finance and media worlds about both. "Generally, if someone is claiming they've been injured, they have to document that injury," Corn-Revere said, although he didn't want to speculate on the case.  Based on employees' recent tweets, however, the opposite seems true, another point that CalibratedConfidence brought to light. Great day for subscriber growth @hedgeye !   If this case goes to court, which seems unlikely, those tweets could come back to haunt Hedgeye. "Whenever you're collecting evidence about whether or not a company has been harmed, you're going to look to occurrences, online or not, to bring up in depositions," Corn-Revere said. Pellegrino's firm filed the suit as of May 5, 2014, but wouldn't comment on an ongoing case. Pirone immediately started a PayPal account to help raise money for his fight against Hedgeye. Below is a copy of Hedgeye's original complaint against Pirone. On Page 2, Section B, there's a typo — that the plaintiff will pay damages to the plaintiff. The second suit had the same mistake, according to Pirone.  "I'm not concerned about this case at all. I don't see how it could possibly go to trial. On page two, it looks like they're suing themselves ... The most annoying part is that I have to spend time addressing this," Pirone said.  FREE AppDownload
Bank of America Merrill LynchLately, various housing-market metrics such as existing-home sales, new-home sales, and mortgage applications have all been flagging. Last week, we learned that the U.S. homeownership rate was at a 19-year low, and some experts think it'll never come back. Unfortunately, almost all of the major housing market reports offer information on a huge lag. As such, it's challenging to figure out if and when housing will turn. In a new research note, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michelle Meyer delves into Google Trends, which offer an interesting alternative up-to-date indicator of housing market sentiment. "We queried the number of hits for “homes for sale”, limiting the sample to the US," she wrote. "The results are encouraging: there has been a notable increase, particularly over the past year." But that's only part of the story. "The data suggests that people are searching for homes, but are they serious about buying?" she pondered. "We therefore search “mortgage calculator”. Presumably after a person finds a property of interest, a natural next step would be to determine if it is affordable. We have not seen an increase in such searches. Perhaps this is because prospective buyers are discouraged by the lack of inventory or the asking price. Either way, it suggests that buyers are curious, but not committed at this point." Meyer also offered a seasonally-adjusted look to get reid of the noise. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Some of you have probably noticed the lack of a spike during the housing boom of the early 2000s. "Perhaps this is because the market was not as tight during this period," suggested Meyer. "Housing construction was booming and there was a robust flow of existing inventory to the market, which means prospective buyers did not have to search as hard to find properties for sale. It could also be because we did not have as much information about homes for sale online." Regardless, most people will agree that housing has indeed hit a bump in the road. "One cautionary note, though, is that readings on housing activity—a sector that has been recovering since 2011—have remained disappointing so far this year and will bear watching ," said Fed Chair Janet Yellen in her testimony to Congress this week. "The recent flattening out in housing activity could prove more protracted than currently expected rather than resuming its earlier pace of recovery." FREE AppDownload
NBCFormer GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney said Friday he supports raising the minimum wage, splitting from many Republicans who have fought against an increase. Romney made his comments in an interview on MSNBC's "Morning Joe." "I, for instance, as you know, part company with many of the conservatives in my party on the issue of the minimum wage. I think we ought to raise it," Romney said. "Because frankly, our party is all about more jobs and better pay." Senate Republicans blocked a bill to raise the minimum wage to $10.10 last month. That legislation was supported by Democrats and President Barack Obama. Currently, the federal minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.  Romney also discussed the next presidential election in the interview and said he's "not running for president in 2016." "I think our best prospects of getting back the White House are with someone who has not run twice before as I have," he quipped.  Watch the full interview below.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Late last night the Wall Street Journal reported something that Americans have gotten used to hearing — bipartisan government talks on the passage of a critical housing bill have broken down, and now the future of that bill is unclear. That means it's a good morning for hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman, who is betting that Washington can't overhaul the system that broke down during the financial crisis. He wants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the main actors in that system to remain as they are (with some significant tweaks). The bill in question, sponsored by Sens. Tim Johnson (D., S.D.) and Mike Crapo (R., Idaho),  would've drastically changed the function of Fannie and Freddie and put more mortgages in the hands of Wall Street banks. Talks within the Senate Banking Committee broke down because six Democratic Senators, including Elizabeth Warren, believe the bill doesn't provide enough incentive for banks to lend to low-income Americans. Elizabeth Warren and Bill Ackman on the same side. How do you like them apples? Earlier this week Ackman presented his argument for why Fannie and Freddie, now very profitable entities indeed, should stay alive to a room full of investors at the Sohn Investment Conference. Both stocks are worth about $4 right now, and he thinks they could be worth ten times that. For him and other shareholders to profit, however, Fannie and Freddie have to get rid of a little thing called the 'net worth sweep.' The short version is that back in 2012 the government amended its agreement with Fannie and Freddie so it was the only shareholder that got any of their profits. That also happened to be the year Fannie and Freddie became profitable. The Johnson/Crapo bill would remove Fannie and Freddie as lenders entirely. Their sole purpose would be to buy the housing loans from private lenders and issue them as securities, giving bondholders a guarantee that they'll be made whole if something goes wrong. Supporters like HUD Secretary Shuan Donnovan argue that the bill provides $5 billion in affordable housing for low-income Americans. For the Senators standing with Warren however, the repeal of mandatory housing goals meant to bring conservatives on board means that private lenders will have way less of an incentive to make riskier loans. Sean Oblack, an aid of Senator Johnson's said in a statement: “We have made significant progress bridging the divide among those previously undecided, and the committee vote is just a first step. Those involved in the negotiations have indicated they are interested in continuing to work together to try and find common ground, so the Banking Committee will keep working after favorably reporting out the bill next week.” Analysts like Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst at Compass Point Research and Trading LLC in Washington think that the bill could clear the Banking Committee, but without the support of Warren's camp, it would have trouble passing on the floor of the Senate. If it doesn't, the entire effort, which Senators were hoping to get done before the 2014 elections in November, could fall by the wayside. FREE AppDownload
There are no perfect stock market indexes that'll give you a complete picture of the state of the market. Most market-watchers prefer the S&amp;P 500 over the Dow Jones Industrial Average. But the fact that the S&amp;P 500 is down just 1% from its all-time high of 1,897 belies the fact that many stocks in the index and in the market as a whole are way down. "When we examine breadth in terms of new highs, more specifically stocks that are in ‘striking distance’ to a new high, we see a completely different picture," writes J.C. O'Hara, of FBN Securities. "Often at the end of bull markets, large cap stocks continue to rise and the smaller stocks begin to flatter." The S&amp;P 500 is cap-weighted, which means larger companies like Apple and ExxonMobil have a much larger impact on how the index moves. "High cap stocks influence the averages more thus can mask internal weakness," continued O'Hara. O'Hara's research found that the average S&amp;P 1500 stock is down by more than 12% from their recent 52-week highs. The average stocks in the Russell 2000 and Nasdaq Composite are down by more than 20%, which means you can say they are in bear markets. "Historically, this sort of divergence does not bode well for the longevity of a market’s upward inertia," said O'Hara. "We went back and examined instances where the market made a new high and looked at where the median stock sat compare to its high. Our data suggests that the current breadth reading is very unhealthy. Not only are new highs diminishing but we are seeing many stocks making new lows. This breadth divergence is a major concern." O'Hara says this isn't necessarily a screaming sell signal. "However the powerful message of “there is something wrong” should not go unnoticed," he cautions. FBN Securities FREE AppDownload
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Apple Inc will unveil the next incarnation of its popular iPhone series in August, one month earlier than industry watchers were generally expecting, Taiwanese media reported on Friday citing unidentified supply-chain sources. A 4.7-inch screen version of the iPhone 6 will reach stores in August, the Economic Daily News reported without specifying which markets would receive the phone first. A 5.5-inch or 5.6-inch model will be released in September, the newspaper said, as the iPhone 5 series was previously. People involved in the supply chain had earlier confirmed to Reuters that there will be a 4.7-inch version of the iPhone 6 and a 5.5-inch version. Together, the Economic Daily News said 80 million iPhone 6 handsets would be produced this year. Industry watchers have said increasing the iPhone's screen size from 4 inches would help Apple regain market share from competitors such as Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, who they say have responded to consumer desire for more screen size. Representatives for Apple could not be reached for comment. Representatives for Taiwanese iPhone contract manufacturer Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd and smartphone camera lens maker Largan Precision Co Ltd, both mentioned in the Economic Daily News report, had no comment. (Reporting by Michael Gold; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Pascal Lauener(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; disclosed on Friday that it was being investigated over its hiring practices outside the United States. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had expanded its probe into the hiring practices of at least five U.S. and European banks in Asia, including Goldman. The SEC is examining whether the banks or their employees violated anti-bribery laws by hiring relatives of well-connected officials, the WSJ reported. Goldman, in a quarterly filing on Friday, did not provide any details of the investigation into whether it was in compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Goldman also said it was a defendant in a class-action lawsuit related to high frequency trading, filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on April 18.   FREE AppDownload
A mining accident in New Caledonia, an archipelago 750 miles east of Australia, is causing nickel prices to surge to two-year highs. Mining giant Vale was forced to shut down its Goro facility after "acid-containing solution" leaked into a nearby creek, Bloomberg reported. A Vale spokesman said the water quality in the creek was back to normal and that production would resume "shortly," though no date was given. Futures climbed 4.1% percent to settle at $19,405 on the London Metal Exchange. In a note, TD Securities' Bart Melek said he does not expect the current surge to last too long, as prices had already been pushed up by Ukraine, as well as a raw ore export ban in Indonesia, which he expects to be lifted in the coming months — though expects an uptick in 2015: The fact of the matter is that even though global mined supply will drop by some 21%, actual smelted metal output should not drop by much more than 3% in 2014. And, given the somewhat lackluster, albeit improving demand growth, the global market will still post a 70k tonnes surplus this year, which will add to the some 361k tonnes of accumulated inventories  from 2011 to 2013. The deficit of some 104k tonnes will only materialize in 2015. But for now there is some 150 day's supply in above-ground stocks, which is materially above what is required. Here's the chart: TD Securities FREE AppDownload
APDave Schaeffer, founder and CEO of Cogent Communications looks down the table as Scott Hemphill, Professor of Law at Columbia University, testifies during the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial, and Antitrust Law oversight hearing.The battle lines in Comcast's bid to merge with Time Warner blurred further on Thursday when House Republicans fired tough questions at Comcast executive David Cohen during a lively hearing. Republican lawmakers who characterized themselves as free market advocates grilled Mr. Cohen on whether the merger would drive up prices, lead to less choice for rural customers, and accelerate the media's perceived tilt to the left. Republican senators raised similar worries at an April hearing, and Democratic critics have argued that the merger could lead to a near-monopoly that reshapes the nature of the Internet in America. The hearings are merely public forums – the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will decide whether to approve the merger, not Congress. But given the enormous influence that television and the Internet have on American society, the questions point to deep concerns about whether one company – which would own 30 percent of the cable TV market and 40 percent of the broadband Internet market – can wield too much power. The $45 billion merger has drawn significant concern from consumer groups, since the new company would create a company that dominates 37 of the county’s top 40 broadband markets and 19 of country’s 20 largest cities. It’s subscription base would include over 30 million households. This would dwarf the next four largest cable and broadband companies combined, each of which has around 4 million to 5 million subscribers. Rep. Louie Gohmert, a tea party Republican from Texas, asked Cohen about possible discrimination against conservative programs such as Glenn Beck’s cable network, The Blaze. Rep. Tom Marino (R) of Pennsylvania worried the merger would create “more of an unbalance with an already left-of-center media environment.” Other Republican lawmakers, including Blake Farenthold of Texas, questioned whether the new cable colossus would raise customer bills while limiting programming choices. “I don't want to sound hostile to this merger," he said, but he noted that his constituents were raising concerns about limited choices, especially in rural and Hispanic households. Cohen denied that the merger would affect the normal process of choosing which programs to include in cable packages. On consumer costs, he added: "I think this transaction has the potential to slow the increase in prices. I think consumers are going to be the big winners in this transaction.” The nation’s cable households spend an average of about $2,200 a year on TV, telephone, and Internet access – 20 percent more than they did in 2007, according to Department of Labor statistics. At the same time, overall household spending has increased only 3.6 percent. Time Warner and Comcast also consistently get some of the worst consumer satisfaction ratings of any business in any industry, according to various polls. These concerns also hang over how the merger might affect the Internet. “This merger is bad news for the cable industry,” testified Dave Schaeffer, chief executive of Cogent Communications, which serves companies such as Netflix. “But this merger is less about cable than it is about the future of the Internet.” In the background is the ongoing debate over “net neutrality,” the principle that Internet providers such as Comcast and Time Warner should treat all information flowing through their pipes the same, giving no preference or special treatment to certain kinds of content. Internet providers have pushed back against this idea, suing the FCC in a bid to allow them to charge higher fees to create Internet "fast lanes." After two court rulings against it, the FCC is now proposing new rules that would give Internet providers what they want – a death blow to net neutrality, critics say. The issue is directly relevant to the merger. Net neutrality has prevented Comcast from possibly giving content produced by NBC (which it owns) a competitive advantage on its networks. Democratic lawmakers and consumer and free speech advocates have been marshaling their forces this week to fight the FCC’s proposed rule changes. On Wednesday, more than 150 tech companies, including Google, Facebook, and Twitter, sent an open letter to the FCC, saying the demise of net neutrality “represents a grave threat to the Internet.” On Thursday, Cogent Communications' Mr. Schaeffer cast doubt on the need for "fast lanes" in his testimony. He said Comcast had refused to improve Internet capacity at high-traffic points, even when his company offered to share the costs to add high-capacity switches – a relatively simple process. The implication was that Comcast was "very clever" to keep capacity tight, since that gives the company leverage to extract more payments from those who use their wires. For example, Netflix was forced to make a separate deal with Comcast and pay an extra fee when its services overloaded Comcast's networks. Earlier this week, other companies like Cogent complained of similar tactics used by Internet service providers – refusing upgrades so they can turn around and then charge commercial subscribers additional fees. Cohen called such claims "wholly inaccurate." "We did not force Netflix to enter into an interconnection deal with us. That was Netflix's idea," he said. "It was their desire, given the size of their traffic, to cut out the middle man, their words – the middle man happened to be Cogent, by the way – and to deal directly with us." But Netflix had no choice but do this and pony up, said many observers when the deal was made in February. “That’s not a free market,” Schaeffer said Thursday. “That’s an abuse of market power.” RECOMMENDED: Net neutrality: Is the Internet about to change? FREE AppDownload
The authors of "Freakonomics" and "Super Freakonomics" have a third book called "Think Like A Freak." In this book Levitt and Dubner reveal the strange way the world works and they offer prescriptions to help change the way you think and solve problems. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiA stockbroker speaks on phone while trading at a terminal at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in Mumbai.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has the rundown on what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!   US futures are starting on the back foot this AM, with NDX futures off 25bp, and SPX 15bp.   Clearly, heavy focus will remain on the Internet stocks, after the strong reversal lower yesterday when the IWM failed to get back upside 200dma.   It’s early, but P (AAPL-Beats), JAZZ, DDD, LNKD all starting 1%+ lower.   Overseas markets are weaker – we are seeing some reducing of positions into the weekend with Ukraine simmering under the headlines – DAX is off 40bp, while EU fins are being hit for 1.5%.   Russian and Ukraine markets are closed for “Victory Day” holiday, but we are seeing weakness in Ukraine’s FX early.   Over in Asia, the Nikkei gained 30bp – Focus was on China however with very weak Inflation readings failing to spark dovish buying, the Composite lost 20bp.  India picked up massive flows however, with the Sensex surging 3% to new peaks on Election hopes.   In Aussie, the slowdown in Chinese prices weighed on Miners – hitting the ASX for 30bp.    Credit markets remain well bid – with the 10YY breaking under 2.6% as yesterday’s weak 30Y auction failed to stem the persistent bid in Treasuries.   We have the Yen and € both weaker than the $ - propelling the DXY towards a 50dma test, where it has failed 4x in the last few months.   The stronger $ and weak China inflation are both headwinds for commodities – yet we see a bid across the board.  Industrial metals are leading hard commodities higher, with Nickel, Copper and Silver all 50bp+ higher.  Even Gold is catching a bid, up 30bp and on session peaks.  The Oil complex is higher, led by Nat Gas and Brent as Gazprom threatens Ukraine’s supplies.   We are seeing these flows coming from Agriculture, where Wheat is off 1% and the best performing commodity of 2014, Coffee – is retreating 3%.  Catalysts scheduled for today include JOLTs Job Openings and Wholesale Inventories at 10 – A POMO Purchase of $1.50 - $2.00 billion at 11 – and World Agricultural Supply &amp; Demand Estimates at 12. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Ethan MillerAfter news broke that Apple was in late stage talks to acquire Beats Audio for $3.2 billion, Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster put out a note.  Munster is not into this deal. He says, it "sounds like a bad deal." He adds:  We are struggling to see the rationale behind this move. Beats would of course bring a world class brand in music to Apple, but Apple already has a world class brand and has never acquired a brand for a brand's sake (i.e., there are no non-Apple sub-brands under the company umbrella). Separately, we are not aware of any intellectual property within Beats that would drive the acquisition justification beyond the brand. We view a better use of capital for acquisitions to be in the internet services space given that is, in our view, Apple’s biggest weakness. This list would include Yelp, Twitter, Square and even Yahoo. We, too, are struggling with this one. Apple doesn't need the Beats revenue, which is ~$1 billion annually. Apple's annual revenue is almost $180 billion. As for the streaming service, it's hardly got any users, and is not well received by critics.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Producer and recording artist Dr. Dre attends the launch of HTC's latest smartphone, The Rezound, in New York, November 3, 2011. The Rezound includes audio technology from Beats.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Forgot About Dre. Huge news for rap legend Dr. Dre. Apple is in preliminary talks to buy Beats Electronics, the popular headphone company co-founded by Dre, for $3.2 billion. The story was first reported by the Financial Times. The deal could make Dre hip-hop's first billionaire. Mega-Merger Deal Collapses. The $35 billion proposed merger between advertising giants Omnicom and Publicis has fallen apart. The merger was first announced last July. "The challenges that still remained to be overcome, in addition to the slow pace of progress, created a level of uncertainty detrimental to the interests of both groups and their employees, clients, and shareholders," Publicis chairman Maurice Lévy and Omnicom CEO John Wren said in a joint statement. Germany Disappoints. German exports fell 1.8% in March, the biggest drop in 10 months. Economists were looking for a 1.0 % increase. Factory orders also unexpectedly fell by 2.8%. China's Inflation Slows. China's consumer price index inflation fell to 1.8% April from 2.4% in March. This was much lower than the 2.1% expected. "Actually, the low- inflation environment has persisted for nearly two years," noted Societe Generale's Wei Yao. "Although money and credit growth are still running at double-digit pace, China seems to be experiencing a number of symptoms of debt deflation. It is certainly an odd case, but if taking the credit to zombie companies out of the picture, the assessment of debt deflation makes good sense." Bombay's In Modi Mode. The S&amp;P BSE Sensex rallied to an all-time high, reports Bloomberg's Santanu Chakraborty. An estimated 814 million Indian voters have been heading to the polls in what's been the biggest election in history. Opposition leader Narendra Modi is the frontrunner. Considered a champion of economic growth, markets appear to be pricing a Modi win. Fannie Mae's Cash Machine. The mortgage finance behemoth controlled by the U.S. government said yesterday that it would be sending the U.S. Treasury a check for $5.7 billion after reporting a quarterly profit. "Once it has made the latest payment in June, it will have returned $126.8 billion to taxpayers in return for the $116.1 billion in taxpayer aid it received after being placed under the government's wing at the height of the financial crisis," reported Reuters' Margaret Chadbourn. Markets Are Mixed. Markets closed up in Asia with Japan's Nikkei gaining 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng rising 0.1%. Europe is down ith Britain's FTSE dow 0.3%, France's CAC 40 down 0.6%, and Germany's DAX down 0.3%. US futures are lower with Dow futures down by 20 points. JOLTS For Yellen. The Job Openings &amp; Labor Turnover Survey results will be released at 10:00 a.m. ET. According to the JOLTS report, U.S. companies had 4.173 million job openings. "JOLTS has garnered more attention lately as Fed Chair Yellen often cites the survey when assessing the state of the labor market," noted Credit Suisse. Goldman Still Bullish On The Economy. Most economists were shaken by the BEA's recent report that U.S. GDP growth decelerated to just 0.1% in Q1. However, some economists see resiliency in the underlying economy. "We continue to forecast 3.5% GDP growth in H2," wrote Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey in a new note to clients. "Under our current forecasts, real GDP would increase 2.6% on a Q4/Q4 basis in 2014, below the 2.8 - 3.0% central tendency included in the Summary of Economic Projections from the March FOMC meeting." Johnny Football Tumbles. Texas A&amp;M's Johnny Manziel was selected No. 22 overall by the Cleveland Browns during Thursday's NFL draft. This was a huge disappointment for the star quarterback who was widely-expected to go in the top eight. "#SadMaziel???" tweeted the NFL. FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersBarack Obama will on Friday unveil several new initiatives intended to expand the deployment of solar power on Friday, as officials confirmed that a set of solar panels on the roof of the White House was now operational. Obama will – once again – bypass a deadlocked Congress and use his executive authority to announce $2bn funding for energy-saving measures at federal government buildings, as well as new financing and training programmes for solar installations. The announcements, to be made on a trip to California, cap a climate-focused week at the White House, following the release of an authoritative report on the growing threat posed by heat waves, severe downpours and sea-level rise. White House officials told a conference call with reporters the initiatives were intended to add momentum to the solar industry, which has seen rapid expansion over the last two years. “We are going to be doing everything we can, with the tools that we have to move forward,” said Dan Utech, special assistant to the president on energy and climate change. In a largely symbolic move, the White House began installing a small set of solar panels on the roof last summer. The fit was now complete, officials said, releasing a video in which the panels were shown being installed. “The size of the array we established here is the typical size for the average American house, ” said James Doherty, the White House usher. Security concerns had prevented the whole roof being covered, he said. The solar panels were part of a broader energy retrofit at the White House, demonstrating it was possible to introduce renewable energy even in historic buildings, officials claimed. Solar panels were originally installed at the White House under Jimmy Carter, but Ronald Reagan ordered them dismantled in 1986. Obama brought in the latest solar technology as a sign of his commitment to renewable energy. The panels will repay the costs of installation within eight years, officials said. Solar power is the fastest-growing source of renewable energy in America. However, it still accounts for just 1% of overall electricity generation, according to the Energy Information Administration. The White House has been working to challenge companies such as Walmart and Ikea to expand their use of solar power. The president traveled to California on Friday to visit a Walmart store in Mountain View, where the company will commit to doubling its use of solar power. Walmart already produces and uses more solar power than any other big-box retailer – more than twice as much as Costco, its nearest competitor. That still amounts to only about 4% of its overall energy use provided by solar power, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. The environmental group Friends of the Earth said holding up Walmart as an example was misguided. “Walmart has both under-reported its greenhouse gas emissions and failed to meet its 2012 targets,” the group said. The measures outlined on Friday add to a suite of programmes that have made it more easier and more affordable for companies and homeowners to install solar panels. Tax credits have helped offset the costs, and the price of solar panels has fallen by half just since 2010. On Friday, Obama will announce measures designed to make solar panels affordable even for multi-family houses, and new programmes to train solar installers at community colleges. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Tyrese Gibson, FacebookDr. Dre and Tyrese.Thursday it was reported Apple was in talks to pay $3.2 billion for Beats Electronics, which makes audio gear (mostly headphones) and offers a streaming music service that competes with Spotify. One of the founders of Beats is the rapper Dr. Dre, who stands to make a fortune if the deal happens. FacebookNick Summers at The Next Web spotted a video posted to Facebook Thursday night may have confirmed the deal. It was posted by actor Tyrese Gibson, who happened to be with Dre Thursday night after the deal was reported. In it, Gibson tells the camera that they're going to have to change the Forbes list now — that is, because of Dre's windfall. We originally had the full video in here, but Tyrese Gibson has taken it down in the last few minutes. However, Doug Kass points us to WorldStarHipHop's rip of the video. It's on YouTube. (Warning: This video has expletives.)  Below, you can see the original broken video links that no longer work.   So it seems like this is happening. Now the best question is, why? FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Behrouz MehriVisitors speak with employees of a Chinese company during Iran's annual International Oil, Gas, Refining & Petrochemical Exhibition in Tehran, on May 6, 2014.The past few years have been good to Chinese companies doing business in Iran, with the oil industry offering the biggest opportunity of all, but things might start getting tougher. As Western corporations headed for the exits when sanctions took effect and international distrust over Iran's nuclear activities deepened, Summer Lee, an energetic thirty-something from Shanghai, was among those who filled the vacuum. At this week's annual Oil, Gas and Petrochemical Fair in Tehran, a massive event that attracted 600 foreign companies, Lee said she was here to stay. "We are looking to expand our business deals with Iran," she said, as delegates shuttled between hundreds of exhibition stands and meeting tables where potential deals were discussed. But with a possible end in sight to the nuclear standoff that has defined Iran's thorny relations with the Western world for the past decade, Lee and her countrymen may soon have new rivals. The issue for some Iranian companies is that Chinese products are not always up to scratch. "With quality an issue, we expect the market to switch back towards them, rather than us keeping the Chinese," said Falcon Procurement's Arash Heiratangiz, which is licensed to import equipment from Germany, Japan and South Korea. "The Japanese and Europeans can come back if the sanctions are lifted," he said. This week's edition of the fair, where business people and government officials toured a vast array of oil and gas drilling companies and manufacturers, attracted three times as many overseas companies as last year's event. Despite the uncertainty that clouds Iran's economy, which is still shut out of the international financial system because of a US and European embargo on banks and the energy sector, a more positive outlook is starting to prevail. Behrooz Nateghi, of IPS Group BV, a Dutch purchasing company still operating in Iran's petrochemical, oil and gas industries, said the lifting of sanctions would change the business outlook. Attracting "the clients we lost in the past few years" will be the priority, he said. Since an interim agreement with the P5+1 group of Britain, China, France, Russia, the United States and Germany came into effect in January, Iran has been allowed to maintain its oil exports at around 1.2 million barrels per day. The figure remains under par for Iran, which has the world's second biggest gas deposits and fourth largest oil reserves -- 2.5 million bpd of crude was being sent abroad in late 2011. When asked about the competition from Chinese contractors who moved in after the nuclear dispute made Iran a high risk market for Europeans, a director at a Western company said: "Our quality speaks for itself." "We can gain a fair share of the market by approaching our old clients," added the director, who asked not to be named. But Lee, of the Leyon International Trading company, a supplier of pipes and tubing to oil and gas ventures, appeared unfazed by the potential upsurge in competition. If sanctions are removed, "business will be even easier," she said. It is not only Iranian companies who are questioning what China has to offer. The government is also dissatisfied. Oil Minister Bijan Zanganeh last week cancelled a $2.5 billion contract with China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC), citing the company's failure to fulfill its obligations. The decision was seen as an invitation to other suitors given the scale of projects such as South Pars, the world's largest natural gas field shared with Qatar. It has been heavily hit by sanctions, with a lack of financing and technology leading to repeated missed deadlines. Mike Song, a sales official at South Korea's RMK Co Ltd, which started supplying pipes, valves and other equipment in Iran 10 years ago, said big opportunities await, if the political obstacles can be removed. "Business with Iran has been dwindling -- practically with no new orders -- due to sanctions and pressures," he said. "We want to make a comeback." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Goldman is out with its forecast for Q2. It basically expects a strong rebound from the weak, weather-induced Q1 weakness. The core prediction: "We continue to forecast 3.5% GDP growth in H2. Under our current forecasts, real GDP would increase 2.6% on a Q4/Q4 basis in 2014, below the 2.8 - 3.0% central tendency included in the Summary of Economic Projections from the March FOMC meeting." And here's a breakdown of their forecasts. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Associated PressAlibaba's founder Jack MaBEIJING (AP) — Even before Alibaba went online, its founder talked about making the fledgling e-commerce company a global player. At Alibaba Group's first staff meeting in 1999, a video shot by an employee shows Jack Ma rallying a workforce of 17 of his friends. They met in a cement-floored apartment in Hangzhou, a city southwest of Shanghai, at a time when few Chinese were online. Ma was an English teacher with no training in business or computers. "Our competitors are not in China but in Silicon Valley," says Ma in the video, which is included in a documentary about the company, "Crocodile in the Yangtze," made by a former Alibaba vice president, Porter Erisman. "We can beat government agencies and big, famous companies because of our innovative spirit." Such Silicon Valley-style bluster was new to China, but Ma delivered. Over the next 15 years, he helped propel Alibaba through technical and financial challenges and a battle with eBay Inc. to become the world's biggest online bazaar. The company is now planning to list in the U.S. and analysts say its initial public offering this year may raise up to $20 billion. Last year, 231 million customers spent $248 billion with merchants on Alibaba's platforms, more than Amazon.com Inc. and eBay combined. Along the way, Alibaba had to develop e-commerce infrastructure its Western counterparts took for granted. Few Chinese used credit cards, so it created Alipay, a payments system that helped online sales win acceptance by allowing wary customers to receive goods before releasing money to sellers. The company worked with shippers to improve their reliability and held trade shows to persuade entrepreneurs to go online. "Alibaba really created the e-commerce market in China," said Edward Yu, president of research firm Analysys International. Today, the company's main platforms are its original business-to-business service Alibaba.com, consumer-to-consumer site Taobao and TMall for brands to sell to consumers. Alibaba has expanded into personal finance, games, video and other services. In March, it was one of 10 companies picked by Beijing to set up China's first privately financed banks since the 1949 communist revolution. It is dipping a toe abroad, with a $215 million investment in March in Tango, a California-based mobile message service, and plans to launch a U.S. e-commerce site. Alibaba's IPO paperwork says revenue, mostly fees from merchants, rose 57 percent in the final nine months of last year. Alibaba kept more than 43 cents of each dollar as net income. In a Silicon Valley-style innovation, Alibaba cultivated a hardworking but playful corporate culture that was a novelty in China's state-dominated economy. An annual employee talent show grew into Alifest, a raucous event held in a soccer stadium before an audience of thousands. Ma takes part by singing Chinese pop songs. "Alibaba allowed people to shape their own destiny instead of working for a state-owned company or the government bureaucracy," said Erisman. The early years were a roller-coaster of successes and setbacks. In 1999, Alibaba raised $5 million from investors including Goldman Sachs and then $20 million from Japan's Softbank. Plans called for raising more through a stock market offering, but the Internet bubble burst in 2000 and interest in tech shares evaporated. "We suffered much more than any other Internet company," Ma told the BBC in 2001. The next year, Alibaba faced its biggest threat when eBay acquired EachNet, a company that had 80 percent of China's small consumer e-commerce market. Ma fought back by launching consumer site Taobao and Alipay. He promised Taobao would be free for three years, undercutting eBay's fee-based model. In a guerrilla move to offset eBay's bigger advertising budget, Alibaba employees posted thousands of messages on Internet bulletin boards directing users to Taobao. In 2004, then-CEO Meg Whitman said eBay expected China to be its biggest market in 10 to 15 years. In 2006, eBay gave up and turned over its China operation to a local partner. Taobao has given tens of thousands of small Chinese entrepreneurs their first foothold in e-commerce, trading used furniture, hand-knitted sweaters and other goods. In the northwestern city of Urumqi, Jin Junhui started a business on Taobao in 2005 selling dates and raisins for which the region is famous. Sales in 2008 hit 500,000 yuan ($80,000) and doubled the next year. "Taobao has changed my life," said Jin, 32. "Now I have two employees and more free time to do what I like." Alibaba's rise has been marked by Ma's emphasis on the company's long-term interests, even when that clashed with shareholders. That strained ties with Yahoo Inc., which provided much-needed cash when it paid $1 billion for 40 percent of Alibaba in 2005. The relationship soured in squabbles over strategy but Yahoo profited. Alibaba bought back half for $7.1 billion in 2011 and Yahoo stands to make billions more in the IPO. Alibaba also faced criticism in 2011 when it spun off Alipay but failed to tell Yahoo and other shareholders immediately. Ma said the move was necessary because Beijing would only license an electronic payment service wholly owned by Chinese citizens. Ma stepped down as CEO in May 2013, but stayed on as executive chairman and also announced an overhaul to make Alibaba more responsive. The changes come as Alibaba faces a challenge to its dominance amid upheaval in China's Internet market, where users are shifting to going online via smartphone and tablet. In e-commerce, Alibaba faces competition from Jingdong.com, which has one-tenth of its market share but a strong reputation for service. Jingdong.com received a $215 million investment in March from games portal Tencent Holdings Ltd., which also owns a stake in an operator of logistics centers. "Two years ago, I think Alibaba was quite successful. It had no competitor," said Yu of Analysys International. "But today things are quite different. Tencent definitely is a formidable power to challenge Alibaba's business." ___ AP researcher Fu Ting in Shanghai contributed. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChinese Premier Li and Ethiopian PM Desalegn walk to inaugurate the Addis Ababa-Adama expressway in Tulu DimtuBEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese Premier Li Keqiang unveiled extra aid for Africa totalling at least $12 billion on Monday, and offered to share advance technology with the continent to help with development of high-speed rail, state media reported. Li pledged the additional funding in a speech at the Organisation of African Union headquarters in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. China will increase credit lines to Africa by $10 billion and will boost the China-Africa Development Fund by $2 billion, bringing it to a total of $5 billion, Li said, according to the official Xinhua news agency. He provided no details of the timeframe. Li "depicted a dream that all African capitals are connected with high-speed rail, so as to boost pan-African communication and development," the report said. As China has advanced technologies in this area, Li said China was ready to work with Africa "to make this dream come true". China will also offer $10 million in aid for wildlife protection, Li added, for a part of the world where the Chinese appetite ivory and rhino horns have driven some species to the brink of extinction. It is Li's first visit to Africa since he became premier last year, and follows on from a trip to the continent by President Xi Jinping in March 2013, when he renewed an offer of $20 billion in loans to Africa between 2013 and 2015. Li said that the new $10 billion credit line would be on top of the existing $20 billion already offered, the China News Service reported. Chinese officials said last week that Li's trip, which also takes in oil-rich Nigeria and Angola, would not simply be for energy deals and Beijing will be seeking to help boost African living standards. Li said he hoped that some of the loans being offered would be used to support small and medium-seized companies in Africa, adding that economic development on the continent offered huge opportunities for both China and Africa. "History and reality make clear to all: China's development gives opportunity to Africa; Africa develops, and China also benefits," he said. Trips by Chinese leaders to Africa are often marked by big natural resource deals, triggering criticism from some quarters that China is only interested in the continent's mineral and energy wealth. China has a relationship with Africa which pre-dates its current resource-hungry economic boom. In previous decades, China's Communist leaders supported national liberation movements and newly independent states across the continent. Africans broadly see China as a healthy counterbalance to Western influence but, as ties mature, there are growing calls from policymakers and economists for more balanced trade relations. This version of the story corrects the figure for wildlife aid in the fifth paragraph. Earlier state media reports put the figure at $100 million, but transcript of speech puts figure at $10 million. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
From Trulia chief economist Jed Kolko: Yearly Price Gain Smallest in 11 Months, Despite Steady Monthly Rise  Nationally, asking prices rose 0.8% month-over-month and 2.8% quarter-over-quarter in April, seasonally adjusted. Those gains are in line with March increases and show that home prices continue to rapidly climb. However, asking prices rose 9.0% year-over-year, which is the smallest year-over-year increase in 11 months. Why are year-over-year price increases slipping despite month-over-month and quarter-over-quarter increases holding steady? One reason is that the biggest price spike during the housing recovery happened between February and April 2013, and the year-over-year change in April 2014 no longer includes those months. ... Nationally, rents have increased 4.5% year-over-year and are up more than 10% in San Francisco, Oakland, and Denver. In November 2013, year-over-year asking prices were up 12.2%. In December, the year-over-year increase in asking home prices slowed slightly to 11.9%. In January, the year-over-year increase was 11.4%, in February, the increase was 10.4%, in March the increase was 10.0%, and now 9.0%. This suggests prices are still increasing, but at a slightly slower pace.Note: These asking prices are SA (Seasonally Adjusted) - and adjusted for the mix of homes - and this suggests further house price increases, but at a slower rate, over the next few months on a seasonally adjusted basis.Note: in the linked article, Kolko also has an interesting discussion on why "construction still lags in housing markets with biggest price rebounds". FREE AppDownload
Photo by Hannelore Foerster/Getty ImagesThis might be something to keep an eye on. From Reuters, today: German exports posted their biggest fall in nearly a year in March and imports also fell, narrowing the trade surplus in Europe's largest economy and confirming that trade was a drag on growth at the start of 2014. And from Bloomberg, yesterday: German factory orders unexpectedly fell in March, signaling that growth in Europe’s largest economy remains uneven. Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, fell 2.8 percent from February, when they increased a revised 0.9 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, according to the median of 37 estimates in aBloomberg News survey. Those numbers were from March, and they could be fluky. Still worth keeping an eye on. FREE AppDownload
Here’s a frightening fact via The Atlantic’s Moises Naim.  Roughly half of the world can’t answer these three questions correctly: 1.  Suppose you had $100 in a savings account and the interest rate was 2 percent per year. After five years, how much do you think you would have in the account if you left the money to grow? A) more than $102; B) exactly $102; C) less than $102; D) do not know; refuse to answer. 2.  Imagine that the interest rate on your savings account is 1 percent per year and inflation is 2 percent per year. After one year, would you be able to buy A) more than, B) exactly the same as, or C) less than today with the money in this account?; D) do not know; refuse to answer. 3.  Do you think that the following statement is true or false? “Buying a single company stock usually provides a safer return than a stock mutual fund.” A) true; B) false; C) do not know; refuse to answer. Even worse – 70% of Americans can’t answer all three questions correctly.  And we wonder why the world seems to have so many persistent financial problems.  We don’t even come close to understanding the construct of money or how it should be used.  The world desperately needs to become better educated on the topic of money, finance and economics.  It certainly won’t solve all of our financial problems, but information really is power when it comes to money.   Unfortunately, we don’t even teach basic finance in most schools and economists can’t even agree on what “money” is in the first place.  We have a long road ahead of us but it’s not too late to get started…. * answers (which no one reading Pragcap should need) are 1-A; 2-C; and 3-B. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / NOAAGood morning! Markets are currently edging lower.  It's nothing too dramatic. Germany is off 0.25%. Italy is down 0.65%. Germany posted a surprise fall in exports, which may not be helping. In corporate news, after the bell yesterday, it was reported that Apple was in talks to buy headphones company Beats Electronics for $3.2 billion — a move that is widely being viewed as a head-scratcher, if it happens. One big overnight winner was India, which saw stocks rally 2.25% FREE AppDownload
