Bloomberg TVDavid TepperBill Gross shocked the financial world when he announced he would be quitting his job as CIO of PIMCO, the $2 trillion California-based asset management firm. This meant that he would be stepping down as manager of the $200 billion PIMCO Total Return Fund. Analysts speculated that this would mean PIMCO could lose anywhere from tens of billions to hundreds of billions of dollars in client assets. Of course, this doesn't mean people would be dumping bonds outright. If anything, resulting outflows would be going from PIMCO to some competing bond fund manager. Gross is expected to have a much smaller influence in the markets as he is now taking over the tiny $12 million Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund. Regardless money is already moving. Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle asked influential hedge fund manager David Tepper what this means. Here's the script: RUHLE: What does this Bill Gross exit mean for the market? TEPPER: Nothing. Who cares? RUHLE: Really? TEPPER: You saw it the other day. The – the little bit that was done with the corporate markets. He's there. He's here. It's not going to mean that much. Really what means things are fundamentals. So you talk about a day, two days, three days. But long term, it doesn't mean anything. The market is the market. It's bigger than anybody. Indeed, the bond market hasn't seen too much movement in the days since Gross announced his resignation. Regarding scale, it's important to keep things in perspective. While the billions and trillions mentioned above seem big, the global financial markets are almost unfathomably big. Below is a chart of global financial assets. Deutsche Bank estimates it was worth $242 trillion in 2013. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
The age of the activist investor is upon us and Oracle is once more being targeted. As we previously reported, a group of five powerful institutional shareholders want to make changes to how Oracle elects its board members and ultimately change how it pays its top executives. "We equate the recent announcement on changes to Oracle’s leadership structure as simply a rearrangement of the deck chairs which serves to further empower executive management," the shareholders said in an open letter to other investors. They want something called "proxy access," which lets a group of shareholders nominate their own board members and have those alternatives listed on the company's annual proxy ballet mailed to shareholders. The shareholders behind this proposal are California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CSTRS); The Nathan Cummings Foundation (the charitable foundation formed by Sara Lee founder Nathan Cummings); PGGM Investments, a Dutch pension fund service provider that manages EUR 178 billion; the RPMI Railpen Investments, a UK pension fund service provider; and the retirement fund for U.S. autoworkers, UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust. We asked CSTRS why it was pursuing this, when Oracle has already made changes to its executive compensation. CSTRS owns 10.4 million shares of Oracle. A spokesperson told us: CalSTRS believes the case for shareholder access to the proxy ballot is particularly compelling at Oracle Corporation, where insufficient board accountability and poorly designed compensation programs create significant risk to shareholders. While the company has made some positive moves as of late, the needed structural changes to executive compensation programs and access to board nominations remain unaddressed. Given the existing board’s long-running lack of responsiveness to shareholders, proxy access remains an unresolved central issue for us. These shareholders want to be able to nominate someone who has had a 3% stake for at least three years. That 3% for three years follows a rule for proxy access set by the US Securities and Exchange Commission that was struck down by a court in 2011. Now the only way to get it is through a shareholder proposal that amends that company's bylaws. In May, Verizon's board said yes to a similar shareholder proxy access proposal, and it passed. But companies generally don't like this way of nominating board members, fearing that such board members are really working for the shareholders who nominated them, and not the company at large, reports David Katz on the Harvard Law blog. Oracle points out that owning 3% of Oracle stock equates to about $5.7 billion worth of stock, and a person with those resources can afford to "bear the expense" of mailing out his/her own proxy ballets. The board also says that such a person can come forward and ask to be part of the board through the existing methods. Odds are, this shareholder proposal won't pass. It's not supported by Oracle's board and it's almost unheard of that a shareholder proposal opposed by the board gets passed. But sometimes just making waves is enough to make a board start listening. For instance, the last time activist shareholders complained about how much stock the company was offering to its top executives as stock options, the board responded and halved that amount. Plus it created a new incentive: stock contingent on performance. Even so, Oracle's top three executives remain among the most highly paid in corporate America. Oracle declined further comment. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Harrison McClaryA piece of North Dakota shaleThanks to technological developments in hydraulic fracturing, drillers have been able to extract natural gas from America's shale basins. This has kept the energy production industry busy while domestic gas prices have stayed very low. "Relentless supply growth and tepid demand led us to reduce our 2015 forecasts," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote. "Thanks to significant growth in US natural gas production, natural gas inventories remain on pace to reach just over 3.5 Tcf by the end of October. Given continued very strong gas production, and delivery, growth for the balance of 2014 and in 2015 is expected to become the major headwind for prices, particularly under normal weather."  With volatility returning to the stock markets, the best idea for investors may be to play long term themes like the ongoing American Shale Gas Revolution. "The advantages of low US natural gas prices are evident in multiple industries, including refining, chemicals, fertilizers, gas- fired power plants, gas export and gas transportation," write the analysts. Morgan Stanley picked 16 stocks they believe are best positioned for this big economic story. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank Of America sign is pictured in the Manhattan borough of New York(Reuters) - Bank of America Corp  said it named Chief Executive Brian Moynihan as chairman of its board, effective immediately. He succeeds Charles Holliday, who served as the company's chairman for more than four years. "The board strongly supports the strategy that Brian has set and, after careful deliberation, has decided to take these next steps in our governance responsibilities," Holliday said in a statement. The bank said Jack Bovender, a member of the board since August 2012, will become its lead independent director. Moynihan was named CEO and a board member in January 2010. Moynihan has been aggressively cutting costs to turn the bank around. Bank of America posted a bigger-than-expected 70 percent jump in profit in the latest quarter. The company's shares were up slightly at $16.86 in extended trade. They closed at $16.82 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.  (Reporting By Krishna Chaithanya and Anil D'Silva; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Trulia's chief economist Jed Kolko tweeted out maps showing how the job market is doing in US metropolitan areas. We were interested by this long-term map, showing how metro area job markets have changed over the last two decades. Metro areas in the South and Southwest mostly grew at a much faster rate than in the Northeast and Midwest: Jed Kolko/Trulia More immediately, here's job growth between August 2013 and August 2014. Kolko observed that the long term trend is pretty similar to the annual trend, with the sunbelt showing high average annual job growth rates over the last couple decades. Jed Kolko/Trulia    FREE AppDownload
ReutersFormer Argentine Central Bank head Juan Carlos FabregaJuan Carlos Fabrega, the head of Argentina's Central Bank, has quit according to several reports from the country. Fabrega was appointed by President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner at the end of 2013, but since then the two have been at odds a bit. The last straw may have been a speech the President gave in which she blamed Fabrega for issues with capital flight and a rising dollar. "You blame me for the flight of capital and the rising dollar, that's fine," said Fernandez speaking to Fabrega in the front row of her public speech. "I feel for the dollar losses and not another one should leave the country. Besides that, you continue to have a problem with the economy that I don't have to solve. Just be sure another dollar does not leave the country." Fabrega was not liked by the country's Economy Minister, Axel Kiciloff. Fabrega was in favor of negotiating with a group of hedge fund holdout creditors, whose victory in a lawsuit for over $1.3 billion, and Argentina's refusal to pay them, sent the country into default. Securities regulator Alejandro Vanoli will take Fabrega's place as head of the Central Bank. He'll have his work cut out for him. The country is battling rising inflation, capital flight and dwindling dollar reserves. Morgan Stanley estimates that if conditions remain as they are, the Central Bank could have as little as $10 billion in cash by this time next year. Low commodities prices aren't helping the country's balance of payments either. Barclays Good luck Vanoli. FREE AppDownload
DirecTVThe Sunday Ticket menu. DirecTV and the NFL have reached an agreement on "Sunday Ticket," giving DirecTV the exclusive right to show every NFL game each week.  Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.  According to Reuters, citing a source familiar with the agreement, DirecTV will pay the NFL an average of $1.5 billion per year for "Sunday Ticket" over 8 years. Reaching this agreement was a requirement for the completion of AT&amp;T and DirecTV's $48.5 billion merger, which was recently approved by AT&amp;T shareholders and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2015.  In a regulatory filing, AT&amp;T included a clause that allowed the company to walk away from its deal to acquire DirecTV if the company could not reach an agreement with the NFL for the "Sunday Ticket" package. In after hours trade, shares of DirecTV were up as much as 2% and AT&amp;T shares were fractionally higher.  Here's the full release from DirecTV and the NFL: NEW YORK &amp; EL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The National Football League and DIRECTV have extended and expanded DIRECTV's exclusive rights to carry NFL SUNDAY TICKET and its package of every Sunday afternoon out-of-market game through a new multi-year agreement. The new agreement also expands DIRECTV’s rights to stream NFL SUNDAY TICKET live on mobile devices and via broadband, known as NFL SUNDAY TICKET.TV, as previously announced. Specific terms of the agreement were not disclosed. Under the new pact, DIRECTV will also continue to broadcast its RED ZONE CHANNEL and its new DIRECTV FANTASY ZONE channel that debuted this season. In addition, DIRECTV and the NFL also extended their NFL Network distribution relationship with DIRECTV to offer its customers TV Everywhere access to NFL Network anytime, anywhere on virtually any device. “We are pleased to continue our partnership with DIRECTV,” said NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell. “DIRECTV and NFL SUNDAY TICKET have served our fans well for 20 years and continue to complement our broadcast television packages. We also appreciate DIRECTV's commitment to NFL Network, which it has carried since the channel launched in 2003.” “This new agreement is a testament to the terrific long-term relationship we have with the NFL and its millions of fans across the country,” said Mike White, chairman, president and CEO of DIRECTV. “NFL SUNDAY TICKET has always been the centerpiece of DIRECTV's sports leadership and we're pleased to continue our relationship with the NFL and be a part of the league's future growth and success.” Under the new NFL SUNDAY TICKET agreement, DIRECTV will continue to offer all out-of-market Sunday afternoon games in HD. DIRECTV customers who purchase NFL SUNDAY TICKET MAX will also have access to the online/mobile service to watch their games on virtually any device; a Game Mix channel with up to eight games on one screen; both the RED ZONE CHANNEL and new DIRECTV FANTASY ZONE channel; and Short Cuts, which offers replays of each Sunday game in 30 commercial-free minutes. The new DIRECTV FANTASY ZONE channel is devoted entirely to fantasy football and fields a team of fantasy experts offering real-time game-to-game fantasy analysis and statistics powered by NFL.com Fantasy. FREE AppDownload
Mike Hewitt / Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Should Call Up Their Nervous Clients Today (Advisor Perspectives) Clients always get nervous around a market "hiccup." In these situations, it's important to first understand where this nervousness stems from. Concerns like Ebola, Ukraine, ISIS, elevated valuations of US stocks, and even the memory of the financial crisis six years ago all make clients feel extra anxious. Advisors should identify and call up the clients who are the most nervous. Those who were anxious in the past (especially during relatively minor market turndowns) will probably be the ones who are anxious in the present.  "When talking to nervous clients, you need to walk the line between acknowledging the real issues they face while providing context and reassurance," writes Dan Richards. And if you get a client's voicemail, it's important to send a follow-up email detailing information, but also providing reassurance. "By taking the time this week to reach out to clients likely to be anxious, you will send a positive message and increase the odds that clients will walk away reassured," Richards says. Bonds Investors Should Mix Active And Passive In The Current Market (BlackRock Blog) Generating a return in the bond market during the next 2-3 years is going to be "harder than ever before" for two reasons, according to BlackRock analysts. First, there's deleveraging and rising investor demand; and second, rates are still pretty low when compared to historical averages. Consequently, bond investors "should mix active and passive," according to BlackRock. "Blending index and active exposures allows investors to better manage their market exposures, be selective about those funds and managers where they have high conviction, and customize their portfolio according to their unique needs."  A critical part of bond portfolios is the duration, or the interest-rate sensitivity. The higher the number, the more likely the price of a bond will be affected by changing rates. "As rates rise, BlackRock believes that investors will want to bring their duration down, and those investors who want to do so but still maintain exposure to the broad market could consider a mix of indexed and active bond strategies." Investors Should Have A 2-4 Year Cushion (Charles Schwab) Investors are often told to think about "risk tolerance" — or their "comfort level" — when taking on investment risk. However, it is more important to think about "risk capacity," or how much risk investors can afford, according to Charles Schwab's Rob Williams. "Consider your needs over the short time horizon. If you're nearing retirement, think about how much money you need in the next two to four years. Invest that conservatively. Then invest the rest based on your longer-term time horizon and risk tolerance. In other words, work backwards to build your allocation," writes Williams. Investors should essentially have a 2-4 year investment cushion. This is critical for those approaching retirement years because for the last 50 years, the average bear market for US stocks has lasted slightly over 1 year, and took the S&amp;P 500 3.5 years on average to recover to prior highs. A Sharp Rise In US Interest Rates Isn't The Greatest Risk (Vanguard) "A sharp rise in US interest rates is not the greatest risk in the market today. Rather, it may lie in the segments of the market that investors have gone into seeking to avoid that very risk of higher rates to begin with," argues Vanguard's Joe Davis. He says that often investors take information released by the Fed "too literally", especially the "dots chart." This leads investors to create "a false sense of certainty and complacency." And because volatility has been low this year (with stocks and bonds producing fairly steady positive returns), investors have gotten extremely complacent. They've started pursuing the riskiest options and higher yields. The Fed is "likely to spark volatility as the market digests new information" so clients should be reminded to rebalance in order to exhibit risk control.  And, investors should be mindful of duration tilts, Davis writes. "Both the near-term Fed liftoff date and the long-term natural level of interest rates are extremely uncertain. Duration bets must be placed almost perfectly on the yield curve to pay off. Investors should be careful when tilting duration without a carefully thought-out plan." Decisions In Washington May Lead To Buy Opportunities (Wealth Management.com) Washington politics can greatly impact clients' portfolios, according to Andy Friedman, the principal of The Washington Update. And specifically, investors should pay attention to "forcing events" — or moments when Congress must act — because those tend to be great opportunities to buy. The next will come "late spring or early summer next year when markets drop because of concern that the debt ceiling's not going to go up, that's a buying opportunity," Friedman says.  Another hotly debated issue is tax-reform. Again, this probably won't pop up until next year, according to Friedman, but it's important to keep an eye on "harvesting losses, buy and hold strategies, municipal bonds, MLPs, and REITs  — all the things that flow through income with low or no taxes." "Because they're tax inefficient, you could be losing half of the returns now with taxes. FREE AppDownload
Lane Hickenbottom/ReutersCharlie MungerCharlie Munger dropped out of college, served as a meteorologist in the US Army Air Corps, and attended Harvard Law. And then at age 31, he met Warren Buffett, who convinced him to go into investing. Today, Munger is Warren Buffett's right-hand man at Berkshire Hathaway and has an estimated net worth of $1.3 billion. We've compiled a list of his most insightful quotes about business, investing, and life in general. So step inside the mind of one of the most brilliant investors alive today. FREE AppDownload
PIMCO, Morningstar, Business InsiderPIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw a breath taking $23.5 billion in net outflows in September. "Of note, the largest daily outflow occurred on the day of Bill Gross’s resignation from the firm, while outflows on the two following days were considerably smaller," PIMCO said in a press release. That was the 17th straight month of net outflows for a cumulative total amount of about $92 billion. All of this is part of the legacy that CIO Bill Gross leaves behind as he heads to Janus Capital. PIMCO has attracted a lot of attention in recent months, largely because of the unexpected departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian and revelations of Gross's unorthodox management style. Despite the outflows, PIMCO's fund continues to be massive with roughly $200 billion in assets under management. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lori SheplerThe headquarters of investment firm PIMCO is shown in this photo taken in Newport Beach, California. In the wake of Bill Gross' sudden departure from PIMCO, the gigantic fund company has seen significant outflows. Different investors may have different reasons for taking their money out of PIMCO. But here's one explanation from Sterne Agee Asset Management (SAAM). This is the note they sent to investors: Today we made changes to all Classic and Classic Plus portfolios other than the aggressive models.  We liquidated the position in the PIMCO Total Return Fund. Our sense is that the new PIMCO management team is both experienced and energized. However, we are concerned about ongoing distractions as their investment professionals attempt to stem &amp; manage around potentially large liquidations. Proceeds from the sale of PIMCO Total Return Bond fund have been allocated to the other existing intermediate fixed income positions: RidgeWorth Total Return Bond fund &amp; JP Morgan Core Bond fund. In the Moderately Aggressive Model, the JP Morgan Core Bond Fund was a new addition. So there you have it. The new PIMCO managers are good (everyone agrees at that) but it's not worth being at a place seeing this much volatility. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Buddhika WeerasingheAn elephant destroys a minibus after throwing its rider and going on a rampage during Sri Lanka's sixth annual elephant polo tournament in Galle February 15, 2007.Happy October. It was a rough start to the month and the quarter for the stock market, as each of the major US stock indexes fell more than 1%. The Dow lost more than 200 points and the Nasdaq fell 70 points while the Russell 2000, which houses mid and small-cap stocks, officially moved into a correction as it is now more than 10% lower than its most recent highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. It was an ugly day for the markets. Stocks opened lower and the selling relented only slightly in the last hour of trading as the markets got off to a rough start to kick off a new month and the final quarter of 2014. The only sector of the S&amp;P 500 that didn't see a complete rout was utility stocks. The price of oil fell again on Wednesday after a brief rally following Tuesday's rout. US Treasury bonds, meanwhile, rallied on Wednesday with the yield on the US 10-year falling to 2.4% and the 30-year falling to 3.11%.  2. The Russell 2000, which houses mid and small-cap stocks, officially fell 10% from its most recent highs, taking the index into correction territory. The S&amp;P 500 still remains about 5% away from a correction, which that index last saw back in 2012.  3. The European Central Bank is set to hold its latest policy meeting on Thursday, and Business Insider's Mike Bird has the complete preview. The central bank is expected to keep interest rates unchanged, but the market will mostly be looking for additional details from ECB president Mario Draghi regarding the bank's asset-backed securities purchase program.  4. Ahead of the latest ECB policy announcement, Germany issued 10-year bonds at a new record low yield of 0.94%. This debt sale reflects the declining inflation expectation in Europe, and in comments on Bloomberg TV on Wednesday, hedge fund manager David Tepper said that until Mario Draghi acts, and until there is inflation in the Eurozone, nothing will happen with bonds.  4. US automakers reported September sales on Wednesday, with the pace of sales slowing to an annual rate of 16.43 million vehicles, below expectations for sales to come in at 16.5 million and below last month's 17.45 million. Among the notable US automakers reporting sales, Chrysler and General Motors reported sales that grew more than expected, while Ford sales fell more than expected. 5. ADP released its latest private payroll report on Wednesday, showing that companies added 213,000 jobs in September, up from August's revised addition of 202,000 and better than the 205,000 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: Solid, and perhaps suggests upside risk for Friday’s official data."  6. In addition to ADP's payrolls report, we also got manufacturing data from both ISM and Markit, as well as construction spending data from the Commerce Department. ISM's manufacturing report slowed more than was expected by economists, while Markit's manufacturing PMI remained strong but dropped slightly from August's reading. Construction spending was also weak, falling 0.8% in August against expectations for a 0.5% increase.  7. Airline stocks were notably weak on Wednesday, with some traders attributing the move in the sector to concerns regarding Ebola. Among the notable losers in the airline space were Delta, American Airlines, and Southwest, which all fell more than 3% on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the CDC confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US, sending shares of a number of drug companies working to make Ebola cures higher, notably Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which gained 18% on Wednesday. Shares of Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, also rallied on Wednesday, gaining just less than 30%.  Don't Miss: 29 Brilliant Quotes From Charlie Munger, Warren Buffet's Right-Hand Man » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Elizabeth WarrenSen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who has called for congressional hearings regarding conduct at the Federal Reserve following the ProPublica and This American Life report from last week, told NPR in an interview on Wednesday that the report, "tells us exactly what we already knew." Warren told NPR's Steve Inskeep that the report, "ultimately this report tells us exactly what we already knew — that the relationship between regulators and the financial institutions they oversee is too cozy to provide the kind of tough oversight that's really needed."  Last week, a report from ProPublic and This American Life released secret audio recordings from former New York Fed official Carmen Segarra that appeared to showed disagreements and dysfunction among Fed officials stationed inside Goldman Sachs.  Listening to the tapes, Warren said two things jumped out: the lack of truthful reporting and the emphasis by Fed officials on talk over action.  "You know, the regulators seemed to think that it was a victory just to raise an issue, even if they took absolutely no action to address the issue," Warren said. "And that's the kind of approach that allowed banks to take on massive risks before the financial crisis. You know, think about that: The regulators seemed to think that fussing at banks behind closed doors was their toughest sanction. Does anyone believe that Goldman Sachs is gonna give up a deal that would yield millions of dollars because someone fussed at them behind closed doors?" Warren also said the issue of bank regulation is "already a campaign issue."  Warren said: The way I see this, for everybody who's running right now in 2014, there's a fundamental question of whose side you stand on. You know, the game out there is rigged, and people across this country really get it. And the Goldman Sachs tapes just show it one more time. Little banks have to follow the rules, regular families have to follow the rules, but big financial institutions? Somehow they can manage just to push their regulators aside and go forward. There's a — there's a fundamental question about who this country works for. It can't just work for those who already have lots of money and lots of power. We've got to have a country that works for everybody else. Warren, a former consumer advocate and a rumored presidential candidate in 2016, is one of the most vocal and critical members of congress regarding financial regulation. Back in July, Warren issued a direct challenge to Fed chair Janet Yellen on the enforcement of the "living will" provision in the Dodd-Frank Act, which prompted the Fed to act. It remains to be seen what Warren does in the wake of this report and the surfacing of these tapes from inside the Fed and Goldman Sachs.  FREE AppDownload
FlickrA $6 billion fund  is closing its doors by 2015. Relational Investment, LLC is planning to shut down and liquidate its current funds after its co-founder, Ralph Whitworth, found out that his throat cancer has returned, according to a Wall Street Journal report. Back in July, the firm announced that Whitworth was taking a leave of absence. His co-founder David Batchelder was originally planning to step back from his responsibilities, but took control of the firm's operations when Whitworth left. The firm discussed future plans with investors, and ultimately decided that they will execute "an orderly liquidation and wind-down of operations" given the circumstances. But this may not be the end of the firm. "The firm's executives expect eventually to launch a new fund with the same name, though founders Mr. Whitworth and David Batchelder will cede day-to-day control," according to the WSJ.  Relational Investors is an activist investment firm, meaning that after it buys stakes in companies, it pushes them to change their financial or strategic operations in an effort to increase shareholder value. Some of Relational's more high-profile investments included Hewlett-Packard Co. and Home Depot.  Currently, the firm is managing around 20 investments, including steelmaker Timken and Oreo maker Mondelez International Inc., according to the WSJ report. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Buddhika WeerasingheAn elephant destroys a minibus after throwing its rider and going on a rampage during Sri Lanka's sixth annual elephant polo tournament in Galle February 15, 2007.Happy October. It was a rough start to the month and the quarter for the stock market, as each of the major US stock indexes fell more than 1%. The Dow lost more than 200 points and the Nasdaq fell 70 points while the Russell 2000, which houses mid and small-cap stocks, officially moved into a correction as it is now more than 10% lower than its most recent highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. It was an ugly day for the markets. Stocks opened lower and the selling relented only slightly in the last hour of trading as the markets got off to a rough start to kick off a new month and the final quarter of 2014. The only sector of the S&amp;P 500 that didn't see a complete rout was utility stocks. The price of oil fell again on Wednesday after a brief rally following Tuesday's rout. US Treasury bonds, meanwhile, rallied on Wednesday with the yield on the US 10-year falling to 2.4% and the 30-year falling to 3.11%.  2. The Russell 2000, which houses mid and small-cap stocks, officially fell 10% from its most recent highs, taking the index into correction territory. The S&amp;P 500 still remains about 5% away from a correction, which that index last saw back in 2012.  3. The European Central Bank is set to hold its latest policy meeting on Thursday, and Business Insider's Mike Bird has the complete preview. The central bank is expected to keep interest rates unchanged, but the market will mostly be looking for additional details from ECB president Mario Draghi regarding the bank's asset-backed securities purchase program.  4. Ahead of the latest ECB policy announcement, Germany issued 10-year bonds at a new record low yield of 0.94%. This debt sale reflects the declining inflation expectation in Europe, and in comments on Bloomberg TV on Wednesday, hedge fund manager David Tepper said that until Mario Draghi acts, and until there is inflation in the Eurozone, nothing will happen with bonds.  4. US automakers reported September sales on Wednesday, with the pace of sales slowing to an annual rate of 16.43 million vehicles, below expectations for sales to come in at 16.5 million and below last month's 17.45 million. Among the notable US automakers reporting sales, Chrysler and General Motors reported sales that grew more than expected, while Ford sales fell more than expected. 5. ADP released its latest private payroll report on Wednesday, showing that companies added 213,000 jobs in September, up from August's revised addition of 202,000 and better than the 205,000 that was expected by economists. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: Solid, and perhaps suggests upside risk for Friday’s official data."  6. In addition to ADP's payrolls report, we also got manufacturing data from both ISM and Markit, as well as construction spending data from the Commerce Department. ISM's manufacturing report slowed more than was expected by economists, while Markit's manufacturing PMI remained strong but dropped slightly from August's reading. Construction spending was also weak, falling 0.8% in August against expectations for a 0.5% increase.  7. Airline stocks were notably weak on Wednesday, with some traders attributing the move in the sector to concerns regarding Ebola. Among the notable losers in the airline space were Delta, American Airlines, and Southwest, which all fell more than 3% on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the CDC confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US, sending shares of a number of drug companies working to make Ebola cures higher, notably Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which gained 18% on Wednesday. Shares of Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, also rallied on Wednesday, gaining just less than 30%.  Don't Miss: 29 Brilliant Quotes From Charlie Munger, Warren Buffet's Right-Hand Man » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidExpectations had Chrysler increasing sales by 16%. September US auto sales came in just below expectations. According to Autodata, auto sales in September came in at an annual rate of 16.43 million units, below expectations for 16.5 million.  Among the individual carmakers, Chrysler reported an increase of 19%, topping expectations for a 16% rise.  General Motors reported a 19.4% increase in the pace of sales, which was better than expected, while Ford sales fell more than expected. Among international manufacturers, Nissan reported sales that were better than expected. Nissan's US sales in September rose 18.5%, better than the 17% that was expected by analysts, according to Bloomberg. Toyota and Honda, however, reported sales that rose less than expected. Here's the scoreboard: FREE AppDownload
Armann Hoskuldsson/ReutersBond market volatility has been increasing lately.Bond market and currency volatility have been on the rise lately, leaving many investors wondering what they should do in response. My take: I’ve been advocating for a while that investors should rethink their fixed income exposure, given that bond investing today is very different than it was in the past. It’s never accurate to describe investing — whether asset allocation or beating a benchmark — as “easy.” That said, it’s fair to say bond investing used to be “easier.” For more than three decades, bond managers had the enviable advantage of consistent tailwinds: falling inflation and declining real rates. While bond markets would still suffer the occasional gyration, those dislocations occurred against the backdrop of a multi-decade bull market and steadily declining volatility. Some of those conditions, notably low inflation, remain in place, but the overall environment is less hospitable than it was a decade ago. Today, bond investors face several significant challenges, all of which are likely to impact both the expected return, as well as the riskiness, of bond funds: Traditional bond market aggregates are overwhelmingly weighted toward U.S. government bonds. While Treasury yields are up roughly 100 basis points (bps) from their all-time lows, both nominal and real yields are still a fraction of their long-term average. For example, 10-year Treasury real yields are roughly 50 bps, versus their long-term average of five times that level. Even before accounting for taxes, investors are receiving little return after inflation, unless you believe that inflation will fall even further from already soft levels. Compounding the problem, yields are even lower in other developed countries. Comparable yields on German bonds are roughly 1% and in Japan, comparable yields are 0.5%. What’s driving the low yield environment? While extraordinary monetary policy has played its part, today’s low yields are largely a reflection of low nominal growth throughout the developed world. To the extent that demographic and other long-term factors are responsible, this phenomenon is likely to continue in the years ahead, and rates are likely to remain relatively low by historical standards. Low yields in the sovereign bond market have pushed more and more investors into other fixed income segments, including riskier instruments such as high yield and emerging market debt. While these asset classes still offer higher yields than government bonds or investment grade corporates, a multi-year bull market in high yield means spreads are tight and yields are well below average. Even in emerging markets debt, an asset class that many investors shunned earlier this year, spreads have tightened and yields have dropped. The bottom line: Even for investors willing to take on incremental risk, the pickup in yield offered by traditionally riskier segments is less than it used to be. While long-term rates remain stable, short-term rates are set to rise next year in the United States as well as in the United Kingdom. Given the recent acceleration in the U.S. recovery, it’s possible that rates may rise earlier and at a brisker pace than many expect. While this would likely help boost cash returns, it also means that bond investors may face losses. Bonds or bond funds with two- to five-year maturities (those most sensitive to changes in Federal Reserve (Fed) policy), have already witnessed increasing volatility just on the anticipation of a change in U.S. monetary policy. All of the above suggests that investors should reconsider their bond market portfolios, if they haven’t already. To be sure, there’s still an important place for traditional bond funds in a fixed income portfolio. While they’re light on yield, they can dampen portfolio volatility and offer a much needed hedge against an increasingly expensive equity market. But in today’s less hospitable environment, investors should consider adopting a flexible approach for at least a portion of their bond portfolios. With yields likely to be volatile, and some areas of the bond market feeling the effects more so than others, investors will want the ability to adjust their duration or rate exposure tactically (some extra duration actually helped during the first half of 2014). They’ll also want the ability to pursue niche areas of the bond market that still offer an attractive return-to-risk ratio. A flexible approach, otherwise known as unconstrained investing, that looks for opportunities across a wide set of asset classes and markets can make such on-the-fly adjustments as needed. In short, it can potentially help investors with the increasingly difficult, but still critical, task of bond investing. FREE AppDownload
Oil got crushed Tuesday. Then it bounced Wednesday morning. Now, amid a broad market sell-off, with the Dow off over 200 points, oil is selling off hard again. Here's a multiday chart, via FinViz, that puts things into perspective — both Tuesday's severe sell-off and Wednesday's. FinViz  The decline of commodities and the strength of the dollar is probably the biggest story in the market right now, as it's a sharp change from the market regime that's dominated for so many years (weak dollar, strong commodities). There are multiple theories for the decline in commodities. A slowdown in China is one popular theory to explain the sell-off. The European slowdown (which has been exacerbated by Russia tensions) is also a culprit. Also Tuesday there was news that oil produced in key countries (including LIBYA) was more than expected. FREE AppDownload
In most states, the capital of the state is NOT the biggest city in the state.  Using a data set from the US Geological Service that includes location and 2010 Census population data, we made a map showing every state's capital and largest city. States where the capital is the largest city are in green, and their capitals are in yellow. States where the capital is not the largest city are in grey, and their capitals are in red and largest cities in blue: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from USGS and Census Bureau Here's the list of states where the capital is the largest city: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from USGS and Census Bureau And the states where the capital is not the largest city: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from USGS and Census Bureau
Thomson ReutersA Bank Of America sign is pictured in the Manhattan borough of New YorkBy Karen Freifeld NEW YORK (Reuters) - A key opponent of Bank of America Corp’s proposed $8.5 billion settlement with investors in mortgage-backed securities has dropped its objections, marking another step forward for the deal to receive final court approval. Opponents still include the Chicago police pension fund, which will argue the case on appeal later this month. The Triaxx entities filed a proposed order to withdraw from the case in New York state court on Tuesday. The entities are collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) from 2006 and 2007. American International Group Inc, which led objectors to the settlement in a three-year legal battle, in July settled its disputes with Bank of America and dropped out. Bank of America struck the deal in 2011 with 22 institutional investors in toxic securities issued by Countrywide Financial Corp, the mortgage lender the bank acquired at the height of the financial crisis. Those investors include BlackRock Inc,Allianz SE's Pimco and Metlife Inc. A lawyer for Triaxx raised the only issue a New York judge withheld from her overall approval of the accord in January. The judge found Bank of New York Mellon, the trustee overseeing the securities, should not have settled claims relating to certain modified mortgages without investigating their potential worth. New York attorney John Moon, who represents Triaxx, declined to comment, as did Texas attorney Kathy Patrick, who represents the institutional investors who struck the deal. A spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon also declined comment. A Bank of America spokesman declined to comment. The case is In re: The Bank of New York Mellon, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, No.651786/2011.  (Reporting By Karen Freifeld; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
It was ugly out there on Wednesday.  The Dow fell more than 230 points, the S&amp;P 500 lost 26 and the Nasdaq fell 1.6%.  But there is another index, the Russell 2000, that has had an even rougher go of it. Last month, the 50-day moving average price crossed below the 200-day moving average in a technical phenomenon known as the "death cross." On Wednesday, the Russell 2000, which houses small- and mid-cap stocks, was down 1.2%. From its most recent highs it's down 10%, meaning the index is in a correction.  The S&amp;P 500, meanwhile, is still more than 6% away from a correction and has gone more than twice its historical average number of days since its previous 10% slide, which came all the way back in spring 2012.  In a recent note to clients, Jonathan Golub at RBC Capital Markets wrote that while the small-cap index had performed better than the larger-cap indexes during the market's recovery from the financial crisis, many stocks in the index are currently seeing valuations contract, which Golub attributes to a shift in investor sentiment.  David Bianco at Deutsche Bank wrote in a note that growth expectations for Russell 2000 stocks were still too high for 2015, and he added that rising rates and disappointing results would continue to pressure valuations for Russell stocks.  In other words, Golub and Bianco believe this correction is a correction in valuations, which means it won't necessarily bring the rest of the market down with it. Here's the ugly action of the Russell year-to-date, a move that is certain to have investors asking: are the other indexes next? Business Insider FREE AppDownload
oninnovation/flickrEntrepreneur, humanitarian, bookworm. While Bill Gates has a schedule that's planned down to the minute, the entrepreneur-turned-billionaire-humanitarian still gobbles up about a book a week.  Aside from a handful of novels, they're mostly nonfiction books covering his and his foundation's broad range of interests. A lot of them are about transforming systems: how nations can intelligently develop, how to lead an organization, and how social change can fruitfully happen. We went through the past four years of his book criticism to find the ones that he gave glowing reviews and that changed his perspective. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider(left to right) Barry Ritholtz, CIO, and Josh Brown, CEO, of Ritholtz Wealth Management. But it's still pretty high for young people just starting out or parents who want to start something small for their kids. A number of so-called "robo-advisers" have been launched in recent years to help investors automatically allocate their portfolio. But what if you want advice from a known investor? It was with this in mind that Ritholtz Wealth CEO Josh Brown and CIO Barry Ritholtz decided to create the first robo adviser for young people. They wanted to be able to serve people who don't need the same advising as individuals with a high net worth but who still want to know who is running their money. Ritholtz and Brown are both well known as writers and investors on Wall Street, and now they're giving younger investors a chance to buy into their strategy. The program is called Liftoff, and it takes only $5,000 and a computer to get started. "Liftoff combines various attributes of financial planning and classic low-cost asset allocation to help people get started and stay on track for their goals," Brown told Business Insider via email. Ritholtz partnered with the California-based tech company Upside to make a super clean interface in which setup is a snap. Here's what it looks like when you start out. Ritholtz Wealth After a few questions about how much risk you're willing to take as an investor and setting the amount you want to start with, Liftoff gives you a projection of what your portfolio will look like. Ritholtz Wealth Once you've set it, you can basically forget it. That's the idea. The whole deal costs an annual fee of 40 basis points. On $50,000 that should be $200 per year or about $17 a month, on $5,000 its about $1.70 a month. Surveys show that young people are really distrustful of the stock market and don't see it as a solid way to save for retirement. It's understandable — the financial crisis is basically what young people know about investing in the stock market. However, by staying out, they're missing out. "The single most precious resource that investors have is not experience or capital or market wisdom — it is time," Brown said. "By not taking full advantage of their long-time horizons, we believe that many young people are squandering this resource and missing out on the power of compounded returns." So check it out.    FREE AppDownload
sunday driver/FlickrL'Atelier de Joël Robuchon in Hong Kong.New York City foodies are having a fantastic week.  Not only did Michelin reveal its 2015 restaurant ratings for the Big Apple on Tuesday, but it was announced Wednesday that world-renowned chef Joël Robuchon is set to reopen his famous L’Atelier de Joël Robuchon in New York’s Battery Park City. Robuchon, whose restaurant empire encompasses Hong Kong, Las Vegas, London, Monaco, Paris, and Tokyo, has more Michelin stars than any other chef in the world — an impressive 28 in total. He closed the original New York L’Atelier at the Four Seasons in 2012, departing entirely from the New York restaurant scene. But he often told reporters that he would like to come back and try again. ulterior epicure/FlickrThe former L'Atelier in the Four Seasons in NYC, now closed.The new iteration of NYC's L’Atelier — the more affordable version of Robuchon’s series of eponymous restaurants — will open in March 2015 at Brookfield Place, formerly the World Financial Center. The new establishment will be 11,000 square feet with both counter and table seating, as well as a bar, lounge, and waterside outdoor area. Robuchon currently has one other American L’Atelier location in Las Vegas, which offers two prix fixe options ranging from $78 to $105 and items like foie gras ravioli and his famous Le Burger — a beef and foie gras burger with caramelized bell peppers.  sunday driver/FlickrLe Burger at Joël Robuchon's Hong Kong location.This will be Robuchon’s third restaurant in America, and 23rd in the world. Sometimes called the "chef of the century,” Robuchon became famous thanks to his first Paris restaurant, Jamin, which was regarded as one of the best restaurants in history.  After retiring from Jamin in the '90s, Robuchon re-emerged with a series of restaurants bearing his name and with his protégées at the helm. Now that he's coming back to New York City, the Michelin Guide should get ready to make another spot on its list. FREE AppDownload
Diversity at the top of the Wall Street's major banks has long been an issue, with the US Government Accountability Office reporting that 64% of senior positions were held by white males as recently as 2008. As for the bottom rungs of the financial sector? A The New York Times story suggests that things aren't too promising here, either. The Times reports that according to a study done by the startup recruiting firm Vettery, a staggering 77.5% of this year's class of first-year bankers were men. Racial diversity was also lacking, with white and Asian bankers making up 94% of new hires. Vettery came to its conclusions by collecting data from 100,000 financial workers signed up to its recruiting network, as well as information combed from regulatory filings and LinkedIn. What was perhaps equally troubling is how the banks responded when the New York Times asked them about the Vettery study. The majority either declined to comment or chose to obfuscate the issue by claiming Vettery's numbers were inaccurate while refusing to provide the actual statistics. Here's how seven of Wall Street's biggest banks responded to The Times' inquiries: Deutsche Bank (70% white first-year class): A spokesperson told The Times that Vettery's figures were inaccurate but refused to provide other numbers. Still, the spokesperson says the bank is "committed to recruiting diverse talent." Barclays (69% white first-year class): A spokesperson disputed Vettery's report but refused to provide more accurate numbers. Bank of America (66% white first-year class): Declined comment. Credit Suisse (66% white first-year class): Declined comment. Goldman Sachs (56% white first-year class): Declined comment. JPMorgan (13% black or Hispanic, the highest of the banks studied): "We put a tremendous focus on diversity at the firm, but we are mindful that more still needs to be done," a spokesperson said. Morgan Stanley (12% black or Hispanic): Declined comment. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid TepperInfluential hedge fund manager David Tepper appeared on Bloomberg TV with Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker, and talked a bit more about his call on the "beginning of the end" for the bond market rally. Tepper rhetorically asked if bond investors in Europe are really being paid enough for the risk they're taking? "There are a lot of places to lose money," Tepper said, noting that short-term interest rates in a number of countries in Europe, from Germany to Ireland, are negative on a real basis.  "If you look at the Euro Stoxx 50, you have a 3.6% dividend yield," Tepper said. "You have higher dividend yields all through Europe and Japan than the bond market, so at some point that has to turn." But this "turn" in bonds won't happen, Tepper says, until central bankers, namely Mario Draghi, finally starts doing something.  Tepper said that the beginning of the end would be coming for the bond market when the ECB started a full quantitative easing program. To date, that hasn't happened.  The ECB's next monetary policy meeting is on Thursday. Tepper also spoke on a number of other subjects including: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWill the markets finally give GM CEO Mary Barra a hand?In a matter of three days, the dominant narratives of Ford and General Motors have completely swapped places. Here's the background, greatly simplified: In 2009, GM — along with Chrysler — has to be bailed out by the taxpayer and then goes bankrupt. For the first time in decades, "The General" doesn't trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Ford, on the other hand, avoids bailouts and bankruptcy and although its sales get destroyed during the financial crisis along with everybody else, the company emerges as the only member of the once-mighty Detroit Big Three that didn't require a corporate rescue.  GM, meanwhile, is routinely referred to (and continues to be referred to) as "Government Motors." Neither Ford nor GM's stock has been setting the markets on fire (GM was revived as a public company with a $20-billion IPO in 2010) of late. But on Monday, Ford got crushed after its management, under new CEO Mark Fields, announced that the company's European and South American operations will lose billions in 2014. Additionally, Ford is gearing up to produce a lighter-weight new version of its bestselling F-150 pickup truck, which could cause some short-term problems for the carmaker's cash cow (management has been completely up-front about this, by the way). On Wednesday, we got September sales numbers for both Ford and GM, and the contrast couldn't be more dramatic. In a booming U.S. auto market, GM's sales boomed big time, up 19% year-over-year. Ford's sales were among the weakest reported by any automaker — down 3% year-over-year. The drop for Ford was expected, and the company explained that things could be bumpy for a few months as the new F-150 production is sorted out. But still. GM is emerging from a massive ongoing recall that, although stunning from a legal and corporate-cultural standpoint, doesn't seem to have adversely affected the overall business. CEO Mary Barra is beginning to look commanding rather than confounded. And GM is printing money with some of its mot profitable vehicles, large SUVs. Ford's story, post-Great Recession, has a heroic quality. Under CEO Alan Mulally, Ford presented itself as the real Great American Car Company, a title that GM had always held by default, even though Ford was of course founded by Henry Ford, the visionary of the U.S. auto industry.  The GM story is now back on top. It isn't as good a story as the Ford story, which looks to have now run its course (as all stories do). The GM story is one of formidable market power and the ability to take some major hits and just keep moving forward. But Mary Barra has provided a much-needed dose of empathy and purposeful transparency to that narrative (she also made Business Insider's "Sexiest CEOs Alive" list). A GM lifer, but perhaps GM's first self-aware lifer, she realizes that GM's culture is both an asset and a liability. In the face of the recall crisis, she seized the opportunity to preserve what was worth preserving, while jettisoning what wasn't.  Ford, by contrast, is starting to worry people, including the Wall Street analysts who cover the company. The big question now is whether the markets will finally reward GM. They've been highly skeptical for a long time, holding the stock price down. But there may truly be a new GM to invest in now. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid Tepper.Appaloosa Management founder David Tepper was on Bloomberg TV on Wednesday morning, and host Stephanie Ruhle got him talking about the hedge fund bloodbath of the day — Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Shares in the two insurers plummeted up to 40% after a court decided against a group of hedge fund managers suing for the rights to Fannie and Freddie profits. Since the financial crisis, the U.S. Treasury has taken virtually all of that cash, and now investors like Bill Ackman, Bruce Berkowitz, and Richard Perry want a piece. Twenty more cases are pending about this issue, but losing this first case doesn't bode well for the rest. Tepper told Bloomberg that he wished he didn't own any of the stock, but they weren't a large position for his fund. Either way, he pointed out that investors could appeal the decision if they like — so there's that. FREE AppDownload
Shares of several major airline companies were trading lower on Wednesday morning after the CDC on Tuesday night confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US. On Twitter, CNBC's Carl Quintanilla said that traders were blaming Ebola worries on the drop, as CDC officials said the Ebola patient flew from Liberia to Dallas. On Wednesday morning, shares of Delta, Southwest, United, and American Airlines were all lower. Delta was leading losses, falling as much as 4% while Southwest shares were also weak, falling as much as 3%.  Airline peers United and American were also down about 3%, while the S&amp;P 500 was down 0.5%.  Here's a chart of the decline in Delta this morning:  Google Finance And here's the ugly chart of Southwest Airlines. Google Finance Following Tuesday's CDC confirmation of the first case of Ebola in the US, several companies have seen major market moves. Companies working on Ebola treatments surged, notably Tekmira Pharmaceuticals which was up nearly 20%. Additionally, Lakeland Industries, a company that makes hazmat suits also surged adding 6% in morning trade after gaining nearly 12% in the pre-market. On Tuesday the CDC confirmed the first case of Ebola diagnosed in the US. The male patient contracted Ebola in Liberia, although it is unclear how. He flew from Liberia to the US in order to visit his family in Dallas, Texas, and is currently in intensive care at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas. FREE AppDownload
© Clara VannucciBounty hunters look in a fugitive defendant's house.Several years ago, Italian photographer Clara Vannucci was hanging out in a bar in TriBeCa, New York, when she met a burly, Greek man name Bobby Zouvelos. The two struck up a conversation and Vannucci, who had recently photographed inside the notorious Riker’s Island jail, explained to Zouvelos what she had seen. Zouvelos mentioned that he and his brother George worked at jails too; he was a bail bondsman. Intrigued by the concept — Italy doesn’t have bail bondsmen — Vannucci asked the man to introduce her to his world, a rarely discussed underworld of bail bondsmen, defendants, and bounty hunters. After following George and Bobby Zouvelos for the better part of two years, Vannucci collected the work into a recently released book, titled "Bail Bond." Vannucci shares some of her work with Business Insider here, but you can check out the rest at her website or in the book.
The stock market saw some choppy trade to end September, including a big 264-point sell off in the Dow and a nearly 2% decline in the Nasdaq on September 25 alone.  But away from the equity markets, traders and market watchers are looking someplace else for clues on what might be next for the market: high-yield bonds. High-yield bonds are riskier fixed-income assets that typically earn investors a higher yield for taking on additional risk, such as default or early retirement.  In the low-interest rate environment, the conventional wisdom has been that high-yield bonds have been bid up, meaning that the yield on high-yield bonds has fallen, as investors "search for yield." At a meeting last month, BlackRock's James Keenan said that high-yield is a "good fit in a balanced portfolio," but said it isn't an "opportunity" anymore. In his October chart book, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok said that with impending rate hikes, "tourists" who have moved into high-yield and investment-grade bonds will go back to rates trading.  "Rate hikes are coming and this will force 'tourists' out of HY+IG and into rates," Slok wrote. "This will weigh on long rates. At the same time better economic data will be pushing up short rates up. Expect short rates to move up more than long rates. As HY and IG spreads widen we could also see a sell-off in equities as investors use stocks to hedge their corporate bond exposures." Back in the summer in our Most Important Charts feature, Dave Lutz of JonesTrading highlighted the diverging high-yield index and the S&amp;P 500.  The indexes rebounded through the summer, but the divergence has since widened again and has people wondering if stocks can't help but follow high-yield lower.  Here's a more recent chart of the high-yield/S&amp;P 500 divergence. FRED And this chart from Slok shows the recent increase in the spread of high-yield bonds with corporate debt still lagging. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Oil Market Intelligence Yesterday, the Russian government submitted its budget to the Duma, the lower house of the parliament. Once approved, Vladimir Putin will sign it into law. A 9/30 post on The Economist website reported that "over the last few years the budget's reliance on oil revenues have increased. When excluding oil, there was a shortfall of 3.6% of GD Pin 2007 but now it is more like 10%. Russia expected to run a small budget deficit (about 0.6% of GDP) this year. That prediction is optimistic — the Kremlin is banking on an oil price of $100." Everyone tends to compare US crude oil production to Saudi production. Given the current world disorder, it might make  more sense to compare the US plus Canada to Saudi Arabia and Russia. The former has steadily exceeded Saudi output since October 2012 and Russian output since July 2013. Putin produces and exports lots of oil. Khrushchev promised to bury us. Maybe we can drown Putin by continuing to produce more oil. Oil Market Intelligence    This article originally appeared at Dr. Ed's Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Harold Cunningham/Getty ImagesThe stocks you're chatting about over wine aren't necessarily the best investment.Picking single equities seems almost quaint in these days of the mutual fund. Singling out a stock for your portfolio still makes sense, though, if you know how to select smart and you sift carefully through headline deals. One caveat remains true: "Stay away from them if you can't afford to lose the money," said Daniel Mazzola, an advisor with American Portfolios in Massapequa, N.Y., speaking at a recent investing panel. The panel, Selecting Individual Stocks, was held recently as part of National Financial Advisor Week in New York's Times Square. This event, which attracted hundreds of onlookers, featured financial advisors giving tips on personal finance, ranging from retirement saving to college funding. The panels also focused on how people can get the most out of advisors.  Interest in nailing the next big stock flared recently after the record $25 billion initial public offering for Chinese Web behemoth Alibaba, a pick that Mazzola noted has "an Internet name and sounds a little exotic." Don't write checks to your brokerage based solely on chatter. "We call [offerings like Alibaba] 'cocktail-party stocks,'" said co-panelist Andrew Aran, partner with Regency Wealth Management in Ramsey, N.J. "You get into it and it goes up and you tell your friends. Or you don't get into it and it goes down and you tell your friends." AP ImagesJack Ma, founder of Alibaba, which received a record IPO of $25 billion.Bargain equities are especially tricky, as moderator and USA Today money columnist John Waggoner said. Investors must know when a cheap stock is "truly a stinker" and how to spot the stock of "rotten companies that are getting slightly less rotten." Mazzola and Aran advised putting no money into individual stocks that you can't afford to lose. "If you have $2,000 to invest, you shouldn't be buying individual stocks," Aran said. "If you have $800,000, that's a different story." Among the panelists' pointers: The outlook does remain good for individual stocks, panelists agreed, at least for now. Aran predicted that the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 will reach "2,200 to 2,300 before this party's over." This article originally appeared at AdviceIQ.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozBill Ackman, founder and CEO of the hedge fund Pershing Square, speaks to an audience in New York on July 22.Shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac opened down about 40% respectively after investors lost a suit to change who collected the profits from the two mortgage insurers' dividends. Since the financial crisis, the U.S. Treasury has been collecting almost all of Fannie's and Freddie's profits as part of the government's bailout deal with the companies.  A bunch of top investors — like Pershing Square's Bill Ackman, Fairholme's Bruce Berkowitz, and Perry Capital's Richard Perry — then sued the government for breach of contract and illegally taking profits that they argued should have been theirs. About 20 related cases are still making their way around the courts, with $33 billion worth of Fannie and Freddie profits at stake, according to Bloomberg. But losing this first case does not bode well for the others. That's why we're seeing shares selling off in a deluge. Check out the carnage in the charts below: Here's Fannie Mae down by 40.5% and still falling. Yahoo Finance  And here's Freddie Mac down by 41%: Yahoo Finance The biggest loser here is Ackman's Pershing Square. The fund held over 63.5 million shares of Freddie and 115 million shares of Fannie, according to government filings. Ackman disclosed his position last November, after Berkowitz went public with his position on the insurers.  Berkowitz said outright that he and other investors were willing to buy Fannie and Freddie and recapitalize them as private companies. That idea was not well-loved in Washington. Former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson told Business Insider that investors seeking to make a profit from Fannie and Freddie were taking "a calculated, educated risk that the government's not going to do what needs to be done," Paulson said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersConstruction crew erects scaffolding at sunset on a new housing project in MarylandWASHINGTON, Oct 1 (Reuters) - U.S. construction spending unexpectedly fell in August, hit by weaker private spending outside the housing sector and a pullback in public investments. Construction spending dropped 0.8 percent to an annual rate of $960.96 billion, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday in a report that also revised downward spending estimates for the prior two months. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast construction spending increasing 0.5 percent in August. The surprise decline was largely due to a 1.4 percent drop in money spent on private nonresidential construction, although outlays fell across the board with state and local construction down 0.9 percent. The declines, however, came after a month in which spending in most construction categories had posted strong gains. Private spending on housing fell only 0.l percent in August, which is unlikely to unmoor expectations of an ongoing recovery in the housing market.   ((Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Andrea Ricci)) FREE AppDownload
The latest ISM manufacturing index came in at 56.6. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 58.5, down from August's 59.0. The latest report from ISM showed that all of the report's sub-indexes components are still showing growth, though the pace slowed for the headline index in September.  The prices paid sub-index rose 1.5% in September, while the employment sub-index fell 3.5%.  However, this conflicts with Markit's September US manufacturing PMI, which came in at 57.5. It came out shortly before the ISM report, and suggests that US manufacturing activity remains strong. Markit stated in the report: "September data pointed to another positive month for the US manufacturing sector, with strong rates of output and new orders growth underpinning the fastest expansion of payroll numbers for two-and-a-half years." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsYeosu Synthetic Rubber Plant IIMarkit's September US manufacturing PMI came in at 57.5. Expectations were for the report to come in at 57.9, unchanged from last month. In a release, Markit said, "September data pointed to another positive month for the US manufacturing sector, with strong rates of output and new orders growth underpinning the fastest expansion of payroll numbers for two-and-a-half years. There were again signs of rising price pressures in the manufacturing sector, with input costs and factory gate changes rising at the sharpest rates since December 2013." August's report was up from 55.8 in July and was the best reading for the index since April 2010. This chart from Markit shows recent PMIs, which have been strong all year. Markit FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FlickrShares of Lakeland Industries, which produces hazmat suits and other safety workwear and protective clothing, surged after the CDC confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US. The stock closed up 29.6% on Wednesday. We were first tipped off the move after TheStreet's Adam Feuerstein tweeted about Lakeland's surge on Wednesday morning. Friend tips me off on best ebola-related stock move this morning — $LAKE. They make haz-mat suits. Companies working on Ebola treatments also surged following the CDC announcement, including Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which gained about 20% Wednesday. On Tuesday the CDC confirmed the first case of Ebola diagnosed in the US. "We have no other suspected cases in the state of Texas at this time," the state health commissioner confirmed during the press conference. The Ebola outbreak in West Africa has infected 6,574 people and killed over 3,000 to date. It's larger than all previous Ebola outbreaks combined. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Neilson Barnard For this year's list of the "sexiest" Wall Streeters, we decided to go in a bit of a different direction. Instead of the typical Jamie Dimon, Dan Loeb, and Bill Ackman lineup, we scoured Wall Street for new names. Of course, we still have a few household names on the list, too.   For the list, our guest judge Stephanie Ruhle, the anchor of Bloomberg TV's "Market Makers," helped come up with some names of the sexiest men in finance.  If you'd like to nominate someone for a future list, please send a photo and a brief bio to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims pray around the holy Kaaba at the Grand Mosque during the annual Hajj pilgrimage in Mecca. As a child, Osama al-Bar would walk from his home past Islam's holiest site, the Kaaba, to the market of spice and fabric merchants where his father owned a store. At that time, Mecca was so small, pilgrims could sit at the cube-shaped Kaaba and look out at the serene desert mountains where the Prophet Muhammad once walked. Now the market and the homes are gone. Monumental luxury hotel towers crowd around the Grand Mosque where the Kaaba is located, dwarfing it. Steep rocky hills overlooking the mosque have been leveled and are now covered with cranes building more towers in row after row. "My father and all the people who lived in Mecca wouldn't recognize it," said al-Bar, who is now Mecca's mayor. As Muslims from around the world stream into Mecca for the annual hajj pilgrimage this week, they come to a city undergoing the biggest transformation in its history. Decades ago, this was a low-built city of centuries-old neighborhoods. Over the years, it saw piecemeal renewal projects. But in the mid-2000s, the kingdom launched its most ambitious overhaul ever with a series of mega-projects that, though incomplete, have already reshaped Mecca. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedThe four-faced Mecca Clock Tower is seen from the top of Mount Al-Noor. Old neighborhoods have been erased for hotel towers and malls built right up to the edge of the Grand Mosque. Historic sites significant for Islam have been demolished. Next to the Kaaba soars the world's third-tallest skyscraper, topped by a gigantic clock, which is splashed with colored lights at night. "It's not Mecca. It's Mecca-hattan. This tower and the lights in it are like Vegas," said Sami Angawi, an architect who spent his life studying hajj and is one of the most outspoken critics of the changes. "The truth of the history of Mecca is wiped out ... with bulldozers and dynamite. Is this development?" Critics complain the result is stripping the holy city of its spirituality. They also say it is robbing the hajj of its more than 1,400-year-old message that all Muslims, rich or poor, are equal before God as they perform the rites meant to cleanse them of sin, starting and ending by circling the Kaaba seven times. Mecca is revered by hundreds of millions of Muslims worldwide. They face the Kaaba every day in their prayers. The Grand Mosque is one of the few places in the world where Muslims of all stripes gather — Sunnis and Shiites, secular Muslims, mystics and hard-liners. Overseeing Mecca is also a key source of prestige for Saudi Arabia's monarchy. The past two kings — the current one, Abdullah, and his predecessor, Fahd — have adopted the further title of "custodian of the two holy mosques" to boost their status, referring to Mecca's Grand Mosque and Muhammad's mosque in nearby Medina. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims shop at a mall near the Grand Mosque during the annual Haj pilgrimage in Mecca. Now the city is being molded to a particularly Saudi vision that bolsters the rule of the Al Saud royal family. Two forces shape that vision. One is raw, petrodollar-fueled capitalism. Mecca's planners are largely catering to wealthier pilgrims by focusing on construction of five-star hotels, surrounding the Kaaba in marble-sheathed luxury. Nearby pilgrims can shop at international chains, including a Paris Hilton store and a gender-segregated Starbucks. The other force is Wahhabism, the strict, puritanical interpretation of Islam that the Al Saud rulers elevated to the country's official doctrine. In return, Wahhabi clerics staunchly back the monarchy. The monarchy has long given Wahhabi clerics a monopoly of preaching at the Kaaba. One tenet of Wahhabism is that Muslim tombs or sites connected to revered figures — even the Prophet Muhammad, his family, and companions — should be destroyed to avoid veneration of anything other than God. It's the same iconoclastic zeal that has prompted militants from the Islamic State group to blow up Muslim shrines in Iraq and Syria. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims circumambulate around the holy Kaaba during the ritual pilgrimages of Haj and Umrah at the Grand Mosque. In Mecca, hardly any site associated with Muhammad remains. Many were destroyed in previous expansions of the Grand Mosque in the 1980s and 1990s, and the new development is finishing off much of what remains. In 2008, for example, the house of Abu Bakr, Muhammad's successor as leader of the Muslim community, was razed to make way for a Hilton. The country's top religious official, Grand Mufti Abdul-Aziz Al-Sheik, backed such demolitions last year, saying "the removal of such things within the expansion is necessary." The urban renewal is necessary, Saudi officials say, to accommodate hajj pilgrims whose numbers are expected to swell from around three million currently to nearly seven million by 2040. The $60 billion Grand Mosque expansion will almost double the area for pilgrims to pray at the Kaaba. Around half the cost went to buying about 5,800 homes that had to be razed for the expansion, said al-Bar, the Mecca mayor. Domes and pillars dating back to rule by the Ottoman Empire are being pulled down to put up modern facilities. Another mega-project is Jabal Omar, a hill on the mosque's west side. The hill — a landmark in the city — was leveled, and in its place, construction of about 40 towers is underway, mostly for luxury hotels providing some 11,000 rooms. The first of the Jabal Omar hotels, a Hilton Suites and the Anjum Hotel, just opened in the past few months. On the mosque's south side stands the 1,972-foot (600-meter) clock-tower skyscraper, part of a completed seven-tower complex that was built after tearing down an Ottoman fort on the site. REUTERS/Hassan AliThe Mecca Clock overlooks the Grand Mosque. Also underway is the Jabal Sharashif project, in which a slum that largely houses Burmese and African migrants is to be torn down to build a new neighborhood for Saudis, along with hotels. A four-line metro system is planned for the city along with a high-speed rail line to the port city of Jiddah, where the area's airport is located, and to Medina. The Grand Mosque's expansion is being headed by the Saudi Binladin Group, which also built the clock tower. The Binladin family has been close to Al Sauds for decades and runs major building projects around the country. Al Qaeda's late leader Osama bin Laden was a renegade son disowned by the family in the 1990s. Speaking at a public forum in Jiddah in May, Nawaf Binladin, whose father is chairman of the conglomerate, said people were constantly asking if all this construction was needed. "This can be answered in one moment in this image," he said, flashing a picture of tens of thousands of worshippers praying in the street because there was not enough room inside the Grand Mosque. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims pray near the holy Kaaba (not seen) at the Grand Mosque. But many in the audience were not convinced. Saeed al-Ghamdi, a former Saudi diplomat, said he thought greed was the main motivator. Muslims around the world have an "intimate bond" with Mecca, he said. "It is not a place for one businessman or one company." Mecca's planners didn't have to build so close to the Kaaba, overwhelming the simple cube-shaped structure, said Irfan al-Alawi, a Saudi who heads the London-based Islamic Heritage Research Foundation. The hotels could have been built miles away and transportation improved. "Already we are losing the spirituality," he said. Pilgrims admire the clock tower instead of "looking at the Kaaba and admiring the house of God." Essam Kalthoum, managing director of the government-owned Bawabat Makkah Company, which is involved in a number of projects around the city, acknowledged that "it would be a farce" to say financial motivations are not coming into play. But he said the main goal was to increase space for pilgrims. Kalthoum showed a gift from a Turkish foundation he had just received: a photo of Mecca from the late 1800s. "This is painful," he said. "For those of us who witnessed some of this (past), it brings back memories." But he pointed to the Kaaba in the photograph. "Because of this place," he said, the old markets and buildings had to go. ___ Follow Batrawy on twitter.com/ayaelb Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Rolls-RoyceWhen Britain lost its last native car company 20 years ago, it was lamented across the political spectrum as a national catastrophe. "The sheer stupidity and immorality of this betrayal is too scandalous to be ignored," wrote a columnist in the conservative Times of London. The left-leaning Guardian bemoaned: "No one can conceive of Renault, Fiat or indeed BMW fattening themselves up after years of emaciation, ready for sell-off to a foreign rival.” Britain’s Rover was falling into the hands of BMW - 50 years after Germany had begun pulling itself out of the economic abyss left by the Second World War. The blow to British pride was made all the more acute by the success of France, where Peugeot and Renault were speeding ahead. In 1994 French producers made more than three million cars, double Britain's output. Now, the tables have turned dramatically. Britain last year produced more cars than France for the first time in decades: 1.51 million to France’s 1.46 million. The French retain a narrow lead when light vans are included, but Britain is set to pass them soon and become Europe’s No.3 after Germany and Spain. The value of British car exports has doubled in the past 10 years, and this year Britain enjoyed its best-ever July for automobile exports since industry records began in the 1920s. In France, meanwhile, government assistance has kept Peugeot afloat as both it and Renault lost domestic market share. “Car production in France has suffered greatly these past 10 years,” France’s new Finance Minister Emmanuel Macron told reporters at a presentation of Peugeot’s compressed-air hybrid cars in Paris on Tuesday. But the answer, he said, was more state investment, not less, in programs such as fuel-efficient concept cars and transmissions. “These are projects in which the French state has invested more than 400 million euros ($500 million) over the past three years, and we’ll invest more in the next three years because we believe in them,” Macron said. “We have everything we need to reclaim our lead over the UK in coming years.” As the biennial Paris Auto Show opens this week, this tale of two car industries is especially timely. Though separated only by the narrow English Channel, their divergent fates stem in large part from a wide gulf in capitalist philosophies. Britain embraced free-market globalization, which - while inflicting pain on workers and shareholders - allowed under-performing native companies to fail and be bought by foreign-owned automakers. Nissan and BMW are prominent among the buyers, and India’s Tata Motors owns iconic British brands Jaguar and Land Rover. Native ownership and national pride have taken a back seat. “We benefit from openness,” Britain's Business Secretary Vince Cable told Reuters.“A lot of the mythology around foreign companies - that when they came here they would just gouge out a bit of intellectual property and run away - was untrue. They have actually invested very heavily.”    Peugeot/ReutersCitroen DS21 cars are displayed in the Conservatoire Citroen building at the PSA-Peugeot Citroen automobile plant in Aulnay-sous-Bois October 10, 2013.France, a much larger land mass than the UK, industrialized more gradually and has hewed to a statist capitalism in which politicians heavily influence, and at times even dictate, major corporate decisions. French leaders down the decades have used the car industry to increase manufacturing jobs in formerly rural areas. Key to this is retaining French control, which was a core concern earlier this year when China’s Dongfeng Motors, under French government strictures, took a minority stake in Peugeot and injected fresh capital into the ailing company. The French state itself has minority stakes and board seats in both Peugeot and Renault - reflecting a culture of government involvement that extends well beyond the auto industry. America’s General Electric, for example, had to agree to French government conditions including a jobs pledge when it acquired French engineering company Alstom earlier this year. Government guidance is widely viewed as the key to creating and keeping jobs. “There is a completely different approach compared to Britain,” said Socialist lawmaker Francois Brottes, who heads the French parliament’s economic committee. “The presence of the state is in no way a brake on growth – it is a form of safety belt. It’s crucial to have the state as a stable shareholder, whose needs are clear, who will be there in the long term even when times are tough.” Even so, the diverging fortunes of both auto industries sharply mirror their national economies. Britain's recovery from the 2008-09 recession has been exceptionally slow by historic standards, but unemployment is now falling, inflation remains low and this year the economy is forecast to grow faster than any other major advanced nation. In France, the jobless rate stubbornly tops 10 percent, four percentage points higher than Britain’s. In August, French manufacturing shrank at its steepest rate in 15 months and President Francois Hollande recently said the country will miss public deficit targets. Peugeot/ReutersAn employee holds a car door at a production line of a Dongfeng Peugeot Citroen Automobile factory.In France and Britain, political and economic policies are wide apart, but the case against government involvement in the auto industry is not black and white. State intervention has clearly benefited carmakers in other nations. Five years ago, the American government mounted an $80 billion bailout and restructuring of General Motors and Chrysler. Now the industry is booming. That said, the U.S. bailout was an exception, not the rule as in France. Also, the U.S. government steered clear of board seats and management decisions, and didn’t balk at passing control of Chrysler to a foreign company - Italy’s Fiat. Germany’s auto industry likewise remains robust, and mostly German-managed and controlled. The German state of Lower Saxony's 20-percent stake in Volkswagen did not stop the firm becoming Europe's biggest carmaker thanks to fat margins in the luxury sector, although lower sales have recently hit profits. Whatever their differences, the British and French car industries have until recently had at least one thing in common: falling employment. Over the past decade, neither Britain's laissez-faire approach nor France's interventionism have managed to reverse a decline of more than a third in the auto industry’s direct employment, to 161,000 and 201,000 jobs, respectively.  In Britain, that has changed: Car industry employment is now rising. France's tough labor laws and heavy state presence are helping make Britain a more attractive place to invest, said German Arndt Ellinghorst, the head of automotive research at ISI Group. "(British) people have less of an attitude ... are equally skilled, they're willing to work harder and you have a government that is more likely to support you than chase your management away by taxing all their income," he said. "Give me a single reason why you want to produce anything in France?" One executive who knows all about French political pressure is Renault CEO Carlos Ghosn. In 2009, it emerged that he had decided to build most of Renault’s latest model, the Clio 4, in Turkey, not France. It was the first time the automaker had taken such a step. One dark January evening in 2010 he was summoned to the residence of conservative President Nicolas Sarkozy to explain himself, the government said at the time. Ghosn eventually got his way, but had to promise future work would be given to French auto workers. Two years later, Hollande, the country’s first Socialist president for nearly 17 years, was jolted by Peugeot’s decision to shutter a French car plant. It was the first such closure in over 20 years, and symptomatic of the ailing economy. Hollande and his then-Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg – a left-winger who would become widely regarded as anti-business for interfering in decisions - said they would save the plant. But after the extent of Peugeot's financial woes became clear, its fate was sealed: The plant, which employed around 3,000 people, produced its last car in October 2013. In contrast, when Ford decided in the same year to end a century of vehicle production in Britain, Westminster put up little resistance. Britain’s business ministry saw the move as "regrettable but a commercial decision for the company." Its response focused not on saving the plant but ensuring workers found jobs elsewhere. Ford still builds engines in Britain. British ministers did intervene to save a Vauxhall plant in 2012, but it was painful concessions by workers - including agreeing a two-year pay freeze - that kept the factory open. Roger Maddison negotiated the future of both plants for Britain's biggest trade union, Unite, and told Reuters that no British government, left or right, would commit money to save any facility. "They won't do what the French government do. They won't give state aid because they'll tell you that they can't do that because it's against European law," he said. "I think that's possibly just an excuse not to give any money." European Union regulators gave France the go-ahead to a 7 billion euro state loan guarantee for Peugeot Citroen's financing arm in July 2013, but tightened the terms. Britain has certainly endured a long, painful struggle. In 1972, the country built all-time peak of 1.92 million cars. Eight years later that had halved to fewer than a million. It was a time of tumultuous upheaval. A major automaker was partly nationalized, thousands were made unemployed and hundreds of work days lost to strikes. Antiquated factories, bad designs, and increased foreign competition added to the headaches. By the time free-market stalwart Margaret Thatcher took office in 1979, the UK industry looked set to crash. But in 1984, two decisive moments helped turn things around. The first, the start of a bitter battle with Britain's powerful miners’ union, ended in the union’s defeat: Workers' power could be curtailed. France has had no equivalent moment. In the same year, Thatcher also signed a deal to bring Nissan to make cars in England's depressed north. No thought was given to a government stake, but the deal was helped by the government’s offer of land at rock-bottom agricultural prices. As the 21st century opened, BMW briefly returned the rump of Rover to British hands. But sales kept falling and by 2005 MG Rover was sold to Nanjing Automotive of China. Fast-forward a decade and the Nissan plant, with its gleaming machines, robotic arms and widespread automation, is the country's biggest car assembly site, building one in three of Britain's 1.5 million cars last year. The 356,000-square meter (88-acre) complex is a far cry from the dirty, rundown 1970s plants. Conveyors transport the soon-to-be-car from chassis to completion, lifting it into the air for the engine to be fitted before testing. Today, British auto workers can be up to twice as efficient as their French counterparts, according to Bernstein Research. At BMW's plant in Oxford, England, each worker produced around 46 Minis on average last year compared with roughly 23 vehicles per PSA Peugeot Citroen worker at the Sochaux plant in France.   Calmer labor relations in Britain have also helped. Car workers are still among the most unionized - membership is around 85 percent according to trade union Unite - but the wildcat strikes of the past are gone. In France, workers still take their bosses hostage. In January, workers at a Goodyear factory ‘bossnapped’ two executives as the firm tried to close the plant. And while the French see autos as a strategic industry which the nation must champion, for some Britons it doesn’t matter who’s in charge. At a West London dealership for Tata-owned Jaguar Land Rover, 62-year-old city financier and avid car collector Andrew Honychurch certainly isn't fussed. Eyeing the most expensive Range Rover on the forecourt, a gleaming 92,000-pound ($149,000) silver model with white interior, he believes employment is all that matters. "It's a British brand, it's British jobs," he says, as his wife and daughters peruse a long line of top-range models. "I'm buying a product that is designed and made here in the UK so the ownership of it ultimately doesn't bother me." That said, only around a third of parts used in British-built cars are locally made: The government has identified 3 billion pounds worth of production that could be repatriated. British Business Secretary Cable is pleased with foreign investment in the UK industry. But Britain’s investment in research and development - including on vehicle, engine and diesel technology development - totaled 1.9 billion pounds in 2013, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers &amp; Traders (SMMT). That was over a billion pounds less than France's total spend. The French argue that national ownership has kept investment strong, which underpins the longer-term prospects of French auto makers. “Be it the two main national manufacturers or the equipment suppliers, they have made it clear they are trying to keep a large part of their R&amp;D strength in France," said Bernard Million-Rousseau, director-general of auto industry group PFA and former Peugeot executive. "I don’t see how that penalizes France – quite the contrary.”   (Additional reporting by Laurence Frost in Paris; Edited by Paul Ingrassia and Sara Led with) FREE AppDownload
Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesPrivate payrolls grew by 213,000 in September, according to the latest report from ADP. Expectations were for the report to show payrolls grew 205,000 in September, roughly unchanged from August's 204,000. August's report was also revised down to a gain of 202,000 jobs from 204,000. "September’s jobs added number marks the sixth straight month of employment gains above 200,000," said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. "It’s a positive sign for the economy to see the 200,000-plus trend continue." Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: Solid, and perhaps suggests upside risk for Friday’s official data ... The strength in the ADP reading, given the drag from August, therefore suggests upside risk to the 217K consensus forecast for Friday, though remember as always the margins of error in both numbers are very high."  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man reads a sign at the Revel Casino Hotel in Atlantic City notifying the public about its closure. (Reuters) - Brookfield Asset Management BAMa.TO BAM.N won the auction for Atlantic City's bankrupt Revel Casino Hotel with a $110 million bid, said two sources familiar with the situation. The company outbid Florida real estate developer Glenn Straub, who did not submit a superior bid by 5:00 a.m. ET, one source said. Revel Casino, which cost $2.4 billion to build, opened in 2012 and closed on Sept. 2 after filing for its second bankruptcy in June. It was meant to be a Las Vegas-style resort, but its fine dining, striking design and entertainment did not catch on in a city that relies on bus tours and buffets. Straub qualified as the backup bidder at $95.4 million, which would take the place of Brookfield if the Canadian company cannot close the sale. Brookfield's spokesman, Revel's spokeswoman and Straub's attorney did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Revel Casino had agreed to use Straub's initial $90 million cash bid to set the benchmark for other potential buyers. Straub had said he wanted to create a university at the site to attract the world's brightest minds to tackle social problems such as hunger. Revel agreed to pay Straub a $3 million fee for acting as the initial bidder if he did not win the auction. On Monday, Straub told Reuters he would challenge the results if he lost the auction because the process lacked transparency. A hearing to approve the sale is scheduled for Tuesday, Oct. 7 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Camden, New Jersey, where Judge Gloria Burns is overseeing the case. Four Atlantic City casinos have closed this year as neighboring states have embraced gambling to pump up government revenue. The city had 12 casinos at the start of 2014. Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc, which filed for bankruptcy last month, has said it could close its Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City as soon as next month. The case is In Re: Revel AC Inc., U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey, No. 14-22654. (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore and Tom Hals in Delaware; Editing by Kirti Pandey) AP Images (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore and Tom Hals in Delaware; Editing by Kirti Pandey)    This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning and welcome to October and the fourth quarter of 2014. Via Dave Lutz of JonesTrading, here's a quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning.  Good Morning!   US Futures are starting Q4 slightly weaker, as global PMI data coupled with increased protests in Hong Kong are sparking further growth concerns.   While Russell is basically unchanged, NDX futures off 20bp as some high-beta tech issues retreat.  While we get Auto data today, focus on the Airlines with AAL, DAL and JBLU all off 2.5%+ as the first US case of Ebola is discovered in Texas (TKMR +34% right now).   Stocks are mixed in Europe in decent volume, with FTSE losing 50bp as Miners get hit, EU Stoxx off 20bp on Airline weakness – but doves are bidding up the DAX slightly as German PMI showed a dip back to contraction, sparking hopes into the ECB tomorrow.   Best market in Europe is Greece, Athens up 2%+ and their yields sharply tighter as Draghi is pushing for ECB to accept Greek and Cypriot junk loans.    In Asia, China and HK closed for Holiday, but Nikkei lost 60bp and South Korea lost 1.4% as Technology shares continue to see sellers.   Best market in Asia was Aussie, bouncing on weaker A$ helping exporters and steadier data out of China The US 10YY is under pressure as there is heavy demand for Bunds in Germany – German 10’s are yielding a 2week low 92bp and Germany 2’s are nearing a record low of -9bp.    Here in the US our policy sensitive 2-year US Treasury yield is down 1 basis point to 0.57 per cent, but only a couple of basis points below its highest level in three years.    The $ is jumping again as weak PMI drives Euro lower, and Yen gets hit thru Y110 for the first time since August 2008 on a disappointing Tankan survey.    Despite the headwind, most commodities are bouncing after yesterday’s Q-End markdown, with Copper back up 1% and WTI up 50bp ahead of Inventory data.   Into Auto Sales today, we are seeing sharp weakness in Platinum dropping to a 5Y low on demand concerns.    Scheduled catalysts today include ADP Employment at 8:15, Markit US Manufacturing PMI at 9:45, followed by the official ISM report at 10, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, and there is NO POMO at 11.   Throughout the session we will be getting Domestic Auto Industry Sales FREE AppDownload
Fast food is really popular in the US, but workers at places like McDonald's and Taco Bell barely make a living. Here's what the data reveals about fast-food wages in each state. Produced by Alex Kuzoian and Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Tobias SchwarzGermany just issued €4.1 billion ($5.16 billion) of federal debt in a 10-year bond auction with a yield of 0.93%. That's the first time it's been below 1% ever.  It's an astonishing change. Two decades ago, a German government would have been happy to issue debt with a 5% yield, and until the financial crisis they didn't fall below 3%. The only advanced economy to see yields like these in recent financial history is Japan.  This means Berlin is borrowing incredibly cheaply. So long as inflation averages above 0.93% for the next 10 years, investors are effectively paying the government to hold its debt. That's probably also why the IMF today specifically names Germany as one of the countries that could easily be spending more on infrastructure.  ECBGerman 10-year bond yields have been falling for a long time It's also partly a reflection of falling inflation expectations. At just 0.3%, Eurozone inflation is far below the ECB's 5-year target. As investors get increasingly less confident that the central bank will manage to raise inflation in the long-term, lower yields begin to look more attractive, because the value of the money they originally invested will be declining more slowly.  The spread between US and German yields is also widening, as this chart from a BAML research note shows: BAMLAnd it's likely to get more dramatic, according to BAML's chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett: "This spread will likely widen as the Fed ends QE, and the ECB begins QE. And as rate differentials widen global capital will likely shift accordingly causing tensions via the currency market." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby Yip Hong Kong and Chinese flags are waved for China's national day.Good morning! Here's what you need know before US markets open Wednesday.  Germany’s Manufacturers Are Contracting. PMI data out for the eurozone Wednesday morning shows the German industrial sector contracting for the first time in 15 months, with the eurozone’s overall figure suggesting miniscule growth. Airlines Will Have To Replace 1,300 Boeing Cockpit Displays. The US Federal Aviation Administration is ordering the change to avoid signal interference.  US Auto Sales Are Out Later. At 10:30 a.m. ET, US auto sale figures are out for September. Analysts are expecting 16.7 million sales for September. ISM and Markit manufacturing figures are also out at 9 a.m. and 8:45 a.m. ET, respectively.  Chinese Manufacturing Is Holding Up. China’s manufacturing PMI came in at 51.1, marginally higher than analyst expectations and up from last month.  European Markets Are Mostly Down. France’s CAC 40 is currently 0.38% lower than Tuesday's close, while the UK’s FTSE 100 is down 0.46%. Germany’s DAX is up 0.11%. The Hang Seng is closed, and Japan’s Nikkei ended down 0.56%. Hong Kong's Protests Are Still Raging On. The massive demonstrations are ongoing, and tensions are high. Wednesday is China's national day, and neither Beijing nor the protesters are backing down.  Angie's List May Be Sold. Shares of Angie's List were up as much as 22% in pre-market trade on Wednesday after a report that the company may be sold.  France Won't Meet Its Deficit Targets For Years. France's finance minister on Wednesday forecast that the country's budget deficit would scrape below the European Union ceiling by 2017. The US Is Searching For Other Ebola Victims. After the first confirmed case in the United States, US authorities are searching for other infected individuals. The UK's Major Retailers Are Getting Hammered. After a formal investigation into Tesco's £250 million disappearing profit was launched, investors are souring on other major supermarkets. Adidas Is Buying Back €1.5 Billion ($1.9 Billion) In Shares. The sportswear firm's share price jumped Wednesday morning when the major buyback was announced.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoA traffic controller at a constructing site is reflected on a stock quotation board at a brokerage in Tokyo, October 1, 2013. The so-called "fat finger" trade refers to a human error, like pressing the wrong key, rather than a bug in the trading algorithm.  According to the report, the mistake is "thought to be the most extreme example of a trader in financial markets inputting hopelessly wrong figures while working under intense pressure." The largest single order, 1.96 billion Toyota shares worth 12.68 trillion yen, was one of 42 canceled transactions, Bloomberg said.  The Evening Standard quoted Gavin Parry, managing director at Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry International Trading, as saying: “It’s not rocket science that there was a fat finger here, but it reopens the questions about accountability.”    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Wednesday as investors looked ahead to a number of economic reports that could set the tone for the fourth quarter on Wall Street. * Markets are coming off a positive third quarter with a seventh straight quarterly gain for both the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq, but also a decline for major indexes in September. * The S&amp;P has largely traded in a range for the past six weeks, finding resistance at its record close and support at its 50-day moving average. While the benchmark index closed slightly below that average on Tuesday, it hasn't closed beneath it for two consecutive sessions since August. * Investors are looking ahead to the ADP National Employment report, which is seen showing 210,000 private-sector jobs added in September, up from 204,000 in August. That report is due at 8:15 a.m. EDT  and will be closely watched for clues into the strength of the upcoming September jobs report, which will be released Friday and is coming off a weak read in August. * After the market opens, reads on construction spending and manufacturing will be released. Construction spending is seen up 0.5 percent in August, while the Institute for Supply Management's read on September manufacturing is expected to dip to 58.5 from 59. * Overseas issues will stay in focus, including the ongoing unrest in Hong Kong. While the economic fallout of the protests is unclear, signs of flagging growth in China have been a concern for investors and an extended period of strife could add to those fears.  (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAckman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to audience in New YorkPershing Square Holdings, one of Bill Ackman's investment funds, said on Wednesday it had completed a $2.73 billion placing ahead of a stock market listing in Amsterdam. The firm added the exercise of an over-allotment option would see the value of the placing rise to S$3 billion. Pershing Square Holdings' shares are expected to be admitted for listing and trading on Euronext Amsterdam on Oct. 13.   (Reporting By Francesco Canepa; editing by Simon Jessop) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachMario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank.Money market funds in Europe are fighting to avoid "breaking the buck," which could trigger huge outflows from the sector. These funds typically invest in cash-equivalent assets, like high-quality short-term corporate debt or government debt. For investors, the advantage they have over stocks is that they're a safe place to park cash. You can almost never lose money in a money market fund. In return you'll get modest but positive returns, with very low risk. Crucially, they strenuously seek to avoid "breaking the buck" — or returning less to investors than they put in. Unfortunately, with the European Central Bank (ECB) having imposed a negative deposit rate of -0.2% on reserves held at the bank, this task has become harder than ever. Investors who don't want to lose money are now forced to withdraw it and figuratively hide it under a mattress until the negative interest rate era is over. That could reduce the amount of cash available for companies and governments to borrow (and spend), thus further crippling Europe's fragile economic recovery. About €500 billion is invested in European money market funds. (So getting this right is quite important.) The Telegraph quotes Standard &amp; Poor's credit director Andrew Paranthoiene as saying that the credit agency is now monitoring these funds closely with an eye to a downgrade that could severely knock investor confidence in the sector. He said: Pressure is building for these funds. We’re observing portfolios on a weekly basis. If there is any deviation from our credit metrics, a rating committee would determine if rating action was appropriate. In our view, any loss of capital means that the 'safety of principal’ has been breached. So why have we reached this point? These two charts paint a clear picture of the problem these funds are currently facing in the eurozone.  The yield curve is near zero for short-term debt: ECBOver the past few months the European AAA yield curve has been flattening. The highlighted area shows that yields on top rated short-dated bonds in which money market funds invest are being squeezed.  Over the past month this squeeze has become even more extreme: ECB The squeeze has forced money market funds into investing in longer-dated assets to secure some yield. But this strategy poses its own problems. Longer-term bonds tend to fluctuate more in value than shorter-term bonds, because interest rates in 10 years could easily be higher than rates being offered now, which would make them money-losers in the future. That makes it even more difficult for these funds to keep their net asset value steady and avoid "breaking the buck." ... And that makes the idea of billions being hidden in mattresses ever more likely. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the Commerzbank AG is pictured before the bank's annual news conference in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany's second biggest lender Commerzbank is cutting 60-70 jobs in its fixed income and currencies division in Frankfurt, several sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. Commerzbank is offering severance packages and is aiming to carry out redundancies through voluntary layoffs, the lender said. Commerzbank last year combined the sales and trading arms of its fixed income and currencies business. The redundancies are part of the synergies that have been identified, one of the people said.  (Reporting by Arno Schuetze; additional reporting by Jamie McGeever; Editing by Kirsti Knolle) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Jewel SamadAlibaba founder Jack Ma smiles as he waits for the trading to open on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange on September 19, 2014China's former richest man Wang Jianlin once bet Alibaba founder Jack Ma 100 million yuan ($16.3 million) that online purchases in the country would not eclipse bricks-and-mortar buys in the next decade. But while Wang says he laid the wager "for fun" two years ago, the billionaires' business interests are increasingly converging as Chinese consumers' spending habits undergo a seismic shift -- and much larger sums are at stake. China has the world's biggest population of Internet users, with annual online sales jumping 41 percent in 2013. However, that figure represents a paltry 7.8 percent of overall retail sales, leaving plenty of room for growth.  Zhuo Saijun, a Beijing-based analyst with Analysys International, told AFP consumers were increasingly going online to purchase "in the easiest and most convenient way". \"If an online platform has more advantages in terms of cost performance and information retrieval, consumers will definitely be more inclined towards online," he said. The e-commerce explosion contrasts with the slowdown of retail sales as a whole, a palpable trend even before the luxury market was hit by party cadres curbing excessive spending in response to President Xi Xinping's anti-corruption drive. Property developers, already saddled with excess commercial space, are spooked. Half the world's shopping mall projects underway are in China. Among them is northeastern Shenyang city, which has 28 megamalls for six million people. The spread of malls has accelerated under pressure from local governments, with Chinese cities taking nine of the top ten spots in the world last year by amount of newly constructed retail space, US consultancy CBRE says. Occupancy varies according to location, with some never empty while others in the farther reaches struggle to attract repeat customers, said K.K. Fung, managing director for Greater China at real estate investment firm JLL. Typically marrying an array of clothing and cosmetic franchises with fast-food courts and coffee outlets, some become "phantom malls", filled with little more than an incessant soundtrack of syrupy muzak. Larger cities can absorb the construction of more malls but provincial capitals "will suffer", Fung cautioned. National supply is expected to double between 2013 and 2016. "Some developers made promises to governments, they are caught between a rock and a hard place," Fung said. To compete with online rivals, he said malls have increased the number of restaurants and food providers, while some have opened theme parks or kindergartens. One in Shanghai saw sales jump 20 percent after exhibiting paintings by Claude Monet. These malls represent the next retail frontier for China. While Wang built his name with Wanda, a commercial property conglomerate that owns hotels, cinema megaplexes and shopping malls, Ma's rise came on the success of upstart e-commerce businesses under the Alibaba group. Alibaba's Taobao is estimated to hold more than 90 percent of the online consumer-to-consumer Chinese market, with 800 million product listings and around 500 million registered users. Seeing opportunities to consolidate strengths on the other's turf, Wang and Ma's once-distinct portfolios have now blurred. Alibaba group invested $692 million in Chinese department store operator InTime in March, and Wang joined forces with tech giants Tencent and Baidu in August to set up an e-commerce platform costing more than $800 million.  Wang and Ma are both seeking to capitalise on Chinese smartphone use to push users into physical stores with extra benefits once inside -- a process known as "online to offline" retail. Alibaba and Intime say they will expand an agreement allowing shoppers to purchase items instore with the Alipay app, and provide targeted promotions and membership benefits when connected to instore wi-fi and location-based technology. Wanda, Tencent and Baidu will share a user membership system, synchronise customer data and offer the same wi-fi network across all Wanda's 107 malls, according to the Financial Times.  A series of as yet-unannounced "innovative online financial products" is also in the pipeline, Wanda says. However, Alibaba will be loath to lose business from its core platforms and has invested as much recently in logistics and postal services as in physical retail. It has good reason not to stray too far from its tech roots. Last week Ma became China's richest person -- pushing Wang into second place -- following Alibaba's record initial public offering in New York. But whoever wins the bet, Alibaba has changed Chinese retail forever, says Analysys International's Zhuo. "To some extent, Alibaba cultivated the online shopping habits of Chinese consumers. It cultivated China’s lower-end consumers, as well as medium and small enterprises.  "This is the most valuable and meaningful thing it has done... developing a complete system that consists of e-commerce culture, management and marketing as well as services based on all that." FREE AppDownload
Shares of Angie's List were up as much as 22% in pre-market trade on Wednesday after a report by The Financial Times' Ed Hammond said the company has hired bankers to, "help it explore strategic options, including a possible sale of the business."  Angie's List in an online review service, sort of like Yelp, but requires members to register and pay a yearly fee for the service.  Earlier this week, Angie's List announced a new $85 million credit agreement with TCW Asset Management. Year-to-date, shares of Angie's List, which has been the subject of negative commentary from short-selling blogs like Citron Research in the past, are down 57% excluding Wednesday's pre-market rally. Over the last year, the stock has fallen more than 70%. Here's the ugly chart of Angie's List shares this year. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the main spa area of The Palms hotel, where Portugal's national soccer team will be based at during the 2014 World Cup, in CampinasNEW YORK (Reuters) - A growing middle class and consumers' evolving attitudes toward health and travel have fueled a global spa and wellness industry worth an estimated $3.4 trillion in 2013, according to a report released on Tuesday. Nutrition and weight loss, preventative and personalized health, complementary and alternative medicine, and beauty and anti-aging treatments were the biggest growing sectors, the report compiled by the non-profit research center SRI International showed. "All across the world we have seen, from Asia to Europe to Africa to North America, more and more people are consciously thinking about healthy food, exercising, looking to nature, getting massages and doing yoga," said Ophelia Yeung, a senior consultant for SRI International who led the study. Spa treatments and products, alternative and complementary treatments and weight-loss programs once considered beyond the means of many people, she added, are becoming more mainstream with a growing middle class. While medical care treats illness and disease, wellness is focused on prevention through a variety of healthy habits, nutritional eating, exercise and treatments. To compile the report researchers looked at wellness sectors ranging from mind and body fitness to beauty and anti-aging, spas and workplace wellness. The global spa industry generated $94 billion last year, according to the Global Spa and Wellness Economy Monitor report, up from $60 billion in 2007. With more than 32,000 spas, Europe had the highest revenue of $29.8 billion, followed by the Asia-Pacific region with $18.8 billion and North America with $18.3 billion. Emerging markets in the Middle East and Africa have been growing the fastest in terms of adding spas. In Asia, China and India are leading growth, while in Europe it is Eastern Europe, Russia and the Baltic states. Thermal/mineral springs generated $50 billion worldwide but the biggest industry sector was wellness tourism, or travel associated with maintaining or enhancing one's personal well-being and health, which accounted for $494 billion. "Wellness travel is a very fast growing segment within travel. That's because as people become more conscious about a healthy lifestyle they naturally want to extend that when they travel," Yeung explained. The report showed that the number of people taking international and domestic wellness tourism trips grew by 12 percent from 2012 to 2013. That was 36 percent faster than overall tourism trip growth, which is estimated at 9 percent. The SRI report was commissioned by the annual Global Spa &amp; Wellness Summit. More than 400 wellness industry leaders from 45 countries attended the 2014 summit in Morocco earlier this month.   (Editing by Piya Sinha-Roy; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA Sainsbury's store is demolished in London.There's bad news for the three biggest UK-listed supermarkets — Tesco, Morrison's, and Sainsbury's — Wednesday morning.  Tesco’s share price is down 2.55%, adding to the seemingly endless drop for the world’s second biggest retailer. It's now down by more than 50% in the last year. Meanwhile, Morrison’s shares are down 4.46%, and Sainsbury’s shares are down 3.81% after some dreary results Wednesday morning. Though Asda holds a large share, it's owned by Walmart, which is US-listed.  These numbers come after a trifecta of grim news Wednesday morning.  According to the Guardian, Sainsbury's chief exec Mike Coupe said on a call this morning that he was "100% confident" in their accounting practices. “The shelves of worry continue to be stacked at the UK grocers and share prices are reflective with ugly downward trajectories,” according to Accendo Markets head of research Mike van Dulken.  There's both the immediate threat that the dodgy accounting practices revealed by Tesco could be widespread and the existential threat to the business model itself. As Van Dulken puts it: "What does the future hold for the traditional ‘big shop’?" FREE AppDownload
European manufacturing PMI data is out Wednesday, with especially bad numbers in Germany.  The German manufacturing PMI dropped to 49.9 in September from 51.40 in August. Anything below 50 signals contraction. This is the first sub-50 score since the middle of 2013, when the eurozone was still in recession.  Germany has been the reliable industrial powerhouse of the eurozone economy since 2008, but Wednesday's figures show that the manufacturing sector is shrinking. Here's the chart: Markit, BME, Bundesbank The eurozone is still hovering just above the 50 mark, at 50.3. But that's the worst score in 15 months.  Other European PMI scores reflect a strange role-reversal: Spain, one of the worst-damaged economies in the eurozone, saw the highest score at 52.6. And struggling Italy climbed to 50.7. In France, manufacturing PMI fell to 48.8, meaning the two largest economies using the euro are now reporting shrinking manufacturing. The UK's figure is still above 50, but at 51.6, it's a 17-month low for Britain.  Markit's chief economist Chris Williamson painted a grim picture: "The euro area’s manufacturing economy has lost the growth momentum seen earlier in the year, lurching closer to stagnation." He added that the figures would only put more pressure on European Central Bank president Mario Draghi: "The weakening manufacturing sector will intensify pressure on the ECB to do more to revive the economy and no doubt strengthen calls for full-scale quantitative easing."  FREE AppDownload
Fotologic/FlickrEuropean markets are down early Wednesday, ahead of the release of European manufacturing PMI data.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.17% Germany's DAX is up 0.07% Spain's IBEX is up 0.09% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.26% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.34% In Asia, the Hang Seng is closed Wednesday for China’s National Day. The Nikkei closed down 0.56%.  U.S. futures are mostly flat, with no change in Dow futures and S&amp;P futures down 0.04%. PMI results are coming out for the major Eurozone economies' manufacturing sectors at 4 a.m ET. The UK will be half an hour later.  And in US data later on: At 8.15 a.m. ET ADP’s employment indicator is out, but the major data today comes at 9 a.m. ET, with Markit and ISM both releasing their manufacturing PMI for September. Analysts are looking for a similar strong result to last month.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Adidas soccer shoes before company's news conference in HerzogenaurachFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German sportswear maker Adidas, facing investor discontent over its underperforming share price, announced a plan on Wednesday to buy back up to 1.5 billion euros ($1.89 billion) in shares over the next three years. Adidas said in a statement the shareholder return program would be predominantly financed from the group's free cash flow, adding share buybacks would start in the fourth quarter and be completed by Dec. 31, 2017. The company, the world's second biggest sportswear firm after U.S. rival Nike, issued its third profit warning in a year in July, blaming a plunge in sales at its golf business and its exposure to a weak Russian market. Adidas, which has been losing market share in its home territory of western Europe to Nike and has failed to make serious inroads in North America, has seen its shares fall by more than a third this year. ($1 = 0.7925 euro)  (Reporting by Emma Thomasson; Editing by Maria Sheahan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A trader works inside a post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Earnings conference calls that inspire little more than silence are not a great sign for the company's shares in the days that follow, according to a study released on Wednesday. Researchers from the University of Texas at Austin found that when executives did not receive questions or significant feedback on earnings calls, the company could expect to see its market capitalization fall between $4.3 million and $6.1 million in the next five days. After calls with limited questions, researchers found, company executives are perceived to have more information than investors and other market participants, resulting in a negative market reaction. Small companies covered by fewer analysts were more likely to receive no questions. The study's authors analyzed about 50,000 earnings calls from 2002 to 2012, focusing on the nearly 9,500 that received little feedback during the open question-and-answer session of the call. The companies' negative returns lasted for five days after such calls, performing up to 135 basis points worse than companies comparable in size and analyst coverage in which the conference call was a bit more lively. "When you do not interact, the unintended economic consequences are going to catch up with you," said Shuping Chen, associate professor at the university's McCombs School of Business and lead author of the study. Chen said earnings calls help improve transparency and information flow, but without analyst engagement, companies don't see that benefit. "The very set of firms who need more visibility, more liquidity, are hammered because they [receive] no questions," she said. (Reporting by Yasmeen Abutaleb; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedAn armed guard was allowed into an elevator with President Obama, breaching Secret Service protocols.  Hello! Here's what you need to know for Wednesday. 1.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has confirmed the first case of Ebola diagnosed in the US. The male patient, who contracted the virus on a recent visit to Liberia, is being treated at a Dallas hospital.  2. Pro-democracy protests in Hong King coincide with China's National Day, which marks the founding of communist China 65 years ago today.  3. In a breach of Secret Service protocol, an armed guard was allowed onto an elevator with President Obama during a visit to the CDC in Atlanta, Georgia, on Sept. 16. The Washington Examiner first reported the incident.  4. Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Australia will join US-led airstrikes in Iraq.  5. The death toll from Japan's Mount Ontake eruption is likely to climb to 46, making it the deadliest volcanic eruption since 1926, Reuters reports.  6. British aircraft bombed Islamic State targets in Iraq for the first time.  7. eBay is spinning off PayPal.  8. The next version of Microsoft's Windows, called Windows 10, will launch in mid-2015.  9. North Korean leader Kim Jon Un was reportedly hospitalized for fractured ankles resulting from weight gain.  10. Norway has been ranked the best place in the world to grow old.  And finally ... George Clooney and Amal Alamuddin's wedding in Venice cost nearly $13 million.  FREE AppDownload
