As it turns out, CEO Mark Zuckerberg had other plans for continuing Facebook's outstanding growth that didn't require more ads, and based on some recent data, it appears those plans are working even better than expected. The planZuckerberg's objective of turning Facebook into a mobile giant is working in a big way, but it's the speed of the transition that's been truly impressive. Last year says it all: Of Facebook's 1.23 billion monthly average users at the end of 2013, 945 million were mobile -- a 39% jump from the prior year. The end of 2013 also saw the introduction of Facebook's long-awaited video advertising alternatives. Just how big is video advertising? Some analysts estimate that Facebook will generate $8.4 billion in annual revenue from its video ads once they're up and running. In addition, Facebook advertising works because of user data -- lots and lots of user data. The result is that Facebook is able to charge more for its ads, so overwhelming its users with an unending number of spots isn't necessary to continue growing revenues. Opting for quality over quantity is a success, for both Facebook and its users. When a plan comes togetherTraditional advertising is good, but long-term revenue growth is even more likely now that marketers view Facebook as more than an advertising machine. Facebook is becoming a primary tool for companies to build branding, public relations, and customer relationship management partnerships with consumers, and that changes everything. As analysts from Stifel Financial's equity trading desk describe it, "marketers [now] view Facebook as a strategic communications platform, capable of establishing and reinforcing relationships with consumers." The result is that going forward, Facebook is expected to get an even bigger piece of companies' marketing budget. And that's not all. With the change in how Facebook is being viewed, and utilized, by marketers, comes an ancillary benefit: Building long-term, profitable relationships with Facebook's ad clients. Driving a successful branding campaign, for example, requires a long-term commitment from a company. An ad running for a couple of weeks pushing the latest, greatest widget is nice, but that doesn't necessarily result in sustaining revenue growth over the long haul. With the subtle shift in how marketers are using Facebook taking hold, particularly in conjunction with Facebook's emphasis on mobile users, incorporating video, and continuing to grow and utilize its mountains of user data, questions about Facebook's growth become moot. And that should have investors cheering, even after Facebook's extraordinary 151% jump in share price the past 12 months, nearly 28% of that coming this year alone. Final Foolish thoughtsConcerns that Facebook will be able to maintain its upward user and revenue trends were certainly valid. But based on feedback from the folks who matter most when it comes to Facebook's growth -- the heads of large marketing departments -- the future is looking good for Zuckerberg and team. Yes, Facebook is trading at more than 114 times trailing earnings, but that shouldn't scare off investors. At only 41 times forward earnings, Facebook still makes a nice addition to most any mid- to long-term growth portfolio. Dividend stocks can make you rich. It's as simple as that. While they don't garner the notoriety of high-flying growth stocks, they're also less likely to crash and burn. And over the long term, the compounding effect of the quarterly payouts, as well as their growth, adds up faster than most investors imagine. With this in mind, our analysts sat down to identify the absolute best of the best when it comes to rock-solid dividend stocks, drawing up a list in this free report of nine that fit the bill. To discover the identities of these companies before the rest of the market catches on, you can download this valuable free report by simply clicking here now. Tim Brugger has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Facebook. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New York NEW YORK, March 8 (Reuters-peHUB) - The auction of JP Morgan Chase's private equity business, One Equity Partners, in the market since at least November, has hit an impasse, according to three people with knowledge of the situation. Two people close to potential buyers said the bank "pulled" the business off the market. Another source, active in the secondary market but not directly involved with the process, described the auction as stalled after the bank increased its asking price. "The bid/ask spread has widened dramatically," the secondary professional said. "It's hard to imagine someone stretching to that level. There's a lot of disappointed buyers." Sources said the bank could revive an auction of One Equity at any time. "The question is, do they try and come back six months from now, or never?" one source said. A spokesperson for JP Morgan Chase declined to comment. The bank announced last July it was spinning off One Equity, its last remaining private equity operation, because the unit was not core. JP Morgan Chase was not under regulatory pressure to sell: One Equity would not be affected by the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, which restricts the ability of bank holding companies to own and operate private equity groups, sister news service Reuters reported last year. Potential buyers were bidding for a portfolio of buyout and growth equity investments valued at more than $4 billion, according to sources. The winning bidder was also expected to contribute to a new fund the team would raise as an independent firm. As part of the deal, One Equity, which has been investing off the bank's balance sheet, wanted $1.5 billion to $2 billion in funding for new deals, Dow Jones reported in November. Without a deal in place, One Equity team would likely have to move forward without any new capital from the bank. One Equity is drawing from "outstanding capital commitments" from the bank until starting its next fund, which would be raised from external investors, according to One Equity's website. The group is led by Dick Cashin, who founded the group in 2001. Since then, One Equity has managed $14 billion in total investments and committed capital for JP Morgan Chase. The bank has shed its other private equity groups over the years. JP Morgan Partners spun out into independent firm CCMP Capital Partners, and Corsair Capital, which the bank formed in 1993 to invest into opportunities created by the savings and loan crisis, spun out in 2006. (peHUB is a Thomson Reuters publication. Editor: chris.witkowsky@thomsonreuters.com. www.buyoutsnews.com) FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoForbes' annual "World's Billionaires List" is out for 2014 — and we've rounded up the richest in the financial and investments industries. Some of these people will be familiar to you (i.e. Warren Buffett and George Soros) and some of them prefer to stay in the shadows, like Taiwan's Tsai Wan-Tsai (he's a huge name in Taiwanese finance). According to the list, roughly two-thirds of the billionaires built their own fortunes, 13% inherited them and 21% have been adding on to fortunes they received. That means you could probably still make it on the list yourself, right? FREE AppDownload
The Vietnamese government says it has spotted two large oil slicks off the southern coast of the country that are believed to be from the Malaysia Airlines 777 that disappeared from radar yesterday. The slicks are between 6 and 9 miles long, AP reports. They are consistent with the type of slick that would be caused by jet fuel, the Vietnamese government says. Another report cites a single 12-mile long oil slick. Several countries are now participating in the search and rescue operation for the plane, which was carrying 239 people en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The plane's last-known position on radar was over the South China Sea. It was cruising at 35,000 feet. The plane disappeared without sending a distress call.   SEE ALSO: Malaysia Airlines 777 Disappears Over South China Sea FREE AppDownload
    Christian Fox, an instructor at CrossFit South Brooklyn, explains the techniques involved in this strength and conditioning workout that has recently crossed over from the ultimate fighting world into the mainstream. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee takes notes at a port of Shanghai Free Trade ZoneBEIJING (Reuters) - China's exports unexpectedly tumbled in February, swinging the trade balance into deficit and adding to fears of a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy despite the Lunar New Year holidays being blamed for the slide. The sharp drop in exports follows a series of factory surveys since the start of 2014 that point to weakness in economic activity as demand falters at home and abroad. Exports in February fell 18.1 percent from a year earlier, following a 10.6 percent jump in January, the General Administration of Customs said on Saturday. Imports rose 10.1 percent, yielding a trade deficit of $23 billion for the month versus a surplus of $32 billion in January. That compares with market expectations in a Reuters poll of a rise of 6.8 percent in exports, an 8 percent rise in imports and a trade surplus of $14.5 billion. Analysts cautioned against reading too much into single-month figures for January or February, given possible distortions caused by the long Lunar New Year holiday, which began on January 31 and covered early February. Many plants and offices shut for extended periods during the festival. Still, combined exports in January and February fell 1.6 percent from the same period a year earlier, versus a 7.9 percent full-year rise in 2013. Imports rose 10 percent year-on-year in the first two months, compared with a 7.3 percent rise in 2013. "February export numbers were a surprise on the downside, and even combined January-February numbers were below market expectations," said Li Heng, an economist at Minsheng Securities in Beijing. "The data shows that the economy faces relatively big downward pressures and macro-policies need to be loosened a bit." The government may step up fiscal spending to support some investment projects if growth slows further, given there is limited room for the central bank to loosen policy, Li said. Exports to the United States edged up 1.3 percent in the first two months from a year earlier, while sales to the European Union rose 4.6 percent, according to official data. CONFIDENT ON OUTLOOK China's trade outlook is widely expected to be rosier this year in line with a recovery in developed countries. Minsheng Securities' Li said he expected exports to pick up in March. Ting Lu, an economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong, said that inflated export data in January-February 2013 means that a direct year-on-year comparison can be misleading. Fake trade deals to sneak cash into China past the country's strict capital controls were rampant early last year before Chinese regulators cracked down. After adjusting for such distortions, export growth in the first two months of this year could actually be up about 8 percent, he calculated. Recent weakness in the yuan is seen as orchestrated by the central bank to squeeze out speculators and deter hot money inflows. China is fully confident of achieving its 7.5 percent growth target in total trade this year, Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng said on Friday, citing an improving global economic environment. China's combined exports and imports grew 7.6 percent in 2013, just short of the official target of 8 percent. China's goods trade in 2013 hit $4.16 trillion, overtaking the United States for the first time to become the world's largest goods trading nation, Gao said on Friday. China aims for annual economic growth of 7.5 percent in 2014, after the economy expanded 7.7 percent in 2013, which hovered near the weakest pace since late 1990s. A resilient Chinese economy is good news for the world, particularly for major commodity exporters such as Australia. China's crude oil imports in the first two months of the year rose 11.5 percent from a year earlier, while imports of copper jumped 41.2 percent and iron ore shipments rose 21.8 percent, data from the customs administration showed. The statistical bureau is due to release combined data on January-February retail sales, industrial output and investment for January and February on Thursday. The figures are expected to show a slightly slower rate of growth than in December. February inflation data will be published on Sunday. China's annual economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter from 7.8 percent in the previous quarter, and economists polled by Reuters expected growth to slow further to 7.6 percent in the first quarter of 2014. (Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
APFor the most part, shareholder-owned corporations are allowed to run operations for themselves within the parameters of certain regulations. But not every publicly traded company falls into this category, with some experiencing significantly more government involvement in corporate decision making. Here, I'll look at four examples of shareholder-owned corporations where the government has a greater role than just as a regulatory body. Mortgage giantsAs the name implies, government sponsored entities (GSEs) have a relationship with the government that is more than the standard private corporation-to-government relationship. But after the financial crisis of 2008 and some changes to the financing terms in 2012, Fannie Mae (NASDAQOTCBB:FNMA  ) and Freddie Mac (NASDAQOTCBB: FMCC  ) are more in government control than almost any other shareholder-owned corporation. After the set of GSE earnings, the U.S. government has recouped its full investment in the bailouts of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In all fairness, the government does deserve some additional returns for taking the risk and supplying the capital as any other money lending corporation would expect had a private-sector company been willing (or even able) to supply the capital necessary to sustain the GSEs. But the current arrangement with the government is even better for Uncle Sam. Even after returning all the funds lent by the government, Fannie and Freddie owe just as much money as they did before. This is due to an amendment put in place in 2012 that called for the sweeping of all excess profits of the GSEs into the Treasury without reducing the outstanding preferred stock owned by the Treasury. In effect, Fannie and Freddie shareholders cannot access any of the profits and, unless things change, will never be able to do so in the future. Owners of Fannie and Freddie common and preferred stock are challenging the legality of the Sweep Amendment in court. Among those challenging the government are Bruce Berkowitz, manager of the Fairholme Fund, and Richard Perry, manager of Perry Capital. If these lawsuits are successful, Fannie and Freddie shares have the potential to increase 10 to 15 times based on both my analysis, and that of the far more recognized Bill Ackman, manager of Pershing Square. Power to GreeceAt first glance, Greece seems like the last place anyone would want to put money. Between high unemployment and ongoing government debt issues, Greece looks like the place that will balance out your capital gains. But sometimes, the most hated investments are the most profitable, and its hard to find a company more tied to both Greece and its government thanPublic Power Corporation. As Greece's largest energy producer operating mines, power plants, and transmission lines, Public Power Corporation is essentially the Greek power monopoly. But this monopoly comes at a cost. The Corporation is also 51% owned by the Greek government, allowing the government to use it for promoting social and economic policy instead of seeking out maximum shareholder returns. Upside comes from this company through two main ways. The first is a possible privatization plan. Most likely, the government would keep a minority stake, but the sale would allow the Corporation to seek out greater profits without as much focus on the effects of its policies on non-shareholders. The second way comes from an economic recovery in Greece, which would allow more electric bills to be paid, and increase total power consumption. To buy shares of Public Power Corporation, investors will need an account allowing them to access the Frankfurt Stock Exchange or the Athens Stock Exchange. Energy giantFew companies have received as much increased name recognition in the past couple weeks as Gazprom (NASDAQOTH: OGZPY  ) . Unfortunately, it's not the good kind of name recognition. Gazprom is the largest energy producer in Russia, and exports oil and natural gas to Europe. Right now, the company is at the center of the Ukrainian crisis, as it's both majority controlled by the Russian government, and supplies the commodities that western powers are threatening to put sanctions on. As a result, fear has set in around the company. The biggest risk here is political rather than financial. It's unlikely that any giant earning as much as Gazprom would just collapse, but the Russian government could take steps that would significantly reduce the value of privately held Gazprom shares. I view the Ukrainian crisis as an opportunity to acquire Gazprom shares at a bargain basement multiple, and begin collecting a dividend. However, anyone interested in Gazprom needs to know that they are dealing with financial, as well as political, risks. Government discountAll four of these companies are out of favor with the investment community due to high levels of direct government involvement in their businesses. As a result, investors willing to accept these political risks can acquire otherwise strong companies at major discounts. Will these three American energy companies weaken Russia's position?Russia says that sanctions on oil and natural gas would only hurt western powers; but could these three American energy companies profit from such action by fulfilling the demand of the west? Record oil and natural gas production is revolutionizing the United States' energy position. Finding the right plays while historic amounts of capital expenditures are flooding the industry will pad your investment nest egg. For this reason, the Motley Fool is offering a comprehensive look at three energy companies set to soar during this transformation in the energy industry. To find out which three companies are spreading their wings, check out the special free report, "3 Stocks for the American Energy Bonanza." Don't miss out on this timely opportunity; click here to access your report -- it's absolutely free.  Alexander MacLennan owns shares of Freddie Mac and Public Power Corporation. This article is not an endorsement to buy or sell any security and does not constitute professional investment advice. Always do your own due diligence before buying or selling any security. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
