Thomson ReutersA staff of Rakuten Cafe is seen behind a logo of Rakuten Inc. in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's largest e-commerce firm Rakuten Inc  said it was in talks to buy U.S. rebate site operator Ebates, a deal reportedly worth $950 million and the latest in a long line of overseas acquisitions. Shares of Rakuten fell 4.4 percent in mid-morning trade, underperforming the benchmark Nikkei , which was flat. The company has been on a buying spree to reduce its reliance on the domestic market, which accounts for the lion's share of its revenues. High-profile acquisitions in recent years have included free messaging application Viber for $900 million, and Canadian e-book reader Kobo for $315 million. Media reports have said the deal could be worth more than 100 billion yen ($950 million). Rakuten said in a statement it was in talks but that no final decision on the deal had been made yet. Ebates operates websites offering rebates and coupons from retailers including Amazon.com and Best Buy.  (Reporting by Teppei Kasai; Editing by Chang-Ran Kim and Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee guides a crane as it transports a roll of steel sheet, at a factory in Handan, HebeiBEIJING (Reuters) - China's exports rose more than forecast in August while imports unexpectedly fell, pushing the trade surplus to a record high for the second consecutive month and underlining the challenges facing policymakers as they struggle to revive tepid domestic demand. Exports rose 9.4 percent in August, the General Administration of Customs said on Monday, beating a forecast rise of 8 percent but slower than July's 14.5 percent growth rate. But imports fell 2.4 percent in terms of value, missing a Reuters estimate for a 1.7 percent rise. That led to an all-time high trade surplus of $49.8 billion, exceeding forecasts for a surplus of $40 billion. It was the second straight month that China's import growth has been unexpectedly weak, raising concerns that sluggish domestic demand exacerbated by a cooling housing market is increasingly dragging on growth in the world's second-biggest economy. "The deepening contraction in the import data indicated weak domestic demand," said Li Huiyong, an economist at Shenyin Wanguo in Shanghai. "The trade data indicated downward pressure on China's economy. Policymakers may need to enhance their efforts to support the domestic economy if industrial output growth slows to 8.6 percent in coming months." China's economy has had a bumpy ride this year. Growth slowed to an 18-month low of 7.4 percent in the first quarter and rebounded only slightly to 7.5 percent between April and June after a flurry of government stimulus measures. Yet hopes that the recovery may gain traction were quickly dashed in July when data showed the economy was losing momentum once more. As a result, authorities have repeatedly warned that China may miss its target to grow its trade sector by 7.5 percent this year. China's export sector was surprisingly buoyant in July when growth jumped to a 15-month high, pushing the trade surplus to a record $47.3 billion. The upbeat performance was helped in part by a strengthening U.S. economy, China's top export destination. But risks posed by the cooling property sector have dimmed any optimism brought on by perkier foreign demand. Accounting for about 15 percent of China's economic output, the real estate market is experiencing its worst downturn in two years as sales and prices turned south. The housing slump, combined with a startling drop in credit supply last month to a six-year low, has led many analysts to predict that China's leaders need to loosen policy further and offer further stimulus in order to meet this year's economic growth target of around 7.5 percent. To stoke activity, China started loosening policy in modest steps from April. Some construction projects were brought forward, the amount of deposits that banks must set aside as reserves was lowered for some lenders, and property controls were relaxed to boost the housing market.   (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing and Shao Xiaoyi; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitDETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; will introduce in two years its first car that can communicate with other vehicles to help avoid accidents and ease traffic congestion, Chief Executive Mary Barra said on Sunday. In the same time frame, GM also will introduce more advanced technology allowing hands-free driving in some cases, she said. "I'm convinced customers will embrace (vehicle-to-vehicle) and automated driving technologies for one simple reason: they are the answer to everyday problems that people want solved," she said in a text of a speech delivered at a conference here. Auto companies, academics and government agencies globally are working to develop cameras, sensors, radar and other technologies that allow vehicles and surrounding infrastructure like stoplights to alert each other about nearby driving conditions. The industry is rolling out such features as adaptive cruise control, crash-imminent braking and semi-automated, hands-free driving like GM's 'Super Cruise' feature to make roads safer. However, GM and other automakers have emphasized that even with hands-free driving, drivers will be responsible and need to maintain attention on the road. Meanwhile, Internet search company Google Inc &lt;googl.o&gt; is working to develop fully autonomous vehicles. The U.S. Department of Transportation has made developing connected car technologies a high priority, a view shared in Japan and Europe. And when cars can also talk to surrounding infrastructure, the gains will be exponential, Barra said. However, she said commercializing a fully automated vehicle may take until the next decade. Congestion causes urban Americans to travel 5.5 billion more hours and purchase an extra 2.9 billion gallons of fuel each year, she said, citing outside data. In 2016, GM will sell a 2017 model Cadillac CTS sedan standardly equipped with vehicle-to-vehicle technology. However, the car can only communicate with similarly equipped vehicles and it will take time for the industry to introduce the technology broadly, GM officials said before Barra's speech. They added that U.S. regulators still need to finalize requirements for these technologies and cyber security protections need to be developed. Also in 2016, GM will roll out Super Cruise as an option allowing hands-free highway driving at both highway and stop-and-go speeds, as well as lane following, speed control and braking in a new, unidentified 2017 Cadillac model in a segment where the company does not currently compete. GM did not disclose either feature's cost, or timing on offering them on the No. 1 U.S. automaker's other brands. GM will introduce the connected CTS sedan and the unnamed Cadillac with the Super Cruise feature in the United States. In 1956, GM showed the Pontiac Firebird II concept that included a system to work with an electrical wire embedded in the highway to guide the car. Three years later, the rocket-like Cadillac Cyclone concept boasted an autopilot system that steered the car, and radar in front nose cones that warned of a collision and automatically applied the brakes. Barra said the U.S. Congress can help develop vehicle-to-infrastructure communication with funding in the next federal transportation bill. She also said GM is joining the University of Michigan and the state of Michigan to develop vehicle-to-infrastructure driving corridors on 120 miles (193 km) of metro Detroit roadways. State officials said Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt; is also part of the effort.   (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Austin Kirk Earlier we wrote about how market bears are going extinct. Multiple surveys show the number of people who think the market is going to go down are rapidly dwindling. So why is everyone so bullish? A simple theme is emerging: The existing environment of mediocre growth (not too hot, not too cold, no big pressure on the Fed to tighten) is likely to continue. This was the commentary from David Zervos after Friday's Jobs Report, who said the weak Non-Farm Payrolls report was the perfect report for the bulls. And here's Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG): They say bull markets are born on pessimism, grow on skepticism, mature on optimism and die on euphoria (see our related note Where are we in the Business Cycle and Does it Matter?). After Friday’s payroll figure, does anyone know anyone else feeling “euphoric?” The WSJ’s headline regarding the jobs report reads Slowdown in Hiring Stirs U.S. Growth Worries while the NY Times wondered about “Malaise.”   Basically that's it. The economy isn't growing, but we're not at the euphoria stage yet. A similar point was made my Morgan Stanley, that we're just not seeing anything that could resemble overheating yet: A world “out of sync” will extend the cycle. Growth and monetary policy dynamics remain highly un-synchronized in the developed and emerging world. This lowers the likelihood of overheating and is one reason we think the current global expansion could end up being one of the longest on record.  So unless we get a rapid acceleration that causes a dramatic pulling forward of Fed tightening, or something that causes a real deterioration in the economy, people will have a hard time articulating a bear case. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman rides a bicycle past outside a food store in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economy shrank an annualized 7.1 percent in April-June from the previous quarter, more than a preliminary estimate, underscoring concerns the hit from an April increase in the sales tax may have been bigger than expected. The revised contraction was the biggest since January-March 2009, when the global financial crisis hit Japan's exports and factory output, keeping policymakers under pressure to expand fiscal and monetary stimulus should the economy fail to recover from the disruption of the April tax hike. It was revised down from a preliminary 6.8 percent drop, according to Cabinet Office data released on Monday, and was more than the median market forecast for a 7.0 percent decline in a Reuters poll of economists. On a quarter-to-quarter basis, the economy shrank 1.8 percent in the second quarter, compared with a preliminary reading of a 1.7 percent contraction. The revision was largely due to a bigger than expected decrease in capital expenditure and a deeper decline in consumer spending, suggesting the economy could struggle to overcome the April sales tax increase. Separate data showed the current account swung back into surplus in July, reflecting higher earnings on overseas investments. The surplus stood at 416.7 billion yen ($3.96 billion), compared with economists' forecast for 444.2 billion yen. That followed a shortfall of 399.1 billion yen in June, which marked the first deficit in five months. Policymakers had predicted the economy would shrink in the April-June quarter as consumers withheld spending after a shopping spree ahead of the sales tax hike to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1. But a recent run of weak data, including a slump in household spending and tepid output growth in July, has cast doubt on the policymakers' forecast that the economy will rebound steadily in the current quarter to sustain a moderate recovery. The pace of growth from July will be crucial to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's decision, expected by year-end, on whether to proceed with a scheduled second increase in the sales tax to 10 percent in October next year. If the economic recovery falters, it will also heighten pressure on the Bank of Japan to expand its already massive monetary stimulus deployed in April last year. The BOJ, which kept monetary policy steady on Thursday, remains unfazed so far by the soft data, arguing that the tax hike-pain is temporary with household spending set to pick up as a tightening job market pushes up wages.   (Additional reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto and Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
We've made the case before (see Here) that for all the pomp and circumstance, Fed policy over the last three decades has done very little to deviate yields from what became a genuinely symmetrical and balanced return from the profound 1981 highs. Where they have had effect - we would argue, is around the fringe in introducing volatility to the slope of the decline, with numerous interventions and surprises as they navigated various market conditions. The chart referenced below with the 1941 to 1981 mirrored trajectory captures that story, especially when contrasted with the relative smoothness of the previous long-term cycle in the first half of the 20th century, when the Fed was still in its infancy and developing the first edition textbook of accommodation and reduction - they have continued to build upon with each passing cycle.  On both sides of the spectrum, whether through bailouts, interventions or rate tightenings - the Fed has looked to shake the tree from time to time when the markets are deemed too complacent, accommodative or risk adverse. Coincidentally - or not, these occasions over the last thirty years have been when yields have fallen back proximate to the mirror of the cycle. Has it been beneficial? We'll save that nuanced argument for the historians, but do believe it demonstrates quite clearly the nature versus nurture aspect of the Treasury market. The Fed may find efficacy with the cattle prod at times, but the herd of the largest security market in the world will still closely follow the inherent migration pattern - one that many analysis, pundits and traders have attempted to call an audible from over the years.    Market Anthropology Coming into this year, we had looked for the taper-tantrum squeeze in 10-year yields to reverse from the relative extreme punctuated at the end of last year. The irony being, the collective wisdom in the market in late December and early January was wresting with how different markets would cope with a rising rate environment. Gold and gold miners were left for dead. Emerging markets were viewed as a fashion craze of the previous cycle, but unwearable in a rising rate environment.  China? "You must be crazy", we were told. Utility stocks? They'll strongly underperform.  Lost on most was the fact that 10-year yields had surged over 80% higher in only a few short months, eclipsing the entirety of influence on long-term yields of the previous rate tightening cycle (~70%) and roughly doubling the effects of the surprise tightenings by the Fed from 1994 through February of 1995. Not surprisingly, it was a great time to buy long-term Treasuries, gold and precious metals miners, emerging market and Chinese equities and utilities. Market Anthropology Market Anthropology With 10-year yields rising the most since the first week in June, bond bears started sticking their heads outside their caves last week, looking to feed and remind us once more that investing in Treasuries is akin to swimming in gasoline in a lightening storm. Emboldened by comments from Appaloosa Management's David Tepper, declaring, "It's the beginning of the end of the bond market bubble", the bond bears gain a credible ally and spokesman just as the Fed looks to shut down their country kitchen this fall - as the ECB notifies us of their own grand opening that same month. Exquisite - or desperate, timing we wonder? While Tepper's reputation and fortune have very much been built on the former, more than a tinge of the later comes to mind - with respect to the severe structural limitations of the European condition and the modest proposal the program will begin with. With that said, it is the thought that counts and we can't deny that Draghi is at the very least forging a reputation of delivering the goods - whatever they may be.  Although we don't believe that the bond market is in a bubble per se, over the last two years we would agree that the Treasury market has been going through a transition of the beginning of the end of the move that began over 30 years ago. The main difference, is we don't expect yields to sustain a pivot higher, but remain in a long-term range roughly between 1.5 and 3.0 percent over the next several years, as the markets wrestle with normalization of monetary policy from the extraordinary measures enacted over the past five years. To that end, we defer to history and the over 70 year patterned memory of the cycle, that points to Yellen's patient refrain of lower -longer.  In the obvious sense, the timing of the ECB announcement appears tailored to mitigate the swift collapse in yields that occurred at the end of the two previous QE salvos, as investors apprehensions without the Fed's training wheels and soup kitchen took over. While conventional market wisdom infers that QE helps a central bank put a cap on yields, as we mentioned earlier - the evidence in the market is very much to the contrary. QE by all accounts has successfully stimulated participants away from the safe-haven shores of Treasuries and into riskier assets.    Market Anthropology When the Fed started tightening first in the summer of 2004, US 10-year yields diverged higher away from Europe. As shown below in the chart between US and German yields, it wasn't until the financial crisis took hold in the back half of 2008 did the two markets once again converge. Maintaining its leadership role in dictating broader monetary policy direction, US yields fell below Europe in the fall of 2008 - as the Fed cut swiftly towards the lower bound of the fed funds rate. Reaching the bottom in December of that year, the ECB would take its time over the next five, meeting the Fed just last November.  Propelled by the cattle prod of QE3 and the threat of the taper last spring, US 10-year yields have diverged considerably from Germany - Europe's strongest economy, as the ECB has continued to cut below where the fed funds rate currently resides. With the ECB finally pulling a page from our own quantitative cookbook, as our last bunch of QE biscuits warm, it seems reasonable to suspect that the spread between US and Germany will begin to come in soon. The question - we suppose, is where the next convergence might take place: higher or lower than where US yields currently reside? Will US yields enjoy support extended from the new European initiative, or will nature exert its influence over the cycle and cause them to meet lower at a later date? Longer term, our money is still on the latter and from a relative performance point of view, we continue to favor long-term Treasuries relative to equities today. From our perspective, Tepper's audible will meet the same fate as the many quarterbacks who have made the call over the years. Sacked - behind the line of scrimmage.   Market Anthropology   Market Anthropology   FREE AppDownload
1. The Shanghai recovery is phenomenal and by week’s end it had risen another 0.83% to 2,326. Prices are now at levels not seen for 15 months and back toward the Feb 2013 highs. The Nikkei was largely unchanged, down just 0.05% and the Hang Seng fell 0.23%. 2. It’s time for the RBA to follow words with action. Professor Ross Garnaut has given the RBA some advice about rate cuts and perhaps it should be heeded given the Aussie rallied on Friday, rising to 94 cents again before easing back to be 0.9366 at the moment. Euro is at 1.2952, USDJPY sits at 105.08 and the pound has tanked down to 1.6178 on the Scottish referendum closeness. 3. China is not Australia’s friend. So says China’s visiting foreign minister Wang Yi, who added this soother: China may not be Australia’s closest friend at the moment but we can surely become your most sincere friend. Wang’s visiting Australia to chat with our foreign minister Julie Bishop as a prelude to the State visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping in November and to discuss the current negotiations on the free-trade agreement. It’s possible he didn’t take too kindly to comment by PM Abbott earlier this year that Japan was Australia’s “closest friend in Asia”. 4. It’s a huge week ahead for data freaks. Tomorrow’s release of the NAB Business survey will give us the best read on what is really going on in the economy. Conditions and confidence are important but we’ll be watching the sub-indices which cover trading, profitability, forward orders and employment. Then we’ve got Westpac’s consumer sentiment number Wednesday, employment data Thursday, and Chinese trade and CPI figures. 5. “Slippergate” didn’t quite hit its mark. 60 Minutes had been promising revelations that would rock the Abbott Government all week. It turned out to be details of an alleged backroom deal that saw Education Minister Christopher Pyne promising a lawyer and job in state politics for James Ashby, the political adviser who lodged sexual harassment claims against disgraced MP Peter Slipper. Essentially it came down to Ashby’s word against a number of government MPs. 6. The Scots are making a run for it. The Yes vote for independence from Great Britain has gained incredible momentum in the past few days and is now starting to look possible. The votes will be cast on September 18, and slight lead taken by the republicans has sent the pound into a downward spiral. 7. This is amazing. We all saw stunning pictures of the lava blows from Mt Tavurvur in Papua New Guinea during the week. But Aussie Phil McNamara was on the scene when it blew and caught this huge moment when the shockwave swept out. As one spectator put it – “Hoooly smokin’ toledos.” 8. The leakiest iPhone yet is within sight. Literally, as this video appears to be genuine footage of a working iPhone 6. The real thing will be unveiled Wednesday morning our time, and if there are any surprises, we’ll be surprised. There’s been months of almost daily “leaks”. This latest video shows a new red bar with tiny credit card icon, which strongly suggests the iPhone 6 will be NFC ready for mobile payments. 9. Jack the Ripper identified. Absolutely, conclusively maybe. British author Russell Edwards watched the Johnny Depp thriller From Hell in 2001, and began an extensive armchair investigation into all the possible culprits. A few years ago, he bought a shawl at auction belonging to one of the Ripper’s victims, Catherine Eddowes, the only known piece of forensic evidence which had survived any of the crime scenes. A three-year analysis has now revealed it shares DNA with one of the suspected Rippers, a 23-year-old Polish immigrant called Aaron Kosminski. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Barry Ritholtz posted a link to a video called “Winning the Loser’s Game” on Twitter (you can watch part 1 here and part 2 here).  The conclusion is something that’s becoming very popular these days – the idea that, in investing, you can’t go wrong with a low cost passive indexing approach.  It’s true to some degree.  The less active you are the more you’ll reduce frictions like tax inefficiencies and costs.  But the very foundation of the idea of “passive indexing” is based on a misunderstanding of the way markets function at their macro level.  In fact, passive indexing is, by definition, portfolio construction resulting not only in active asset picking, but active asset chasing.  Let me explain. As I’ve explained previously, there is no such thing as a truly passive portfolio.  That is, the only “passive” approach would be buying all of the world’s financial assets and simply taking the market return it generates every year.  Of course, you can’t do this because no such product allows you to do this as William Sharpe has stated: “I would like to see a very-low-cost index fund that buys proportionate shares of all the traded stocks and bonds in the world. Unfortunately, there are none at present.” Sharpe is right.  The only truly passive index is a portfolio of the global financial assets.  And since no such portfolio exists in any realistically applicable manner, you must, by definition, actively choose to pick your assets in some way. What’s interesting about the Global Financial Asset Portfolio (GFAP) is that it’s basically a 55% bonds and 45% stock portfolio at present – an allocation that runs counterintuitive to the way most of us are taught to allocate assets with a stock heavy “buy and hold” methodology.  Most of us actively choose to reallocate the GFAP into something else which, as Cliff Asness has clearly stated, is nothing more than an active management decision often cloaked by another “passive” name: “You can believe your strategy works because you’re taking extra risk or because others make mistakes, but if it deviates from cap weighting, you don’t get to call it “passive” and, in turn, disparage “active” investing. This peeve may be about form over substance—marketing versus reality—but these things count.”  - “My Top 10 Peeves” by Clifford S. Asness What’s most interesting about these videos and the “passive investing” approach is that its grounded in the idea of Eugene Fama’s Efficient Market Hypothesis, a theory with faulty underlying foundations and several internal inconsistencies.  The most glaring internal inconsistency is the very terminology itself and its advocacy to “passive” investing based on the idea that the markets are smarter than the rest of us.  Eugene Fama, who popularized the EMH, did not seem to understand that, at the macro level, the current snapshot of global financial assets is an ex-post view of how inefficient markets are currently allocated.  That is, it is a largely reactive allocation to macro trends.  More importantly, the GFAP is a dynamic portfolio that changes over the course of its lifetime to account for changes in macro trends. For instance, in the 70's &amp; 80's the GFAP was equity market heavy while the current GFAP is bond heavy.  When one accounts for the risk adjusted returns this portfolio has proven to be positioned entirely incorrectly for decades at a time as it adjusts to changing macro trends.  The investor who was bond heavy in 1980's substantially outperformed the equity heavy portfolio on a risk adjusted basis while only slightly underperforming on a nominal basis.  In other words, the markets and the GFAP did not produce the most optimal outcome for investors. This is why investors who were bond heavy like Cliff Asness, Ray Dalio, Bill Gross are held on such high pedestals – they took a proactive view of the environment by accounting for the reality that bonds were undervalued relative to stocks.  Today, we’re at the nearly exact opposite environment yet the GFAP would tell you to be bond heavy 30 years after the optimal time to do so.  In other words, an indexing purist is chasing a trend at its worst possible time.  Therefore, the truly passive investor is simply chasing performance and very likely to generate sub-par returns in the coming decades. What’s so fascinating about this view of the markets is that it’s been used to demonize any form of “active” investing without realizing that we are all making active decisions by deviating from the GFAP.  Worse, anyone who blindly follows the GFAP (as an indexing purist would) is simply relying on the ex-post snapshot of the markets without realizing that their returns rely largely on chasing macro trends that have already played out. When someone tells you to invest “passively” in index funds they likely don’t understand three important facts: 1.  There is no such thing as “passive investing”.  Therefore, by definition, indexers are always advocating some form of active “asset picking”, but rationalizing this based on some other theoretical underpinning such as “factor tilts” or “risk tolerance” which are also known as excuses for active asset picking. 2.  They are engaging in a forecast of some type even though they often market themselves as “forecast free” investors.  This is due to the fact that any portfolio with a directional bias has an underlying dependence on the performance of the underlying macro economy to some degree.  An equity heavy portfolio relies on economic expansion whether you call that a “forecast” or not. 3.  A passive indexing purist is, by definition, a performance chaser since the GFAP allocation is nothing more than an ex-post snapshot of macro trends.  This portfolio, with certainty, will position you poorly at times during economic cycles and therefore requires an element of active reallocation.   Smart investors who reject nonsense like “rational expectations” will identity these periods and turn against the “wisdom of the crowd”. Ironically, “passive” investors often demonize “active” management of any type without understanding that they themselves are almost always active.  Worse, a truly “passive” portfolio is nothing more than an ex-post snapshot of the way markets have responded to macro trends.  Therefore, these portfolios often result in the same type of portfolio chasing that “passive” indexers demonize investors for.    What, in the world is rational about being overweight bonds AFTER the greatest bond bull market in history?  But that’s exactly what an indexing purist would advocate today unless they applied Fama’s “factor tilts” or other theoretical excuses for active asset picking. We have to be careful with this “passive” investing ideology.  Yes, you should be concerned about fees and frictions.  If you pay someone 1% a year for portfolio management then you’re likely overpaying for their services.  But at the end of the day indexers should know that asset allocation decisions are the primary driving factor in returns and almost all indexers are involved in a form of active “asset picking” that will drive their results.  And whether that asset picking is based on any underlying rational premise is highly debatable.  One thing I can assure you is that if it’s based on a rationale similar to the EMH then it’s probably got some glaring holes in it. Related: FREE AppDownload
Here's a fun slide from Deutsche Bank on the various risks to the economies that abound. Each risk is numbered, and placed on a matrix of likelihood and impact. You can see how each risk has been moving. So for example, geopolitical risk has spiked in significance lately, with all the concerns about Russia, and ISIS and so forth. Meanwhile, the risk of a Chinese hard landing has faded a little bit, though if it were to happen, the impact would be significant. Another risk that seems to have faded is a US recession.  Anyway, just some eye candy. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersInternational Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde speaks during a conference about the future of the Euro zone in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - The head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is urging France to speed up structural reforms to bolster economic growth and warning against using weak inflation as an excuse to relax public deficit reduction efforts. In an interview with French daily Les Echos to be published on Monday, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said the French government must implement "truly, rapidly and fully structural reforms likely to generate growth". "Even if inflation is weaker than expected, it cannot be used as a screen to postpone the necessary efforts on (public) spending", she added. Socialist President Francois Hollande's government was forced to abandon growth and fiscal targets for 2014 and 2015 last month after data showed the economy delivered no growth for the second straight quarter. Lagarde, who was France's minister of finance from 2007 to 2011, also said she did not believe the euro zone's austerity policy had been excessive and found the pace of deficit reduction "appropriate in each country" of the bloc. Reuters received a copy of the front page of Les Echos's Monday edition, which included Lagarde's remarks.  (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
A world “out of sync” will extend the cycle. Growth and monetary policy dynamics remain highly un-synchronized in the developed and emerging world. This lowers the likelihood of overheating and is one reason we think the current global expansion could end up being one of the longest on record. That's from the latest Morgan Stanley Global Strategy Outlook, which is titled "Investing In An Out-Of-Sync World." Basically, what it means is that the big world economies are all going through different experiences, with different phases of the monetary policy cycle. The most obvious divergence is between the US and Europe. The US is on the verge of putting Quantitative Easing in the rear-view mirror, while Mario Draghi and the ECB have just announced a new asset purchase program that could even expand. That different is massive. Then there's Japan, which is already well into its Abenomics experiment, but which is expected to step on the accelerator even more. Bottom line: Because not everyone's booming at the same time, the global expansion might go on for awhile, without overheating. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile picture illustration shows a WeChat app icon in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Apple Inc has a lot for which to thank people like Deng. A Beijing-based quality analyst, she gave only her surname as she's embarrassed by how much money she spends playing mobile games on WeChat, a hugely popular messaging app developed by Chinese internet giant Tencent Holdings Ltd. "The most expensive time was when I spent 68 yuan ($11.08) on a leopard on Tiantiankupao," said Deng, an avid iPhone user, referring to Tencent's hit game - called Timi Run Everyday in English - where characters run through obstacle courses. Having a leopard as a pet gives the characters extra power, helping players beat their friends. Deng and tens of millions like her have made China Apple's third-largest market for software sales, and a huge chunk of that comes through WeChat. Known locally as Weixin, WeChat had 438 million monthly active users globally, mostly in China, at the end of June, and has rapidly evolved from a messaging tool into a digital Swiss Army knife, allowing users to send messages, play games, book taxis and shop online. The app has proved a winning formula in getting people in China, a market notorious for not paying for software, to connect their bank accounts with their phones and pay for virtual goods like extra lives and power-ups in mobile games. Apple takes a 30 percent cut on all sales. "We're seeing some substantial strength there," Apple CEO Tim Cook said of China in a July earnings call. "The thing that's actually growing the most is the iTunes, Software and Services category, which has the App Store in it. That area is almost doubling year over year." Apple's Greater China revenues, which include Hong Kong and Taiwan, soared 28 percent in April-June from a year earlier to $5.9 billion, and globally, iTunes, Software and Services sales were the company's second-fastest growing product category, up 12 percent year-on-year to $4.5 billion. Tencent was the top game publisher for Apple's iOS operating system in China by revenue for both June and July, according to App Annie, a company that measures app usage. Apple is this week expected to launch its new iPhone - with a gamer-friendly larger screen. Nicholas Carlson/Business Insider Apple makes all software sales on the iPhone go through its App Store. Typically, the Cupertino, California-based company will take its 30 percent of the sales, while the rest goes to an app's developer or publisher. WeChat, which itself hosts apps and games made by other developers, is no different. The cash from any products sold on the app are split between Apple, Tencent and the developer. "By far the biggest factor driving App Store revenue in China is WeChat," said Ben Thompson, who writes about technology at stratechery.com. "WeChat has driven app download and usage, which drives people to want to buy stuff, which drives them to connect their payment information. It's been a very virtuous cycle." Growth has also been helped by increased smartphone sales since China Mobile, the country's largest carrier, began offering the iPhone in January. A big part of WeChat's success has been with casual games - highly addictive hits like Candy Crush Saga and Temple Run that are often free to download but let users pay for in-game upgrades. WeChat has its own stable of games, and also publishes Candy Crush in China. Games integrated with WeChat and Tencent's other mobile social network, Mobile QQ, generated revenues of 3 billion yuan ($489 million) for Tencent in April-June, up from around 1.8 billion yuan in January-March. "If you look at who's playing Temple Run and Candy Crush, a lot of these were non-gamers five years ago," said Junde Yu, App Annie's vice president of Asia Pacific. "With the advent of smartphones, the ease of use, they started to download apps, and because they're very casual and fun they start playing games. It hooks them and encourages them to start making payments."    AP China is unique in another way that helps push up spending on smartphones. Both Apple and Tencent have tried to drive the adoption of mobile payments on their platforms, but China's banking payment system is complex at best, and makes it difficult to carry out any kind of online payment with ease. Apple uses a top-up system for its App Store in China, with a 50 yuan ($8.15) minimum value, said Yu - for those using China's national bank card payment network rather than international credit cards. "This leads to a lot of repeat purchases as people aren't likely to spend 50 yuan on one purchase," Yu said. "After the first time, they won't stop but will keep purchasing and playing games." iPhone users themselves are a big draw for app developers, and some value them more highly than people using smartphones operating on Google Inc's Android system. "I'd pay six times the price for an iOS user compared to Android," said Peng Tao, chief executive of breadtrip, a Beijing-based travel app. Part of the reason, in China at least, is that Android's Google Play app store isn't accessible, so dozens of smaller, less curated app stores have sprung up. "On the iOS App Store front page apps are chosen by merit, whereas in China for Android they're chosen by who pays," said Peng. "Android users just like to download things, no matter the need. They see it's free and download it, so they shift apps quickly - download and delete, download and delete." For Apple, though, WeChat may turn out to be a Trojan horse. While the U.S. company is earning good money through WeChat's success, there is some concern that Tencent may want Apple to see less of that. "WeChat made the market, Apple didn't, and it's becoming so powerful on mobile in China that, broadly speaking, it's a threat to Apple," said stratechery.com's Thompson. "If Tencent want to flex their muscles and keep more of that revenue, I could certainly see them leaning on the government to help them and keep a bigger percentage of the sales they're driving." China's ruling Communist Party is no stranger to heavy-handed regulation. Last week, a U.S. business lobby said foreign companies are increasingly concerned they are being targeted by Chinese regulators, charges the regulators deny. Apple itself has repeatedly come under fire from Chinese state media - more frequently since former U.S. National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden's revelations about U.S. government cyber-espionage conducted through private companies including Apple, Google and Microsoft Corp. In July, China's state broadcaster branded the iPhone a national security threat because of its ability to track and time-stamp user locations, and government mouthpieces have called for 'severe punishment', accusing Apple of providing user data to U.S. intelligence agencies. Some of WeChat's rivals in messaging apps have also fallen by the wayside in China because of the government. Chinese authorities said in August they blocked South Korean firm Kakao Corp's KakaoTalk and Naver Corp's Line as part of efforts to fight terrorism, according to the Korean government, explaining service disruptions in China that had begun a month earlier. "The biggest danger for Apple in China is always the uncertain regulatory environment," said stratechery.com's Thompson. "It's very plausible to see the government moving against Apple's App Store policy." (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Via FlickrThis week's Bloomberg Businessweek cover story profiles Steven Ma, a 36-year-old former hedge fund analyst who is making millions guaranteeing families that he can get their children into a top college — or their money back. Ma is the founder of ThinkTank Learning, described by Bloomberg reporter Peter Waldman as "a chain of San Francisco Bay Area tutoring centers that operate out of strip malls." As long as an applicant can reach a certain GPA and SAT score — and the family pays tens of thousands of dollars — Ma guarantees his almost entirely Asian immigrant clientele admission to one of the best colleges in the country. According to Waldman, "Some 10,000 students—sixth graders to junior-college grads—use ThinkTank’s services now, generating annual revenue of more than $18 million." Here's how Ma makes his promises: Ma, a former hedge fund analyst, makes bets on student admissions the way a trader plays the commodities markets. Using 12 variables from a student's profile—from grades and test scores to extracurricular activities and immigration status—Ma's software crunches the odds of admission to a range of top-shelf colleges. His proprietary algorithm assigns varying weights to different parameters, derived from his analysis of the successes and failures of thousands of students he's coached over the years. Ma's algorithm, for example, predicts that a U.S.-born high school senior with a 3.8 GPA, an SAT score of 2,000 (out of 2,400), moderate leadership credentials, and 800 hours of extracurricular activities, has a 20.4 percent chance of admission to New York University and a 28.1 percent shot at the University of Southern California. Those odds determine the fee ThinkTank charges that student for its guaranteed consulting package: $25,931 to apply to NYU and $18,826 for USC. "Of course we set limits on who we'll guarantee," says Ma. "We don't want to make this a casino game." Via Wikimedia CommonsSteven Ma is the founder and CEO of ThinkTank Learning.Ma also offers "custom contracts" that can net ThinkTank over a million dollars. In one such case, Waldman writes, Ma would receive $1.1 million dollars if he could get a 16-year-old student with an "academic transcript [that] looked like a rap sheet" into U.S. News &amp; World Report's top ranked school — Harvard and Princeton were both tied for number one at the time. According to Waldman, "Ma would get nothing, however, if the boy achieved a 3.0 GPA and a 1600 SAT score and still wasn't accepted at a top-100 college. For admission to a school ranked 81 to 100, Ma would get to keep $300,000; schools ranked 51 to 80 would let Ma hang on to $400,000; and for a top-50 admission, Ma's payoff started at $600,000, climbing $10,000 for every rung up the ladder to No.<U+2009>1." More than just focusing on grades and scores, Waldman writes that Ma "tiger-moms the whole kid." Ma and about 30 ThinkTank "college-admission consultants" help students find community college classes, internships, and volunteer positions to help beef up their applications. The ThinkTank team will also "brainstorm and edit essays to 'strategically position' students' voices and résumés," Waldman notes. This brand of quantified college admissions is unsurprisingly derided by the people making the decisions themselves — college admissions officers. Richard Shaw, Stanford University dean of admissions and financial aid, called Ma's algorithm "ludicrous," telling Waldman, "Helping young people game the system is the wrong approach." However, Ma says he has the data to back up his guarantees. Using University of California, Berkeley — one of the most popular schools among his San Francisco-area clientele — as an example, he tells Waldman that the numbers prove that his methods work. This year, Berkeley took 17.3% of applicants, with a 4.18 overall high school GPA. According to Ma, he gets more students in with lower grades — 22% of ThinkTank clients applying to Berkeley were accepted, he says, with an average GPA of 4.15. Read more about Steven Ma and ThinkTank Learning at Bloomberg Businessweek &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk past the headquarters of Petrobras in Rio de JaneiroRIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - Brazil's October presidential race has been shaken up by a corruption scandal allegedly involving state-run oil firm Petrobras and dozens of lawmakers, with both leading candidates forced onto the defensive after colleagues were implicated. Media reported on Friday night that a jailed former Petrobras &lt;petr4.sa&gt; director had named dozens of politicians who allegedly received kickbacks off the company's contracts. The revelations are a headache for President Dilma Rousseff, undermining her reputation for zero tolerance on corruption just as she is slipping in the polls ahead of the Oct. 5 election. It could also hamper opposition candidate Marina Silva. But the scandal has given third-placed Aecio Neves a fresh rallying call as he tries to claw himself back into the race. He is already on the offensive, branding the scandal "mensalao 2" in reference to the "mensalao" vote-buying scheme in Congress that tainted former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva while he was in office. On Saturday, the magazine Veja printed the names of those implicated in the scandal. Among them were former governor and presidential candidate Eduardo Campos, who died in a plane crash last month; minister for energy and mines Edison Lobão; president of Congress' lower house Henrique Eduardo Alves; and Senate president Renan Calheiros. Those allegedly involved in the scheme were said to have received a 3 percent kickback off the oil firm's contracts with third parties between 2004 and 2012. The money swapped hands in order to maintain political support between parties, Veja said. The names were given by Paulo Roberto Costa, former head of Petrobras' refining and supply unit, arrested in March as part of a police investigation into money laundering. Rousseff has always stressed her credentials as a no-nonsense manager, with development of Brazil's oil riches an important part of that image. She spoke to reporters in Sao Paulo on Saturday. "I assure you I will take the necessary action. But I will not act based on speculation, I want the details," she said. Expectations that the scandal would further boost opposition candidate Marina Silva are countered by the alleged involvement of Campos in the scheme. Silva - Campos' deputy before he died in a plane crash - has spent her life campaigning against precisely the type of corruption outlined in the media reports. Support for Silva has surged in polls in recent weeks, and she is now seen winning a second round runoff, helped by a mix of national grief over Campos' death and her promise of a new type of principled politics. A statement from the president of the late Campos' PSB party, Roberto Amaral, described the allegations as a "perverse scheme" to tarnish Campos' image. "There is no charge here worthy of honest consideration. There is only malice." The one mainstream candidate not directly implicated in the scandal, Aecio Neves - currently running third in the polls - was quick to go on the offensive. "Brazil woke up confused this morning to one of the worst allegations of corruption in our recent history," Neves said in a video posted on the internet. Alves, the head of congress, issued a statement denying receiving funds from Costa. Press aides for Lobão and Renan said they had no position yet on the issue, while officials at Petrobras were not immediately available for comment. (Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIf you want good investment performance, forget you have an account. On this week's Masters in Business program on Bloomberg Radio, Barry Ritholtz talks with James O'Shaughnessy of O'Shaughnessy Asset Management. Ritholtz and O'Shaughnessy spend much of their discussion talking about the ways people screw themselves when investing, because nothing gets in the way of returns quite like someone who thinks they have a great idea.  O'Shaughnessy discusses a number of interesting analyses he has done with regard to the length of holding periods (spoiler: the shorter you hold a stock, the more likely you are to lose money) among other things. But O'Shaughnessy relays one anecdote from an employee who recently joined his firm that really makes one's head spin. O'Shaughnessy: "Fidelity had done a study as to which accounts had done the best at Fidelity. And what they found was..." Ritholtz: "They were dead." O'Shaughnessy: "...No, that's close though! They were the accounts of people who forgot they had an account at Fidelity." There are numerous studies that explain why this happens. And they almost always come down to the fact that our minds work against us. Because of our behavioral biases, we often find ourselves buying high and selling low. Ritholtz also follows with some of his experiences in estate planning, where a family fighting over some inherited assets might not touch them for say 10 or 20 years while they work out the problem, and later find that those 10 or 20 years are the best period of performance. The absolutely terrible investment decisions that people make are something that just can't be emphasized enough.  We recently highlighted this chart from Rich Bernstein that shows just how terrible you are at investing: don't forget it.  Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDeaths of Rozier and Romain.Inventions have been boosting economic growth and productivity since the dawn of man. Unsurprisingly, it is the inventor who is often the early tester of those inventions. And some of those inventions pose deadly risks. With the help of Wikipedia, we've compiled a short list of brilliant engineers, scientists, and old-fashioned daredevils who fell victim to their own ideas. FREE AppDownload
Eric Platt/Business Insider, World Economic Forum, Bundesbank, ShutterstockECB President Mario Draghi confronts the Bundesbank's Jens Weidmann. This image has been lightly photoshopped.The present is a fleeting moment between the past and the future.  The economic news stream in the week ahead is light.  This will allow investors to contemplate last week's ECB announcements and adjust positions ahead of the critical events of the following week. These include the FOMC meeting, the launch of the TLTROs and the Scottish referendum.   Draghi has once again demonstrated a boldness that surprised the market.  Recall his track record. He reversed Trichet's rate hikes almost immediately upon taking office.  He nearly single-handedly ended the existential crisis facing euro by aligning the ECB with the preservation of the monetary union.  He brandished what former US Treasury Secretary Paulson may have called a "big bazooka" (Outright Market Transactions), whose use has not been triggered, and may never be used.  He created a facility that lent cheap funds to member banks for three years, which helped drive down bond yields, and created the conditions that allowed financial institutions to return to the market.   Facing lowflation, which aggravates debt servicing pressure, he led the ECB to do something that no other major central bank has done.  Namely charge banks for the privilege of leaving funds with the central bank. Even Japan, that wrestled with deflation for several years never took such a bold step.   Now he is leading the ECB into a long-term asset purchase program that it seems clear the Bundesbank opposed.  The debate about whether it is tantamount to quantitative easing is nonsensical. Whatever one wants to call it, the ECB balance sheet is going to expand, and the composition will change.  Let's not forget the Federal Reserve never called its program QE.  It was credit easing.   The fact of the matter is that the institutional arrangement and rules of engagement are different for the ECB, a central bank that has no Treasury to work with, a single bond market like Federal Reserve or the Bank of England.  That the ECB will buy asset-backed securities and covered bond is not so different from the Federal Reserve buying mortgage-backed securities.  The Bank of Japan buys a wider range of assets, including commercial paper, corporate bonds, ETFs and  REITS, It is not clear how much the ECB's balance sheet will expand.  Draghi suggested one trillion euro, which would put it back near its peak.  In effect, last week, alongside the rate cuts, Draghi committed the ECB to an asset purchase program without providing much in the way of details. These will be announced in October, perhaps to give officials time to monitor the participation of the initial TLTRO facility.   There are the usual naysayers.  Many think that EMU was flawed to begin with and whatever ails members can best be addressed by leaving the common currency.  They have consistently under-estimated Draghi's resolve.  In their economic determinism, they have under-appreciated the political commitment. Others argue it does not go far enough, though here too, the political constraints under which Draghi operates, is often not sufficiently appreciated.   The model is not the strong-leader variety seen at the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England (the newest to independence, and least we forget former Governor King was outvoted more than once).   The fact that Draghi has led the ECB over Germany and the Bundesbank's objections is noteworthy. It arguably strengthens the institution rather than weakening it.  On the other hand, it seems politically naive to expect Germany to attempt to assert its will.  However, there does not seem to be much public resistance to the fact that starting next year, the Bundesbank will not be voting at every policy making meeting, for which there will be fewer.   The question many investors are asking is whether the ECB's measures will work?  The answer depends on what one means by work.  The anticipation of the TLTRO and ABS purchases has already helped drive peripheral interest rates lower.  The cost of business borrowing in Spain and Italy has trended lower in recent months. There has been a preliminary improvement in the second derivative of bank lending.  The decline in the euro and base effects suggest inflation may soon bottom.  The core rate already appears to be stabilizing.   What about the real economy?  High unemployment in many countries, including some core countries like France, depresses demand.  The French and Italian economies are particularly worrisome.  On the other hand, the contraction of the German economy in Q2 was a bit of a fluke in the sense that it most likely will not be repeated in Q3.  Last week's significant upside surprise from factory orders and industrial output will likely spilled over and help lift the region's aggregate figure that is due at the end of the week.  Demand might not be amenable to monetary policy alone.  This is behind Draghi's call on governments to use the fiscal flexibility.  Although some officials in France and Italy saw it as an endorsement for their case for greater forbearance from the EU, in the context, Draghi seemed to be addressing the creditor countries. He specifically called on France and Italy to (finally) implement the much-needed structural reforms.   Perhaps because of the media's focus the subsequent conversation between Merkel and Draghi, many missed the Die Zelt story at the end of last week that reported a fiscal package to support the German economy is being cobbled together.  The measures include faster depreciation for capital expenditures to reduce taxes and spur investment, more public investment and the end of the tax on utility use.  It is not clear what will trigger the implementation of what Die Zelt referred to as "emergency measures." Many observers also did not appear to recognize that Japan was moving down a similar path. Opinion has heavily favored the BOJ to expand what it has a called qualitative and quantitative easing.  BOJ Governor Kuroda has given no sign that this is something being contemplated.   Monetary policy is doing its job.  Base money has exploded.  The yen has begun weakening again. Inflation, Kuroda says, is half way to its objective.  The immediate headwind to the Japanese economy was not monetary policy, but fiscal policy, in the form of the April 1 retail sales tax hike.   It seems only reasonable for a fiscal policy response, which is what we have advocated.   Last week, Finance Minister Aso reportedly strongly hinted, for the first time, that the Abe government would submit a supplemental budget for the current fiscal year.  There were no details announced.  However, effecting psychology and arguably behavior, the retail sales tax is to be hiked in October 2015 from 8% to 10% (it was 5% at the start of the 2014).  We suspect that while anticipation of the first leg of the tax hike spurred consumption, the anticipation of the second leg will not.  It is as if the Q1 14 economic jump reflected the two-part tax hike over the next 18-months. Whatever real gain in wages may be forthcoming, they will be eaten away by the retail sales tax.   Neither Kuroda nor Aso has suggested that the next year's tax hike should be forgone, though Abe has indicated an official decision will be made before the end of the year.     The immediate challenge for the UK is not economics.  Last week's non-manufacturing PMI jumped, and although the economy has slowed in late Q2 and into Q3, it continues to operate at a level that puts it at the top of the high-income countries this year.  That said, there are some preliminary signs that the house prices may be peaking.    The July industrial and construction output figures due out in the week ahead (Tuesday and Friday respectively) are unlikely have much impact.  The market's focus is on the Scottish Referendum on September 18.   The latest YouGov poll, published by the Sunday Times, shows the "yes" camp, which has experienced some momentum in recent weeks, has taken a narrow lead (51%-49%).  In order to do so, it overcame a 22-percentage point deficit.  It is the first poll that puts the independents ahead.  This will weigh on sterling when trading opens in Asia.    Turning to the US, the disappointing jobs growth was duly shrugged off by investors.  It is historically subject to significant revisions, and as a signal of the overall economy, it is contrary to most of the other economic data.  The economy appears to be expanding at a little faster than a 3% pace here in Q3.   There are two reports in the week ahead that will attract attention.  The JOLTS (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey) has taken on somewhat greater significance since Yellen has guided investors away from the unemployment rate and toward a broader range of metrics.  At the end of the week, the US will report retail sales.  A 0.4% headline is expected where the surge in auto sales is checked by the decline in gasoline prices.   The measure used for GDP calculations, excludes auto, gasoline and building materials rose 0.1% in July, and the consensus expects a 0.3%-0.4% rise in August.   In terms of Fed policy, we do not attach much value on the string of high-frequency economic data. The Fed will conclude QE next month, and a rate hike is still more than six months out.   The immediate focus is on next week's FOMC statement and whether it will soften or drop references to a "considerable period" that rates will remain low.   This would not be surprising, but there need not be a sense of urgency, and this may be expressed by referring to the importance of amorphous "data." The inability of the bond market to rally on the back of weakest job growth of the year is a potential signal that US yields may have bottomed.  This risk, in turn, may point to a consolidation or pullback in the US equity market.  The BOJ's ongoing operations and the ECB's measures more than offset the end of QE in terms of global liquidity.  In the current environment, liquidity is a key driver, and my continue to underpin asset prices, and risk-taking more generally.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIPark Hyatt New York's Spa Nalai offers sweeping views of Midtown West and the Hudson River.Earlier this month, the luxury hotel chain Park Hyatt opened its flagship New York location, Park Hyatt New York. Housed inside the near-complete condo One57 on 57th Street, Park Hyatt is 25 floors of sheer elegance and opulence. Rumor has it Park Hyatt New York could become the first new five-star hotel in New York in more than 11 years. The rating is determined by the venerable Forbes Travel Guide, which will send an inspector (and a second anonymous inspector) to review the hotel in the next six months. New York currently has eight 5-star hotels, the 11-year-old Mandarin Oriental being the most recently anointed. Should Park Hyatt qualify for the Forbes Travel Guide's top rating, it has to go above and beyond, providing "room amenities including fresh flowers and wine by the glass presented in the bottle and poured by room-service staff." We recently toured the Park Hyatt New York and a 530-square-foot Park Studio Suite, available for $1,295 a night on average, to see what the team is doing to meet these standards. FREE AppDownload
At work and at home, we want what we want. The question is, how do we get it?
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet YellenAfter the weaker-than-expected August non-farm payrolls report, many market watchers are speculating that the Federal Reserve (Fed) will stick with a mid-2015 time frame for raising rates and won’t be announcing an earlier-than-expected rate hike at its upcoming September meeting. In my opinion, however, we could still see a rate policy transition earlier than many anticipate. Here are three reasons why. Despite the disappointing August data, the labor market is improving. First, I wouldn’t put too much weight on August’s weak numbers. Summer is traditionally a weak period for hiring and August jobs report numbers are often revised higher. In fact, 14 of the last 18 August payroll reports have been below expectations, while 12 of the last 14 August employment releases have ultimately been revised higher. Hence, I’m eagerly awaiting the normal revisions to this number. In the meantime, with prior 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month moving average nonfarm payroll gains of 207,000, 226,000 and 207,000, respectively, the current run-rate in job creation is still on par with that of past periods of economic expansion. In addition, other labor market indicators are pointing toward improving conditions. The U-6 unemployment rate has been declining to dramatically lower levels; initial jobless claims remain around pre-crisis levels; and metrics from Fed Chair Yellen’s favorite labor market indicator – the JOLTs report – are consistent with pre-crisis readings. Indeed, my team has created an index of various labor market readings, which we’ve dubbed the “Yellen Index,” to gauge how the labor market compares to periods over the past 11 years. The index’s recent readings have been at levels last seen prior to the middle of 2008, and they’re approaching levels last seen before the onset of the last financial crisis, i.e. when rates were much higher than they are today. Finally, while some cite an extremely low labor force participation rate as a cause for concern, I believe this is largely a function of structural and demographic factors, and consequentially remains beyond the scope of meaningful monetary policy influence. Inflation data are firming. Another reason I think the Fed is likely to move sooner than many believe is the growing evidence that tighter short-term labor market conditions are beginning to spur some wage inflation. While this inflation is mostly occurring for those with specific skill-sets that employers deem valuable, wages for non-supervisory and production workers have also been ticking up. In fact, in Friday’s August jobs report, they were up 2.5% year over year, a year-over-year increase not seen since a few years ago. Beyond mere wage inflation, there has been a broad-based firming in a range of inflation data in the first half of the year, including consumer price index levels, producer price index levels and personal consumption expenditures index levels, all of which are considerably higher than the beginning of 2014 and well above year-prior levels. Excessively low rates may be harmful to the economy. Lastly, as I mentioned in an earlier post, the Fed’s zero interest rate policy may actually be inhibiting economic growth and job creation in unintended ways. Among the negative side effects of excessively low rates: older workers are staying in the workforce longer, crowing out younger workers, and companies are wary of committing capital, delaying or reducing investment and hiring. In short, recent improvements in labor markets, firming inflation data and the harmful impact of excessively low rates suggest that the notion of maintaining monetary policy accommodation at “emergency levels” for these “unusual times” appears dubious. Supporting full employment and seeking general price stability are the Fed’s well-known statutory mandates, and the status of both suggests that rate policy may be in transition earlier than many anticipate, and that the Fed can move sooner rather than later toward a higher short-term funds rate. In the wake of the Federal Reserve’s Jackson Hole, Wyoming symposium in late August, I believe the Fed has started to acknowledge the labor market improvement, and I’m now watching for a policy transition announcement at the mid-September Federal Open Market Committee meeting and press conference. Rick Rieder, Managing Director, is BlackRock’s Chief Investment Officer of Fundamental Fixed Income, is Co-head of Americas Fixed Income, and is a regular contributor to The Blog.  You can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
LOC Manufacturing in the U.S. will never be what it was. Employment in the sector is down nearly 50% from its May 1979 peak, and fell more than 10% during the Great Recession. But 3D printing, which last fall Credit Suisse forecast could grow up to 30%, has the potential to reshape how America makes stuff, creating new high tech jobs in the U.S. and bringing old ones back from abroad.    “I see manufacturing taking a profound turn with additive technologies in the next five years," S. Kent Rockwell, CEO of 3D printing firm ExOne, said in a recent PriceWaterhouseCoopers report. "We’ll see elite job shops grow, and new start-ups grow. We’ll also see blue-collar employees learn the technology and adapt and start wearing white shirts." 3D printing, which is also known as additive manufacturing, is the process of creating products and parts on site.  The labor input savings 3D printing can yield for employers are substantial — and at the same time, the technology appears poised to create markets for new, higher-skilled jobs. Scott Paul, president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, gave PwC the example of a small tool-and-die casting company whose costs start falling as their upfront investment in a 3D printing pays off, allowing them to take on larger-scale jobs that require more complexity. "As we see the possibilities of new materials expand and the cost of industrial printers go down, and the print speeds rise, you’ll see adoption not only by larger companies, but also by the smaller companies," he said. Paul said that viability could become an issue for those who aren't willing to make the leap. 3D printing is already reshaping job requirements at industrial conglomerates. GE Aviation, for example, is developing 3D printed (or additively manufactured) fuel nozzles to be used in its LEAP engine for commercial planes.  "I actually see additive as producing situations where you’re going to have higher-skilled positions that companies are going to need to fill, both on the technician level, and the engineering and design level," Greg Morris, who leads the GE team, told Business Insider. "And I frankly think you’ll see a different type of machining that will challenge the current state of machining, meaning you’ll get complex parts that a machinist will have to work with versus starting with a block of material. So you’re not replacing machinists, you’re just asking them to learn a little different skill set of what they start with and work with." Graham Flanagan for Business InsiderGE is now using 3D printing technology to create prototype parts, like this turbine.Graham Flanagan for Business InsiderHere's the finished product. The growth of 3D manufacturing may end up reverberating through global labor markets. Brian Krassenstein, founder of 3D Printing news site 3DPrint.com, says that as manufacturing costs rise in China and fall in the U.S., jobs at megafactories like Foxconn could begin to disappear.  "In fact, we have already seen this beginning to happen with Apple and Google," he writes. "Sure, many of these jobs will be suited best for machines, but someone has to maintain these machines, manage the supply chains, and oversee production." Large firms' search for more efficient labor that first gave rise to offshoring. If they can once again find it at home, they will act decisively. "3-D printing ... appears poised to bring about a global trade rebalancing, as the new economics of manufacturing rewards high-skill workforces like that of the U.S. and make supplies of cheap labor in countries like China less relevant," National Journal's Ben Schreckinger wrote recently.  "Upstream" manufacturing, the point at which goods are produced, is likely to feel the most effects from the growth of 3D printing. But the jobs impact could also flow downstream to retail. Angel investor Esther Dyson has written that furniture sellers and other household goods peddlers could start disappearing, replaced by individuals who manufacture and sell furniture at the same location.     TechProResearch60% of 624 firms surveyed say they're thinking about using 3D printing. "Over time, these print shops will replace thousands of stores carrying millions of items, some of which sit around for months waiting to be bought," she says. "They will print goods using designs from online services that offer designs for both open-source, free-design goods and branded goods that may not seem very distinct except for a logo." The impact 3D printing could have on manufacturing has already been acknowledged by President Obama, who launched the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute. In his 2013 State of the Union address, Obama talked up the institute, which is run out of a manufacturing facility in Youngstown, Ohio.  "A once-shuttered warehouse is now a state-of-the art lab where new workers are mastering the 3D printing that has the potential to revolutionize the way we make almost everything," Obama said.  Not everyone agrees the technology's impact on labor will be so enormous. Right now, 95% of 3D printing is used to make small industrial parts like GE's nozzle. Writing on Gizmodo, Nick Allen, the founder of 3D printing company 3D Print UK, believes limitations on output quality will prevent 3D printers becoming a mass-market item. Thus, there will still be a need for people to hawk non-3D printed food and personal supplies. "3D printing will continue to grow in areas like the prototyping market, low-volume production runs (on very high-end machines), medical, aerospace — the list goes on," he writes. "But as an everyday household object? I’m not convinced."  Despite their growth, the biggest 3D printing firms, like 3D Systems and Stratsys, only employ a few thousand people. PwC found that 45.3% of manufacturers attributed their “lack of current expertise in our company to fully exploit the technology” as a barrier to implementing 3D printing into their business. But these are only the firms that are directly in the industry. Retail, product development, and manufacturing firms all potentially stand in 3D printing's firing line— and as International Labour Organization's David Seligson points out, 3D printing is likely to blur the line between jobs in these industries.  "Take, for example, the car company that wants to move from printing prototypes of components to printing those components at scale," he said. "That would effectively mean that its model-makers would be doing the work of assembly-line workers, which could lead to contractual disputes and complaints over deskilling, intellectual property and so on." It may simply be too early to say what the technology's lasting impact will be. Even 3DPrint.com's Krassenstein acknowledges as much.  "You could ask a hundred economists what they think will eventually happen once the 3D printing and robotics markets mature, and you will likely get a hundred different answers," he writes. "We have seen what technology has done in the past, destroying millions of jobs, but in the process creating tens of millions of new jobs. There is little reason to believe that this wave of progress will be any different." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVTom Lee sees 2,075!Even the more bullish analysts on Wall Street undershot the big rally in 2013. So they're likely determined to not miss what 2014 has in store for this market. We thumbed through hundreds of pages of Wall Street's 2014 outlook notes and compiled the thoughts of 14 top stock market forecasters. For 2014, the average call is for the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,955, with the median prediction at 1,950. For EPS, the mean call is $117.20 with a median of $116.75. Here are Wall Street's top strategists with their S&amp;P 500 and EPS calls (from lowest to highest), with their commentary on why. From bullish to most bullish: David Bianco, Deutsche Bank: S&amp;P: 1,850: EPS: $119.00 In June, we introduced 2014 &amp; 2015 yearend S&amp;P targets of 1850 and 2000. We argued the S&amp;P PE would climb to its normal trailing PE of 16x (&lt;15x then) as healthy EPS growth continued within a long lasting expansionary cycle of moderate growth. We also argued that if real long-term risk free interest rates stayed below historical norms when QE stopped, then a PE over 16x trailing EPS would be fair. The PE is back to normal, a bit earlier than expected, but the Fed has yet to taper. Thus, we think it prudent not to assume any further PE upside until we get more clarity on where 10yr yields likely settle post QE. Brian Belski, BMO: S&amp;P 1,900, EPS: $116.00  We enter 2014 less optimistic than we have been in the past few years. Our models suggest mid-single-digit gains in 2014 based on slightly lower risk premiums, better revision trends and dividend increases, but macro conditions remain an obstacle. Given performance trends to date, we believe this the prudent approach. While valuation is by no means grossly overvalued, current levels suggest it may be more difficult for the market to continue its impressive run without equally impressive earnings growth. In addition, we believe investors will be acutely focused on Fed actions, since market performance has been significantly better during Fed bond buying programs. Therefore, we expect stocks to perform strongly during 1H, but fade during 2H as investors grapple with the removal of QE stimulus. Nonetheless, any Fed induced weakness should not be view as the end of this bull market. Instead investors with slightly longer investment horizons should use it a buying opportunity, particularly considering that several secular trends suggest that there are many more years of life in this cycle.  Barry Knapp, Barclays: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $119.00 At the time of writing, attitudes toward stocks are very bullish, perhaps overly so. Although sentiment is easy to measure – several organisations do it – its relationship with market returns is ephemeral. Sentiment extremes often exist only briefly ahead of market turning points and disappear quickly as prices adjust, or even pause. Periods of persistent bullish or bearish sentiment are usually confirmed by excessively high or low valuations, which is not the case at present. Stocks have displayed an unusually tight relationship with sentiment since 2009. Thus, while establishing our core views for the coming year, we are holding some capacity with which to raise the risk of our portfolio further in case of a sentiment-led near-term sell-off.  David Kostin, Goldman Sachs: S&amp;P: 1,900, EPS: $116.00 The linchpin of our market forecast is growth – in the economy, sales, and earnings. We expect 3.6% global economic growth. The US will advance at a 3% pace while inflation remains contained at 1.4%. China, Japan, and even Europe will all grow, expanding GDP by 7.8%, 1.6%, and 1.5%, respectively....However, we expect no growth in margins and multiple in 2014. Recurring net margins have remained at a record-high plateau of roughly 8.7% since 2011. Firms have struggled to maintain profitability at current levels. We estimate flat margins for next several years. Client inquiries about the appropriate P/E multiple to assign US stocks routinely ignore that margins are extremely high on a historical basis and have been stagnant for several years. Valuation is the biggest wildcard in our market outlook. Michael Kurtz, Nomura: S&amp;P: 1,925, EPS: $112.50 Our S&amp;P 500 upside outlook for the year ahead is not predicated on comparatively optimistic earnings expectations. Rather, our own top-down forecast for 2014 S&amp;P 500 EPS is "just" $112.50/shr., or 5.6% higher than our 2013 top-down forecast of 106.50. Margins, as discussed, are the critical consideration: Against the highly optimistic (in our view) consensus forecast for 2014 U.S. Net Income and EBIT Margins to reach unprecedented levels of 10.8% and 15.7% respectively... we conservatively assume 2014 S&amp;P Net Income Margin will no more than maintain the 2012-2013 two year average (i.e., 9.3%). Sean Darby, Jefferies: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $121.00 We expect the S&amp;P 500 to deliver modest returns with the index rising to 1,950 by the end of 2014. We believe the equity market is becoming fully valued and active investment strategies towards domestic growth and small caps ought to deliver better returns than multinationals and large caps. With sentiment indicators buoyant, margin debt close to historic levels and indices trading close to their 2 standard deviation based on forward PE over five years, investors need to be mindful that a correction can easily unfold. We don’t expect 2014 to be a smooth ride. Likewise earnings visibility will need to improve to maintain the recent fund flow momentum away from fixed income. Jonathan Golub, RBC: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $119.00 Such strong [2013] performance might lead investors to assume that the recovery has matured. We believe that a close look at the data suggests that we are just now entering the middle innings. As a result of the weak recovery, the economy has lots of spare capacity, interest rates and valuations are well below historical averages, and corporate managements are exercising extreme risk-averse behavior. We believe these factors are likely to provide a supportive environment for stocks for three key reasons: 1. Slack in the economy will keep the Fed from disruptively removing accommodation 2. Risk-averse corporate behavior will drive EPS higher 3. Valuations should renormalize, closing the gap between earnings yields and interest rates. Julian Emanuel, UBS: S&amp;P: 1,950, EPS: $116.00 Although our projected S&amp;P 500 trailing valuation appears expensive on a recent historical basis, the much broader view of history strongly suggests that at some point in the current bull market cycle, valuations will indeed exceed 17x or more. In fact, in all but three of the post World War II bull markets, the multiple exceeded 17x on a trailing basis. Thus through the combination of strong corporate balance sheets, an accommodative Fed, and solid GDP growth fueling increased revenues in a high operating margin environment do we forecast an expanding multiple which yields our 2014 Year End S&amp;P 500 price target of 1,950.  Andrew Garthwaite, Credit Suisse: S&amp;P: 1,960, EPS: $115.90 Ultimately, we believe that the equity market is set to be on an uptrend until equities become clearly expensive against bonds, QE ends or risk appetite is clearly in euphoria zone (as opposed to neutral now). We have not seen a 10% correction for 25 months – but in the 1980’s, 1990’s and 2000’s we had three-year, seven-year and 41/2- year bull markets in equities without such a correction. Very near-term we see the risk of consolidation, with some of the tactical indicators extended (such as the bull/bear ratio for financial advisors, while net corporate buying is low) and we expect the Fed to start tapering in January. However, the tactical indicators are less extreme than was the case a month ago. Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup: S&amp;P: 1,975, EPS: $117.50 The good news from credit conditions, hiring intentions and capital spending plans on the economy and likely earnings growth can provide upside appreciation potential while sentiment, intra-stock correlation and even valuation suggest concern... Overall, we can get to a 1,975 kind of outcome, but we may also see choppier markets and early indicators on volatility also intimate reasons to be worried. [Updated from his previous call of 1,900] Savita Subramanian, Bank of America: S&amp;P: 2,000, EPS: $118.00 We believe the Standard and Poor's 500 Index will rise to 2,000 by the end of 2014, which implies a price return of about 11%... While that gain would be less than in 2013, our view is still higher than the consensus view on Wall Street... Take note that allocations to equities (53%) are lower than the benchmark (65%). As for the Federal Reserve, we believe tapering, accompanied by a growing economy, would actually benefit cyclical stocks. Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $116.00 Since last March, we have been sanguine on US equities. Our logic has been driven more by lack of a bear case than the strength of the base case. We have seen 3 turns (12.0x to 15.1x) of multiple expansion in the last 2 years, only the 4th period with this level of expansion over the last 40+ years. Obviously, a sample size of three isn’t statistically significant, but the prior three periods were all followed by a continuation of the rally for another 12-24 months, as momentum typically persists. The only thing people are worried about is that no one is worried about anything. That isn't a real worry. John Stoltzfus, Oppenheimer: S&amp;P: 2,014, EPS: $115.00 The 2014 target reflects our expectation that the stock market will have opportunity to move higher over the course of next year, and turn in yet another double-digit increase— albeit around half the size of this year’s rally to date. Our price target is set using the mid-point between our dividend discount model and a price/earnings model. We expect these valuation projections to be supported by improving fundamentals. We continue to believe that US economic growth has in effect been “primed” by the Federal Reserve’s Quantitative Easing (QE) programs. Recent improvements in the tone of US economic data suggest to us that prospects are good for investors to see a continuation of the economic recovery that could drive earnings higher in the year ahead. Tom Lee, JP Morgan: S&amp;P: 2,075, EPS: $120.00 For several years now we have advanced the idea that the current bull market could prove to be one of the longest in history. However, what we believe many investors have yet to fully appreciate is how this market is indeed behaving like a classic bull market...we believe this is a classic bull market and the 6th year is typically strong. Historically, bull markets lasting at least 4 years (since 1897) have only ended with a recession—that is, they typically do not end just because "everyone is too bullish." FREE AppDownload
Boeing NEW YORK (Reuters) - Boeing Co&gt; and Ryanair Holdings PLC plan to make a significant fleet announcement on Monday, following reports last Friday that the low-cost Irish airline was poised to place a $10 billion order for Boeing's new 737 MAX jetliner. Boeing Chief Executive Ray Conner and Ryanair Chief Executive Michael O'Leary will make the announcement at a meeting Monday morning in New York, Boeing said on Sunday. Boeing declined to comment on details of the announcement. Ryanair declined to comment. On Friday, Reuters reported that Ryanair, Europe's largest budget airline, was in advanced talks to order at least 100 Boeing 737 MAX 8 jetliners, modified to include 11 extra seats, bringing total seating in the new plane up to 200. One source told Reuters the order could be for as many as 150 of the jets. A deal for 100 jets would be worth about $10.4 billion, at the 737 MAX 8's list price of $104 million, but airlines usually negotiate steep discounts, particularly on large orders. Ryanair's order, if confirmed, would mark another major win for Boeing's 737 MAX program, which has garnered 2,219 orders since its launch in 2011.  (Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) (Editing by Sonya Hepinstall) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Venezuelan opposition protester prepares to throw a Molotov cocktail during riots in Caracas, Venezuela, on March 2, 2004.It's hard to get by when you don't have a job and the price of goods is rising. That maxim is behind the dramatically named "Misery Index," which adds together a country's unemployment and inflation rates. The higher the number, the more "miserable" your country is. The index was created by economist Arthur Okun, and it was an extremely popular measurement during the Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan presidencies. There have been some criticisms of the misery index. Extensive studies have shown that unemployment influences happiness (or rather, unhappiness) significantly more than inflation. Still, few would argue that both unemployment and inflation are bad when they are very high. Bloomberg's Alex Tanzi compiled a list of the "most miserable countries" in the world according to this index. We highlight the 21 countries that scored 10 or higher. Some famously miserable countries are noticeably absent from this list. Bloomberg left them off because either the unemployment rate or inflation rate (or both) were absent or dated. But we thought we'd share them with you anyway. FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyThis summer, we've witnessed a spike in U.S. economic surprises to the upside. Meanwhile, Europe has managed to surprise us to the downside. Economic surprises measure how actual economic data prints relative to economists' forecasts. So, it's as much a measure of economic forecasting ability as it is a measure of underlying economic health. Still, it tells a story about the market's participants. Because they are such important trading partners, it's fair to assume that the U.S. and eurozone economies would move together somewhat. However, this year and particularly this summer we've seen U.S. economic data improve and surprise to the upside and eurozone economic data deteriorate and actually surprise to the downside. Europe's internal economic woes have only worsened thanks to economic sanctions on, and deteriorating relations with, Russia, a crucial trading partner. Meanwhile, the U.S. has managed to get off scot-free. Indeed, this is why the European Central Bank is surprising us with more easing while U.S. Federal Reserve officials say the U.S. should prepare for earlier tightening. Market guru Ed Yardeni addressed this decoupling recently: Can the US continue to grow if the Eurozone’s recovery continues to stall? It is doing a good job of doing just that so far. I think it may continue to do so. The question is, why are the two economies decoupling? The short answer is that the social welfare state remains too big in the Eurozone. There are too many government regulations and regulators, and not enough startups and entrepreneurs. Labor markets remain too rigid. Too much credit is provided by bankers, who aren’t lending, while capital markets remain relatively limited sources of capital. The region depends too much on Russian gas, and isn’t doing enough to find domestic sources of energy. It may also be more exposed to terrorism perpetrated by homegrown Islamic jihadists. But this is not to say that the two economies are now operating independent of each other. "If Europe slips back into a recession, the United States economy is surely going to feel it in some way," warned Blackstone's Byron Wien. Wien recently wrote about conversations he recently had during "a series of lunches for serious investors." "I was struck by the optimism about the outlook for the U.S. in the face of the unsettled conditions around the world," Wien said. "I wondered if our economy could continue to thrive in the face of so many problems elsewhere. On top of that you had the threat of cyber warfare and terrorism. Our political process seems unable to respond to the challenges confronting the U.S. and inequality is a growing problem. Can America move ahead economically at a satisfactory job-producing pace with all these conditions in front of us?" For now, the U.S. can enjoy these economic surprises. But everyone should be wary of risks. FREE AppDownload
These game-changing facts about Under Armour prove it's the hottest athletic apparel company in the market. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Eric Francis/Getty ImagesMunger is Buffett's right hand man at Berkshire Hathaway.Have you ever wondered what the secret to Warren Buffett's success is? It turns out Charlie Munger — Buffett's right-hand man at Berkshire Hathaway — is happy to share. Much has been said from outsiders — like myself — about Buffett and the various things he has done through the years that have delivered results that are unparalleled. But that discussion makes sense when you think about his success. Consider for a moment that $100 parked in the S&amp;P 500 at beginning of 1965 would be worth an astounding $9,841 by the end of 2013. This is a distinctly clear display of the true beauty of both the American economy and the rewards of buy-and-hold investing. But what would that same $100 be worth if it was put into the hands of Warren Buffett at Berkshire in 1965? Words don't do it justice: $693,518. All of this is to say, he's clearly done one or two things right along the way. So with that in mind, the natural question becomes, how has he done it? And Munger has a unique perspective to answer that very question. Munger first met Buffett at a restaurant in Omaha 55 years ago. After the two collaborated on a number of investments over the next 20 years — including Buffett's beloved See's Candy — Munger officially joined Berkshire full time as the vice chairman in 1978, and he's held the position ever since. In 2007 Munger also stood atop Wesco. The company was in many ways was like a mini-Berkshire Hathaway — which actually owned 80% of Wesco — because it was driven by insurance operations, but it also had a metal-cutting business and furniture retailer under its wings. And ultimately it was purchased fully by Berkshire in 2011. But when Munger sat down to begin the question and answer session at Wesco's 2007 annual meeting he began by saying: I want to do something I haven't done before. I feel obligated because so many of you came from such great distances, so I'll talk about a question I've chosen, one that ought to interest you: Why were Warren Buffett and his creation, Berkshire Hathaway, so unusually successful? If that success in investment isn't the best in the history of the investment world, it's certainly in the top five. It's a lollapalooza. So what exactly did Munger identify as some of the unique keys to Buffett being "so unusually successful"? He began by noting: The first factor is the mental aptitude. Warren is seriously smart. That likely doesn't come as much of a surprise any of us, but it's as good a place as any to begin. Yet it's also important to see it doesn't just stop there because Munger continued by noting Buffett "out-achieved his mental aptitude." How so? Well there's also the reality the 84-year-old Buffett has been involved in investing since childhood: Then there's the good effect caused by his doing this since he was 10 years old. It's very hard to succeed until you take the first step in what you're strongly interested in. There's no substitute for strong interest and he got a very early start. But it isn't just that Buffet is intelligent and got a head start. As he's not content to just rest on his laurels. Instead he's continuously dedicated to learning and gaining greater knowledge: Warren is one of the best learning machines on this earth. The turtles who outrun the hares are learning machines. If you stop learning in this world, the world rushes right by you. Warren was lucky that he could still learn effectively and build his skills, even after he reached retirement age. Warren's investing skills have markedly increased since he turned 65. Munger notes this reality is "really crucial," because he suggests, "having watched the whole process with Warren, I can report that if he had stopped with what he knew at earlier points, the record would be a pale shadow of what it is." And Buffett hasn't just continued his learning, but he's also seen all of the steps laid out on the path set before him as a chance to gain better understanding. Munger compares Buffett to the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius who "had the notion that every tough stretch was an opportunity — to learn, to display manhood, you name it. To him, it was as natural as breathing to have tough stretches." As a result, Munger suggested, "Warren doesn't spend any time on self-pity, envy, etc." Put simply, Buffett has continually dedicated himself to refining and expanding his understanding of investing. Warren Buffett once said: I insist on a lot of time being spent, almost every day, to just sit and think. That is very uncommon in American business. I read and think. So I do more reading and thinking, and make less impulse decisions than most people in business. I do it because I like this kind of life. And in all of Munger's points we can see the immense value of simply sitting and thinking, and how it has propelled Buffett to remarkable success. As busyness characterizes our lives seemingly now more than ever, it's a handy reminder to see how in so many ways we can put our priorities in all the wrong things. So take some time today "to just sit and think," and see what you can be taught by that which you've been shown along the way. It may not turn you into Buffett, but you'll undoubtedly be glad you did. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaJack Ma, chairman of Alibaba Group talks to a guest at the company's global operation room during a corporate event at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou, Zhejiang province.(Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd disclosed on Friday that it would pay $15.8 million in legal fees to law firm Simpson Thacher and other attorneys who advised the Chinese e-commerce giant on its upcoming IPO, six times what Facebook paid its counsel two years ago. Alibaba, which is seeking to raise as much as $21 billion in an IPO expected later this month, made the disclosure in a prospectus on Friday filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Chinese company, whose sales are larger than Amazon.com and eBay combined, has a complex structure and has frequently revised its prospectus. That has all increased legal fees, analysts said. The legal fees for Alibaba's IPO rank the fourth highest in the past 10 years, according to IPO Vital Signs. The 2013 IPO of Empire State Realty trust ranked the highest, with a whopping $32.8 million in estimated legal fees, while the IPO of Kinder Morgan in 2011 cost the pipeline company $17 million. The 2005 IPO of investment bank Lazard cost $16 million. Facebook Inc.’s May 2012 IPO garnered $2.6 million in legal fees. In addition to Simpson, Alibaba’s New York-based law firm, its Chinese counsel, Fangda Partners, and Cayman Islands adviser Maples and Calder, will share the attorneys' fees, according to the filing. It was not immediately clear how the firms would split the $15.8 million in fees, but Simpson likely will get the lion's share of the money. Alibaba expects to price its initial public offering between $60 and $66 per American Depository Share, valuing the company at about $162.69 billion at the top end of the range and raising as much as $21.1 billion. Simpson, a leading Wall Street law firm with strong corporate, mergers and acquisitions and capital markets practices, has advised on 76 IPOs over the past ten years, and its record fee before Alibaba was $15 million, for the 2007 IPO of private equity firm Blackstone, according to IPO Vital Signs. Lawyers had expected Alibaba fees would be high even before Friday's disclosure. Thomas Rice, a capital markets partner with law firm Baker &amp; McKenzie in New York, said recently that Alibaba’s prospectus is more than triple the length of an ordinary filing for a company that has a single line of business and limited geographies. “Alibaba’s listing company is a Cayman Islands company, although its operations and market is largely in China,” said Rice. “Anytime you have one of these complex corporate structures to explain, that is something that adds to the mission.” Alibaba, founded by former English schoolteacher Jack Ma, will decide on its final price after a globe-spanning roadshow that will kick off in New York on Monday, and is expected to take in cities from Hong Kong to San Francisco. Representatives of the law firms did not immediately respond to a request for comment.   (Editing by Alexia Garamfalvi and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Amazon"The Shifts and the Shocks: What We've Learned--and Have Still to Learn--from the Financial Crisis" By Martin Wolf. Penguin Press; 466 pages. Allen Lane. MARTIN WOLF is an influential commentator. His weekly column in the Financial Times is required reading for the international financial elite. Paul Krugman of the New York Times may be the darling of the left and the Wall Street Journal editorial page the bible of many on the right, but inside finance ministries few are cited as often as Mr Wolf. He likes to admonish policymakers. As a centrist who favours free trade and free markets, though, he does so from within the mainstream. That makes his latest book striking. "The Shifts and the Shocks" is a fierce indictment of the global economy and a call for radical reform. Mr Wolf is reasonably impressed by the immediate response to the 2008 crash, when bold action from central banks, in particular, stopped a descent into depression. But he is scathing about virtually everything those in charge have done (or not done) since. Six years after the crisis, he argues, the world economy is stuck in low gear and set on an unsustainable course. Demand is weak; where spending has picked up, it is too often the result of a dangerous new build-up of private debt. Financial reforms have only preserved the essence of an inherently fragile system. The euro crisis remains unresolved. Emerging economies, resilient after 2008, now face slow growth and debt problems of their own. Much of this mess is of policymakers' own making. Mr Wolf's book is particularly critical of the premature rush to fiscal austerity and the handling of the euro crisis. He puts forward a series of reforms far bolder than governments have contemplated so far. To make finance safer, Mr Wolf suggests replacing a fractional reserve banking system, which takes in deposits and lends most of them out in longer-term loans, with a system of "narrow banking", where deposits must be backed by government bonds. To sustain demand without relying on dangerous asset bubbles, he proposes permanent "helicopter money", where governments run deficits that are financed by the central bank. For a man of the mainstream, this is brave stuff. Mr Wolf's proposals stem from an exhaustive assessment of the origins and contours of the crisis, which make up the bulk of the book. Plenty has already been written on this; "The Shifts and the Shocks" contains little that has not been said elsewhere. Martin WolfMr Wolf's contribution is comprehensiveness and a piercing logic in piecing the disparate elements together. He weaves the macroeconomic and financial elements of the crisis, its origins and aftermath, into an all-encompassing analysis. Along the way he demolishes many of the popular explanations--such as that the mess was due to greedy bankers or to loose monetary policy--as too simplistic. The result is convincing and depressing; there are no quick fixes. The origins of the crisis lie in the revolutionary changes in the structure of the global economy and finance in the 1990s and early 2000s (these are the "shifts" of the book's title). The macroeconomic shift was the emergence of a "savings glut" as countries from China to Germany saved more than they invested, pushing down real interest rates. Both at a global level and within the euro area financial innovation and freer capital mobility transformed these excess savings into huge cross-border capital flows, sending asset prices and credit soaring and, in the process, creating an inherently fragile financial system. Unfettered finance transformed the savings glut into a credit bubble. And in both cases the bursting of that bubble worsened the savings glut, as households, companies and governments in Europe slashed their spending. Mr Wolf argues that the post-crisis recovery has been feeble because too many policymakers failed to understand this dynamic. Rather than accepting that bigger fiscal deficits would be the natural counterweight to private thrift, politicians pushed for austerity. Far too little emphasis was put on restructuring unpayable debts. At the same time, the underlying causes of the savings glut have, if anything, become stronger as deeper factors such as rising inequality have kept overall spending weak. Larry Summers, a Harvard economist, has argued that the rich world faces "secular stagnation". Mr Wolf also believes that weak demand is here to stay. So, too, is the fragility of finance. Despite "manic rule making" he argues that banks are still a powder keg, with insufficient capital, and are liable to wreak havoc when they blow up. REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueMartin Wolf, associate editor and chief economics commentator for the Financial Times of London, testify before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on ?Foreign Policy and the Global Economic Crisis? on Capitol Hill in Washington March 25, 2009.   This grim assessment leads Mr Wolf towards radicalism, both in macroeconomic and financial reforms. His more moderate suggestions include requiring banks to hold vastly more capital and the creation of insurance schemes that allow emerging economies, the most plausible engines of demand, to import capital safely and sustainably. But moderate change may not be enough. Pushing his analysis to its logical conclusion, he argues that the only way to deal with today's underlying problems--a fragile financial system and a secular weakness in demand--may be to move away from bank-based credit altogether and rely on permanent budget deficits financed by central banks. Forcing banks to match their deposits with safe government bonds would reduce the risks of bank crashes and encourage a healthier reliance on equity finance. Permanent money-financed deficits would, in turn, provide a safer way to sustain spending than private-asset booms and busts. If done responsibly, they need not cause inflation. Mr Wolf's book has flaws. It is dense and confusingly structured. The hallmarks of his newspaper columns--a tone of absolute certainty, a fondness for numbered lists and copious IMF statistics--become exhausting over hundreds of pages. Mr Wolf is good at analysing what has gone wrong, but he spends too little time explaining his reform proposals. He may be right that narrow banking is safer than today's system, but the brief description he offers is unlikely to convince the sceptics. "The Shifts and the Shocks" is not the last word on the global economy. But it is an important contribution that anyone involved in economic policy ought to read. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseA document is pictured at the opening of a consultation of international experts on potential Ebola therapies and vaccines in Geneva September 4, 2014.JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Shares in Israeli biotech company Protalix jumped on Sunday following a news report that its technology could be used to develop an Ebola treatment similar to the experimental drug ZMapp, which has shown promising results in recent trials. Israel's Channel 2 television reported on Saturday that Protalix's facility in northern Israel is one of the only places in the world with the technology to mass produce a medicine like ZMapp, which uses antibodies from tobacco plants. Protalix stock was up 10 percent to 10.07 shekels in Tel Aviv by early afternoon, having risen as much as 18 percent earlier. The company's chief executive told Reuters that while future collaboration with the manufacturer of ZMapp was possible, it was still purely theoretical. Through last week, the stock had fallen nearly 60 percent since the start of 2013. ZMapp, made by privately held Mapp Biopharmaceutical Inc, based in San Diego, has drawn much attention this summer. Two American aid workers who contracted Ebola in Liberia recovered after receiving ZMapp, though their physicians do not know if the drug helped. A Liberian doctor with the disease died despite being given the drug, as did a Spanish priest. Scientists also reported last month that, in a trial, all 18 of a group of lab monkeys infected with the deadly virus recovered after being treated with ZMapp. In the Channel 2 report, the head scientist at Protalix said the company can genetically engineer tobacco, has production capacity that exceeds its needs, and offered to produce large amounts of the Ebola drug for Mapp Biopharmaceutical in a relatively short time. Protalix CEO David Aviezer said on Sunday Protalix's technology produces biological drugs in plant cells and it already has a Federal Drug Administration-approved drug to treat Gaucher disease. He said the company is trying to use its technique to develop antibodies for different diseases. Aviezer said that rather than using the entire tobacco plant, which is how ZMapp is produced, Protalix more efficiently uses just the plant cells. "In theory, we probably could also produce the antibody used for treating Ebola in our plant cell system," he said. "Based on our technology and their technology we believe this can be done." "We have to receive the DNA sequence of the antibody, which is a proprietary asset. It does not belong to us. We would insert it into our plant cells and then purify the antibody protein that would be made in these cells." According to the World Health Organization, the Ebola outbreak in West Africa has killed more than 2,000 people and infected more than 4,000 since the outbreak began in Guinea in March. The virus kills about half of those who contract it.   (Reporting by Ari Rabinovitch and Steven Scheer; Editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren Buffett, the third-wealthiest person in the world, according to Forbes.When Warren Buffett started his investing career, he would read 600, 750, or 1,000 pages a day. Even now, he still spends about 80% of his day reading.  "Look, my job is essentially just corralling more and more and more facts and information, and occasionally seeing whether that leads to some action," he once said in an interview.  "We don't read other people's opinions," he says. "We want to get the facts, and then think." To help you get into the mind of the billionaire investor, we've rounded up his book recommendations over 20 years of interviews and shareholder letters.  It was the one of the luckiest moments of his life, he said, because it gave him the intellectual framework for investing.&nbsp; "To invest successfully over a lifetime does not require a stratospheric IQ, unusual business insights, or inside information," Buffett said. "What's needed is a sound intellectual framework for making decisions and the ability to keep emotions from corroding that framework. This book precisely and clearly prescribes the proper framework. You must provide the emotional discipline." The book's core insight: If your analysis is thorough enough, you can figure out the value of a company &mdash; and if the market knows the same.&nbsp; Buffett has said that Graham was the second-most influential figure in his life, after only his father.&nbsp; "Ben was this incredible teacher; I mean he was a natural," he said.&nbsp; "I am an eager reader of whatever Phil has to say, and I recommend him to you," Buffett said.&nbsp; In "Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits," Fisher emphasizes that fixating on financial statements isn't enough &mdash; you also need to evaluate a company's management. Lots of books have been written about how to manage an organization through tough times. Almost none are firsthand accounts of steering a wing of government through economic catastrophe.&nbsp; "This wasn't just a little problem on the fringes of the U.S. mortgage market," Geithner writes. "I had a sick feeling in my stomach. I knew what financial crises felt like, and they felt like this."&nbsp; &nbsp; In this collection, he keeps it very real &mdash; in his signature folksy-intellectual fashion.&nbsp; "What could be more advantageous in an intellectual contest &mdash; whether it be chess, bridge, or stock selection &mdash;than to have opponents who have been taught that thinking is a waste of energy?" he asks.&nbsp; &nbsp; In commenting on the book, Bloomberg Businessweek wrote that "Welch has had such an impact on modern business that a tour of his personal history offers all managers valuable lessons." Buffett's advice: "Get a copy!"&nbsp; Berkshire Hathaway plays a major role in the book. One chapter is on director Tom Murphy, who Buffett says is "overall the best business manager I&rsquo;ve ever&nbsp;met."&nbsp; The book &mdash; which finds patterns of success from execs at The Washington Post,&nbsp;Ralston Purina, and others &mdash; has been praised as "one of the most important business books in America" by Forbes.&nbsp;&nbsp; In it, Bogle &mdash; creator of the index fund and founder of the Vanguard Group, now managing&nbsp;$2 trillion in assets &mdash; argues that long-term investing has been crowded out by short-term speculation.&nbsp; But the book isn't all argument. It finishes with practical tips, like:&nbsp; 1. Remember reversion to the mean.&nbsp;What's hot today isn't likely to be hot tomorrow. The stock market reverts to fundamental returns over the long run. Don't follow the herd. 2. Time is your friend, impulse is your enemy.&nbsp;Take advantage of compound interest and don't be captivated by the siren song of the market. That only seduces you into buying after stocks have soared and selling after they plunge. To reply, Buffett sent the Microsoft founder his personal copy of "Business Adventures," a collection of New Yorker stories by John Brooks.&nbsp; Gates says that the book serves as a reminder that the principles for building a winning business stay constant. He writes:&nbsp; For one thing, there's an essential human factor in every business endeavor. It doesn't matter if you have a perfect product, production plan and marketing pitch; you'll still need the right people to lead and implement those plans. The book has become a media darling as of late; Slate wrote that it's "catnip for billionaires."&nbsp;&nbsp; FREE AppDownload
How the rich and famous start their day. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AmazonA must-read for every serious investor."The past history of stock prices cannot be used to predict the future in any meaningful way." In his book "A Random Walk Down Wall Street," Burton Malkiel takes on a number of investing strategies, axioms, truisms, and superstitions. The central premise of Malkiel's book is that low-cost index funds will serve the individual investor better than any other strategy for choosing stocks. And inside of this framework, Malkiel addresses the most popular divide in stock analysis: technicals vs. fundamentals. Technical analysis, practiced by "technicians," uses the past price movements of stocks to determine where stocks will go next, while fundamental analysis looks at a company's business to determine if its stock is properly valued. Malkiel's basic problem with technical analysis? It doesn't work. "For example, technical lore has it that if the price of a stock rose yesterday it is more likely to rise today," Malkiel writes. "It turns out that the correlation of past price movements with present and future price movements is very close to zero." For the individual stock investor, technical analysis presents one main problem and a second more tangential one: first, transaction costs and taxes make it hard to outperform a buy-and-hold strategy; second, Malkiel says technical analysis is easy to pick on. Even if the transaction and tax costs inherent in a technical analysis strategy didn't require a lot more buying and selling of stocks than a buy-and-hold strategy, Malkiel still rejects the main premise behind technical analysis, which is that there are repeatable patterns in stock movements.  In his chapter addressing technical analysis, Malkiel presents a mock stock chart created with flips of a coin: heads goes up, and tails goes down. It looks like this: Burton Malkiel Malkiel writes that this chart appears to display "cycles," much like many stocks on the market today, but Malkiel argues that the "cycles" in stocks charts "are no more true cycles than the runs of luck or misfortune of the ordinary gambler." Why then have technicians at all?  Well, Malkiel has a few theories for that. Malkiel writes that humans like order and find it hard to accept the idea of randomness — technical analysis is able to impose a wide array of potential reasons for what Malkiel suggests is the random movement of stock prices. Paramount"The Wolf Of Wall Street" loved raking in his broker fees. But more cynically, Malkiel sees technical analysis as a facile way for brokers to sell stocks.  Malkiel writes that most technical systems have some degree of in-and-out trading built into them, adding: "Trading generates commissions, and commissions are the lifeblood of many brokerage houses." "The technicians do not help produce yachts for the customers, but they do help generate the trading that provides yachts for the brokers," Malkiel writes. And while Malkiel, who first published "A Random Walk" in 1973, was first speaking to a different era on Wall Street — a time when trades were made by calling brokers who then placed the trade at commission fees that were astronomical compared with the $8.95 per trade investors can get through a service like E-Trade now — his general skepticism of the argument for technical analysis still holds. "Technical strategies are usually amusing, often comforting, but of no real value," Malkiel writes. YouTube / The Center for Retirement InvestingBurton Malkiel.But again, keep in mind that Malkiel is talking about the implications for individual investors who are buying stocks, not professional investors (though Malkiel would most likely argue that they ought to heed his advice as well), and not foreign exchange or commodities traders. Technical analysis, in fact, creates much of the foundation for trading in currencies and commodities. And given that these assets lack the sort of capacity for being analyzed in myriad ways like equities, technical analysis sort of becomes fundamental. Malkiel's target reader, however, is bound to be disappointed by adopting a complex technical framework for buying and selling stocks.  "On close examination," Malkiel writes, "technicians are often seen with holes in their shoes and frayed shirt collars. I have personally never known a successful technician, but I have seen the wrecks of several unsuccessful ones." FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Toshifumi Kitamura46-year-old Chie Kobayashi, Nissan Motor's head of diversity development office, poses beside the Nissan Leaf electronic vehicle at the Nissan gallery at the company's headquarters in Yokohama, on September 2, 2014Tokyo (AFP) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's appointment of a record number of women to his cabinet highlights efforts to power the economy by boosting the female workforce -- but he faces myriad challenges turning that vision into reality. On Wednesday, Abe gave key jobs -- including the justice ministry and oversight of the embattled nuclear power sector -- to women, who now make up more than a quarter of the 18-strong cabinet. "Creating a society where women can shine is a big challenge that the Abe cabinet is taking on," said the conservative premier, who swept to power in late 2012 on a ticket to kickstart the lumbering economy.   The move followed growing calls for Japan to make better use of its highly-educated but underemployed women as a rapidly ageing population strains the public purse.  Tokyo wants to boost the ratio of women in senior positions to 30 percent by 2020, up from 11 percent now, one of the lowest rates in the world. Dozens of Japan's biggest firms -- including Toyota, Panasonic and All Nippon Airways -- recently announced targets for boosting the number of executive women. But the task is a daunting one in a country where sexist attitudes are still prevalent and men dominate politics and business. Long working hours, boozy after-work sessions with the boss, and not enough childcare facilities are also among the reasons why many working Japanese women opt to stay at home or give up hopes of promotion after having children. "The corporate gender gap in Japan is thought to be a result of indirect discrimination against women," said Kazuo Yamaguchi, a sociology professor at the University of Chicago. "For example, willingness to work long hours seems to be a condition for promotion for women, but not for men. "Another example is a corporate practice of placing women in positions that have fewer opportunities for promotion despite high job-performance evaluations." Chie Kobayashi, a mother of two, transferred to Nissan's Brazil office in 2005, becoming the first working mother at the Japanese automaker to work overseas. "I had been hoping to work in a foreign country since I was young and single," said Kobayashi, 46, now the Tokyo-based head of Nissan's diversity development office.  "But in my younger days the opportunities for working abroad or receiving training overseas often fell to male workers. For women, those chances were rare." Kobayashi, who joined Nissan straight out of university, credits a tie-up with France's Renault in 1999 for boosting her job choices. "Compared with other Japanese companies, Nissan is probably advanced in terms of diversity in personnel, as it was forced to change when it joined with Renault," she told AFP. But Kobayashi cast doubt on the government targets. "If you try to achieve numerical targets by any means, it could bring about a skewed situation such as lenient performance assessments for women," she said. "What is important is giving equal job opportunities to both men and women." Meaningful change in company demographics will only come if more Japanese women want to work and the environment welcomes them, added French sociologist Muriel Jolivet, who has been living and teaching in Japan for years and has written several books on Japanese society. "These kind of (numerical) goals don't mean anything," she said. Old attitudes can be another barrier, an issue highlighted this summer when a member of Abe's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) admitted he hurled sexist taunts at a Tokyo assemblywoman during a council debate on motherhood. The embarrassing episode did little to burnish the feminist credentials of Abe's government, which is set to host a female leadership meeting in Tokyo this week, with International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde delivering a keynote address. "If Japanese women can really work together to get more women through the political party system... (and there are) more people articulating perspectives about women's needs... then I think this kind of misogynist criticism you're seeing will start to recede," Helen Clark, head of the United Nations Development Programme, told AFP in a July interview. Some firms are moving to more flexible workplaces and shrinking Japan's notoriously long overtime hours. Toyota is planning to set up a fund to encourage female students to join male-heavy sectors, such as the auto industry. But Nissan's chief Carlos Ghosn has called for a go-slow approach, saying Abe's targets are too ambitious. "We have to go step by step to avoid failures that would be counter productive," he said. Kimie Iwata, 67, a director at Japan Airlines and a former senior official in the labour ministry, was more upbeat on voluntary targets among the nation's firms. But it was fears about the economy -- not women's rights -- that were behind the change in corporate Japan, she added. "In the past, Japan's business community wasn't moved by the logic of women's rights," Iwata said. "They first became serious about empowering women due to concerns about the economy." FREE AppDownload
© Getty Images/AFP/File Justin SullivanApple CEO Tim Cook walks off stage after speaking during the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference at the Moscone West center on June 2, 2014 in San Francisco, CaliforniaSan Francisco (AFP) - Apple's mystery unveiling on Tuesday is expected to be a watershed moment for the California giant -- and the entire tech industry. Here are key things to watch for: Chief executive Tim Cook will seek to vanquish the notion that Apple lost its magic when its famed co-founder Steve Jobs died.  Cook could help Apple establish its dominance in a new category with an "iWatch" at the event set in the very location where Jobs introduced the Macintosh computer 30 years ago. Since Jobs died in late 2011, pressure has been on his successor Cook to show the world that Apple can shine just as brightly without the iconic pitchman known for perfection in design and mastery in marketing. Apple lovers have been eager for the company to seize a new gadget category the way it dominated smartphones, tablets, and MP3 players with the iPhone, iPad, and iPod respectively. "I don't believe this project is a knee-jerk reaction to other smartwatches," said Creative Strategies president Tim Bajarin. "While the roots go back to Steve Jobs, this product is Tim Cook and Jony Ive." The genesis of what is being referred to in the media as "iWatch" stemmed from Jobs and his frustration with health care matters while battling illness that took his life, according to the analyst. Bajarin spoke of sources telling him the Apple wearable computer has been in the works for seven years. Cook would fittingly be putting his stamp on the first "next big thing" launched by Apple without Jobs. While an iWatch will wirelessly tap into capabilities of iPhones or iPads, managing health is expected to be a strong theme. Bolstering that likelihood is Cook's reputation as a fitness fanatic who was among the early users of Nike Fuel activity tracking wristbands. Another thing to watch for will be how Apple addresses the elephant in the room -- security of photos, videos and other data stored on devices or online in servers at iCloud or iTunes. Cook told The Wall Street Journal this week that Apple is stepping up its iCloud security by sending people alerts when attempts are made to change passwords, restore iCloud data to new devices, or when someone logs in from a new gadget. His comments came after Apple took a bruising over a "targeted attack" that led to the release of nude photos of celebrities including Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence. Apple has insisted there was no breach of its cloud storage system and that the celebrities had their accounts hacked by using easy-to-guess passwords, or by giving up their personal data to clever cybercriminals. Security could play into the off-chance that Apple will announce iPad enhancements such as adding fingerprint scanning, in a break from its practice of keeping smartphone and tablet events separate. While the unveiling of new-generation iPhones with larger screens is considered a sure bet, people will be watching to see how big Apple will go and when models will make it to market. Apple has remained consistently tight-lipped, but analysts are expecting the iPhone screen to be boosted to at least 4.7 inches, and a 5.5-inch screen is also likely, allowing Apple to compete in the new "phablet" segment. Watch also to see how aggressively Apple moves into mobile money with near-field-communication chips built into iPhone 6 models letting them be used as Internet age wallets. There are reported to be 800 million accounts at Apple's online iTunes shop, where people's credit card data could be easily synched to mobile wallets, quickly creating a vast sea of users. With this, Apple could jump-start the effort to use mobile devices for payments. Some reports speculate that Apple may also unveil an upgrade to its iPad Air, which would be a departure from its tradition of a separate announcement for tablets. The new mobile platform iOS 8 will have capabilities that go beyond health and payments, say some analysts. This could involve smart-home technology or other systems that put Apple at the center of the ecosystem. "Ultimately, we believe the pivot toward software and services and the rise of a more comprehensive enterprise strategy could help Apple become much more than just a hardware company," said Barclays analyst Ben Reitzes. FREE AppDownload
Earlier this year, I posted some demographic data for the U.S., see: Census Bureau: Largest 5-year Population Cohort is now the "20 to 24" Age Group and The Future is still Bright!I pointed out that "even without the financial crisis we would have expected some slowdown in growth this decade (just based on demographics). The good news is that will change soon."Changes in demographics are an important determinant of economic growth, and although most people focus on the aging of the "baby boomer" generation, the movement of younger cohorts into the prime working age is another key story in coming years. Here is a graph of the prime working age population (this is population, not the labor force) from 1948 through August 2014.  Calculated Risk There was a huge surge in the prime working age population in the '70s, '80s and '90s - and the prime age population has been mostly flat recently (even declined a little).The prime working age labor force grew even quicker than the population in the '70s and '80s due the increase in participation of women. In fact, the prime working age labor force was increasing 3%+ per year in the '80s!So when we compare economic growth to the '70s, '80, or 90's we have to remember this difference in demographics (the '60s saw solid economic growth as near-prime age groups increased sharply).The prime working age population peaked in 2007, and appears to have bottomed at the end of 2012.  The good news is the prime working age group has started to grow again, and should be growing solidly by 2020 - and this should boost economic activity in the years ahead. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople play in a hall inside Alibaba's headquarters in HangzhouWhen Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding revealed plans earlier this year to go public on a U.S. stock exchange, financial advisers like Bob Mecca in Hoffman Estate, Illinois braced themselves for a wave of frantic calls from retail investors wanting to get in on the action. Alibaba, which sells more than Amazon.com Inc and EBay Inc combined, could raise over $21 billion in its IPO. It is often described as technology's hottest initial public offering since Facebook Inc’s 2012 debut, although initial pricing announced on Friday was less than many predicted. Retail investors generally get only 10-20 percent of shares in big IPOs, and several advisers told Reuters they had expected a scramble from clients. But the phone has not been ringing off the hook. “People are on Facebook, they know it, but no one has ever heard of Alibaba," said Mecca, who has $175 million in assets under management. The number of client inquiries about the Alibaba IPO is around a quarter of what it was for Facebook at this stage of the process and about half of what it was for Twitter Inc, said Steve Quirk, senior vice president of the group serving active traders at discount broker TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. Robert Christie, a spokesman for Alibaba, declined to comment, citing the company’s pre-IPO quiet period. Alibaba’s decision to price its shares between $60 and $66 per American Depository Share is an indication that the company may not be too concerned about having a big U.S. retail investor base, since retail investors prefer stocks that cost much less per share. Alibaba could have raised the same amount of money by selling more shares at a lower price. One consequence of retail investors sitting out the debut could be a muted first day of trade, rather than the "pop" many expect from a tech IPO. “Because it is such a large deal and you aren’t going to see a lot of retail investor interest, I do not think it’s going to have a lot of momentum when it gets out of the gate,” said Tom Taulli, an independent IPO expert. Longer term, tepid U.S. retail interest could be a drawback for Alibaba. Individuals tend to hold stocks longer, providing stability to the share price, and they help diversify the shareholder base. Having too much concentration among a small number of institutional investors, for example, could make the company vulnerable to attacks by activists, IPO experts said. "I think a strong retail base is much better for Alibaba," said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which helps create index funds for IPOs. Still, retail interest could ramp up. Bargain hunters could take note of the lower-than-expected initial price and the company's pre-IPO roadshow, to promote the offering to fund managers, could spark wider interest. The roadshow kicks off on Monday in New York and is expected to reach around the globe to London and Hong Kong. That will provide stronger evidence of institutional investor interest and indicate whether shares are likely to be priced in the initial range. Industry analysts had expected Alibaba to lock down a valuation of more than $200 billion, but the high end of the initial range would put it about $163 billion.   OTHER WAYS IN Alibaba has some major, publicly traded investors, which give Alibaba fans other ways to get into the stock early. One UBS AG adviser said that some retail clients expecting to get shut out of the IPO have opted to buy shares of Japan's Softbank Corp, which has a 34.1 percent stake in Alibaba going into the IPO. For the same reason, James Gambaccini, a Fairfax, Virginia-based independent financial adviser, said he has a few clients that have opted to invest in Yahoo Inc, which has a 22.4 percent stake in Alibaba. Softbank's and Yahoo's stakes will shrink from dilution in the IPO, and Yahoo will sell some shares, but both will remain major Alibaba shareholders. But for the most part, Gambaccini said the demand for Alibaba shares has been lackluster, partially because many people have not heard of the company and some who know about it were wary of China, concerned by the potential for government interference, for example. Alan Haft, a Newport, California-based adviser, has been trying to interest clients in Alibaba for months. But he said it has been an uphill battle.   "It's clear to me that most people know very little about this company and just how enormous the IPO is likely going to be as well as how impactful this company is," Haft said.   (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel; Additional reporting by Olivia Oran, Lauren LaCapra and Liana Baker in New York; editing by Paritosh Bansal and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rupak De Chowdhuri A gas station attendant looks at an Indian rupee.Faced once again with the prospect of rate rises in the United States, investors in Asia are no longer selling and running as in the past, choosing instead to stay in markets like India and South Korea, that are relatively sheltered from global forces. The two bouts of market turmoil in May 2013 and January this year demonstrated the perils of selling out of markets prematurely and indiscriminately. This time, investors have already begun preparations for a rise in U.S. rates by mid-2015 at the earliest, albeit with a degree of caution about the different moving parts to the policy story. For one, central banks in Europe and Japan could soon be injecting stimulus, which would compensate the world for the cash the Federal Reserve is withdrawing. And secondly, it is entirely plausible that U.S. growth disappoints, thereby keeping yields down but pushing stock markets sharply lower. Standard responses to a spike in U.S. rates, such as avoiding Indonesia, India and other countries which rely on external funding, may no longer be appropriate, given how rapidly Asia has changed in the past year. The region's current account deficits are smaller, bond yields are high and currencies already quite weak. Governments perceived to be more reform-oriented have taken over in India and Indonesia, and Asia's rallying stock markets are backed by robust growth in company earnings. "You should be in countries where idiosyncratic forces are more dominant drivers than the global forces," said Jahangir Aziz, head of Asian research at JPMorgan. "They allow you to hedge against global changes." As of now, both Asian equity and bond markets are still riding a six-year long rally spurred by the heavy quantitative easing policies of the Fed and other developed economies. But investors are prone to worry, says Aziz, and this abnormally long period of very low volatility and memories of the vicious selloff in 2013 have made them uneasy. "There could be significant pre-emptive reaction in the market to the likelihood of better U.S. growth, jobs or inflation numbers. That is where the concern is," he said. PICK THE NEUTRAL TRADE The basis for investment is belief that, unlike the scares in 2013 and early 2014, the Fed will raise rates only when it is confident that the economy is on track for higher growth, more jobs, better demand and investment. "You are at that stage of the global cycle where the traditional growth or high-beta assets are what you want to own," said Huw McKay, Westpac's chief Asian economist based in Sydney. "You don't want to be back in safe haven assets such as U.S. bonds." The decision to stay invested in high growth emerging markets in Asia is the simpler one. Markets are pricing little change in the already low U.S. yields - 10-year yields are around 2.4 percent, and the forwards markets indicate little to no growth or inflation prospects. The equity market meanwhile is consistently reaching for record highs. The more challenging issue for investors is that of deciding which shoe drops first, bonds or equities. As yields rise, bond prices would drop. "Secular stagnation is being priced into the bond markets, strong nominal growth is being priced into the equity markets. One of these is more wrong than the other, or even both could be wrong," said UBS strategist Bhanu Baweja. Still, that happy co-existence of surging bond and equity prices could very well continue, and should fund managers sell before an actual turn in the market they could risk underperforming peers and global indices. "You've got to survive to that point," says Baweja. "You can't go short the markets right now." The consensus however ends there. Westpac's McKay finds India has made greater strides in fixing its current account problem, more so than Indonesia which was one of the worst hit in 2013. Plus, in a scenario where a rise in U.S. yields is preceded by strong global growth, India's services exports would benefit hugely. McKay also reckons the winning markets this time might be in countries, like South Korea, that offer foreigners a seamless transfer from equities to bonds. "If you have both asset classes to offer in local currency, you can actually see a transfer rather than switching out of the currency altogether to go back to the dollar," McKay said. JPMorgan's chief Asian economist Jahangir Aziz warns that now is not the time to look for global plays, or heavy bets on assets linked to U.S Treasury yields or broader emerging market risk. "India and Indonesia is where you want to be right now," he said, citing the new governments and possible policy changes in both economies that will proceed regardless of global factors. Investors should be wary of being too exposed to China, should there be a decline in global demand and therefore in the exports that are driving Chinese growth, he said. Blackrock's head of Asian equities prefers being more exposed to North Asian markets such as China, Taiwan and Korea, both because of their valuations and healthier current accounts. "As a recipient of little investor flows in recent years, we believe Asian equities are well placed to receive more interest even if U.S. rates begin to rise," he said. Blackrock has $344 billion of long-term assets under management in Asia.   (Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA huge euro logo is pictured past next to headquarters of ECB in FrankfurtBy Robin Emmott BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The euro zone's struggle to avoid another recession will take center stage in the coming week in the absence of major U.S. data, as investors mull whether the ECB's new asset-buying plan is a prelude to even more radical steps. While data from China may give clarity on a pattern of uneven growth there, it is in Europe that the prospects for the economy are most uncertain, although a ceasefire in Ukraine could lift the mood and avoid new EU sanctions on Russia this week. The euro zone's fragile economic recovery came to a halt in the second quarter, in marked contrast to the United States, where the economy grew robustly. Like many of its neighbors struggling to rebound from the debt crisis, Italy slipped into recession for the third time since 2008. EU finance ministers and European Central Bank President Mario Draghi convene on Friday in Milan, where the ECB's latest move to help the economy and avoid deflation will be at the forefront of discussions. The ECB stunned markets last week by cutting interest rates and announcing a plan to buy asset-backed securities from October, which Barclays described "as a clear first step into quantitative easing" - a U.S.-style bond-buying program that could help the economy but divides the central bank. Draghi said his aim was to expand the bank's balance sheet back to the heights reached in early 2012, which equates to a rise of around 50 percent or 1 trillion euros in new assets. "This is going to be digested by the markets over the coming weeks," said Thomas Harjes, an economist at Barclays. "There's now a 50-50 chance that the ECB will go further and announce a sovereign bond-buying program by year-end, or the beginning of 2015," he said. Under its statutes, the ECB is banned from buying bonds directly from governments but can find ways to purchase them from banks, for example, on the secondary market. An inflation rate of just 0.3 percent, coupled with the lack of economic growth, has given new urgency to the bloc's search for growth. The ECB is urging governments to also do their part and enact ambitious structural reforms. German trade, labor and industrial data during the week should show whether the second quarter's poor showing is part of a trend or a one-off. A euro zone confidence indicator for September will also be watched after August's unexpected slump.  CLUES TO U.S. "NORMALISATION" The ECB's stimulus contrasts with developments across the Atlantic, where the U.S. Federal Reserve is gradually winding down its bond-buying program as the economy improves and is beginning to think about tighter monetary policy. Investors have little to get their teeth into in the coming week and the biggest U.S. data will be August's retail sales on Friday. With the jobs market lifting confidence, retail sales are seen up 0.3 percent after dropping in July. The expected gain in the indicator's so-called control number, which corresponds most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product, would be a welcome relief after spending dropped in July, leading some economists to temper their growth forecasts. Still, U.S. job growth slowed down sharply in August as more Americans gave up the hunt for work, giving a cautious Federal Reserve more reasons to wait a bit longer before raising rates. The Fed's chair, Janet Yellen, is concerned about slow wage growth, the high numbers of Americans working part-time even though they want full-time employment and a long spell of joblessness following the 2008/2009 financial crisis. "Such weakness plays into the hands of the Fed doves," said Rob Carnell, an economist at ING, of the August job data. "It gives Yellen more leeway to stand firm against the hawks, many of whom are calling for a change in the Fed's language on the likely timing and scale of policy normalization." Normalization refers to the end of an unprecedented period of cheap money since the financial crisis. The consensus has been for a rate hike in late 2015, but economists are bringing forward their forecasts to near the middle of next year.  UNEVEN CHINESE EXPANSION In Asia, the central banks of South Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines hold monetary policy meetings this week. Another cut in Korea after August's 25 basis-point reduction is not expected this month, however. The monetary authority has been reluctant to cut rates more for fear that lower borrowing costs could swell the ageing society's large household debt. Meanwhile, the People's Bank of China has so far refrained from cutting interest rates, preferring instead to ease liquidity for some banks to free funds for lending. Beijing in turn has tried to ease conditions in the property market. Data on money and credit supply during the week will give an indication about the central bank's next moves following inconclusive data last week. Activity in China's vast factory sector cooled in August as foreign and domestic demand slowed, spurring new calls for more policy easing to prevent the economy from stumbling once more. But China's services sector rebounded in August after a drop in July, offseting factory-sector weakness and letting the government stick with its policy stance. "The economic expansion is quite uneven, as exports accelerate, investment slows, and the real estate correction intensifies, but on balance, headline real GDP growth is probably a bit faster to the third quarter," said Bill Adams, an economist at PNC Financial Services Group.  (Reporting by Robin Emmott; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
