Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. We Have The Necessary Ingredients To Keep This Bull Market Going Longer-Term (BMO Capital Markets)  Geopolitical tensions in Ukraine and Israel, along with Argentina's default have weighed on U.S. stocks. "After five solid months, July was the first negative monthly performance since January," writes Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets. But that isn't reason to worry just yet. "Indeed, the path of US stocks in 2014 appears to be following the script we laid out in our market outlook last December and nothing in our models suggest a change is warranted at the moment—positive trends in EPS growth and revisions continued to be counterbalanced by sluggish economic growth forecasts (2Q notwithstanding) and slightly higher interest rates," he writes. "As such, we expect that the next few months will be difficult to navigate but we do not envision any sort of prolonged or protracted periods of market weakness. Recent improvement in economic conditions and earnings growth should provide the necessary ingredients to keep this bull market going longer-term, in our view." Wall Street's "Posh Recognition Junkets" For Top Brokers Are Back (The Wall Street Journal)    "With the stock market at record levels and wealth-management fees rising, Wall Street is reviving posh "recognition'' junkets that were abruptly suspended in the 2008-2009 financial meltdown, when banks taking government bailouts wanted to avoid the appearance of extravagance," reports Corrie Driebusch at the Wall Street Journal.  Morgan Stanley sent its top stockbrokers to Hawaii in April for an all expenses paid trip. "Morgan Stanley's Hawaii gathering was its most lavish since the crisis and its first outside of the continental U.S., according to advisers," she writes. As the bull market continues and the market gets increasingly competitive firms are starting to pull out all the stops to retain top talent. "Still, trips aren't as costly as those in pre-crisis days, and many now include work-related education and training." The Bull Market Appears Healthy (Ineichen Research &amp; Management)  "The table is a 'tick-the-box approach' to risk management," writes Alexander Ineichen at Ineichen Research &amp; Management. "It allows a comparison of the current US equity bull market with previous peaks. There are currently fewer 'alerts' than during March 2000 or October 2007." Ineichen Research & Management/Business InsiderAdvisors Are Working With Fewer Asset Managers (FA Mag)  A new report from Cogent, cited by Kathy Lynch at FA Mag, finds that advisors have, on average, over $42 million in mutual funds, compared with $36.8 million a year ago. "The proportion of mutual fund assets being managed by an advisor's primary provider increased to 39 percent in 2014, from 33 percent in 2013," Lynch writes. "However, advisors reported working with fewer asset managers this year; about 10.1, down from 10.8 in 2013." The report surveyed 1,400 advisors with $5 million or more in assets under management (AUM). The report also found that 23% said they would lower their fixed income investments between now and 2016. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett(Reuters) - Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc &lt;BRKa.N&gt; &lt;BRKb.N&gt; on Friday said second-quarter profit soared 41 percent, reflecting a substantial increase in investment gains and improved results in businesses not related to insurance. Net income rose to $6.4 billion, or $3,889 per Class A share, from $4.54 billion, or $2,763 per share, a year earlier. Quarterly operating profit rose 11 percent to $4.33 billion, or $2,634 per Class A share, from $3.92 billion, or $2,384 per share. Analysts on average expected operating profit of $2,482 per Class A share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Book value per share, Buffett's preferred measure of growth, has risen 5.6 percent this year to $142,483. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez in Grand Lake Stream, Maine and Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Molly RileyA 1955 Chrysler 300Auto sales slowed in July. Auto sales in July came in at an annualized rate of 16.5 million vehicles. This was below expectations for 16.8 million, and also down from a 16.8 million pace in June and 16.7 million in May, according to Michael Gapen at Barclays. Gapen noted that while the pace of sales slowed, it was still in-line with the second quarter average of 16.5 million, and Barclays kept its Q3 real GDP and consumption estimates unchanged at 2.5%.  Chrysler sales increased by 20% year-over-year in July. But, it was a bit lighter than the 22.5% jump expected. Also disappointing was GM. Sales climbed 9.4%, but fell short of expectations for an 11.0% gain. Ford, however, said its U.S. auto sales grew by 9.5% in July, beating expectations for 9.2% growth. Here's the tally from some of the major auto manufacturers: FREE AppDownload
Sam Microvich/ReutersA film crew dismantles equipment after a shoot in a parking lotThe recent arrival of aliens and murderous youth in suburban Atlanta might seem like cause for concern. But they are merely characters in films shot at the Atlanta Media Campus and Studios, the largest complex of its kind outside California. The lot has hosted the final two instalments of "The Hunger Games" and "The Fifth Wave", an upcoming science-fiction film. What ought to worry local residents is Georgia's inability to produce workers who can build the sets, run the wires or manage the sound for such films. This skills shortage may endanger the $4 billion or so that Jim Jacoby, whose firm plans to redevelop the complex, reckons the film industry could bring to the state this year. Georgia offers generous tax incentives to lure production companies. They can receive a credit for up to 30% of the costs incurred while making movies, as long as they spend more than $500,000. This convinced Mathew Hayden to move his firm, Cinipix, from California to Georgia. But Mr Hayden still imports many workers from Florida and New York. "It's a big concern," he says. The state's movie business will only prove as profitable as its workers prove employable. Georgia's skills shortage goes beyond the film industry. For every four tradesmen that retire just one takes their place, even though the state's unemployment rate hovers around 7.4%, over a point higher than the national rate. But a similar problem, albeit in less acute form, is in evidence across America. More than half of the country's tradesmen are aged over 45. According to the Department of Labour, America will need 41,700 more cement masons, 114,700 more electricians and 218,200 more carpenters by 2022. The government already spends around $17 billion a year trying to close what the president, Barack Obama, calls the "skills gap". On July 22nd Mr Obama signed laws that he said would make job-training programmes that receive federal money "more effective, more responsive to employers and more accountable for results". One such programme is Go Build Georgia, which teaches teenagers a trade. But efforts to train young people as plumbers or pipe-fitters run up against concern from parents. Instead of being proud to raise a future welder, "everyone wants to believe that their child will go to Harvard", says Matthew Gambill, the director of the Georgia Association for Career and Technical Education. Despite the lower cost of a skills-based education and the solid job prospects, enrolment at technical colleges has dropped 23% since recession-stricken students clamoured for entry in 2010. Gerald Herbert/APAndre Champagne poses in front of luxury movie trailers in the south.Still, Georgia is pouring money into training, and targeting industries such as the movie business that are particularly short of skilled labour. It spent $24m last year on the teaching of trades in schools, while the state's technical colleges received $318m. Some of these institutions are already collaborating with film studios to design specialist courses. Lee Thomas, the deputy commissioner of Georgia's film, music and digital entertainment office, says a stand-alone academy is also in the works for those who wish to become stars behind the scenes. Mr Jacoby, though, is taking matters into his own hands. By next summer he wants the Atlanta Media Campus to host a school that will teach students how to work on a film set. American firms spent $162 billion training their employees in 2012. The success of Mr Jacoby's investment in Georgia may depend on whether he can bridge its skills gap. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
On Friday we learned that the U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July. While this missed expectations it was still a solid report and shows that the U.S. job market continues to heal from financial crisis. The unemployment rate climbed to 6.2% but is down from the 10% peak in 2009.  There are 4.6 million job openings now, compared with 2 million in 2009 This chart from Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok shows the labor market continues to improve. There are 2 unemployed workers now for every job opening, compared to six in 2009. The chart also shows that the labor market is getting tighter. "We are still not seeing broad-based wage pressure but it remains clear that a tighter labor market will eventually lead to higher wage inflation and ultimately higher consumer price inflation," Slok told Business Insider. "The question for the Fed and markets is when this will happen. I think the recent inflation and labor market data is strong enough for the Fed to turn hawkish in September." Deutsche Bank/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Sam Microvich/ReutersA film crew dismantles equipment after a shoot in a parking lotThe recent arrival of aliens and murderous youth in suburban Atlanta might seem like cause for concern. But they are merely characters in films shot at the Atlanta Media Campus and Studios, the largest complex of its kind outside California. The lot has hosted the final two instalments of "The Hunger Games" and "The Fifth Wave", an upcoming science-fiction film. What ought to worry local residents is Georgia's inability to produce workers who can build the sets, run the wires or manage the sound for such films. This skills shortage may endanger the $4 billion or so that Jim Jacoby, whose firm plans to redevelop the complex, reckons the film industry could bring to the state this year. Georgia offers generous tax incentives to lure production companies. They can receive a credit for up to 30% of the costs incurred while making movies, as long as they spend more than $500,000. This convinced Mathew Hayden to move his firm, Cinipix, from California to Georgia. But Mr Hayden still imports many workers from Florida and New York. "It's a big concern," he says. The state's movie business will only prove as profitable as its workers prove employable. Georgia's skills shortage goes beyond the film industry. For every four tradesmen that retire just one takes their place, even though the state's unemployment rate hovers around 7.4%, over a point higher than the national rate. But a similar problem, albeit in less acute form, is in evidence across America. More than half of the country's tradesmen are aged over 45. According to the Department of Labour, America will need 41,700 more cement masons, 114,700 more electricians and 218,200 more carpenters by 2022. The government already spends around $17 billion a year trying to close what the president, Barack Obama, calls the "skills gap". On July 22nd Mr Obama signed laws that he said would make job-training programmes that receive federal money "more effective, more responsive to employers and more accountable for results". One such programme is Go Build Georgia, which teaches teenagers a trade. But efforts to train young people as plumbers or pipe-fitters run up against concern from parents. Instead of being proud to raise a future welder, "everyone wants to believe that their child will go to Harvard", says Matthew Gambill, the director of the Georgia Association for Career and Technical Education. Despite the lower cost of a skills-based education and the solid job prospects, enrolment at technical colleges has dropped 23% since recession-stricken students clamoured for entry in 2010. Gerald Herbert/APAndre Champagne poses in front of luxury movie trailers in the south.Still, Georgia is pouring money into training, and targeting industries such as the movie business that are particularly short of skilled labour. It spent $24m last year on the teaching of trades in schools, while the state's technical colleges received $318m. Some of these institutions are already collaborating with film studios to design specialist courses. Lee Thomas, the deputy commissioner of Georgia's film, music and digital entertainment office, says a stand-alone academy is also in the works for those who wish to become stars behind the scenes. Mr Jacoby, though, is taking matters into his own hands. By next summer he wants the Atlanta Media Campus to host a school that will teach students how to work on a film set. American firms spent $162 billion training their employees in 2012. The success of Mr Jacoby's investment in Georgia may depend on whether he can bridge its skills gap. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Michael Kors Michael Kors' may be reaching a saturation point in the U.S. A growing number of analysts and investors are turning sour on the ubiquitous brand, citing uneasiness over increased promotions and signs that Americans are losing interest in its signature handbags, shoes and watches. The company has been expanding rapidly and successfully chipping away at rival Coach's market share for years. It now commands 18% of the North American luxury handbag and accessories market — up from 3% in 2009, according to Wall Street Journal. During the same time period, Coach's share of the market has fallen from 35% to 24%. But Michael Kors' popularity, along with reports of increased promotional activity, is corroding its image as an aspirational brand, analysts say.  Here are three particularly troubling signs for the brand: 1. The share of women planning to buy a Michael Kors handbag over the next three months has dropped to nearly half of what it was in the previous three months, according to a survey by Baird Equity Research.    Note the findings below. Baird Equity Research 2. U.S. Google search traffic for the brand has been flat over the last couple weeks, following a deceleration in June, according to Baird.  This chart shows the search traffic trends:  Baird Equity Research 3. Michael Kors denies that it's running more promotions, but several analysts have reported seeing more promotional activity during store checks. Barclays and Citigroup have both estimated that Kors is devoting twice as much store space to discounts.  Barclays Capital analyst Joan Payson also recently noted that as much as 15% of the brand’s online inventory was on sale compared to zero sales the previous year.  4. Citigroup analyst Oliver Chen sees sales growth beginning to decelerate. Based on a Citigroup survey, Chen has predicted that Kors' June sales rose 7.8%, which is down from 15.2% growth in April and 13.7% growth in May, CNBC reports. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidStocks slipped for the second straight day, and posted their worst weekly loss since in two years, as the July jobs report came in a bit below expectations and the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.2% from 6.1%. After yesterday's sharp sell-off, stocks again sank during the morning, but pared some of these losses through the afternoon. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1.  The S&amp;P 500 finished the week down 2.6%, its worst performance since June 2012. The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined by the same amount, and has now virtually wiped out its 2014 gains. “Whether it’s the Portuguese bank, Argentina or continued unrest in the Middle East, these things are seemingly mattering more to investors now,” Matt McCormick, who helps oversee $11 billion as a fund manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl &amp; Gaynor Inc., told Bloomberg. “All of a sudden, geopolitical things that didn’t matter a few weeks ago are starting to be more relevant concerns, and they’re serving as catalysts to sell. Investors are getting more risk-averse.” 2.  The July jobs report showed the U.S. economy added 209,000 nonfarm payrolls, fewer than the 230,000 that was expected by economists as the unemployment rate rose to 6.2% from 6.1%. Average hours worked were unchanged at 34.5 in July, and wage growth also remained tepid, staying flat over the prior month and growing 2% over the prior year, below expectations for 2.2% growth. Following the report, Dean Maki at Barclays said, "Overall, we view this report as consistent with a return to more moderate job growth in Q3 after the Q2 surge." 3. The July jobs report also marked the sixth-straight month that the economy added 200,000 or more jobs, marking the first such stretch since 1997. Chris Rupkey, chief economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ said, "Quite a milestone today in terms of the number of nonfarm payroll jobs the economy is creating. Six months in a row of big 200K or more monthly numbers. The labor market is strong." 4. A number of Wall Street economists weighed in on how the report could impact the Federal Reserve's policy going forward. Dean Maki at Deutsche Bank said, "The slower pace of job growth, the rise in the unemployment rate, and the flat reading on the headline average hourly earnings series all point to slightly less pressure on the Fed to raise rates soon than recent readings might have suggested. Still, we remain comfortable with our view that the Fed will first hike rates in June 2015." Drew Matus at UBS said following the report that, "Oddly, the slight increase in the unemployment rate was likely welcome news within the Federal Reserve would have pressured their policy outlook." Overall, the report likely didn't pressure the Fed's policy.  5. The Bureau of Economic Analysis released its latest personal income and outlays survey, which contains the personal consumption expenditures index, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. "Core" PCE, which excludes food and energy, rose 1.5% in June against the prior year, but was flat when compared to the prior month. "The acceleration in US income growth in June suggests that in the second half of the year annualized consumption growth will rise from the average of 2.3% of the past two years to close to 3%," Capital Economics said.  6. In addition to the jobs report, two manufacturing indexes came in mixed. Markit's July PMI came in at 55.8, below expectations for a 56.5 reading and below June's 56.3.  Following the report, Markit's chief economist Chris Williamson said, "July data pointed to continued strong growth of production levels and incoming new business across the U.S. manufacturing sector, although the latest survey indicated some loss of momentum since the previous month. Employment growth also moderated during July, and was the weakest in the current 13-month period of workforce expansion." The Institute for Supply Management's latest manufacturing report, however, came in better than expected at 57.1 beating expectations for 56.0 and topping June's 55.3. The prices paid subcomponent of the ISM report also beat expectations, rising to 59.5 from June's 58.0 and the 58.0 expected by economists. 7. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey for July slipped to 81.8 from 82.5 in June, though this reading was in-line with expectations. "Overall, today’s report shows consumer sentiment in the same narrow range where it has remained so far this year, but well below readings seen during the housing bubble," said Barclays' Dean Maki. "Thus, it remains consistent with continued moderate growth in consumer spending." 8. The Census Bureau also released its latest construction spending report, which showed construction spending in June totaled $950.2 billion annualized, 1.8% below May's revised estimate of spending at a $967.8 billion pace. 9. In stock news, Tesla shares gained 5% after the electric car maker on Thursday reported earnings and revenue that beat expectations, and said it now plans to deliver 100,000 next year, up from a goal of 35,000 this year. In a note to clients following the announcement, Barclays said this announcement, "provides us some insight into Tesla’s expectations for a quite steep delivery ramp-up over the coming years and into the Model 3 era." 10. Home products giant Procter &amp; Gamble saw shares 3.4% after announcing that it would seek to unload up to 100 of its brands, as the company reported revenue that fell 1% to $20.16 billion, missing analysts' estimates. P &amp; G's earnings per share, however, beat expectations as the company was the biggest gainer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Don't Miss: How Tesla Went From Near Failure To Stunning Profitability In Just A Few Years » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mark Kolbe / Getty ImagesOn the surface, money seems straightforward. What could be more black and white than numbers? But in fact, money is complicated. Nothing makes this clearer than looking at the ways in which we're subject to cognitive biases — the way our brains sneakily convince us to make decisions that often work against our best interests. Cognitive biases may convince us to spend more, save less, and feel more confident in our decisions than perhaps we should. And the scary thing is, for the most part, we're powerless against them. Here's a look at some of the most common ones. FREE AppDownload
AP President Barack Obama made a statement on the economy from the White House on Friday afternoon where he argued the latest jobs number shows the economy is continuing to recover from the financial crisis. "The good news is the economy clearly is getting stronger things are getting better," said Obama. Obama did not address the fact the latest employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics released Friday showed the unemployment rate rose to 6.2% and instead highlighted the fact the country has seen a "six month streak with at least 200,000 new jobs each month." "That's the first time that's happened since 1997," he said. Obama described this as part of "the longest streak of private sector job creation in our history." "The good news is the economy clearly is getting stronger, things are getting better," said the president. Obama went on to criticize Republcians in Congress for blocking measures he said would do more to improve the economy including finding a long-term solution to provide federal funding for infrastructure projects, raising the minimum wage, and confirming foreign ambassadors.  "Unfortunately there are a series of steps that we could be taking to maintain momentum and perhaps seven accelerate it," said Obama. "So far, at least in Congress, we have not seen them willing or able to take those steps."   (Updated 3:32 p.m.)  FREE AppDownload
LinkedIn reported its earnings on Thursday, and the company beat Wall Street’s expectations across the board. The professional networking site reported $533.9 million in revenue, a big improvement over the $511 million analysts expected. And with several new products announced over the past few months, that revenue is expected to keep soaring.  According to company data charted for us by Statista, LinkedIn’s revenue keeps accelerating each quarter, even though its year-over-year growth had begun to slow down since 2011. Still, LinkedIn posted its first year-over-year growth improvement in several quarters, thanks to a 47% year-over-year increase in revenue, compared to 46% YOY growth last quarter. Statista FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidStocks slipped for the second straight day, and posted their worst weekly loss since in two years, as the July jobs report came in a bit below expectations and the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.2% from 6.1%. After yesterday's sharp sell-off, stocks again sank during the morning, but pared some of these losses through the afternoon. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1.  The S&amp;P 500 finished the week down 2.6%, its worst performance since June 2012. The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined by the same amount, and has now virtually wiped out its 2014 gains. “Whether it’s the Portuguese bank, Argentina or continued unrest in the Middle East, these things are seemingly mattering more to investors now,” Matt McCormick, who helps oversee $11 billion as a fund manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl &amp; Gaynor Inc., told Bloomberg. “All of a sudden, geopolitical things that didn’t matter a few weeks ago are starting to be more relevant concerns, and they’re serving as catalysts to sell. Investors are getting more risk-averse.” 2.  The July jobs report showed the U.S. economy added 209,000 nonfarm payrolls, fewer than the 230,000 that was expected by economists as the unemployment rate rose to 6.2% from 6.1%. Average hours worked were unchanged at 34.5 in July, and wage growth also remained tepid, staying flat over the prior month and growing 2% over the prior year, below expectations for 2.2% growth. Following the report, Dean Maki at Barclays said, "Overall, we view this report as consistent with a return to more moderate job growth in Q3 after the Q2 surge." 3. The July jobs report also marked the sixth-straight month that the economy added 200,000 or more jobs, marking the first such stretch since 1997. Chris Rupkey, chief economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ said, "Quite a milestone today in terms of the number of nonfarm payroll jobs the economy is creating. Six months in a row of big 200K or more monthly numbers. The labor market is strong." 4. A number of Wall Street economists weighed in on how the report could impact the Federal Reserve's policy going forward. Dean Maki at Deutsche Bank said, "The slower pace of job growth, the rise in the unemployment rate, and the flat reading on the headline average hourly earnings series all point to slightly less pressure on the Fed to raise rates soon than recent readings might have suggested. Still, we remain comfortable with our view that the Fed will first hike rates in June 2015." Drew Matus at UBS said following the report that, "Oddly, the slight increase in the unemployment rate was likely welcome news within the Federal Reserve would have pressured their policy outlook." Overall, the report likely didn't pressure the Fed's policy.  5. The Bureau of Economic Analysis released its latest personal income and outlays survey, which contains the personal consumption expenditures index, the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation. "Core" PCE, which excludes food and energy, rose 1.5% in June against the prior year, but was flat when compared to the prior month. "The acceleration in US income growth in June suggests that in the second half of the year annualized consumption growth will rise from the average of 2.3% of the past two years to close to 3%," Capital Economics said.  6. In addition to the jobs report, two manufacturing indexes came in mixed. Markit's July PMI came in at 55.8, below expectations for a 56.5 reading and below June's 56.3.  Following the report, Markit's chief economist Chris Williamson said, "July data pointed to continued strong growth of production levels and incoming new business across the U.S. manufacturing sector, although the latest survey indicated some loss of momentum since the previous month. Employment growth also moderated during July, and was the weakest in the current 13-month period of workforce expansion." The Institute for Supply Management's latest manufacturing report, however, came in better than expected at 57.1 beating expectations for 56.0 and topping June's 55.3. The prices paid subcomponent of the ISM report also beat expectations, rising to 59.5 from June's 58.0 and the 58.0 expected by economists. 7. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey for July slipped to 81.8 from 82.5 in June, though this reading was in-line with expectations. "Overall, today’s report shows consumer sentiment in the same narrow range where it has remained so far this year, but well below readings seen during the housing bubble," said Barclays' Dean Maki. "Thus, it remains consistent with continued moderate growth in consumer spending." 8. The Census Bureau also released its latest construction spending report, which showed construction spending in June totaled $950.2 billion annualized, 1.8% below May's revised estimate of spending at a $967.8 billion pace. 9. In stock news, Tesla shares gained 5% after the electric car maker on Thursday reported earnings and revenue that beat expectations, and said it now plans to deliver 100,000 next year, up from a goal of 35,000 this year. In a note to clients following the announcement, Barclays said this announcement, "provides us some insight into Tesla’s expectations for a quite steep delivery ramp-up over the coming years and into the Model 3 era." 10. Home products giant Procter &amp; Gamble saw shares 3.4% after announcing that it would seek to unload up to 100 of its brands, as the company reported revenue that fell 1% to $20.16 billion, missing analysts' estimates. P &amp; G's earnings per share, however, beat expectations as the company was the biggest gainer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Don't Miss: How Tesla Went From Near Failure To Stunning Profitability In Just A Few Years » FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanTide is one of Proctor & Gamble's most iconic brands.(Reuters) - Procter &amp; Gamble Co &lt;PG.N&gt;, the world's largest household products maker, said it could sell about half of its brands in an effort to revive sales growth and cut costs, sending its shares up as much as 4 percent. P&amp;G, under pressure to launch innovative products and streamline its businesses, said it would consider selling about 90 to 100 brands whose sales have fallen about 3 percent a year for the past three years. "We're going to create a faster growing more profitable company that is far simpler to manage and operate," Chief Executive A.G. Lafley said on a conference call. " ... Less will be much more." The maker of Pampers diapers and Tide detergent said the 70 to 80 "core" brands it will focus on have accounted for 90 percent of sales and over 95 percent of profit over the past three years. 23 of the brands have sales of $1-$10 billion. P&amp;G, which did not name the brands it planned to sell or keep, said it expects to sell the non-core brands within the next 12 to 24 months. The brands that could be sold include Trojan, Hi Wash, Gabriela Sabatini, Pregnavit and Escada, according Sanford Bernstein analyst Ali Dibadj. He reckons P&amp;G will keep Gillette, Pantene, Oral B, Olay, Always and Old Spice besides Pampers and Tide, among the company's most popular brands. P&amp;G's shares were up 3.8 percent at $80.26 in late morning trading on Friday. SLUGGISH SALES P&amp;G's revenue growth has been sluggish, with sales missing Wall Street's estimates in nine of the last 13 quarters, hurt by a "choppy" growth in developed markets, tough competition and a strengthening U.S. dollar. The company has sought to cut expenses by streamlining management, lowering overhead and marketing costs, and cutting jobs under a five-year, $10 billion restructuring plan announced in February 2012. While P&amp;G's organic sales, which excludes the impact of divestitures and acquisitions, rose 2 percent in the quarter ended June 30, currency headwinds wiped out the gains. Net sales fell 1 percent to $20.16 billion in the fourth quarter, missing the average analyst estimate of $20.48 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. P&amp;G, which has been pushing hard for market share in emerging markets, forecast organic sales to rise in the low- to mid-single digit percentage range in the full year started July. The company said it expects full-year core earnings to rise in the mid-single digit percentage range.  A 7 percent fall in operating expenses in the fourth quarter helped P&amp;G post a core profit of 95 cents per share, beating the average analyst estimate of 91 cents. "PG's earnings quality is below its potential," BMO Capital Markets analysts wrote in a note. Net profit attributable to the company rose 37 percent to $2.58 billion. (Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Before a country pays out default insurance on its debt, one body — called the ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee — has to determine that an actual default has occurred and credit default swaps have been triggered. This is called a "credit event" and when a credit event occurs, that's when it's really pay day. And with Argentina, the ISDA's ruling was unanimous and swift. All 15 board members, including yes — Elliott Management, one of the hedge funds who won a U.S. lawsuit against the country for over $1.3 billion — voted to declare Argentina's failure to pay bondholders on July 30th a credit event. That ruling, according to Bloomberg, has triggered $1 billion in swap payments. All that said, there is time to come to an agreement, overturn the default ruling, and stop the ultimate worst case scenario in which Argentina would have to pay out up to $29 billion (basically everything Argentina has in the bank). Now that the country is officially in default, bondholders can file for "acceleration" clauses. Basically, they can call in their loans all at once. Washington Legal Foundation chief counsel Rich Samp said on a conference call Friday that, usually, once a few investors file for acceleration clauses, others start piling in. That's what would really hurt The Republic. On the same conference call,  economist Claudio Loser, former IMF director and current president of the Centennial Group Latin America, who recently authored a report titled, "Argentina v. Holdouts: The Real Costs of Default and Benefits of Settlement," said that this is yet another sign that Argentina's leaders do not feel this is a serious matter. He explained it like this: Since the country experienced a much worse default in 2001 — one in which it actually didn't have money to pay creditors instead of just choosing not to pay them — the regime thinks of this case like a person who has survived cancer. Because of their previous ailment, when they get a heart attack, they don't think it's so bad. "Economic activity will suffer and it will suffer in two different ways," said Loser. "Today people will stop buying... the banks that were so interested in helping the government, they may have problems renewing their lines of credit. Business in Argentina will have much less credit than before at higher interest rates. This will effect the productive chain... Investment which was poor to begin with will decline even further, and the potential for growth of Argentina... over the medium term will suffer enormously." Loser said that since Brazil is slowing and commodities prices are down, Argentina really needs to be ready to ramp up development. The country is at a delicate time now after years of "drunken growth," but because of this default it's not going to have the financing it needs. "It is a tragedy, it is a self made tragedy," said Loser. Argentina got in this mess shortly after its last default in 2001. That's when a group of bondholders — known collectively as NML Capital — bought the country's sovereign debt on the cheap. NML then opted out of restructurings of that debt in 2005 and 2010, electing instead to collect 100 cents on the dollar for their investment. Argentina considered that refusal to restructure an insult, as over 90% of bondholders did restructure, and refused to pay NML. NML sued Argentina for its money and won finally in June. Still Argentina has said that it will not pay NML under the current circumstances. In a fiery speech last night, Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said that her country was willing to pay NML but under its own contracts, in its own country, and on its own terms. "Argentina will pay 100% of its debts ... We offered them [NML] an exchange, but they want 1600% return ...  Argentina will use all of the legal instruments at its disposal to have our own contracts on this deal," said Kirchner. But Judge Thomas Griesa, the Judge presiding over the case, has grown tired of this kind of language. He made that clear in a meeting with Argentina's lawyers Friday morning. "Half-truths are false and misleading," he said. "Half-truths do not comply with the law, which requires disclosure of facts," he said. FREE AppDownload
The American economy has always relied on disruptive upstart entrepreneurs challenging established older firms. However, over the last twenty years, it turns out that the established companies have been on the rise. A new study by Ian Hathaway of consulting firm Ennsyte Economics and Robert Litan of the Brookings Institute breaks down data from the Census Bureau's Business Dynamics Statistics and found that, over the last two decades, the economy has had a growing share of old, established, mature companies. Their first chart shows the proportion of firms of different ages among all firms. The Business Dynamics Statistics data begins in 1977, so from that year forward actual ages of companies can be reliably tracked: Hathaway and Litan, July 2014 The first big conclusion that shows up on this chart is the share of older companies. The proportion of companies that are at least 16 years old has been skyrocketing since the early 90s. Meanwhile, the percentage of new firms — firms that are zero years old and represented by the black line — has dropped over the same time period. In addition to being a growing share of all firms, old, established companies are also responsible for an increasing proportion of economic activity. This chart shows that, while 60% of all private sector employees worked at mature firms in 1992, this percentage jumped to 72% by 2011: Hathaway and Litan, July 2014 Hathaway and Litan then go to investigate why older firms have become more dominant in the economy. One of the biggest factors they found, which was indicated in the first chart's declining share of new companies, is that the rate of new firm creation — of entrepreneurs going out and starting new businesses — has been shrinking, while the rate of business failures has stayed mostly the same: Hathaway and Litan, July 2014 Breaking down the firm exit rate further shows that younger businesses are more likely to fail than older businesses, and that the failure rate for brand new firms has been increasing, while the likelihood of older businesses failing has stayed about the same: Hathaway and Litan, July 2014 Putting these together, there are fewer new firms entering the market, those firms are failing at a higher rate than older firms, and mature companies have a relatively low failure rate. This all adds up to a larger percentage of old firms in the market. Hathaway and Litan conclude with concerns about the implications of America's aging businesses: If would-be entrepreneurs are going to work at established firms rather than striking out on their own and coming up with the next big thing, the prospects for future economic growth might be grim. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's been a tough summer for natural gas traders.  Writing on the FuelFix blog, Matt Smith points us to the latest results in the spread between March and April 2015 natural gas contracts. This is a when traders attempt to gauge the wind-down in winter supplies.  Earlier this year, the spread for 2015 surged to $0.75, as traders figured this year's polar vortex would have significantly depleted storage for next year.  "...Some market watchers have expressed concern that producers will be unable to fully replenish inventories by the start of next winter," the Wall Street Journal's Nicole Friedman reported earlier this year. "As of Jan. 24, natural-gas supplies stood at 2.193 trillion cubic feet, the lowest level for the week since 2005." But temperatures are set to dip into the '40s and 50s in the next few weeks for the Midwest and Northeast. As a result, Smith writes, "the expectation of adequate storage levels exiting next winter has narrowed the winter premium on the March contract versus April’s contract to a preposterously paltry $0.20." Here's the chart: Matt Smith/FuelFix/DTNProphetX FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroA man walks in front of a window of the headquarters of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo in Lisbon July 21, 2010.Shares of Portuguese bank Banco Espirito Santo crashed by 40% before they were suspended for trade. On Thursday, the bank reported a €3.6 billion loss and the bank was ordered by Portugal's central bank to raised capital. Shares of the bank, which has made headlines over the last few months over concerns regarding its capital position, have lost nearly all of their value.  Bloomberg's Joao Lima and Henrique Almeida wrapped up Banco Espirito Santo's earnings report and the Bank of Portugal's requirements. Lima and Almeida wrote: "The Bank of Portugal required the lender to raise the money after it set aside 4.25 billion euros in the first half, mostly to cover souring loans to other members of the Espirito Santo Group. That cut Banco Espirito Santo’s common equity Tier 1 ratio to 5 percent, less than the 7 percent regulatory minimum, according to a statement yesterday. The central bank is also probing the lender’s former managers and suspended executives in charge of audit, compliance and risk management." You can read the Bank of Portugal's statement here.  On Friday, Simon Nixon writing in The Wall Street Journal outlined a number of problems currently facing Banco Espirito Santo and the broader financial landscape in the Eurozone.  Among the issues addressed by Nixon were whether or not the government will use public money in helping Banco Espirito Santo raise the capital required of it by the Bank of Portugal.  Nixon notes that the Portuguese government has the money it would conceivably need to come to Banco Espirito Santo's aid, but says the larger risk for Portugal could be reputational. Nixon: "Indeed, the bigger risk for Portugal may be reputational: Lisbon has won plaudits for its efforts to free up product and labor markets, but this scandal risks reinforcing concerns that the country continues to be held back by a culture of cronyism. The Bank of Portugal has acted robustly to suspend key executives, block the former controlling family’s voting rights and appoint external auditors. But it is essential that the BES board, the Bank of Portugal and the Portuguese government make good on their promises to transparently investigate the scandal and ensure any wrong-doing is swiftly exposed and punished." Nixon added, however, that the contagion risks posed by Banco Espirito Santo are less serious than the sluggish economic news that has come out of France and Italy recently. On Friday, following a sharp sell-off in the U.S. market on Thursday, equities in Europe sold off, notably the German DAX, which lost more than 2% and Spanish markets which fell 1.8%.  Stocks in Portugal lost nearly 3%. U.S. stocks were falling again on Friday as investors digest a flood of economic data, the fallout from the Argentina bailout, as well as the implications for Europe following Banco Espirito Santo's troubles.  FREE AppDownload
Prudential Douglas EllimanDan Loeb's palatial penthouse at 15 Central Park West is valued at $90 million.The top dogs in finance are worth millions and even billions, so it's no surprise they flaunt their exorbitant pay checks on the places they call home. We found the most expensive homes belonging to bankers, hedge funders, and the kings of finance. From oceanfront mansions with more rooms than you could possibly know what to do with to ritzy Manhattan penthouses with panoramic skyline views, any one of these properties will make you drool.  To estimate the approximate current market value of the houses, we looked at public assessors' records and spoke to expert realtors in these homes' markets, including Kyle Egan, licensed real estate salesperson for Nest Seekers International, and Susan Breitenbach, licensed associate real estate broker with Corcoran Group.   FREE AppDownload
It's been a rough couple of weeks for Bill Ackman, and this news isn't going to make it any better. Ackman's hedge fund, Pershing Square, and pharmaceutical company Valeant are being sued for alleged insider trading by Allergan, their joint hostile takeover target. "This case is about the improper and illicit insider-trading scheme hatched in secret by a billionaire hedge fund investor on the one hand, and a public-company serial acquiror on the other hand," says the complaint. "... The method the Defendants chose was to operate in secret, flouting key provisions of the federal securities laws designed to protect investors from precisely this type of predatory conduct." Ackman bought just shy of 10% of Allergan this spring in an attempt to gain more pull in his and Valeant's attempt to sway shareholders to vote for a buyout. It was a move that hearkened back to Wall Street's 1980s corporate raider days when moves like that were called a "toehold." In this case, Allergan is specifically alleging that Valeant and Pershing have failed to disclose material information to push the takeover through, and circumvented insider trading laws — specifically SEC rule 14 e-3, which has to do with making tender offers for companies based on or while knowing material non-public information. In February, the complaint alleges, Pershing Square, with a minuscule contribution promised from Valeant, created a shell company called PS1 LLC. It started buying Allergan shares after Valeant started showing signs that it would make a tender offer for Allergan, according to the lawsuit. Meanwhile, Pershing and Valeant allegedly signed an agreement that they would not make a tender offer for Allergan. According to the filing, "PS Fund 1’s LLC agreement was not amended to add Valeant as a member until April 6, 2014, and Valeant’s capital contribution – a minuscule 3 percent of the total funds – was not made until April 10, 2014, just one day before PS Fund 1’s ownership of Allergan stock crossed the 5% threshold on April 11, 2014." PS Fund 1's stake in Allergan reached 9.7% on April 21. On April 22, Pershing and Valeant announced that they would attempt a "friendly merger" Valeant between and Allergan. Of course, we know this hasn't been friendly. Allergan has been telling anyone who will listen that Valeant is a company with almost no organic growth that needs to make acquisitions to survive. Once Valeant owns a company, according to Allergan, it slashes its research and development and gobbles up its products, raising their prices until their patents wear out. Allergan isn't the only one saying this either. Famed short-seller Jim Chanos of Kynikos Associates, also believes Valeant is an "accounting rollup" and is shorting the stock. Valeant and Pershing, for their part, released a statement calling the lawsuit "frivolous," saying that it was an attempt to "true purpose in bringing the litigation is an attempt to interfere with shareholders’ efforts to call a special meeting." The shareholder the release refers to is Pershing. “This is a shameless attempt by Allergan to delay the shareholders’ fundamental right to call a special meeting and vote their shares," Ackman wrote in the statement. "Allergan is threatened by our progress toward calling the special meeting. This scorched-earth approach is further evidence of the board’s and management’s entrenchment.” Ackman continued, “Allergan’s determination to waste money on a baseless lawsuit against its largest shareholder demonstrates why this board of directors should be removed.” Valeant CEO Michael Pearson said he was disappointed that Allergan would delay an attempt to generate shareholder value. Both Valeant's and Allergan's stocks are down slightly on the news of this lawsuit. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Matt JohnstonThe view from the top of roller coaster Kingda Ka taken with a GoPro camera.Shares of GoPro are getting crushed after the company's first quarterly earnings report since going public. The stock was down about 12% after last night falling 10% following the report. GoPro reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.08, topping estimates for $0.07. Revenue in the second quarter totaled $244.6 million, beating estimates for $238.1 million. On a "GAAP," or unadjusted basis, however, GoPro lost $0.24 per share.  Since debuting in June, GoPro shares have been on a tear, gaining about 100% since the IPO.  Yesterday, the stock closed just below $48, just about doubling the market cap of the company since shares priced at $24 in their initial public offering. Currently, GoPro's market cap is about $9.5 billion.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
In its shareholder letter released after the bell, Tesla said it would end up spending $1 billion in 2014. It saw $2 million net cash flow from operations in Q2. And it now has  $2.7 billion in cash reserves.  So during the call, Deutsche Bank's Rod Lache asked about the trajectory of Tesla's spending and costs beyond this year. CFO Deepak Ahuja first responded by saying that as Tesla's projected near tripling of deliveries by the end of 2015 unfolds, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues would improve. Then Musk jumped in: Yeah. In the past...we've shown all of our cards, so people have kind of gotten used to us showing all of our cards. We're not currently showing all our cards. "OK, all right. Well, thank you," Roche responded, according to SeekingAlpha's transcript.  A few minutes later, Goldman Sachs' Patrick Archambault asked specifically about research and development spending in the shorter-term. Once again, Ahuja replied first, explaining the company was spending on "many exciting things," and referenced the Model X electric crossover utility vehicle.   Then Musk said this: Yeah. I mean another thing, our CapEx and R&amp;D numbers are better than they appear because there are things you don't know about. "Well, OK. A lot of interesting stuff to look ahead to," Archambault said. What could Musk be referring to? In the shareholder letter, he mentioned Tesla's ongoing partnership with Daimler to provide drive trains to Mercedes' new electric vehicle. Could there be more agreements with other automakers on the way? He also mentioned that once the Gigafactory is up and running the cost of Tesla's batteries would start declining. But groundbreaking on the Gigafactory itself remains months away.  We're not sure what the precedent for this kind of language is. But many investors believe Tesla is changing the planet. In a note this morning, Tesla bull Adam Jonas declared the company "could very well be [the] most important car company in the world."  "While there remains significant near-term execution risk into the pace of the 4Q production ramp [Tesla lowered its Q3 delivery guidance] to make the full year target [of 35,000 vehicles delivered]," Jonas wrote, "we see no new reason to be negative on the stock and would buy weakness." So if anyone can get away with talking like this, it's Elon Musk. FREE AppDownload
About 24 hours after Argentine politicians announced that they would not follow a U.S. Court's order to pay over $1.3 billion in bonds to a group of hedge fund creditors, the country's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, took to their national news circuit. In a speech given to adoring young Kirchnerites from inside the Casa Rosada (the president's residence) she compared what is happening to Argentina to Israel's battle with Gaza. "This situation thrust upon the Argentine people is also a form of violence. It is a financial missile, which also costs lives," she said. The missile she's talking about is the determination of the Court and some rating agencies that the country is in "selective default" — a term that, in her speech, Fernandez insisted doesn't even exist. Argentina failed to pay holders of its 2033 sovereign debt by the July 30 deadline. Argentina did not pay because of a decade-long battle with some hedge fund bondholders — known collectively as NML. In the Republic these investors are known as "vultures," because they bought bonds after the country's 2001 default and would not restructure their debt and take a haircut like over 90% of creditors. So the government simply decided not to pay them. The investors sued, and in June the Supreme Court upheld lower Court Judge Thomas Griesa's ruling that all bondholders should be paid together. Because Argentina wouldn't pay the vultures, on July 30 Argentina didn't pay anyone. "They'll have to invent a new term for what this is," Fernandez said, "because this is not default." Of course, the crowd — Fernandez's base — went wild for this speech. In parts of Argentine society there is a fervent love for the storyline that the country is in a constant struggle against a global hegemonic structure that seeks to undermine the country's sovereignty at every turn. In one of the most succinct editorials written about the topic, the Uruguayan newspaper El Pais nailed this complex. [Argentines believe] that all their problems have to do with a grand historic battle against imperialism, against domination, against some evil-doers power who is looking to destroy them. The images on posters in Buenos Aires that once said 'Branden or Peron' now say 'Griesa or Cristina.' They're eloquent in that way. In her speech, Fernandez called for the country to stand in unity against this new, unnameable aggression. She invoked the names of late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and her late husband, former Argentine President Nestor Kirchner, as if she were speaking to their ghosts. Few people use this rhetoric better than she does. Her Twitter photo album is littered with images of Eva Peron. Through the dramatization, though, a firmer view of what Fernandez wants began to crystalize. She referred to a deal Economy Minster Axel Kicillof had done with the Paris Club in which payments were lowered after negotiations. This is what she wants from the "vultures" — she wants them to take a haircut, and she's willing to let her people suffer for it. "Argentina will pay 100% of its debts ... We offered them [NML] an exchange, but they want 1600% return ...  Argentina will use all of the legal instruments at its disposal to have our own contracts on this deal." Fernandez even took a swipe at banker Jorge Brito, the Argentine financier who is supposedly trying to broker a deal between NML and other banks. "I am like a statue," Fernandez said. "A few people who have shown up in the last few days seem generous. To be Saint Martin, though, you do not need to be on the newspaper as the savior of the fatherland. More than anything, people like the guts and honesty to call things what they really are, to not lie to people." Griesa called a meeting with Argentina's lawyers for Friday afternoon. How productive do you think it'll be? FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBritish 55th (West Lancashire) Division troops blinded by tear gas await treatment at an Advanced Dressing Station near Bethune during the Battle of Estaires, 10 April 1918, part of the German offensive in Flanders.This week marks the hundredth anniversary of the beginning of World War I. On June 28, 1914, Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo. This event led to a month of failed diplomatic maneuvering between Austria-Hungary, Germany, France, Russia, and Britain which ended with the onset of the Great War, as it was originally called. Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia on July 28, causing Germany and Russia to mobilize their armies on July 30. When Russia offered to negotiate rather than demobilize their army, Germany declared war on Russia on August 1. Germany declared war on France on August 3, and when Germany attacked Belgium on August 4, England declared war on Germany.  Europe was at war, and millions would die in the battles that followed. The impact on global stock markets was immediate: the closure of every major European exchange and many of the exchanges outside of Europe. Although no one would have predicted this result at the beginning of July 1914, by the end of the month, European stock exchanges were making preparations for the inevitable war and its impact. Never before had all of Europe’s major exchanges closed simultaneously, but then again, never had such a global cataclysm struck the world.  There had been crises before when the stock market in the United States or other countries had closed, such as the 1848 Revolution in France, or the Panic of 1873 in New York, but never had all the world’s major stock markets closed simultaneously. Ironically, it was because of the openness of global financial markets before the war that the global closure of stock markets occurred.  At the beginning of 1914, capital was free to flow from one country to another without hindrance.  All the major countries of the world were on the Gold Standard, and differences in exchange rates were arbitraged through the buying and selling of international bonds listed on the world’s stock exchanges.  A country such as Russia would issue a bond that was listed on the stock exchanges in London, New York, Paris, Berlin, Amsterdam and St. Petersburg.  Differences in exchange rates between countries could be arbitraged by buying and selling bonds in different markets. In effect, this made European stock exchanges a single, integrated market. In 1914, currency flowed between countries with lightning speed.  During the Napoleonic wars, money could only move as quickly as a ship could venture from one country to another.  By 1914, cables stretched across the oceans of the world, and money as well as stock orders could be wired telegraphically from one corner of the world to another in minutes. Traders throughout the world could sell bonds and shares instantly, and it was the fear of massive selling, and the impact this would have on global markets that led to the shutdown of European exchanges.  There was a concern that investors would try to repatriate their money leading to massive selling, a sharp fall in prices, and large amounts of capital flowing out of one country and into another. The impact of selling on brokers and jobbers was exacerbated by the way shares were traded on the London Stock Exchange.  Individual trades were made on a daily basis, then carried until Settlement Day when trades were matched and crossed.  Brokers would make up the surplus or deficit on their accounts by settling outstanding trades with cash.  As long as there were no significant swings in stock or bond prices, brokers had sufficient capital to settle their accounts.  However, since traders relied on credit, large swings in prices could and would bankrupt many of the brokers, worsening the financial panic. To avoid this problem, stock markets were closed until a solution could be found. Of course, to investors not being able to buy or sell shares is even worse than selling them at a loss.  Although stocks could not be traded on the main exchanges, over-the-counter markets replaced exchanges for those who were desperate enough to sell.  Although the NYSE was closed between July 30 and December 12 of 1914, stocks were quoted by brokers and traded off the exchange.  Global Financial Data has gone back and collected stock prices during the closure of the NYSE to recreate the Dow Jones Industrial Average while the NYSE was closed.  We collected the data for the 20 stocks in the new DJIA 20 Industrials and calculated the average of the bid and ask prices from August 24, 1914 to December 12, 1914.  This enabled us to discover that the 1914 bottom for stocks actually occurred on November 2, 1914 when the DJIA hit 49.07, over a month before the NYSE reopened.  Few people realize that stocks in the US had already bottomed out and were heading into a new bull market when the NYSE reopened on December 12, 1914. The DJIA did not revisit this level until the Great Depression in 1932.  The graph below shows how the Dow Jones Industrial Average behaved during 1914, including the period of the NYSE’s closure.  Although the market declined with the onset of war, investors eventually realized that war in Europe would bring opportunities to American companies to sell industrial goods and war materiel. Once this fact settled in, the stock market rose steadily for the next year. Finaeon Inc The NYSE reopened trading for bonds under restrictions on November 28th; the San Francisco Stock and Bond Exchange reopened on December 1st; and the NYSE resumed trading at pegged prices on December 12th, though the prospect of war profits soon made these restrictions irrelevant.  As the graph below shows, the Dow Jones Industrial Average almost doubled in price in the year following its bottom in November 1914. The market paused, then had another rally into 1916 before falling back once investors realized the strong profits they had predicted from the war would not be realized. Fineaon Inc In Europe, the problem of preventing catastrophic declines in stock prices was solved by putting a floor on share prices.  Initially, stocks and bonds were not allowed to trade below the price they had been trading at on July 31, 1914.  The government also placed restrictions on capital, limiting or preventing large flows of capital out of the country for the remainder of the war. With these restrictions in place, markets reopened in Europe.  The London Times began printing stock prices for London and Bordeaux on September 19th and for Paris on December 8, 1914.  In January 1915, all shares were allowed to trade on the London Stock Exchange, though with price restrictions.  The St. Petersburg exchange reopened in 1917 only to close two months later due to the Russian Revolution. The Berlin Stock Exchange did not reopen until December 1917. Unlike the United States, stocks on the London Stock Exchange declined in price during World War I.  This was due not only to the decline in earnings that occurred and general selling of shares to raise capital, but just as importantly, because of the lack of new buying and the shift of capital to government war debt. British companies were allowed to issue new shares only if the issue was in the national interest, and foreign governments and companies were not allowed to issue any new shares. The British government wanted to insure that all available capital was used to fund the growing war debt. Most of the new bonds that listed on the London Stock Exchange were British government bonds and their share of the London Stock Exchange’s capitalization rose from 9% to 33% during the war. The performance of the London Stock Exchange between 1913 and 1919 is shown below. As can be seen, stocks lost value continually during the war, hitting their bottom only in 1918, despite the general inflation that occurred in Britain during the war, which normally would have carried prices upwards. Finaeon Inc World War I destroyed the global integration of capital markets.  The Gold Standard never returned despite attempts after the war to revive it.  The system of issuing bonds and shares internationally failed to recover from the war, and stock exchanges listed fewer international shares. The ownership of stocks and bonds from other countries shrank dramatically.  Exchanges were subjected to extensive regulation that did not exist prior to the war. Germans were not even allowed to trade on the London Stock Exchange for years after the war was over.  London lost its place as the center of global finance during the war as its role as the center of global finance was passed on to New York.  Nevertheless, New York was never able to take on the pivotal role in capital markets that London held prior to World War I. After the war was over, financial markets had to deal with the dislocations created by the war: inflation, increased government debt, reparation payments, the Russian Revolution, the creation of new countries, England’s failed attempt to return to the Gold Standard, the stock market crash of 1929, the Great Depression, debt defaults, competitive devaluations, the concentration of gold in France and the United States and a hundred other financial repercussions that resulted from World War I. Governments and stock exchanges did learn their lessons from World War I.  When World War II began, the London Stock Exchange closed for only a week, and the New York Stock Exchange never closed during World War II, save for August 15th-16th, 1945 when the NYSE closed to recognize V-J Day and the end of WWII.  The Berlin Stock Exchange remained open during World War II, though price floors and capital restrictions kept the prices of shares from falling until the devaluation of 1948. Although global stock markets reopened between 1914 and 1917, it wasn’t until the 1980s that the restrictions on financial markets that prevented the free flow of capital that had existed before 1914 were removed. Only after the fall of Communism did stock markets become as globally integrated as they had been before 1914. Though the focus of the hundredth anniversary of World War I will be on the massive destruction of World War I, the deaths of millions, and how World War I laid the foundations for World War II, the impact on stock markets and international finance should never be forgotten. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith Tesla shares were up 2% Friday morning after the electric car manufacturer reported adjusted earnings and revenue ahead of expectations. It was only the 17th quarterly filing in the company's history. But in the past two years, the firm has seen some remarkable milestones: It's now sold tens of thousands of cars, employs nearly 6,000 people around the world, and has plans to double the world's supply of lithium-ion batteries. Meanwhile, shares have climbed over 1,000% since its IPO. The company hasn't always looked this good. It nearly collapsed during the financial crisis and had to settle with one of its cofounders. A negative review from The New York Times last year prompted CEO Elon Musk to take to Twitter and appear on CNBC and Bloomberg TV to criticize the review. Its stock was battered at the time.  Here, we take a look at the company's origins, the drama among its founders, its near collapse, and the development of its Roadster, Model S, and Model X cars. FREE AppDownload
The Wall Street hiring process, traditionally geared toward connections, elitism, and inherent biases, is far from perfect. For Alexey Loganchuk, a former trader at J.P. Morgan, the biggest problem was the way the financial industry looked at merit. He felt it didn't. So after working at J.P. Morgan for five years, Loganchuk founded Upgrade Capital to provide opportunities to students who have no way of proving their financial capabilities when applying for jobs. Upgrade Capital finds talented young investors, and showcases their ideas and investing skills to financial firms, regardless of university, GPA, or resume. The idea for Upgrade Capital started when Loganchuk realized that the financial industry was fundamentally flawed in the way they hired and promoted employees.  "The single best trader I met while I was at J.P. Morgan was fired with no severance ... and one of the worst traders I met was kept around through the entire financial crisis, and was actually given a series of promotions and wound up joining a different bank with higher pay," Loganchuk said. "That was one instance where I saw merit wasn't really recognized on the sell side." He began to trace the lost value of meritocracy back to the nation's top universities, where he found that students had very few methods of sharing their achievements in finance with employers.  "For these students, they have the brand that comes with going to these universities, so they are by no means lost, they are by no means doomed to obscurity," Loganchuk said. "But outside of these core schools, if there's somebody at University of Missouri who is as good as the best investor at Harvard, there's no way in heck they would get quite the opportunities a Harvard student would get. And to me, this is a massive source of inefficiency."  But these problems are too deeply entrenched to be changed from within, he said. So Loganchuk decided to build a brand new organization to create change from outside, and to prove that this approach could work. In 2011, he left J.P. Morgan and founded Upgrade Capital. Upgrade Capital started with six top universities, then expanded to incorporate more "non-target" schools. Since 2011, Upgrade Capital has grown to include 24 different schools, including Texas A&amp;M, University of Missouri, Georgia Tech, and more. Students from these schools participate in initiatives and competitions such as the Fortress Global Macro University Challenge, the Ben Graham Fellowship, and Quant Teams program. Upgrade Capital also helps connect students with valuable ideas to portfolio managers and partnered funds. After being bootstrapped for two years, the organization is now receiving funding from hedge funds who are interested in its mission, but declined to specify any names. Most recently, Upgrade Capital held its annual student leaders conference in New York City. The summit gives students the opportunity to discuss best practices, strategies, diversity, and other issues facing young aspiring investors. We talked to a couple students involved in Upgrade Capital, who all asked to remain anonymous to preserve careers or relationships. One student at the conference said the organization allowed her to practice trading and refine her investments. Having locked down an internship this summer, she said her outlook on the job market is fairly positive. "I'm definitely not 100 percent sure if there's room or going to work out, but so far it's been pretty comfortable," she said. "I know it's not great, but it's definitely picking up. Our firm talks about hiring more interns and analysts than in previous years. And that's kind of a trend I've seen across most of the companies I was speaking with." Another conference attendee said she's seen discrepancies in hiring decisions and talent, mainly with applicants who aren't in the top one percent of performers. "I think that there are levels to this. If you're talented to a certain degree, I think that the barriers kind of all disappear," she said. "But if you're right below that, I think there's definitely something to be said about someone that knew someone at a firm and was able to get a job ... In those situations I think that favoritism does comes into play." She said the way financial firms weigh resumes and personality can also be detrimental to qualified applicants. "Sometimes I feel like half of these firms are just throwing away resumes. I look at who they gave interviews to, to firms that I didn't apply, and I'm shocked at how they missed out on a candidate that I know applied, whose resume I've seen, and I'm like, 'He must be four or five times more talented than some of these they did give an interview to,'" she said. A recent Columbia graduate and Ben Graham Fellowship winner said he had a hard time going through coffee chats, cold calls, and cold emails, to find what firms were genuinely interested in hiring. "Frankly, a lot of hedge funds I feel are not the most honest when it comes to recruiting among the student rank," he said. "For example, I definitely know stories of lots of hedge funds who will post job postings or internship postings just to collect stock write-ups. And they never say it out loud, but ... they're really just trying to get lots of free work." The newly employed analyst said he agrees that financial firms are often hard to break into on merit alone. He said although some hedge funds say they are looking for the smartest students, looking back, it really came down to the little things like networking. "I've seen trading and more long-term investing, and I think what's funny is that in both areas, I hear people talk about merit all day, and then I see the hiring process can be very subjective, in my opinion," he said. He said although it's hard to compete with well-connected applicants, he's feeling better now that he's actually working in the industry. "Once you get there, I'd say a lot of it is based on merit," he said. "So what makes me feel good is that, 'Okay I got my foot in the door. Now for the next three years, it's up to me to make good stock picks. It's up to me to do good work. Because from here on out, I will have a clear way of showing my value.'" "But it was a hustle, you know, before that," he said. FREE AppDownload
Markit Economics said Friday that its measure of job creation in the U.S. manufacturing sector found a 13-month low. Its broader reading for the sector came in at 55.8, short of expectations for 56.5 and behind a prior reading month's of 56.3.  “Companies have become increasingly cautious about taking on new staff given growing uncertainties, such as the escalating situations in Russia and Gaza," Markit chief economist Chris Williamson said. “With overseas worries likely to hit demand in key export markets, and exports having already stagnated in the past two months, overseas trade looks likely to continue to act as a drag on the US economy.“ Meanwhile, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing survey came in at 57.1, topping the consensus for 56.0, and the June reading of 55.3. The prices paid survey hit 59.5, ahead of the forecasted 58.0 and June's 58.0 figure.      Here's Markit's table: Markit FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve just got some more wiggle room. The July jobs report showed U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July, less than the 230,000 that was expected by economists, as the unemployment rate edged up to 6.2% from 6.1%.  But wage growth was also flat month over month and came in below expectations on a year over year basis, data that is a little inconsistent with employment cost index (ECI) data reported yesterday which showed employment costs grew 0.7% in the second quarter. Many traders attributed yesterday's market sell-off to this report, which some believe suggested that inflation was running quicker than the Fed's current forecast, potentially forcing the central bank to raise interest rates before the market expects. But the Fed appears to still be cautious on the health of the labor market, saying in its policy statement on Wednesday that, "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources."  And following the jobs report, Eric Green at TD Securities said, "If strong ECI compensation data was thought to bring the Fed closer toward raising rates the data today does not... It doesn't change the trend toward a less dovish Fed, it simply does not accelerate that process." Concurrent with the jobs report, the latest personal spending report also showed that inflation remains tepid. This report showed that "core" personal consumption expenditures in June, the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, gained 1.5% over the prior year and 0.1% over the prior month, showing inflation still running below the Fed's 2% target.  On Wednesday, the initial estimate for second quarter GDP showed the economy grew at a 4% annualized pace in Q2, leading some to suspect that economic growth might force the Fed to change its stance on monetary policy.  The same day, the Fed's latest monetary policy decision showed the Fed maintaining the current pace of tapering its quantitative easing program while keeping interest rates near 0%.  In a note following today's jobs report, Russ Certo at Brean Capital said, "As far as I can tell, this report confirms that the Fed had it ahead of their statement." In short, Certo speculates that the Fed knew the jobs report would show the economy continuing to improve at what the Fed calls a "moderate pace," but not improve so quickly that it would force the Fed to change its policy stance. The Fed has said it expects to conclude its quantitative easing program in October, and is expected to keep interest rates low for some time after that. Recent discussion surrounding Fed policy has continually asked if the Fed is "behind the curve," or keeping interest rates below where the economy indicates they ought to be.  Friday's jobs report was slightly worse than expected, but overall still solid and marks the sixth straight month of monthly job gains over 200,000, the longest such streak since 1997. But with wage growth tepid, and the economy appearing to grow in-line with the Fed's expectations, it seems that at least for now Janet Yellen's hand will not be forced. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneMichigan fans cheer before the start of the NCAA football game between the University of Alabama and the University of Michigan at the Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas September 1, 2012. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index slipped to  to 81.8 in July from 82.5 in June. This reading, however, was actually right in line with expectations. According to the survey, consumers' assessment of the current situation improved with the conditions sub-index jumping to 97.4 in July from 96.6 in June. However, the outlook deteriorated with the outlook sub-index falling to 71.8 in July from 73.5 in June. "Overall, today’s report shows consumer sentiment in the same narrow range where it has remained so far this year, but well below readings seen during the housing bubble," said Barclays' Dean Maki. "Thus, it remains consistent with continued moderate growth in consumer spending." Earlier today, we learned that the U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July. While this was below the 230,000 expected by economists, it also reflected the sixth straight month of 200,000+ jobs created. The last time this happened was in 1997. FREE AppDownload
Tesla shares were up as much as 4% in early Friday trading after reporting adjusted earnings and revenue that beat expectations Wednesday afternoon.  The big news was that they now envision delivering 100,000 vehicles next year. This year their goal is 35,000, and last year they delivered only 22,000. So this is a huge leap. But in a note Barclays says it's feasible: While guiding to a below-consensus 3Q ’14 on deliveries and earnings, Tesla gave bullish guidance for 2014 and 2015 that should support the shares — guiding to a 4Q delivery rate of over 13,000 units and an exit rate of 100k units in 2015. The guidance provides us some insight into Tesla’s expectations for a quite steep delivery ramp-up over the coming years and into the Model 3 era. Tesla reported non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.11 against a consensus estimate of $0.04. Revenue hit $858 million versus consensus $811 million. Shares were trading at $232. FREE AppDownload
Two trillion dollar fund PIMCO is getting its swagger back, but its not because of superstar founder Bill Gross. As Mary Childs and Charles Stein over at Bloomberg report, PIMCO has some rising stars that are outshining their CEO. From Bloomberg: Nine of Pimco’s 15 largest mutual funds are beating at least 75 percent of peers so far this year, according to data compiled by Chicago-based research company Morningstar Inc. None of those top performers are managed by Chief Investment Officer Gross. Of the four funds trailing more than half their rivals, three including the Pimco Total Return Fund are run by the 70-year-old investor known as the bond king. Gross has been undermined this year by bets on shorter-term debt, trailing 89 percent of his peers in July, as rising managers including Daniel Ivascyn, Mihir Worah and Mark Kiesel have outperformed. The firm really wants to convey that there are fresh ideas at PIMCO. Performance has been lagging, and in 2013, investors redeemed a total of $41.1 billion from the fund. Those problems took center stage in March when Gross' right-hand, Mohamed El-Erian, abruptly left the firm. Suddenly, everyone was talking about what was wrong with PIMCO, and one reason that was repeated up and down the Street was that Gross was a "cowboy" who saw his fund as a one-man show. After that, things got weird. Like when he spoke at Morningstar's annual investor conference in Chicago in June and approached the stage to a bad cover of 'Smooth' by Carlos Santana and Rob Thomas wearing sunglasses.  We're hoping this success will give Gross some time to relax. For the full rundown on PIMCO's performance, head to Bloomberg&gt; FREE AppDownload
Youtube/Edmunds.comEdmunds.com automotive editor, James Riswick drives the Tesla Model SAutomotive website Edmunds.com released the results of its 17-month test of the Tesla Model S, and while reviewers commended many aspects of the all-electric sedan, they also noted some problems. The Edmunds' Model S experienced a total of 28 repairs. While some were minor, others were more serious. Several involved the car's drive system, which during the test period was replaced three times: twice because of "suspicious noises" and once when the car died on the side of the road.  The car also had to have its main battery pack and its 12-volt battery replaced. And according to Edmunds, the Model S experienced numerous failures of its revolutionary 17-inch touchscreen display. Edmunds noted that the main screen had to be replaced, and the infotainment system had to be manually rebooted after freezing on nine occasions.  Other repairs — including a tire alignment, a cracked vanity mirror, and a broken door handle — were less serious. Edmunds acknowledged that their 2013 Model S, purchased for $103,770, was an early production model that hadn't had all the kinks worked out. Tesla fixed multiple faults at the same time, so over the 30,000 miles the Model S was driven, it made nine total trips to the service center, two of them for overnight stays.  In a statement to Business Insider, Tesla said: We err on the side of being proactive to ensure the best driving experience possible. That means we are particularly attentive in addressing potential issues, even if those issues appear to be very minor or have a low likelihood of causing any future problems. During Tesla's second-quarter earnings call on Thursday, CEO Elon Musk said that the Tesla service team was being "ultra-proactive" to "make Edmunds happy." He also stressed that Model S vehicles built "during the past year" shouldn't experience the same number of problems. Edmunds was generally very complimentary of Model S's performance and technology. In many respects, the car lived up to its billing, receiving praise for its superior battery range, speedy acceleration, and easy-to-use driver interface.  Ultimately, however, Edmunds decided that the Model S was "hard to recommend." Read Edmunds' full report here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesJob growth has hit more than 200,000 each month for the past six months, the first time that mark has been reached since 1997. The U.S. added 209,000 jobs in July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said Friday, and the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.2%. Meanwhile, last month's report was revised up to 298,000 from 288,000, and May was revised up to 229,000 from 224,000. "Quite a milestone today in terms of the number of nonfarm payroll jobs the economy is creating. Six months in a row of big 200K or more monthly numbers. The labor market is strong," said Chris Rupkey, the chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. Here are the last six months of job gains, according to the latest BLS revisions: • July: 209,000 • June: 298,000 • May: 229,000 • April: 304,000 • March: 203,000 • February: 222,000 Overall, analysts viewed the report as a good-but-not-great report. Economists had been expecting job growth of about 230,000, with unemployment projected to remain steady at 6.1%.  But the report confirmed another steady month of growth. Stocks are up, a day after huge losses wiped out all of the year's gains.  The labor force participation rate in July increased to 62.9% from 62.8%, where it had been for the last three months. The average hours worked in July held steady at 34.5 hours per week, and average hourly earnings increased 2% year-over-year. Last month, the U.S. also set a new record for consecutive months of private-sector job growth, a streak that continued in July. "Net net, this is a solid report that shows the economy is moving forward at a fast enough rate to put people back to work," Rupkey said. "This is not an economy still in the wake of financial crisis and recession. Six months in a row all 200K and above — the economy did not show that sort of consistency even during the housing bubble economy years 2004, 2005, and 2006." Here's a chart from the St. Louis Federal Reserve illustrating the recent spike in job growth: St. Louis Federal Reserve   FREE AppDownload
The iPhone is a versatile tool that makes it easy to manage your email on the go. What's more, the device comes with several little-known features that can make this task even easier. Here are some tricks you can use to improve your experience with iPhone Mail. Produced by Ryan Larkin. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Claire P./flickrWe just learned the unemployment rate climbed for the first time in six months, to 6.2%.   This was ostensibly for the "right reasons": More people are joining the labor force, on the assumption that eventually they'll be able to find work.  But the unemployment rate fell for one group, for bad reasons: People with bachelor's degrees. For this cohort, the unemployment rate fell to 3.1% from 3.3%. The labor force participation rate fell back to 74.7%, the lowest level since March; it was 75.2% in June. The employment to population ratio for Americans with bachelor's degrees fell to 72.4%, below its 72.6% level last July. And the overall civilian labor force for those with bachelor's fell by 28,000.  For everyone else — those who have or have not completed high school, along with folks with some college — either their total civilian labor force climbed, or their participation rate climbed. Here's the table: BLS The preponderance of evidence continues to suggest that completing your bachelor's degree is worth the investment over time. But for now, at least, it doesn't seem to be an absolute guarantee of success in the jobs market.  FREE AppDownload
FinVizFutures just jumped after what appears to be a pretty disappointing jobs report. Currently, Dow futures are down by around 16 points after being down by over 100 points earlier today. U.S. companies added just 209,000 nonfarm payrolls in July, which was less than the 230,000 expected by economists. The unemployment rate ticked up to 6.2% from 6.1%. The Dow plunged 317 points on Thursday. Believe it or not, the Dow is now down 0.08% since the beginning of the year. (The S&amp;P 500, a much broader measure of stocks, is up 4.4% during that period.) And there appears to be no shortage of worries out there to exacerbate the selling. "Disturbing geopolitical events are now added to a list of fundamental investor concerns (QE tapering, a chronic shortage of sensible investment opportunities, weak inflation, lackluster profit growth, etc.) that in our view were largely being ignored by investors desperate for yield," Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne said in a note to clients today. "However this investor complacency encouraged and supported by low asset volatility, buoyant equity prices and extremely low bond yields is increasingly being tested." Amid Thursday's selling, traders focused in on the second-quarter employment cost index report, which signaled that wages were rising much faster than expected. This is a big deal, because it's both a sign of inflation and labor-market tightness, two forces that put pressure on the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy sooner rather than later. The prospect that the Fed could tighten monetary policy sooner than expected is frequently blamed for causing market volatility. The idea is that if the Fed tightens, then it pulls liquidity out of the credit markets, which indirectly would pull liquidity out of the stock markets. Today's "disappointing" jobs report arguably gives the Fed a little more flexibility to keep policy easy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstWe're so loose, Wall Street doesn't even know that we're tightening!I have been increasingly vocal about my concerns about the stock market. These concerns boil down to three: Whenever I mention these things, some observers suggest that I can rest easy, because the Fed is not tightening yet. For these folks, I have just one question: What Fed are you watching? As I see it, the Fed has been "tightening" for 9 months now, since it began to "taper" its monthly bond purchases last December. Prior to that move, for more than a year, the Fed had been on hold—doing the same thing every month, neither loosening nor tightening. And prior to that, for years, the Fed had been easing. So to my mind, anyway, the Fed has been tightening for going on a year now.  The folks who are now worrying the Fed will someday begin to tighten are focused on the Fed Funds rate, because that's the usual tool that the Fed uses to ease or tighten monetary policy. What these folks are missing, I think, is that Fed policy has been so extraordinarily loose over the past 5 years that the Fed long since moved beyond using the Fed Funds rate as its primary tool. In other words, many years ago, the Fed pushed its usual Fed Funds accelerator all the way to the floor. The car (the economy) was still sputtering, so the Fed then took the extraordinary step of firing up a special turbocharger (bond buying) to loosen even further. And now, after a period in which both the accelerator and the turbocharger were running flat out, the Fed is powering down the turbocharger. Then, soon, it will begin lifting its foot off the regular old accelerator. To argue that "tapering" is not "tightening" is to suggest that the Fed wasn't easing when it started its extraordinary bond purchases in the first place. And that seems loopy. So, beware, all you folks who are worrying that the Fed will someday begin tightening! The Fed has been tightening for 9 months! For the last five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping more and more money into Wall Street, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed is starting to "take away the punch bowl," as Wall Street is fond of saying. Specifically, the Fed is beginning to reduce the amount of money that it is pumping into Wall Street. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. But, in the past, it has been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices. Not immediately. And not always. But often. Let's go to the history ... Here's a look at the last 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping). The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. But just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, let's zoom in. In many of these periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening now will likely lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. SEE ALSO: Don't Delude Yourself — Stocks Could Easily Drop 50% FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyShopping carts sit at a Container Store outlet in New York November 1, 2013.Personal spending climbed 0.4% in July, up from a revised 0.3% in June and in-line with forecasts. Personal income also gained 0.4%, unchanged from June and in-line with forecasts. Core personal consumption expenditures gained 1.5% in June, a tick ahead of estimates for 1.4%, and 0.1% month-over-month, down from the 0.2% rate in June. PCE prices climbed 1.6% year-over-year in July, down from a revised 1.7% rate in June; and 0.2% month-over-month, down from the 0.3% rate in June. "The acceleration in US income growth in June suggests that in the second half of the year annualised consumption growth will rise from the average of 2.3% of the past two years to close to 3%," Capital Economics said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate rose to 6.2%. This is according to latest employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Expectations were for nonfarm payrolls to grow 230,000 and the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 6.1%. This also marks the sixth straight month of U.S. job gains larger than 200,000, the longest such streak since 1997. This report comes after we got better than expected GDP data on Wednesday that showed the economy grew at a 4% annualized rate in the second quarter. The Federal Reserve also announced its latest monetary policy decision on Wednesday, keeping interest rates near 0% and further reducing its quantitative easing program. Some had suspected that stronger economic data would force the Fed to change its policy stance, but after today's jobs report, which also showed tepid wage growth, it appears that for at least another month the Fed will not be further pressured to change its policy. In July, the average hours worked remained at 34.5 hours per week, and average hourly earnings increasing 0% over month and 2% over last year. Economists were expecting wages to increase 0.2% over last month and 2.2% over last year.   The labor force participation rate also ticked up to 62.9% from 62.8%, where it had been for the last three months. The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons, also known as involuntary part-time workers, remained unchanged at 7.5 million. The report also contained revisions to both May and June's reports. Last month's report was revised up to 298,000 from 288,000, while May was also revised higher, to 229,000 from 224,000. BI's Rob Wile also noted that for workers with bachelor's degrees, the unemployment actually fell, dropping to 3.1% from 3.3%. This table from the BLS gives a breakdown of jobs added by sector. BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David W CernyOn Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee released its latest policy statement, saying, as expected, that it would reduce its monthly bond purchases to $25 billion.  But as the New York Times' Binyamin Appelbaum pointed out, it seemed to shrug off recent signs of an improving economy, giving little indication that it would alter current near-zero short-term interest rates before 2015. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser was the lone dissenter to the statement. Now we know why.  In a statement released Friday, Plosser said the Fed needed to reevaluate its current policy path given the stronger data, and was leaving itself with too-little room to maneuver. The economy has improved significantly this year, and inflation and unemployment have moved much closer to the FOMC's longer-term goals. However, neither the pace of the reduction in asset purchases nor its end date has been modified, nor has the time-dependent language associated with the projected liftoff of the federal funds rate been adjusted.  Thus, I cast a dissenting vote because I opposed retaining the statement language that reads "…it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends."  I viewed such language as an inappropriate characterization of the future path of policy and so may limit the Committee's flexibility going forward. Current interest rates do not reflect how many investors have positioned themselves, echoing the notion from some market commentators that the Fed is "behind the curve."  With the economy having already reached my year-end 2014 forecast for inflation and unemployment, and appearing to be well on its way toward achieving my 2015 forecasts approximately a year ahead of schedule, the funds rate setting remains well behind what I consider to be appropriate given our goals. Click here to read Plosser's full statement » FREE AppDownload
SEC/flickrNEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission watchdog conducted an extensive, months-long investigation to find out who had leaked information that appeared in two Reuters stories published last autumn, but it was unable to identify the sources, according to a report of the probe seen by Reuters on Thursday. The SEC's Office of Inspector General (OIG) started the investigation after Reuters published information about the regulator's decision, taken in a closed-door meeting on September 12, 2013, to settle its probe into JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co’s massive London Whale trading loss. The investigation started after Reuters reported on Sept. 17, 2013 that the regulator had approved its portion of a $700 million civil settlement with JPMorgan in a split vote. The story also said that two of the five commissioners had recused themselves from the decision. The SEC made its decision public on Sept. 19, 2013. About a week later, Reuters reported further non-public details about why one of the commissioners, Michael Piwowar, had voted against the settlement. In its report, dated March 5, the watchdog said it interviewed as many as 53 SEC employees, including Chair Mary Jo White, SEC commissioners and other top officials, during the investigation. An OIG official said its inspectors don’t consider issues of press freedom when carrying out their investigations, and that the probe was launched at White's request. "Our office doesn't really differentiate where the information went," said Raphael Kozolchyk, the watchdog’s legislative and public affairs counsel. The SEC declined to comment on the OIG's probe and report. CNBC earlier reported on its contents.  Piwowar raised concerns about the leaked information with White, according to the OIG report. White and Piwowar could not immediately be reached for comment. Reuters Editor-in-Chief Stephen Adler said: "It's the job of journalists to report vigorously on the workings of government, and to provide readers with news that some may prefer to keep secret. It is in that spirit that Reuters covers the SEC and other agencies of the U.S. government, and we plan to continue to do so while protecting the confidentiality of our sources." The investigation is the latest example of the Obama administration's aggressive moves to try to plug leaks of non-public information to the media. Last year, the Justice Department was criticized for examining reporter emails and phone records without first notifying the press outlets. Attorney General Eric Holder later met with news media executives and agreed to revise policies for dealing with the press in national security cases. Besides the interviews with SEC staff, the OIG reviewed email records of 39 employees, obtained the attendance roster for the closed-door meeting and manually reviewed employees’ telephone records. It also obtained building access logs for September and October to find out when four Reuters reporters had visited the agency's headquarters. The OIG sought to interview the reporters involved in the two stories, but they declined its request. Kozolchyk said the OIG does not disclose the costs of individual investigations, but that the watchdog did not hire any extra staff or outside investigators for the probe. One advocate for government transparency and press freedom said officials should be allowed to guard some secrets, such as those regarding national security and sensitive information about publicly traded companies. That includes the details of secret meetings by SEC commissioners, said Michael Smallberg, an investigator for the Project On Government Oversight, a watchdog group. "I don't see anything egregiously wrong with this investigation," he said. However, a report last year by the Committee to Protect Journalists, a New-York based advocacy group for journalists, criticized the Obama administration for prosecuting media leaks, excessive use of classified documents and increased government surveillance of reporters and their sources.(Reporting by Paritosh Bansal in New York and Jason Lange in Washington; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mel EvansCorrections Corporation of America (CCA) detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., that the private prison contractor runs for the government.NEW YORK (Reuters) - For a handful of U.S. companies that have exclusive or longstanding contracts with federal agencies dealing with illegal immigrants, the recent wave of children crossing the southern border with Mexico is a business opportunity. Private prison companies Geo Group and competitor Corrections Corporation of America, for example, stand to gain if Congress approves any emergency funding for family detention facilities. The two companies have thousands of unoccupied beds in their prisons and jails that potentially could be modified to house immigrant families. In the past six years, Geo Group was awarded nearly $880 million from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), according to government contracting data compiled by SmartProcure.us. In July, ICE, the agency responsible for immigration detention, modified its contract with Geo Group to convert the company's adult detention center in Karnes County, Texas to house families. The biggest potential windfall would come if Congress approves a White House request for $3.7 billion in emergency spending to address the crisis. But such a large package seems unlikely to make it through a deeply divided Congress and a resolution looks difficult before lawmakers' leave for their summer recess. The Obama administration has been scrambling to house tens of thousands of children mostly from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala who have flooded into the United States in recent months, hoping to escape gang violence, poverty and domestic abuse. Some are traveling with their families and others are crossing the border alone. An ICE spokesman declined to break out the cost of the Karnes facility. Geo Group declined to comment and CCA did not respond to requests for comment.  The Geo Group could also benefit if lawmakers opt for programs that promote alternatives to detention like electronic monitoring systems used to track immigrants awaiting deportation. The company's Colorado subsidiary Bi Incorporated is ICE's sole provider of ankle bracelets for immigrants who have been caught for violating immigration laws but released while their cases are being processed. Bi has earned more than $211 million from ICE since 2008 by providing GPS tracking devices and case managers for the immigrants, according to the same government contracting data. A Senate bill proposed by Republicans John McCain and Jeff Flake would mandate the monitors for juveniles 15 to 18 years old while their immigration hearings are pending. ICE does not currently use ankle bracelets for juveniles, the agency said. The bill does not specify a supplier. ICE uses the New Mexico-based CSI Aviation to provide charter flights for deportations. The company has won more than $657 million in contracts from ICE since 2008, SmartProcure data shows. CSI referred all questions about its contracts to ICE. ICE said the company is the sole contractor for ICE Air, which conducts deportation flights. President Barack Obama has vowed to swiftly return the children and other illegal migrants from Central America to their home countries. That could mean an increase in the number of ICE charter flights in the coming months. The federal government has also been buying tickets on American Airlines for commercial flights to shuttle unaccompanied kids and immigrant families to detention facilities or shelters around the United States. American Airlines spokesman Matt Miller declined to say how much the government has spent on these flights or how many tickets they have purchased. He said American did not have formal contracts and that the tickets were being purchased on an as-needed basis. Contracts to provide services and emergency supplies for children arriving without their family members are handled mostly by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, which is legally responsible for kids that cross the border alone. The agency - tasked with sheltering unaccompanied children and then placing them quickly into homes of relatives or family friends - says it spends between $250 and $1,000 on each unaccompanied child per day. More than 57,000 have arrived since October, according to the U.S. Border Patrol, and the government estimates that number could rise to 90,000 by the end of September. HHS has turned to General Dynamics Information Technology, or GDIT, a unit of the defense contracting giant General Dynamics, to supply case-management services for kids being released from temporary shelters, a Reuters review of government contracts found. The job entails reviewing children's cases to identify if they have special needs and to ensure the kids are being transferred to safe homes. Since 2010, GDIT has won around $13 million in contracts to help the Office of Refugee Resettlement, part of HHS, coordinate the placement of unaccompanied minors, according to the contracting data. The company recently put out a flurry of online job advertisements seeking bilingual social workers to handle immigrant children's cases in Arizona, Texas, California, Florida, Georgia and New York. A GDIT spokesman said the company "offers expertise in various areas, including ... social work specializing in protective services and human rights." He declined to elaborate. Some government contracts have gone to businesses that provide emergency clothing and supplies for the youth shelters and for translation services used in asylum hearings and immigration courts. Lionsbridge Technologies, a translation company from Waltham, Massachusetts, has seen government need for its services "heighten over the past 60 to 90 days" as courts scramble to wade through the flood of immigration cases, said Eric Munz a vice president at Lionsbridge. The company provides over-the-phone and in-person interpreters, including for obscure indigenous languages spoken in small Mexican and Central American communities. And then there are companies like Products Unlimited, a small outfit in Justin, Texas that depends wholly on government work. The contracting data shows it was awarded about $40,000 worth of contracts so far this year to provide diapers and pull-ups for babies and toddlers at an immigrant processing center in Houston and a federally-run family detention center in Artesia, New Mexico. (Additional reporting by Fiona Ortiz in Chicago and Richard Cowan in Washington, editing by Amy Stevens and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozJorge, an immigrant from Mexico dressed as the Sesame Street character Elmo, in Times Square, New York on Tuesday. Good morning and welcome to August. Here's what you need to know. 1.  Jobs Day. The consensus among analysts is for nonfarm payrolls to hit 230,000. Nomura sees it coming in a bit higher, at 255,000. "With the six-month moving average of payroll growth already at 231k in June, the largest since early 2006, incoming data on the labor market in July suggest that conditions continued to improve. We forecast that government employment, which has increased in four of the past five months, will rise by 5k in July, due to the improving fiscal balances of state and local governments. As such, we estimate that private payrolls rose by a net new 250k." They also see a 0.1% decline in the unemployment rate to 6.0%. 2.  Tesla Delivers. The electric automaker reported adjusted earnings and revenue that topped forecasts, and it says it's still on track to deliver 35,000 vehicles in 2014, despite lowering its guidance for Q3 deliveries. The firm now predicts it will deliver 100,000 on an annualized basis in 2015. Barclays calls this a massive ramp-up but not unattainable: "While guiding to a below-consensus 3Q ’14 on deliveries and earnings, Tesla gave bullish guidance for 2014 and 2015 that should support the shares — guiding to a 4Q delivery rate of over 13,000 units and an exit rate of 100k units in 2015. The guidance provides us some insight into Tesla’s expectations for a quite steep delivery ramp-up over the coming years and into the Model 3 era." Adjusted EPS was $0.11 against $0.04 forecast. Revenue came in at $857.5 million, versus a consensus estimate for $813 million.  3.  Chinese Manufacturing Hits 18-Month High. HSBC China manufacturing PMI hit 51.7 in July, up from 50.7 in June. That missed expectations for a rise to 52 and was also lower than the flash reading of 52. But it's still pretty good — anything above 50 indicates expansion. "The economy is improving sequentially and registered across-the-board improvement compared to June,” Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China, said in a press release. 4.  Markets Tank. U.S. futures, along with stocks in Europe and Asia, were down across the board in advance of the jobs report. S&amp;P500 futures were off 0.7%. London's FTSE fell 1%; Frankfurt's DAX 2%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng declined 0.9%. Japan's Nikkei was off 0.6%. U.S. crude hit its lowest level since March, falling below $98. U.S. yields on the 10-year climbed two basis points. “Investors have been looking for an excuse to sell,” Angus Gluskie, who helps oversee more than $550 million at White Funds Management in Sydney, told Bloomberg. “We’ve got a range of convenient reasons for investors to take some money off the table. The geopolitical risks have been rising and data flow in the U.S. is suggesting that the Fed may have to raise interest rates sooner rather than later. The Argentine issue is another piece of adverse news flow.” 5.  Eric Cantor Is Resigning. After losing a primary last month, the House Majority Leader now says he will leave office early, on Aug. 18, and is requesting a special election to replace him. "The Virginia Republican told the Richmond Times-Dispatch that he had called on Gov. Terry McAuliffe to set up a special election for his 7th congressional district seat so that his replacement could begin immediately after the election and not when the 114th Congress starts in January," Politico reported.  6.  Earnings. Burger King, Chevron, Church &amp; Dwight, Clorox, and Procter &amp; Gamble all report before the bell. SociétéGenerale earlier reported year-over-year profits growth of 7.8%, but shares were down 2% in Friday trading as revenue from equities climbed by only 3%, and net banking income fell 4%, the FT noted. 7.  More Data.  8. Auto Sales. Global automakers will be announcing results throughout the day. Chrysler already reported U.S. sales climbed 20% in July. Japan domestic sales were slightly higher. 9.  Cease-Fire Breaks Down. A proposed three-day cease-fire that began Friday collapsed in a matter of hours as fighting between Israel and forces in Gaza resumed. It wasn't clear what triggered the break down.  10.  French Phone Company In T-Mobile Bid. Iliad has upset presumed negotiations between Sprint and T-Mobile by launching its own $15 billion cash bid for T-Mobile. From The Wall Street Journal: "Iliad appears to have seized an opening in Sprint and T-Mobile US's failure to announce a deal yet, saying its deal likely wouldn't encounter regulatory obstacles. Sprint has yet to disclose a formal offer for T-Mobile US. 'The U.S. mobile market is large and attractive,' Iliad said in confirming a report on its bid by The Wall Street Journal. 'T-Mobile US has successfully established a disruptive position, which in many ways, is similar to the one Iliad has built in France,' said Iliad, which is known for sparking a price war in the country's mobile-telephone market." FREE AppDownload
AP imagesNeverland, where Michael Jackson once lived in a fantasy world with Bubbles the chimpanzee, fairground rides and a candy shop, has been put up for sale. His family said they hoped any new owners would respect the property's unique history. AP imagesThe sprawling 2,800-acre ranch 130 miles north of Los Angeles, which has been deserted for years, is owned by a private investment firm which bought it in 2008 for $23.5 million when the King of Pop was heavily in debt. Thomas Barrack Jr of Colony Capital told Bloomberg: "We've really just been custodians of an irreplaceable estate and are proud to say we've restored it to the original elegance Michael first envisioned. We are now considering putting it up for sale." Mr Barrack said he wanted it to stay as "an enduring tribute to Michael Jackson". But the Jackson family expressed disappointment at the sale. AP images A spokesman for the singer's estate said: "We are saddened at the prospect of the sale of Neverland which, under the agreement negotiated during Michael's lifetime, Colony has the right to sell. The estate will maintain Michael's family home in Encino, including its iconic recording studio there. "We hope and trust that any new owners of Neverland will respect the historical importance and special nature of this wonderful property. Michael's memory lives on in the hearts of his fans worldwide." Jackson bought the ranch in 1988 bringing in elephants and exotic snakes, and a private railway. He moved out in 2005 after being acquitted of sexual molestation charges. Luxury property prices have been soaring recently in California and experts said Neverland could fetch up to $50 million. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate rose to 6.2%. This is according to latest employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Expectations were for nonfarm payrolls to grow 230,000 and the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 6.1%. This also marks the sixth straight month of U.S. job gains larger than 200,000, the longest such streak since 1997. This report comes after we got better than expected GDP data on Wednesday that showed the economy grew at a 4% annualized rate in the second quarter. The Federal Reserve also announced its latest monetary policy decision on Wednesday, keeping interest rates near 0% and further reducing its quantitative easing program. Some had suspected that stronger economic data would force the Fed to change its policy stance, but after today's jobs report, which also showed tepid wage growth, it appears that for at least another month the Fed will not be further pressured to change its policy. In July, the average hours worked remained at 34.5 hours per week, and average hourly earnings increasing 0% over month and 2% over last year. Economists were expecting wages to increase 0.2% over last month and 2.2% over last year.   The labor force participation rate also ticked up to 62.9% from 62.8%, where it had been for the last three months. The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons, also known as involuntary part-time workers, remained unchanged at 7.5 million. The report also contained revisions to both May and June's reports. Last month's report was revised up to 298,000 from 288,000, while May was also revised higher, to 229,000 from 224,000. BI's Rob Wile also noted that for workers with bachelor's degrees, the unemployment actually fell, dropping to 3.1% from 3.3%. This table from the BLS gives a breakdown of jobs added by sector. BLS FREE AppDownload
ReutersA visitor looks at portraits of Facebook's founder Mark Zuckerberg at solo exhibition "The Face of Facebook."VIENNA (Reuters) - Austrian law student Max Schrems appealed to a billion Facebook users around the world on Friday to join a class-action lawsuit against Facebook's alleged violations of its users' privacy. Schrems, a thorn in Facebook's side who has a case against the social network pending at the European Court of Justice, has filed a claim at Vienna's commercial court and invited others to join the action at www.fbclaim.com using their Facebook login. Under Austrian law, a group of people may transfer their financial claims to a single person - in this case, Schrems. Legal proceedings are then effectively run as a class action. Schrems is claiming damages of 500 euros ($670) per user for alleged data violations, including aiding the U.S. National Security Agency in running its Prism program, which mined the personal data of users of Facebook and other web services. He is also seeking injunctions under EU data-protection law at the court in data-privacy-friendly Austria. "Our aim is to make Facebook finally operate lawfully in the area of data protection," he said. Users from anywhere outside the United States and Canada may sign up to join the Austrian case, since Facebook runs all its international operations from fellow EU country Ireland. The case relies largely on the EU Data Protection Directive. A specialist financier will bear the legal costs if Schrems loses the case and will take 20 percent of the damages if he wins, meaning users can join the case at no financial risk. Facebook has come under fire before for allegedly violating data-protection laws. Most recently, Britain's data watchdog began investigation whether a 2012 experiment on unwitting users, in which it tried to alter their emotional state to see if their postings turned more positive or negative. The world's biggest social network, Facebook now has 1.32 billion users. It posted a 61 percent increase in sales in the second quarter thanks to mobile advertising, sending its shares to a record high and valuing the company at almost $200 billion. No one from Facebook was immediately available for comment. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve has a dual mandate it relies on to guide monetary policy: maximum employment and stable prices. Regarding employment, it has become less and less clear exactly how the Fed measures employment when it considers its policy goals. On Wednesday, we learned that the unemployment rate has become a less important measure to the Fed when it said, "Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." In other words, it's not just about unemployment rates and jobs created. The Fed cares about other measures like labor force participation rates, job openings, quit rates, etc. For some economists, it seems that Fed Chair Yellen and her colleagues may be ignoring important signs of job growth and inflation, which could put them behind the curve. ECI. Slok points to. "The FOMC may see a significant underutilization in the labor market but the reality is that momentum is stronger than in 2005-2006, see chart below," said Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok. "By referring to “a range of labor market indicators” It seems to me that the Fed can now cherry-pick its labor market indicators to remain dovish. This may be a bit risky given that the chart below suggests that one of the indicators they have looked at previously is the broader labor market momentum." As you can see, the Fed's interest rate target historically moves with job creation. That hasn't been happening in the current cycle. This could set us up for problems like surging inflation. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
MarkitEurope just unloaded a slew of manufacturing purchasing managers index (PMI) data. These are the numbers derived from surveys of businesses. Anything above 50 signals growth, and anything below signals contraction. "July saw the Eurozone Manufacturing PMI hold steady at June's seven-month low of 51.8, as the ongoing expansions in Germany and outside of the big-two economies were partly offset by a deeper downturn in French manufacturers." Here's a quick summary of what we learned in July: UK (55.4 in July, down from the flash estimate of 57.2): "The UK manufacturing sector started the third quarter on a firm footing," said Markit's Rob Dobson. "Although cooling in July, growth rates for production and new orders remain well above their long-run trends, supporting continued solid job creation in the sector." Eurozone (51.8 in July, down from 51.9): "Output and orders are growing at lacklustre rates compared to earlier in the year, meaning firms remain reluctant to take on more staff," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The weakness of demand in turn meant companies were generally unable to raise prices for their goods without fear of losing sales... The ECB will be eager to see the impact of the policy measures announced in June, though these are clearly going to take some time to filter through to the real economy." Germany (52.4 in July, down from 52.9): "Mixed signals about the health of Germany’s goods producing sector are sent by July’s manufacturing PMI results," said Markit's Oliver Kolodseike. "Although companies reported slightly sharper increases in production and new orders, there was little appetite to take on additional workers, signalling some uncertainty about future workloads and efforts to cut costs." France (47.8 in July, up from 52.6): "The French manufacturing sector sank further into contraction territory during July, posting its weakest performance since the turn of the year," said Markit's Jack Kennedy. "A deteriorating trend in new orders continued to weigh on the sector, with demand conditions reported to remain fragile. Associated competitive pressures maintained the squeeze on firms’ output prices, which fell further despite rising input costs." Italy (51.9 in July, down from 52.6): "The recovery in the manufacturing sector appears to have lost some steam as we head into the second half of the year," said Markit's Paul Smith. "Factory production levels rose again in July, but the pace of growth was well below that seen earlier in the year owing to signs of fragility in sales, particularly from the domestic market. Export orders remain a relative strong point, although even on this front growth has moderated." Spain (53.9 in July, down from 54.6): "Although growth of output and new orders eased from the sharp rates seen in June, the Spanish manufacturing sector’s recovery still progressed at a solid pace," said Markit's Andrew Harker. "Moreover, firms displayed a measure of confidence regarding the near-term outlook as they took on extra staff and increased stocks of purchases, ending a sequence of decline which lasted almost seven years." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian Snyder Markets are down early Friday. Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is down 1.09%. France's CAC 40 is down 1.34%. Germany's DAX is down 1.80%. Spain's IBEX is up 2.03%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.40%. This follows Thursday U.S. market sell-off where the Dow plunged 317 points. A new purchasing managers survey on Friday showed that British manufacturing in July grew at its slowest pace in a year.  Asian markets were also in the red on Friday, with Japan's Nikkei closing down 0.63% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.91%. This comes after Chinese manufacturing hit an 18-month high.  U.S. futures are down. The U.S. jobs report was set to come out at 8:30 a.m. ET. "Market participants should once again be prepared for a very healthy employment report," Societe Generale's Aneta Markowska and her team said in their preview of the report.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a row of General Motors vehicles at a Chevrolet dealership on Woodward Avenue in Detroit, Michigan.The U.S. auto industry hasn’t appeared so healthy for years. Sales hit an eight-year high in June, there appears to be plenty of pent-up demand, and discounting is far from getting out of hand. New plants and production lines are being built, and many auto executives, dealers, and securities analysts are optimistic. And yet, a minority on Wall Street and in the autos business are seeing reasons to be wary. They argue that a combination of cheap loans with extended terms, deep incentives from some dealers, and unsustainably high values for used cars is making it far too easy for many Americans to buy new vehicles. Demand, they argue, is being artificially pumped up. And, if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises interest rates next year as expected, it will raise the costs of buying a car and could trigger a slowdown in demand. Among those seeing a glass half empty is Morgan Stanley auto analyst Adam Jonas, who says we may be heading toward what he terms “peak auto.” Jonas, one of the industry's top analysts based on Institutional Investor's 2013 annual rankings, says that cheap and extended loan terms and inflated residual values on leases are making it far too easy for many Americans to buy new vehicles. “We have little doubt that we’re in bubble territory,” he said in an interview. “We’ve blown through prior (sales) peaks in terms of value, the amount of money people are spending on automobiles. We’re in uncharted territory right now.” When figures for July auto sales are released on Friday, growth is expected to show a slight dip to a 16.7 million annualized rate from 17 million in June, according to economists polled by Thomson Reuters. Full-year sales forecasts are now ranging from 16.2 million to 16.4 million, compared with 15.6 million in 2013, and are set to hit the highest level for a year since 2006. Even Jonas doesn’t expect a drop-off in demand anytime soon. He sees U.S. sales reaching a record 18 million in 2017, driven by easy credit. However, by 2019 he sees sales sinking to just 14 million. “We are clearly pulling forward demand from the future,” Jonas said. LOWER CREDIT SCORES The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks, said in a June report that “signs of risk in auto lending are beginning to emerge.” The assessment was based on lenders’ willingness to lengthen terms, to chase borrowers with lower credit scores, and to offer loans that exceed the value of the vehicle. General Motors Co &lt;GM.N&gt; is among several automakers recording growth in subprime lending, to borrowers with credit scores of less than 620. Those buyers now represent 14 to 15 percent of the mix at GM, compared with the industry average of just under 13 percent. “Longer-term loans continue to dominate the market,” said Melinda Zabritski, senior director of credit data firm Experian Automotive, although she said loan delinquencies were “near historic lows.” The average term of a new-vehicle loan this year has risen slightly to 66 months, with vehicle manufacturers routinely offering zero-percent financing for 60-72 months, and some lenders extending terms to 84 months, or seven years. Jonas believes easy credit terms are fueling record transaction prices, which now average more than $30,000. Buyers are financing about $27,600 on average, according to Zabritski, nearly $1,000 more than a year ago. LITTLE DIPS Still, many in the industry say they believe consumer demand will continue to drive growth. “We’re exiting a very long recession, and that means there is still pent-up demand,” said Steven Szakaly, chief economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association Rodney O'Neal, chief executive of auto parts supplier Delphi Automotive said: "When you look at the replacement needs, the math says it hasn’t reached its peak.” And Jeff Skobin, marketing manager at Los Angeles mega-dealer Galpin Ford, sees little reason for concern: “We’ve had little dips and spikes here and there, but we don’t see any indicators of a major fall-off coming — no red flags, nothing that points to a big shift in our business.” The incentives being offered by the automakers have been relatively stable. When the automakers begin to discount heavily, it is often a sign that there are too many vehicles being produced and that underlying demand isn't keeping up. The hit to margins soon hurts their profits. “Manufacturers are holding back” on rebates and other incentives, said Charles Chesbrough, senior principal economist for research firm IHS Automotive. “There is still a lot of margin to give away if they really want to move sales.” IHS sees U.S. sales peaking at 16.75 million in 2017 and tapering off slightly to 16.44 million in 2020. Anil Valsan, lead analyst on Ernst &amp; Young’s global auto team, says manufacturers have been “fairly disciplined” about applying incentives to boost sales, unlike during the recession when there were “huge inventories” of unsold vehicles at dealers, auto plants were operating at well below capacity and “incentives were the only way to move stock.” Now, says Valsan, inventories are at a healthy and manageable level and capacity utilization is near peak — about 90 to 95 percent, according to industry estimates. What that means, adds Valsan, is that “we will probably not see a crash, but we will see a cooling in demand, a plateauing of the market.”   BIG DISCOUNTS While incentives from vehicle manufacturers may seem relatively modest, a Reuters survey on Thursday of U.S. auto dealers’ websites indicated there was heavy discounting going on at many dealers across the country. Some of it supported by the manufacturers but much of it coming out of the dealers’ own pockets. For example, discounts run as high as $20,000 on the Cadillac ELR hybrid sports car. Some Ford and Chevrolet dealers are advertising massive discounts of $10,000 and more on their full-size pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles. At least one Hyundai dealer is offering $8,000 off the price of a Genesis luxury sedan, while the discount on a Cadillac XTS sedan ranges up to $10,000. Jeff Schuster, senior vice president of forecasting at LMC Automotive, believes “much of the recovery has taken place” in the auto industry and sales growth will slow. But “Detroit is in a much better position to weather such issues,” Schuster says. “The industry’s cost structure and discipline will allow some wiggle room if the market goes bad.”    Morgan Stanley’s Jonas isn’t as relaxed. Cheap money “is like a drug,” Jonas says. “It’s an aphrodisiac” that is artificially inflating demand. The aftermath won’t look pretty, he adds. “We think the next 10 years” in the auto industry “are going to be more brutal than the last 10 in almost every way.”   (Additional reporting by Peter Rudegeair; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The U.S. economy added 209,000 jobs in July and the unemployment rate rose to 6.2%. This is according to latest employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Expectations were for nonfarm payrolls to grow 230,000 and the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 6.1%. This also marks the sixth straight month of U.S. job gains larger than 200,000, the longest such streak since 1997. This report comes after we got better than expected GDP data on Wednesday that showed the economy grew at a 4% annualized rate in the second quarter. The Federal Reserve also announced its latest monetary policy decision on Wednesday, keeping interest rates near 0% and further reducing its quantitative easing program. Some had suspected that stronger economic data would force the Fed to change its policy stance, but after today's jobs report, which also showed tepid wage growth, it appears that for at least another month the Fed will not be further pressured to change its policy. In July, the average hours worked remained at 34.5 hours per week, and average hourly earnings increasing 0% over month and 2% over last year. Economists were expecting wages to increase 0.2% over last month and 2.2% over last year.   The labor force participation rate also ticked up to 62.9% from 62.8%, where it had been for the last three months. The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons, also known as involuntary part-time workers, remained unchanged at 7.5 million. The report also contained revisions to both May and June's reports. Last month's report was revised up to 298,000 from 288,000, while May was also revised higher, to 229,000 from 224,000. BI's Rob Wile also noted that for workers with bachelor's degrees, the unemployment actually fell, dropping to 3.1% from 3.3%. This table from the BLS gives a breakdown of jobs added by sector. BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettManpreet Sing Makkar poses for a photograph in Calton Hill, Edinburgh July 16, 2014. Manpreet, who is originally from Punjab in India, moved to Scotland in 2001 and is active in the Yes campaignLONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland &lt;RBS.L&gt; said on Friday that a vote by Scotland to become independent from the rest of the United Kingdom could significantly increase its costs and have a material impact on its business. RBS, which is 81 percent-owned by the British government, said earlier in the year that it was considering its options should Scots vote to end the 307-year union. The bank has been careful not to enter the political debate over Scottish independence, repeatedly saying that the matter is one for the Scottish people to decide. However, it outlined the potential risks arising from a 'yes' vote alongside its first half results on Friday. The bank had also warned about the matter alongside its 2013 results. RBS said a vote for independence "could significantly impact the group's costs and would have a material adverse effect on the group's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects". It said that uncertainties resulting from a 'yes' vote would be likely to significantly impact its credit ratings and "could also impact the fiscal, monetary, legal and regulatory landscape to which the group is subject". Scotland will hold a referendum to decide whether to end its 307-year union with England on September 18. Recent polls have suggested Scottish separatists are closing the gap on their unionist rivals. (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; editing by Simon Jessop) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettScottish bank notes are displayed in London on April 23. Scotland's bank notes look different from English ones but are legal tender throughout the U.K. Scottish separatists are closing the gap on their unionist rivals as a September independence referendum draws nearer, according to a poll. Good morning! Here's what people will be taking about on Friday.  1. Israel and Hamas agreed to a 72-hour ceasefire in the Gaza strip, which began 8 a.m. local time on Friday. Officials from both sides will next head to Cairo to work out a more permanent end to the fighting that has now dragged on for three weeks.  2.  The leaders of Liberia and Sierra Leone have declared states of emergency in the midst of the worst ever outbreak of Ebola. Schools are closed and at-risk communities will be placed under quarantine. Both African leaders will also skip Obama's U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit next week to deal with the crisis.  3. Electric automaker Tesla is planning a massive expansion with plans to build more than 60,000 cars by 2015, Reuters reports. The company, run by serial entrepreneur Elon Musk, said it expected to deliver 35,000 cars for 2014.  4. As part of a $500 million project to find all the genes responsible for cancer and rare diseases, scientists have predicted that "chemotherapy will be obsolete in 20 years," The Telegraph reports. The treatment will be replaced by more targeted therapies, according to the researchers.  5. A mother and her 3-month-old baby were rescued from beneath mud and debris caused by a landslide that slammed a village in western India on Wednesday. The landslide has already claimed 51 lives, but rescuers fear that at least 100 more are dead, the Associated Press reports.  6. An internal investigation by the CIA has revealed that its officers spied on computers used by workers at the Senate Intelligence Committee. "The C.I.A. officials penetrated the computer network when they came to suspect that the committee’s staff had gained unauthorized access to an internal C.I.A. review of the detention program that the spy agency never intended to give to Congress," The New York Times says.  7. The Royal Bank of Scotland warned on Friday that if Scotland voted in favor of becoming independent from the United Kingdom "it could significantly increase [the bank's] costs and have a material impact on its business," according to Reuters. Business Insider earlier pointed out that an independent Scotland would not be able to use the British pound and that the Scottish economy isn't big enough to support its own currency. 8. International investigators have finally been able to reach the Malaysia Airlines crash site in eastern Ukraine thanks to a temporary break in fighting between Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian separatists. Dutch and Australian police officers made at least four attempts to reach the site.   9. Tropical storm Bertha is forming in the Atlantic. The storm, with winds of 45 miles per hour, is about 275 miles southeast of Barbados, CNN reports.  10. Thousands of Turkish women are posting photos of themselves laughing and smiling to Instagram and Twitter in response to comments made by the deputy prime minister, who said in a speech on Monday that women should not laugh in public. "A woman should be chaste," leader Bülent Arinç told a crowd. "She should know the difference between public and private. She should not laugh in public." And finally... A ticket stub signed by legendary baseball player Lou Gehrig on July 4, 1939, the day he retired from the game, sold for $95,600 at an auction in Cleveland on Thursday night. A pair of Muhammad Ali's boxing gloves sold for nearly $390,000.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Kuroda attends a news conference at the BOJ headquarters in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda came out fighting on Friday, giving a spirited defense of the economy's performance after a run of weak data, and reiterated his readiness to expand stimulus if inflation faltered on the path to his 2 percent target rate. "The BOJ is not aiming at achieving the price stability target of 2 percent temporarily. What it aims at is to achieve an economy in which inflation is about 2 percent on average year after year," he said, signaling that the central bank will not exit from its ultra-loose stimulus any time soon. "I would like to emphasize that ... given the BOJ's clear and strong commitment to the 2 percent inflation target, it is a matter of course the BOJ will make adjustments if necessary to ensure the target is met," he said at a seminar. He stressed that the BOJ will vigilantly monitor how a decline in real income affects consumer spending. Kuroda said an increase in summer bonus payments to workers would help consumer spending recover from an increase in the sales tax in April, while labor and supply constraints meant companies are expected to keep raising wages. "A positive cycle of output, income and expenditure is firmly in place, so we can say Japan's economy continues to recover moderately as a trend," There were signs, he said, that companies were ready to increase domestic investment after holding back spending on plant and equipment during a prolonged period of deflation. Kuroda was also upbeat on the outlook for exports, which have remained weak to the disappointment of policymakers, saying that the current sluggishness was largely due to cyclical factors such as a lack of vigor in emerging Asian markets. "We expect exports to increase moderately reflecting improvements in overseas economies," he said. Such positive economic developments will help accelerate consumer inflation toward the BOJ's price target, Kuroda said.     (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
