Flickr/lachlanhardy Choosing a good Scotch whisky can be tricky. Unless you really know your stuff, it's hard to tell a good Scotch from a mediocre one. Luckily our friends over at FindTheBest helped us narrow down the 10 best bottles of Scotch for experienced and novice drinkers alike. FindTheBest used a smart rating to rank the different kinds of Scotch. The smart rating is a weighted average of four whisky-rating sources: the San Francisco World Spirits Competition, the Beverage Testing Institute, the Los Angeles Whiskey Society, and Wine Enthusiast Magazine. The refined palate of the Arran 12-year-old Scotch brings to mind the bitterness of coffee and dark chocolate while finishing off spicy and citrusy. It's a complex blend of 17 first-fill sherry butts and four second-fill sherry hogsheads, which have been bottled at natural cask strength. The most expensive Scotch on our list, this whisky by Royal Salute ages for 38 years and is known as "the Stone of Destiny," the name of the ancient stone used for British royal coronation ceremonies. Its richness comes through with notes of cedar and dark fruits. Inver House's Green Plaid Scotch is slightly sweet with a light body; it earned a Double Gold distinction at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition last year. At about $25 a bottle, Green Plaid is proof that a good Scotch doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg. Matured in casks that used to house sherry and bourbon, the Hankey Bannister 25-year-old is spicy and fruity with a long finish. It's a special selection of the distillery's Master Blender, Stuart Harvey. Bowmore's 10-year single malt is known as the Tempest because it "encapsulates all the rugged, stormy sea qualities" of the centuries old distillery where it was made. Drinkers enjoy its briny tang. American oak barrels lend to this Scotch's warm toffee aroma. Balblair's 11-year-old single malt is honey-colored and slightly sweet and spicy, with a finish that warms from the first sip to the last. Perhaps one of the more well-known brands, Macallan's 21-year-old Scotch is aged in Spanish oak casks that have been seasoned with bourbon. This is a great full-bodied whisky that invokes thoughts of burning wood, but is surprisingly light in color with a slight, vanilla scent. At 30 years old, this Scotch is the oldest in the Highland Park range. The color is striking, with red-gold hues and strong flavors of nuttiness that contrast the oaken, chocolaty aroma. The second Bowmore bottle to make the list, this 25-year Scotch is produced in the Islay region, and is a blend of whiskies matured for 25 years in American bourbon and Spanish sherry casks. Drinkers note hints of toffee and a warm, smoky flavor. This 10-year-old single malt is only a decade old, proving that age isn't the only factor that goes into making a great Scotch. Laphroaig's was still named the Best Single Malt Whisky In The World in 2005 by Whisky Magazine. Its rich flavor comes from a distilling process that incorporates peat-fire-dried malted barley. FREE AppDownload
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderFor New Yorkers, there's nothing better than escaping the city on a hot summer weekend. But getting out of town is another story. Anyone who's ever tried to get to the Hamptons on a Friday afternoon knows the traffic on the Long Island Expressway can be hellish, and Long Island Rail Road ticket lines at Penn Station are even worse. There is, however, another way to hightail it from the city to the Hamptons: by seaplane. Not only is it a quick, 40-minute (or so) hop from the East River seaport to destinations out east, there's no chance of traffic or rowdy neighbors, and the view is pretty spectacular. There's also the small matter of cost. Fly The Whale, one of several companies that offers seaplane service in the New York area, charges $3,700 for a 9-person charter flight from Manhattan to East Hampton, and single seats on "shared" charters for $550. The company also flies to Westhampton, Shelter Island, Montauk, and other Hamptons towns. Last year, I took a Fly The Whale seaplane from Manhattan to Sag Harbor to tour a new luxury condo complex. It sure beat Penn Station at rush hour. Disclosure: Sag Development Partners, the owners of the Watchcase development in Sag Harbor, paid for my travel expenses.
Spencer Platt / GettyHoward Schultz gets up at 4:30 a.m.It's no coincidence that so many successful people get up early. The early bird schedule is good for responding to people and events around the world, getting a head start on people in your own time zone, and also finding time for exercise and family. What's more, research shows that early risers tend to be happier and more proactive. While a late schedule may make sense for some occupations, most people should take notes from the executives and other successful people on this list. FREE AppDownload
It has more than $30 billion in revenue, stores so massive people get lost in them, and products filling up homes across the world. We're all familiar with Ikea's dominance in home furnishing. But when you're that big, there are a lot of little details that many people might not be aware of. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
The authors of "Freakonomics" and "Super Freakonomics" have a third book called "Think Like A Freak." In this book Levitt and Dubner reveal the strange way the world works and they offer prescriptions to help change the way you think and solve problems. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Scott WapnerAccording to the WSJ and then later Reuters, the FBI and the SEC are investigating activist investor Carl Icahn, pro golfer Phil Mickelson, and gambler William Walters for possible insider trading involving private information provided by Icahn. However, Icahn has told CNBC's Scott Wapner that he had no idea what was going on. "I have never given out inside information," Icahn said. "The WSJ story is irresponsible ... We've never heard from the FBI and have gotten no subpoenas ... We don't know of any investigations." Icahn also told Wapner that he didn't know Walters. While he knew of Mickelson, he said he had never met him. In a follow-up with Reuters, however, Mickelson suggested that he was involved in an investigation. "I have done absolutely nothing wrong," Mickelson said, according to Reuters. "I have cooperated with the government in this investigation and will continue to do so. I wish I could fully discuss this matter, but under the current circumstances it's just not possible." This obviously isn't the end of this story.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliams, president and chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, takes part in a panel discussion in Beverly HillsPALO ALTO Calif. (Reuters) - A trio of Federal Reserve officials who disagree deeply with one another over the appropriate stance of monetary policy on Friday expressed a shared distrust for using interest rates to head off asset bubbles and other forms of financial instability. Both Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker, a policy hawk, and San Francisco Fed President John Williams, a centrist, told reporters after a policy conference here that they would not want to risk unmooring the public's expectation that inflation will rise back to the Fed's 2 percent goal in the next few years. That, Williams said, is what appears to have happened in Sweden and Norway after those countries raised rates to address financial stability risks. Fed economist Andrew Levin had shown a slide making that point earlier at a presentation that both policymakers attended. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, one of the Fed's most ardent doves, echoed those sentiments. "Degrading monetary policy tools to mitigate financial instability risks would lead to inflation below target and additional resource slack," Evans said in slides released Friday for a talk he is set to give in Istanbul on Monday. The role financial instability concerns should play in Fed policymaking has long been a subject of debate at the U.S. central bank. Over the past year, Fed Governor Jeremy Stein has argued strongly that there may be times when the Fed should raise rates to stamp out potential bubbles. Stein left the Fed earlier this week to return to his post at Harvard University, leaving the Fed without a forceful public advocate of that idea. Philadelphia Fed's Charles Plosser told reporters on Friday he was "kind of on the same page" as Williams and Lacker, in terms of rejecting a financial stability mandate for the Fed. But he added that he is worried about the risk that the Fed's extraordinarily easy policies over the past five years themselves could stoke financial instability. Williams, Lacker and Plosser were in Palo Alto attending a central banking conference put on by Stanford University's Hoover Institution that also featured Kansas City Fed President Esther George. On Friday, Williams reiterated his view that rates, near zero since December 2008, should not rise until next year and should do so only slowly. That's the view also of Fed Chair Janet Yellen, who has said rates will stay low for a "considerable time" after the Fed winds down its bond-buying program this coming fall. Lacker said he would support an immediate tightening of monetary policy by selling the Fed's holdings of mortgage-backed securities, but added that the size of the Fed's balance sheet will not prevent it from carrying out proper monetary policy. Plosser said he would be open to varying approaches toward trimming the Fed's massive balance sheet, which now tops $4 trillion after years of stimulative bond-buying, but said his preference is for an eventual return to a smaller balance sheet.   (Reporting by Ann Saphir) FREE AppDownload
APNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating possible insider trading involving billionaire investor Carl Icahn, golfer Phil Mickelson and Las Vegas gambler William Walters, a source familiar with the matter said. Federal investigators are looking into whether Mickelson and Walters may have traded illegally on private information provided by Icahn about his investments in public corporations, the source told Reuters, confirming reports on Friday. Icahn, a legendary activist investor, told Reuters that he was unaware of any investigation and said that his firm always followed the law. He acknowledged a business relationship with Walters but said that he did not know Mickelson personally. "I am very proud of my 50-year unblemished record and have never given out insider information," he said. Walters and Mickelson play golf together, the source familiar with the investigation told Reuters. Mickelson said in a statement, "I have done absolutely nothing wrong. I have cooperated with the government in this investigation and will continue to do so." "I wish I could fully discuss this matter, but under the current circumstances it's just not possible," said the statement, issued through his manager. The Wall Street Journal cited Glenn Cohen, Mickelson's lawyer, as saying the golfing legend was not a target of the federal probe. Walters did not respond to requests for comment. Spokespeople for the FBI and the SEC declined to comment. None of the three men have been accused of any wrongdoing, the source told Reuters. YEARS OF INVESTIGATING The investigation began three years ago according to the source. It is the latest to emerge from a multi-year crackdown on insider trading by U.S. authorities. The investigation centers on suspicious trades in Clorox Co CLX.N by Walters and Mickelson as Icahn was trying for access to the board of the consumer products company in 2011, the New York Times reported, citing people briefed on the probe. Icahn had accumulated a 9.1 percent stake in Clorox in February 2011. In July, he made an offer for the company that valued it at above $10 billion and sent its stock soaring. Investigators were also looking into trades that Mickelson and Walters made related to Dean Foods Co DF.N, the Journal cited the people as saying. The New York Times cited people briefed on the investigation as saying that in that particular case, investigators are looking into trades placed around 2012 just before the company announced quarterly results. Those trades appeared to have no connection to Icahn, the newspaper added. Icahn told Reuters he had never purchased shares nor been involved with Dean. MAKING HEADWAY Federal prosecutors in Manhattan are handling the inquiry in conjunction with the FBI and the SEC, the New York Times reported. Since August 2009, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara's office has convicted 81 people of insider trading, either at trial or via guilty pleas, with no acquittals. The current investigation made little headway initially, the Times reported. Investigators are searching phone records, seeking to determine whether Icahn had spoken to Walters before the trades, the Times cited anonymous people briefed on the probe as saying. And about a year ago, FBI officials approached Mickelson at Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, asking the celebrity golfer to discuss his trading, the Times cited its sources as saying. Icahn, a prolific tweeter and vocal critic of some of America's largest corporations, habitually broadcasts his thoughts on corporations and, occasionally, stock positions he has taken. The billionaire took to Twitter earlier this year when he pushed Apple Inc's board to expand the iPhone maker's buyback program, and several times tweeted when he had increased his position in the tech company. During a campaign to get eBay Inc to hive off its fast-growing PayPal division, he openly criticized the Internet retail giant's board. But the activist investor has tweeted just once in the past three weeks. Even if Icahn did leak information about his plans regarding Clorox, it may not necessarily have violated the law. Insider trading regulations prohibit trading based on material, nonpublic information obtained from someone who breached a fiduciary or confidentiality duty by disclosing it. As a non-board member, Icahn owed no duty to Clorox shareholders. It is possible, though by no means definite, that Icahn owed a confidentiality duty to his own shareholders. Mickelson, 43, is currently playing at the Memorial Tournament in Dublin, Ohio ahead of the June 12-15 U.S. Open. The American player clinched his fifth major title at last year's British Open. He would complete a career grand slam of the four majors by winning the U.S. Open, where he has been runner-up a record six times. (Additional reporting by Mark Lamport-Stokes; Writing by Edwin Chan and Frances Kerry; Editing by Peter Henderson and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
