KickstarterThe S&amp;P500 continues to hit new all-time highs, extending an epic five-year bullish run for stocks. But some market commentators believe we must be heading for a top. The signs are there if you want to look for them. As of Friday, the Dow had erased all of 2014's gains. Forward price-to-earnings ratios are well above both their five- and 10-year averages. Even Alan Greenspan has said a correction is inevitable given that the rally is now well into its fifth year.  There are other, less technical signs. We're talking about the signs of that make you think twice and wonder if irrational exuberance has taken over and investors are investing in things recklessly. We've pinpointed the 15 most ridiculous moments in finance of the year so far that might lead one to believe that this bull market has seen its top. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook In a new report released by the Center for Population Dynamics at Cleveland State University, Richey Piiparinen and Jim Russell, along with Charlie Post, demonstrate that Rust Belt cities are transforming their economies while transforming their labor forces.  In doing so they're creating some separation between them and less well educated Sun Belt metros, and possibly developing true and enduring economic sustainability for the first time in generations. Piiparinen et al examined the educational attainment of the 40 largest metro areas in the U.S., using 2012 American Community Survey three-year estimates data.  Starting by looking simply at those over 18 with a bachelor's degree or more, they found that Pittsburgh and Cleveland, the two metros under close examination in the study, ranked 23rd and 31st respectively.  Not especially great, and likely conforming with most people's general impressions about manufacturing-era Pittsburgh and Cleveland.   But when looking at the number of persons with a bachelor's degree or more in the 25-34 age cohort, a group that provides an indication of a region's future economic makeup, some interesting shifts emerge.  Greater Pittsburgh vaults from 23rd to 7th in the rankings, surpassing Philadelphia and Chicago and putting it in the same league as the known knowledge centers of the nation -- Boston, Washington, San Francisco and New York.  Cleveland moved up six spots to 25th in the rankings.  But as the authors say in the New Geography summary: An additional method of examining a region’s skill level is to look at the educational attainment within the labor force, as opposed to population. The rationale for doing so is simple. Regions with proportionally large student populations, like Columbus, Ohio, can have exaggerated talent pools, at least in terms of economic productivity. That is, a college student may live in a region to consume knowledge but not necessarily be employed to produce output. And when that happens, Pittsburgh climbs to fourth in the rankings, and Cleveland rises to 21st. Columbus, OH drops from 13th to 27th, as the influence of Ohio State University is factored out of its labor force.  Lastly, they examined the number of people in the labor force age 25-34 with a graduate or professional degree, and Pittsburgh ranked third, behind just Washington and Boston, and Cleveland ranked eighth.  Who would've thought? It brings to mind the typology of metro areas that the Brookings Institution did a few years ago. Back then, Brookings said Pittsburgh and Cleveland were "Skilled Anchors" -- metros with low growth rates, low levels of diversity, but high levels of educational attainment. These metros have been steadily changing over time, and we don't fully appreciate the extent of their transformation. In fact, I did a simple analysis to determine how the Rust Belt metros in the report stacked up when considering their economic restructuring.   I started with a couple of assumptions to guide the analysis.  First, I looked at the educational attainment data by population as functions of talent production -- a measure of the number and quality of educational institutions within a given metro area.  I looked at educational attainment data by labor force as functions of talent attraction -- the ability of a metro area to to bring, in this case, young educated people into the workforce.   This may be only partly true, but it's a start.Second, I put the rankings for the eleven Rust Belt metros in the study into a table.  I averaged out the ranking scores for the two population categories and the two labor force categories, and that gave me a sense of an overall ranking in terms of overall ranking of talent production and attraction.  Here's how that looks (and you can click to make it bigger): Pete Saunders The last thing I did was to regard and evaluate each metro in one of three tiers of production and attraction -- high, modest and low for each category.  If the numbers hold, then some interesting trends become evident.  First, there are a few metros that appear to produce talent at higher rates than the attraction evident in their labor force. Minneapolis/St. Paul and Columbus certainly fit that bill, and that's due largely to the presence of major state universities in their midst.   Cincinnati and Milwaukee are also here.  Second, there are a few metros that are balanced in terms of production and attraction -- Chicago, St. Louis and Kansas City.  Lastly, there are a few that appear to attract more than they're producing -- Pittsburgh and Cleveland, as the main study suggests, but also Detroit and Indianapolis. But when you consider the tiers of production and attraction in terms of high (a ranking of 1-13), modest (14-27) or low (28-40), I think what emerges is a sense of the progress of metro area economic restructuring, via talent.  Because when you do, and you establish attraction over production as the priority, this table comes together:  Here's how I'd interpret this.  Of Rust Belt metros, Chicago leads in terms of the production and attraction of talent, thanks to its premier institutions and solid (if slow growing) economy.  Pittsburgh is not far behind, and in fact is likely gaining on Chicago.   Several metros demonstrate modest talent attraction, led by their universities (the Twin Cities, Columbus) or economies that bring in a fair number of educated people (Kansas City, Indianapolis, Milwaukee).  Detroit as well as Cleveland appear to be attracting talent at rates far higher than their production.  Cincinnati produces modestly, but attracts few. When I started this post, I was prepared to drive home the point that Detroit's economic restructuring lagged that of Pittsburgh and Cleveland because it lacked premier educational institutions like Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh, or Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic, in Pittsburgh and Cleveland respectively. In fact, I was going to use this as the foundation to build a case for a private, STEM-focused research university in the Motor City to facilitate economic restructuring.  A dream, to be sure, but maybe one worth pursuing. But this data suggests that metro Detroit is indeed restructuring its economy along the lines of talent, without the benefit of a major institution in its midst (it's debatable whether you include the University of Michigan in or out of the Detroit area).   Metro Detroit has decent numbers of well-educated workers in its labor force, and what looks like a rather surprising ability to attract them.  This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
ReutersHSBC's final August China manufacturing PMI came in light at 50.2. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 50.3, unchanged from the "flash" reading reported earlier this month.  This is also lower than 51.7 report in July, which was an 18-month high. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the economy, while a reading under 50 would indicate contraction.  Following the report, Hongbin Qu, Chief Economist, China &amp; Co-Head of Asian Economic Research at HSBC said: "The HSBC China Manufacturing PMI eased slightly to 50.2 in the final reading for August from the flash reading of 50.3. The revisions were mixed, with upward revision to the new export orders and output sub-indices but downward revisions to the employment and input prices indices. Although external demand showed improvement, domestic demand looked more subdued. Overall, the manufacturing sector still expanded in August, but at a slower pace compared to previous months. We think the economy still faces considerable downside risks to growth in the second half of the year, which warrant further policy easing to ensure a steady growth recovery." HSBC's manufacturing reading on China also follows official data released by China's National Bureau of Statistics earlier this evening, which showed that manufacturing slowed in August to 51.1. The official state reading was also slightly below the 51.2 expected by economists.  Dariusz Kowalczyk at Credit Agricole said ahead of the report that, "The data will highlight renewed downward pressure on the Chinese economy emerging in the summer, but it should also prompt more policy easing measures from Beijing, and is therefore going to have only a limited negative impact on market sentiment." This chart from Markit/HSBC shows the last decade of PMI, which has wobbled on either side of 50 for the last several years. Markit/HSBC    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citi sign is seen at the Citigroup stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc &lt;c.n&gt; has told senior staff in Europe that they would receive fixed monthly pay in addition to their salaries in an attempt to compensate for rules that limit bonuses to up to twice the level of base salaries, the Financial Times reported, citing several people. More than 600 of Citigroup bankers in Europe were affected by the bonus cap and will therefore be paid such allowances, several people told the newspaper. They said the U.S. bank had sent out letters to senior staff in recent weeks. The FT said about half of the bankers had received similar allowances in the past after Citi introduced them a few years ago to mitigate the impact of regulatory demands for higher bonus deferrals for key staff. One senior Citi banker told the FT the allowances had been structured so that the bank's European staff would still receive the same amount of overall pay and a similar mixture of cash and shares as their U.S. and Asian peers. "We do not want people to have geographic preferences based on compensation," the banker told the FT. In June, Dutch state-owned bank ABN AMRO increased the salaries of 100 top managers by 20 percent to compensate for new regulations on bonuses cap in the Netherlands. Citigroup could not be reached for a comment outside of normal business hours. (Reporting by Aashika Jain in Bangalore; Editing by Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveChina's official manufacturing PMI for August came in a bit light at 51.1. The latest release from China's National Bureau of Statistics came in just below expectations, which were for a reading of 51.2. August's reading is down from 51.7 in July, which marked a 27-month high for the index, according to Barclays. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the economy, while a reading under 50 would indicate contraction.  Nomura's Aman Mohunta expected the report to come in a 51.0, writing that, "Despite targeted policy easing it seems that [China's economy] has recently lost some growth momentum, as the property market correction continues." At 9:45 pm ET, we'll also get HSBC's final manufacturing PMI, which is expected to come in at 50.3, unchanged from the flash number reported earlier this month. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Athit PerawongmethaA mahout lies over his elephant before a match at the 2014 King's Cup Elephant Polo Tournament in Samut Prakan province, on the outskirts of Bangkok August 30, 2014. The weekend is over, in Asia at least, and stocks are mostly down. MSCI's Asia Pacific Index fell 0.1% in early Monday trading. New Zealand’s NZX 50 fell 0.2%. Australia’s S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index was up as much as 0.4%. Japan's Nikkei opened 0.2% higher. U.S. futures were down about a point. Stay tuned for Chinese PMI tonight. State data will be released at 9 p.m. Eastern, while HSBC's measure is due at 9:45 p.m.  Despite the short week we have a ton of data coming out — click here for the weekly preview from BI's Sam Ro » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert Deutsch-USA TODAY SportsCaroline Wozniacki (DEN) after beating Maria Sharapova (RUS) on day seven of the 2014 U.S. Open tennis tournament at USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Good morning, and welcome to September. Here’s what’s happening… 1. It’s a big week in Australia. The RBA meets tomorrow, and on Wednesday we get the Q2 GDP data, with economists expecting 3% growth for the past quarter. But we also get some important leading indicators for how things are shaping up in the continuing economic transition, with the AiG PMI out this morning at 9.30am AEST, as well as TD inflation today. Tomorrow there’s the trade balance and housing approvals, and on Thursday we get July retail sales, with the market expecting growth of 0.4%. More details on the Australian week ahead here. 2. Globally, it’s huge too. On Thursday the ECB meets with markets seeking clarity on how it will act on the Eurozone’s deteriorating economy. On Friday night, there’s also the US jobs report. With PMIs out around the world today, China’s number is the one to watch after some scratchy data last month. Markets are expecting a print of 51.1 for the August official PMI. 3. The challenge Europe can’t ignore. This chart of price growth in key countries shows how dangerously close Europe is getting to a point of zero inflation. Crossing that point spurs a potentially spiralling disaster. Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok believes this means the ECB must now act with further stimulus, probably with some form of asset buying similar to the US QE program. 4. An Australian has been appointed to a senior ISIS position, according to a report on an Iraqi website. He goes by the name Abu Yahya ash Shami and reportedly has been appointed the commander in the northern Iraq town of Jalula. Australia confirmed yesterday it would be helping to arm Kurdish fighters in the north of the country. Elsewhere, there are are reports thatISIS is adapting quickly to the rising military threats against it, including abandoning its military vehicles and blending in more carefully with the locals to avoid being targeted in airstrikes. 5. The SydStart finals are tomorrow, with 10 impressive startups pitching for the SydStart trophy at the Hilton in Sydney amid a multi-stream conference with a great speaker lineup, including Freelancer.com’s Matt Barrie and Niki Scevak of Blackbird Ventures. Tickets are here. Some of the finalists include Rbutr, which allows people to tag pages on the internet with detailed queries on the content – allowing editing by proxy of other people’s websites – andStockspot, an online financial portfolio management platform developed by former UBS stock picker Chris Brycki. 6. On the margins of the SydStart conference, there may be some interesting developments for tech entrepreneurs and investors to watch. There’s been some tension in the sector over how tech-led startups present themselves as an interest group – there’s a confusing array of agencies, including StartupAus and Startup Australia, which are two different things. With some of the key players in the sector in town this week, there’s sure to be some discussions about it. 7. Lessons from the StartupBus. Business Insider’s Alex Heber has been on the 72-hour hackathon which takes place on a bus travelling from Sydney to Melbourne and back ahead of SydStart. The participants were aiming to start a range of companies over the course of the trip. One of the teams had a time-sapping oversight: they had a copyright problem with their name and had to rebrand mid-trip. The moral of the tale: know your competitive environment. 8. The countdown is on to the iPhone launch. It’s September 9th in the US, so we’ll be waking up to it next Wednesday. Now sure, there’s always a big build-up to Apple events and blanket coverage of it afterwards but this time (really!) is different. With Android continuously making ground as the world’s dominant mobile platform and iPad sales growth collapsing, Apple needs to knock it out of the park and get people excited about its core product again. Two new bits of information: Apple has partnered with American Express, Visa, and Mastercard for its payment platform, and the launch will not only unveil the iPhone 6 but also the iWatch, according to the now-feverish rumour mill. Nine days of hype still to go. 9. How to spot a ripe avocado. Life is too short to waste on bad avocadoes. Especially in the expensive season, which seems longer every year. Here’s the sure fire way to spot a brown one, in the supermarket, without doing any squishing. 10. The pointy end of the US Open. Centre court darling Maria Sharapova tumbled out this morning, beaten in three sets by Caroline Wozniacki 6-4 2-6 6-2 on a hot afternoon at Flushing Meadows. Yesterday was a mixed bag for the Aussies, with young gun Nick Kyrgios making a stunning start against Tommy Robredo before going down 3-6 6-3 7-6 (7-4) 6-3. But Casey Dellacqua is through to a fourth round match against Italian Flavia Pennetta tomorrow morning, and on the verge of cracking the womens’ world top 25. Remember, it’s footy finals season in Australia, so there’ll be some excited sports fans on company floors in the coming weeks. The highlight of the weekend was Richmond beating Sydney by three points, in a match for the ages, to make it into the AFL finals, capping a remarkable late surge for the Tigers this season. Have a cracking day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Ulises Rodriguez/ReutersAn imprisoned member of street gang Mara 18 poses for a photograph at the Izalco prison,IN 2009 Edward John Schaefer drunkenly swerved his motorbike over a pavement in the town of Marin, California. He hit a father and his daughter. The girl died. Schaefer was jailed for life. Some ten days after arriving at San Quentin State Prison, Frank Souza, another inmate, stabbed Schaefer to death with a "bone-crusher", a seven-inch homemade metal spear. The murder was not a random act of violence. Nor was it an example of the haphazard terrors of prison life. Mr Souza was a member of the Aryan Brotherhood, a prison gang. When asked why he did it, Mr Souza replied: "All I got to say, nine-year-old girl." The killing was justice, determined and meted out by the gang. It was one demonstration of myriad ways in which gangs provide governance in prisons. In "The Social Order of the Underworld" David Skarbek, an American political economist at King's College London, shows how gangs have spread through the prison system in the United States. He argues, convincingly, that gangs offer protection and governance in places where established institutions fail, and that it makes sense for prisoners to join them. Gangs did not exist until the 1950s. Prisons were governed according to the "convict code", unwritten rules followed by everyone. At its most basic, the code decreed that inmates should not help officials in matters of discipline, nor should they ever give them any kind of information. With a small prison population, this worked. Fearsome reputations and fear of gossip, ostracism and assault constrained much disruptive behaviour. There was no need for organised groups. But as the prison population exploded, the code began to fail. It was no longer possible to sustain reputations amid such huge numbers. First-time offenders, ignorant of the code and its rules, became more common. Violent inmates made prisons more dangerous. Officials could not be relied on to protect prisoners: "Most of us have wives and kids or grandkids," exclaims one. "Are you going to risk your life by stepping in front of a knife when you have one lousy piece of shit trying to kill another lousy piece of shit?" Gangs emerged to provide protection. Mr Skarbek traces how they then developed into businesses, controlling prisons' booming illicit markets, especially in drugs. Gangs can trade far more effectively than lone inmates. Prisoners listen when they threaten violence; members can ease trade from the outside after their release. Consumers, in this case buyers of drugs, benefit too. Gangs are long-term sellers, so they have an incentive not to drive customers away by abusing their power. Even the segregation of gangs along racial lines is rational. As Mr Skarbek points out, for gangs to function well, all members must accept responsibility for the actions and obligations of the rest. Identifying other members is crucial to avoid outsiders freeriding or damaging the group's reputation. Race (and tattoos) provide ways of doing so. In an all-male community where everyone wears the same clothes, race provides a lot of information fast. It is impossible to conceal or change; segregation prevents prisoners moving from group to group or taking advantage of different gangs. Mr Skarbek's analysis confounds the assumption that prisons are stuffed with violent, racist thugs who act irrationally. The very logic of gangs' existence may be the key to constraining them. Reduce demand for their services, he argues, by locking up fewer people and making prisons safer, and their appeal would diminish. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo at a branch of Virgin Money bank is seen in the City of London(Reuters) - Virgin Money [NRTRK.UL], the British financial services company partly owned by Sir Richard Branson, is in talks over a possible 2 billion pound ($3.32 billion) stock market listing as early as next month, Sky News reported on Sunday, citing people familiar with the matter. A final decision on the timing of an initial public offering (IPO) has yet to be taken and the company may opt to wait until next year, Sky News said, adding that Virgin Group, which owns more than 46.5 percent of Virgin Money, may retain its ownership after an IPO. Virgin Group could not be reached for comment outside of normal business hours.  (Reporting by Ankush Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Barclays sign hangs outside a branch of the bank in the City of LondonMADRID (Reuters) - Britain's Barclays  is selling its Spanish retail and corporate banking operations to Caixabank , the two lenders said on Sunday, as it continues a major restructuring and shrinks some of its struggling European divisions. Caixabank, Spain's third-biggest lender and one of the most acquisitive banks in the country during the recent financial crisis, said it would pay 800 million euros ($1.05 billion) for the Barclays businesses. The deal also includes wealth management operations and Caixabank said the final price would depend on the net asset value of Barclays Bank in Spain by the end of the year, when the transaction is due to close. Barclays is in the midst of a major turnaround plan involving thousands of job cuts and the closure or sale of business it now considers non-core as it tries to lift profitability. It began sounding out potential buyers for parts of its Spanish business in May this year after saying it would park its retail banking operations in Spain, Italy, France and Portugal in a "bad bank" so they could be sold, separated or floated. The bank is refocusing on its British and African businesses, credit cards and investment banking in Britain and the United States. Like other banks seeking to exit retail banking in Spain, such as Citigroup , Barclays will keep its investment banking division in the country. The deal with Caixabank does not include Barclays' credit card operations in Spain, the banks' announcements said.  (Reporting by Sarah White; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert Shiller, one of three American scientists who won the 2013 economics Nobel prizeWhy is the Shiller CAPE so high?  In the last several weeks, a number of prominent academics and financial market commentators have attempted to answer this question, to include the inventor of the valuation measure himself, Nobel Laureate Robert Shiller.  In this piece, I’m going to attempt to give a clear answer. The piece has five parts: Higher P/E Valuations Generally It’s important to note at the outset that the Shiller CAPE isn’t the only price-to-earnings (P/E) metric that is currently elevated. The good-old-fashioned trailing twelve month (TTM) P/E ratio is also elevated. With the index at 2000 and 2Q TTM reported earnings per share (EPS) at 103.5, the current TTM P/E is 19.3 (the number doesn’t change much if we use use TTM operating earnings, since the economy is in expansion, and writedowns are no longer a big impact). The historical average for the TTM P/E is 14.6. So, on a simple TTM P/E basis, the market is already 33% above its historical average. Note that I did not say that the market is 33% “overvalued”–to call the market “overvalued” would be to suggest that it shouldn’t be at the valuation that it’s at.  This is too strong.  Not only is it possible that the market should be at its current valuation, it’s also possible that the market should be at a still higher valuation, and that it’s headed to such a valuation. Now, to the crucial point that market moralists consistently miss.  The market’s valuation does not arise out of the application of any external standard for what “should” be the case. Rather, the market’s valuation arises as an inadvertent byproduct of the equilibration of supply and demand: the process through which the quantity of equity being supplied by sellers achieves an equilibrium with the quantity of equity being demanded by buyers.  In a liquid market, the demand for equity must equal the supply on offer.  “Price” is the factor that changes so as to cause the two to equal.  In a normal, well-anchored market, higher prices lead to reduced demand and increased supply on offer, and lower prices lead to increased demand and reduced supply on offer.  If, at the given market price, the demand for equity exceeds the supply on offer, the market price will rise, which will lower the demand and increase the supply on offer, pulling the two back into equilibrium. Similarly, if, at the given market price, the demand for equity falls short of the supply on offer, the market price will fall, which will increase the demand and reduce the supply on offer, again pulling the two back into equilibrium. Right now, the price necessary to bring the demand for equity into equilibrium with the supply on offer happens to be higher, relative to earnings, than the price that successfully achieved the same equilibrium in the past.  In a prior piece, I laid out a number of possible reasons for this shift.  The most important reason has to do with expectations about future interest rates.  Right now, the market’s expectation is that the future interest rates will be low–less than 2%, on average–for the next several decades, and maybe for the rest of time. The interesting thing about markets is that investors in aggregate have to hold every asset in existence, including what is undesirable–in this case, low-return cash and fixed income. Obviously, investors are not going to opt to hold low-return cash and fixed income in lieu of equities unless they expect that: (1) equities at current prices will also offer low future returns on the relevant horizons, or (2) a temporary scare will emerge that will lead other investors to focus on the short-term and sell, creating a “buying opportunity” that they can capitalize on, if they are out of the market. We are at a point in the economic cycle where it’s getting harder and harder for investors to retain their confidence in (2).  As the economy strengthens in the presence of highly supportive Fed policy–policy that everyone knows will remain supportive for as far as the eye can see–investors are becoming less and less scared of pullbacks, and more and more willing to use them as buying opportunities.  Crucially, market participants sense the growing confidence levels of their fellow investors, and are reluctantly acknowledging that the kinds of catalysts that might break that confidence, and produce meaningfully lower prices, are increasingly unlikely to emerge in the near term.  Consequently, the market is slowly and painfully being pushed upward into the first condition–a condition where equity valuations rise until investors become sufficiently disenchanted with them to settle for holding low return cash and fixed income instead. Some would say that market prices have gone too far, and that equities are now offering no excess return relative to cash and fixed income–or even worse, a negative excess return.   But those that reach this conclusion are estimating long-term equity returns using a method that makes aggressive assumptions about the trajectory of future profit margins, assumptions that will probably prove to be incorrect, if the experience of the last two decades gives any indication of what’s coming. Real EPS Growth: Impact on the Shiller CAPE Returning to the Shiller CAPE, its current value is 26.0.  Its long-term historical average (geometric) is 15.3.  On a Shiller CAPE basis, the market is 70% above its long-term historical average.  It follows that almost half of the Shiller CAPE’s current elevation, 33% out of the overall 70%, can be attributed to the elevation of the simple TTM P/E measure. This fact usually gets missed in discussions about the CAPE because market participants tend to analyze the market’s valuation in terms of forward earnings estimates.  On the most recent estimates for year-end 2015, the market’s P/E is 15.1, a number almost perfectly in-line with the historical average.  But this number is pure fantasy.  For the number to actually be achieved, the S&amp;P will need to generate $132.30 in reported earnings for 2015–a growth of almost 30% over the next 16 months, off of earnings and profit margins that are already starting at extreme highs.  How exactly will this supergrowth be achieved?  Will S&amp;P 500 revenues–and the overall U.S. GDP which they track–see 30% nominal growth over the next year and a half?  Are profit margins going to rise by 30%, from 10% to 13%?  Macroeconomically, the estimate makes no sense. Now, let’s compare the valuation signal of the Shiller CAPE to the valuation signal of the simple TTM P/E across history.  The following chart shows the percent difference between the CAPE valuation signal (the ratio of the CAPE to its historical average) and the TTM P/E valuation signal (the ratio of the TTM P/E to its historical average) from 1881 to 2014:  When the blue line is positive, the CAPE is calling the market more expensive than the TTM P/E.  When the blue line is negative, the CAPE is calling the market cheaper than the TTM P/E.  Right now, the CAPE is calling the market more expensive than the TTM P/E, but not by an extreme amount–the difference between the two metrics is in-line with the difference seen during other periods of history. With the exception of the large writedown-driven gyrations of the last two recessions, you can see that over the last two decades, the CAPE has consistently called the market more expensive than the TTM P/E.  But that hasn’t always been the case.  For much the 1980s and early 1990s, the tables were turned; the CAPE depicted the market as being cheaper than the TTM P/E. Now, why does the CAPE sometimes depict the market as more expensive than the ttm P/E, and sometimes cheaper?  The main reason has to do with the rate of real EPS growth over the trailing ten year period.  Recall that the Shiller CAPE is calculated by dividing the current real price of the index by the average of each month’s real TTM EPS going back 10 years (or 120 months).  When the real TTM EPS has grown significantly over the trailing 10 year period, this average tends to deviate by a larger amount from the most recent value, the value that is used to calculate the TTM P/E. The point can be confusing, so I’ve attempted to concretely illustrate it with the following schematic:  Consider the high real growth scenario on the left.  Real EPS grows from $100 to $200 over a ten year period.  The average of real EPS comes out to $150, relative to the most recent real TTM EPS number of $200.  The difference between the two, which drives the difference between the valuation signals of the CAPE and the TTM P/E, is high, around 33%. Now, consider the low real growth scenario on the right.  Real EPS grows from $100 to $110 over a ten year period.  The average of real EPS comes out to $105, relative to the most recent real TTM EPS number of $110.  The difference between the two, which drives the difference between the valuation signals of the CAPE and the TTM P/E, is low, around 5%. As you can see, on a Shiller CAPE basis, the market ends up looking much cheaper in the low real growth scenario than in the high real growth scenario, even though the valuation is the same on a TTM basis.  This result is not in itself a mistake–the purpose of the CAPE is to discount abnormal EPS growth that is at risk of being unwound going forward. To further confirm the relationship, consider the following chart, which shows the percent difference between the valuation signals of the CAPE and TTM P/E (blue) alongside the real EPS growth rate of the prior 10 years (red):  As expected, the two lines track very well.  In periods of high real EPS growth, the market ends up looking more expensive on the CAPE than on the TTM P/E.  In periods of negative real EPS growth, the market ends up looking less expensive on the CAPE than on the TTM P/E. Over the last two decades, the S&amp;P 500 has seen extremely high real EPS growth–6% annualized from 1992 to today, relative to a long-term average of 1.8%.  This fact, along with the goodwill accounting changes that severely depressed reported earnings during and after the last two recessions (the latter which is now out of the trailing ten year average, and no longer affecting the CAPE), explains why the CAPE has been high relative to the TTM P/E. But why has real EPS growth been so high over the last two decades?  Before we explore the reasons, let’s appraise the situation with a simple chart of real TTM reported EPS for the S&amp;P 500 from 1962 to present, with the period circa 1992 circled in red:  Surprisingly, from 1962 to 1992, real TTM EPS growth was zero.  For literally 30 years, the S&amp;P produced no real fundamental return, outside of the dividends that it paid out. But since then, real EPS growth has boomed.  From 1992 until 2014, S&amp;P earnings have quadrupled in real terms.  Why has real EPS growth picked up so much in the last two decades?  There are two main reasons, which we will now address. Changes in the Dividend Payout Ratio The first reason, which is less impactful, has to do with changes in the dividend payout ratio.  Recall from a prior piece that dividends and growth are fungible.  If the corporate sector lowers its dividend payout ratio to fund increased internal reinvestment (capex, M&amp;A, buybacks), real EPS growth will rise.  If it lowers its internal reinvestment (capex, M&amp;A, buybacks) to fund an increase in dividends, real EPS growth will fall.  Assuming that the market is priced at fair value, and that the return on equity stays constant over time, the effects of the change will cancel, so that shareholders end up with the same return. The chart below, from a prior piece, illustrates the phenomenon.  Over the long-term, the real return contribution from dividends (green) can rise or fall, but it doesn’t matter–the return contribution from real EPS growth (gold) shifts to offset the change, and keep the overall shareholder return constant (historically around 6%, assuming prices start out at fair value).  Now, we know that the dividend payout ratio for US equities has fallen steadily since the late 19th century, and therefore we should expect real EPS growth now to be higher than in the past.  The following chart shows the dividend payout ratio for the S&amp;P 500 from 1881 to 2014, where an average of dividends and earnings is used to eliminate noise:  But how much of a difference does the change in the dividend payout ratio make, as far real EPS growth and the Shiller CAPE are concerned?  The question is hard to answer. One thing we can do to get an idea of the size of the difference is to build a CAPE using a total return index instead of a price index.  Using a total return index instead of a price index puts all dividend payout ratios on the same footing. The following chart shows the Shiller CAPE built on a total return index (blue) instead of a price index (red), from 1891 to 2014:  [Details: The Total Return Shiller CAPE is constructed as follows.  Start with 1 share of the S&amp;P 500 at the beginning of the data set.  Reinvest the dividends earned by that share, and each subsequent share, as they are paid out.  The result will be an index of share count that grows over time.  To calculate the Shiller CAPE, take the current real price times the current number of shares, and divide by the average of the real price times the number of shares that were owned in each month, going back 10 years or 120 months. Then normalize the result for comparison with the original Shiller CAPE.] [Note: The flaw in this measure is that it quietly rewards markets that are overvalued and quietly punishes markets that are undervalued.  The dividend reinvestment in overvalued markets gets conducted at less accretive prices than the dividend reinvestment in undervalued markets, causing the metric to shift slightly in the lower direction for overvalued markets, and slightly in the upward direction for undervalued markets.  To address this problem, we could hypothetically conduct the dividend reinvestments at "fair value" instead of at the prevailing market price--but we don't yet have an agreed-upon way of measuring fair value!  We're trying to build such a measure--a measure that appropriately reflects the impact of dividend payout ratio changes.] With the S&amp;P at its current level of 2000, the Total Return Shiller CAPE comes in at around 23.5, 10% below the original Shiller CAPE, which is currently at 26.0.  A 10% difference isn’t huge, but it still matters. Changes in the Profit Margin The bigger factor underlying the strong growth in real EPS over the last two decades, and the associated upward shift in the Shiller CAPE relative to the TTM P/E, has been the trend of increasing profit margins, a trend that began in 1992, and that continues intact to this day.  To understand the powerful effect that changes in profit margins can have on real EPS growth, let’s take a moment to consider the general drivers of aggregate corporate EPS growth. There are three ways that the corporate sector can grow its EPS in aggregate: [Note: the corporate sector can also grow its nominal EPS by shrinking its outstanding share count through M&amp;A and share buybacks.  But this "float shrink" needs to be funded.  If it is funded with money that would otherwise have gone to dividends, then we're back to the fungibility point discussed earlier--on net, shareholders will not benefit.  If it is funded from money that would otherwise go to capex, then the effects of the reduction in share count will be offset by lower real earnings growth, and shareholders again will be left no better off.  If it is funded with an increased accumulation of debt--a "levering up" of corporate balance sheets--the assumption is that there will be a commensurate payback when the credit cycle turns, a payback in which dilutions, unfavorable financing agreements, and defaults undo the accretive effects of the prior share count reduction.  This story is precisely the one that unfolded from 2004 to 2008, and then from 2008 to 2010--a levered M&amp;A and buyback boom significantly reduced the S&amp;P share count, and then the dilutions of the ensuing recession brought the share count back to roughly where it began.] In reality, aggregate corporate EPS tends to change in response to a combination of all three processes occurring at the same time.  Some inflation, some real sales (output) growth, and some shift in the profit margin (cyclical or secular–either can occur, since profit margins are not a reliably mean-reverting series).  The important point to take away, however, is this: real sales growth (growth in the actual quantity of things made and sold) is hard to produce in large amounts, particularly on a per share or per capita basis. For such growth to occur, the economy needs to innovate, and innovation is a precious commodity.  For this reason, absent a profit margin change, it’s difficult for real EPS to grow rapidly over time.  Wherever you see a big jump in real EPS growth, there is almost always a profit margin increase involved. Not surprisingly, the real EPS quadrupling that began in 1992, and that that has caused the Shiller CAPE to substantially increase in value relative to the TTM P/E, has been driven almost entirely by the profit margin upshift that started in that year and that continues to this day.  In much the same way, the zero real EPS growth that investors suffered from 1962 to 1992, and that caused the market of the 1980s and early 1990s to generally look cheaper on a Shiller CAPE basis than on a TTM P/E basis, was driven primarily by the profit margin downshift that took place during the period. The following chart shows the net profit margin of the S&amp;P 500 on GAAP reported earnings from 1962 to 2014, with the period circa 1992 circled in red:  The following chart superimposes real EPS (green) onto the profit margin (blue):  As you can see, profit margins began the period in 1962 at almost 7%, and troughed in 1992 at less than 4%, leaving investors with zero real growth over a period of roughly 30 years.  From 1992 until today, profit margins rose from 4% to 10%, leaving investors with annualized real EPS growth of 6%, relative to the historical average of 1.8%. Interestingly, valuation bears have been warning about “peak profit margins” for four years now, yet profit margins keep rising.  In this most recent quarter, they reached a new record high, on top of the record high of the previous quarter, on top of the record high of the quarter before that, and so on.  What’s going on?  When is this going to stop, and why? Nobody knows the answer for sure–certainly not the valuation bears who have continually gotten the call wrong–but it’s still reasonable to assume that the profit margin uptrend seen over the last two decades will eventually peter out, probably sooner rather than later.  If and when that happens, real EPS growth will be limited to the contributions of real sales growth from reinvestment and float shrink from M&amp;A and buybacks.  Neither phenomenon is capable of producing the kind of supercharged real EPS growth that the S&amp;P has seen over the last two decades (especially not the M&amp;A and buybacks, which are occurring at very lofty valuations), and therefore, absent further profit margin increases, the rate of real EPS growth should moderate, and the divergence between the Shiller CAPE and the TTM P/E should narrow.  In actuality, it already is narrowing. Valuation: A Contingent Approach In a prior piece, I argued that profit margins are the epicenter of the valuation debate.  All of the non-cyclical valuation metrics that purport to show that the market is egregiously overvalued right now rely on specific, aggressive assumptions about the future trajectory of profit margins.  You can add the Shiller CAPE to that list, since its abnormal elevation relative to the TTM P/E is tied to the increase in profit margins that has occurred since the early-to-mid 1990s. When investors discuss valuation, they often approach the question as if there were an objective, determinate answer.  But there isn’t.  At best, valuation is a contingent judgement–a matter of probabilities and conditionalities: “if A, then B, then C, then the market is attractively valued”, “if X, then Y, then Z, then the market is unattractively valued.”  There are credible scenarios where the current market could end up producing low returns (and therefore be deemed “expensive” in hindsight) or normal returns (and therefore be deemed “cheap” in hindsight, particularly relative to the alternatives).  It all depends on how the concrete facts of the future play out, particularly with respect to earnings growth and the market multiple. With respect to the market’s current valuation and likely future return, let’s dispassionately examine some of the possibilities: Possibilty #1: Moderately Bullish Scenario The increase in profit margins that we’ve seen from the mid 1990s until now is retained going forward.  The increase doesn’t continue, but it also doesn’t reverse.  On this scenario, the market’s return will be determined by the fate of the P/E multiple. At 19.3 times reported TTM earnings, and 17.9 times operating TTM earnings, the market’s P/E multiple is clearly elevated on a historical basis. But it doesn’t immediately follow that the market will produce poor returns going forward on this scenario, because the multiple might stay elevated. The most likely scenario in which profit margins hold up is one where where the corporate sector continues to recycle its capital into M&amp;A, share buybacks, and dividends, while shunning expansive investment.  Generally, expansive investment brings about increased inter-firm competition and increased strain on the labor supply, both of which exert downward pressure on profit margins.  In contrast, capital recycling that successfully displaces expansive investment tends to bring about reduced inter-firm competition and reduced strain on the labor supply, both of which exert upward pressure on profit margins. The latter point is especially true of M&amp;A, which acts as the exact opposite of expansive investment, in terms of its effects on inter-firm competition. In a low-growth, low-investment, high-profit-margin world, where incoming capital is preferentially recycled into competition-killing M&amp;A and float-shrinking share repurchases, rather than deployed into the real economy, interest rates will probably stay low.  The frustrated “reach for yield” will remain intact, keeping the market’s P/E elevated (or even causing it to increase further).  If the market’s P/E stays elevated, there is no reason why the market can’t produce something close to a normal real return from current levels–a return on par with the 6% real return (8% to 10% nominal) that the market has produced, on average, across its history.  Relative to the opportunities on offer in the cash and fixed income spaces, such a return would be extremely attractive. Now, even if the current market–at a TTM P/E of 19.3 times reported earnings and 17.9 times operating earnings–is set to experience multiple contraction and lower-than-normal future returns, it doesn’t follow that the market’s current valuation is wrong.  The market should be priced to offer historically low returns, given the historically low returns that cash and fixed income assets are set to offer over the next several decades.  Indeed, if the market were not currently priced for historically low returns, then something would be wrong.  Investors would not be acting rationally, given what they (should) know about the future trajectory of monetary policy. Possibility #2: Moderately Bearish Scenario The increase in profit margins is not going to fully hold.  Some, but not all, of the profit margin gain will be given back.  On this assumption, it becomes harder to defend the market’s current valuation. Importantly, profit margin contraction–an income shift from capital to labor–tends to occur alongside strengthening sales growth.  In terms of the effect on EPS, stronger sales growth will help to make up for some of the profit that will be lost.  However, almost half of all sales growth ends up being inflation–the result of price increases rather than real output increases.  With inflation comes lower returns in real terms (the only terms that matter), and also, crucially, a tighter Fed.  If the Fed gets tighter, a TTM P/E of 19.3 will be much harder to sustain.  The market will therefore have to fight two headwinds at the same time–slow EPS growth due to profit margin contraction and a return drag driven by multiple contraction.  Returns on such a scenario will likely be weak. But they need not be disastrously weak.  In a prior piece, I argued that they might end up being 5% or 6% nominal, or 3% or 4% real.  Of course, that piece assumed a starting price of 1775. Nine months later, we are already at 2000.  The estimated returns have downshifted to 3% or 4% nominal, and 1% or 2% real.  Such returns offer almost no premium over the returns on offer in the much-safer fixed income world, and therefore, if any kind of profit margin contraction is coming, then the current market is probably pushing the boundaries of defensible valuation. Possibility #3: Aggressively Bearish Scenario Profit margins are going to fully revert to the pre-1990s average.  On this assumption, the market is outrageously expensive.  If, at a profit margin of 9% to 10%, EPS comes in at $103.5, and if profit margins are headed to the pre-1990s average of 5% or 6%, then the implication is that EPS is headed to around $55 (a number that will be adjusted upward in the presence of sales growth and inflation–but only as time gradually passes).  Instead of a historically elevated TTM P/E of 19, the market would be sitting at a true, normalized TTM P/E of around 36. Obviously, if margins and earnings were to suddenly come apart, such that the S&amp;P at 2000 shifts from being valued at 19 times earnings to being valued at 36 times earnings, as opposed to the “15 times forward” that investors think they are buying into, prices would suffer a huge adjustment.  If the shift were to happen quickly, over a short number of months or quarters, the market would almost certainly crash. But even if the shift were to happen very slowly, such that EPS simply stagnates in place, without falling precipitously, real returns over the next decade, and maybe even the next two or three decades, would still end up being very low–zero or even negative.  The profit margin contraction would eat away at real EPS growth, as it did from the 1960s until the 1990s.  Even nominal returns over various relevant horizons might end up being zero or negative. Possibility #4: Aggressively Bullish Scenario Profit margins are going to continue to increase.  Now, before you viscerally object, ask yourself: why can’t that happen?  Why can’t profit margins rise to 12% or 14% or even higher from here?  The thought might sound crazy, but how crazy would it have sounded if someone were to have predicted, in 1992, with the profit margins of S&amp;P 500 corporations at less than 4%, that twenty years later those profit margins would be holding steady north of 10%, more than 200 basis points above the previous record high? If profit margins are set to continue their upward increase, then the market might actually be cheap up here, and produce above average returns going forward.  The same is true if P/E multiples are set to continue their rise–a possibility that should not be immediately dismissed.  As always, the price of equity will be decided by the dynamics of supply and demand.  So long as we continue to live in a slow growth world aggressively backstopped by ultra-dovish Fed policy, a world where investors want and need a decent return, but can only get one in equities, there’s no reason why the market’s P/E multiple can’t get pushed higher, to numbers above 20, or even 25.  It certainly wouldn’t be the first time. All that is necessary for such an outcome to be achieved is for investors to re-anchor their perceptions of what is appropriate–become more tolerant, less afraid, of those kinds of valuation levels.  If the present environment holds safely for a long enough period of time, such a re-anchoring will occur naturally, on its own.  Indeed, it’s occurring right now, as we speak.  Three years ago, nobody would have been comfortable with the market at 2000, 19 times trailing earnings.  People were acclimatized to 13 or 14 as the standard of what is “reasonable” , and were even debating whether 10 was going to be the post-crisis “new normal.”  The psychology has obviously shifted since then, and could easily continue to shift. As for me, I tend to lean towards option #2: the moderately bearish option.  I’m expecting weak long-term returns, with some profit margin contraction as labor supply tightens, and some multiple contraction as Fed policy gets more normal–but not a return to the historical averages.  Importantly, I don’t foresee a realization of the moderately bearish outcome any time soon.  It’s a ways away. I expect the market to eventually get slammed, and pay back its valuation excesses.  If this occurs, it will probably occur in the next recession, which is when valuation excesses generally get paid back–not during expansionary periods, but during contractions.  But the next recession is at least a few years away, maybe longer.  The current expansion needs to progress further, so that more real economic excesses are built up (more misallocations in the deployment of the economy’s real labor and capital resources), excesses that get pressured by tighter monetary policy, before sizeable recession becomes a risk.  In the meantime, I expect the market to continue its frustrating and painful grind higher, albeit it at a slower pace, offering only small pullbacks in response to temporary scares.  Those who are holding out for something “bigger” are unlikely to be rewarded any time soon. Given the headwinds, I think the long-term total return–through the end of the current business cycle–will be around 3% to 4% nominal, or 1% to 2% real.  Poor, but still better than the other options on the menu.  An investor’s best bet, in my view, would be to underweight U.S. equity markets in favor of more attractively priced alternatives–in Europe, Japan, and in the capital-friendly Emerging Markets. (h/t to the must-follow Patrick O’Shaughnessy @millennial_inv of OSAM for his valuable help on this piece) This article originally appeared at Philosophical Economics.  Copyright 2014. Follow Philosophical Economics on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNorwegian Cruise Line CEO Sheehan gives an interview following his company's IPO at the Nasdaq Market site in New YorkBy Soyoung Kim and Greg Roumeliotis (Reuters) - Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd , the world's third largest cruise operator, is in advanced talks to acquire peer Prestige Cruises International Inc for around $3 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. A deal would give Norwegian Cruise, a company with a market value of $6.8 billion, access to Prestige Cruises' luxury cruise ships and affluent clientele as it competes with bigger rivals Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd  and Carnival Corp . An agreement may be announced as early as this week, the sources said on Sunday, cautioning that the talks could still fall apart. The owner of Prestige Cruises, private equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC , also owns a 20 percent stake in Norwegian Cruise. The sources asked not to be identified because the negotiations are not public. Norwegian Cruise and Prestige Cruises representatives did not respond to requests for comment, while an Apollo spokesman declined to comment. Miami-based Norwegian Cruise operates 13 cruise ships in routes spanning North America, the Mediterranean, the Baltic, Central America and the Caribbean. It had revenues of $2.57 billion in 2013, up 13 percent from 2012. Prestige Cruises, also based in Miami, operates under the Oceania and Regent brands, which together have eight cruise ships traveling to Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, North America, Asia, Africa and South America. It posted revenues of $1.2 billion in 2013, up 6 percent from the year earlier. The $29 billion cruise industry is expected to benefit in the coming years from the rise of the middle class in emerging economies such as China and India. Companies are racing to position themselves as the cruise operators of choice for these new customers. Prestige Cruises registered with U.S. regulators for an initial public offering in January 2014. Apollo has been the company's majority shareholder following an $850 million deal in 2007. Norwegian Cruise was created in its current form in 2000 through a merger with a cruise operator owned by Genting Bhd , the leisure and casino conglomerate controlled by Malaysian billionaire Lim Kok Thay. Apollo made a $1 billion investment in Norwegian Cruise in 2008. Norwegian Cruise went public in January 2013. Genting had a 28 percent stake, Apollo had a 20 percent stake and private equity firm TPG Capital LP had an 8 percent stake in the company as of the end of June, according to a regulatory filing. Carnival, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Norwegian Cruise together account for 82 percent of the North American cruise passenger berth capacity, according to Prestige Cruises' initial public offering registration document.  (Reporting by Soyoung Kim and Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Paul Simao and Sandra Maler) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Jon Pack and Gary HustwitThe Olympic ski jumps from the 1984 Sarajevo Winter Olympics are now used for a different purpose entirely.Since the inception of the modern Olympics, there have been 49 winter and summer games held in 41 different cities around the globe. Some were great successes. Others, not so much. Researchers have known for years that cities that host large sporting events like the Olympics generally spend more money and make less than anticipated. And investing in an Olympic Games won't necessarily lead to long-term economic growth or improved infrastructure. Photographers and artists Jon Pack and Gary Hustwit set out to document what exactly happens when the games are over, and discovered varying answers. Pack and Hustwit explored and photographed relics and remains of once-new Olympic features in 13 cities. Their photos, collected in a new book entitled "The Olympic City," show the varied remnants of Olympic Games gone by.  "We're interested in the idea of government-approved spending — and these are huge amounts of money — to build massive structures, some of it temporary, all to host an event that will only last a couple of weeks ... Are [the people] benefiting from having been a part of the Olympics? Are the games a point of pride or regret?" Pack explains. Some places faired well, standing the test of time by adapting to new roles. Other structures fell to shambles after years of disuse. Both aspects, rebirth from ingenuity and death from poor planning, are documented in the series, which acts as a interesting behind-the-scenes look at the games we know and love.
Deutsche BankThe European Central Bank will meet on Thursday and announce any changes to its already easy monetary policy. The meeting follows an ugly series of depressing economic reports. And amid broad evidence of slowing, it's become very clear that inflation is getting closer to zero. On Friday, we learned consumer prices in the 18-country eurozone climbed by just 0.3% in August, a slight tick down from 0.4% in July. Prices in Italy actually fell 0.2% year-over-year. This lack of inflation should provide the ECB with the flexibility to ease policy further. However, the consensus is for the ECB to make no change in its policy, which includes a main refinancing rate of 0.15%, a marginal lending facility rate of 0.4%, and a deposit facility rate of -0.1%. Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok is among the economists who believe ECB President Mario Draghi will act. "It is difficult to see how the ECB next week is going to ignore the trend we have seen over the past two years in this chart," wrote Slok in an email that included the chart above. "And note that this trend is not just driven by Ukraine or temporary factors. It is going to take some time to reverse this downtrend in European inflation and as a result US rates are going to look attractive for at least a few more months." Indeed, while the forces initially slowing Europe down appear to have come from within, we can't ignore the fact that Putin's control over Europe's gas supply only keeps downside risks elevated. FREE AppDownload
For decades, there's been a widespread misunderstanding of monosodium glutamate — aka, MSG. We debunk the long-running myth that MSG is bad for you. Sources: York University, FDA, Smithsonian Mag, Georgetown University Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Vivek Prakash The August employment report will be released next Friday, September 5th and the consensus is that 210 thousand payroll jobs were added in August. Here are two forecasts: From economist Kris Dawsey at Goldman Sachs: Employment indicators have strengthened a bit in August vs. July, including the employment components of the available service sector surveys, the Conference Board labor differential, and initial jobless claims. Our preliminary forecast for August payroll job growth is 240k, with the important caveat that we have yet to receive a few key pieces of data for the month, most notably the ISM nonmanufacturing report. ... With no special factors on weather, strikes, unusual composition in the prior month, fiscal policy issues, or obvious seasonal distortions, we think the August report should be a fairly “clean read” on the likely-strengthening underlying trend. We also anticipate a downtick of one-tenth in the unemployment rate to 6.1%, matching its prior cycle low set two months back. Should the participation rate give up its small July increase, the risk is skewed toward 6.0%, in our view. From Merrill Lynch: The August employment report is likely to be healthy with nonfarm payroll growth of 245,000 and a decline in the unemployment rate to 6.1% from 6.2%. ... Early indicators of the labor market have all been encouraging with the conference board labor differential narrowing to -12.4% as an increase in respondents believe jobs have become plentiful. Initial jobless claims have remained low, hovering around 300,000, consistent with little firing. Moreover, manufacturing job growth should be strong as suggested by healthy surveys and recent industrial production data. We expect the unemployment rate to fall back to 6.1%, reversing the increase last month. FREE AppDownload
Russian social media “I think that nobody thinks of [winter] anymore, except Russia,” Putin said on Sunday, according to The New York Times. “There are ways of helping resolve the issue. First, to immediately stop hostilities and start restoring the necessary infrastructure. To start replenishing reserves, conducting the necessary repair operations and preparing for the cold season.” Geysar Gurbanov, a Rotary international world peace fellow currently at Harvard, recently explained the leverage that Putin has over Ukraine as the temperature drops. "According to the U.S. Energy Information Agency, [Ukraine's] primary energy consumption is fueled by natural gas (40%) and coal (28%)," Gurbanov writes in The Duke Chronicle. "With winter coming to Ukraine in less than four months and the coal mines located in the easternmost part of the country ravaged by conflict, Ukrainians will freeze in their homes as their gas supplies from Russia are depleted. Therefore, if the rebels fail to achieve their goal, Gazprom, Russia’s energy giant, will help Putin to win the war eventually." NSDCLast week, Russian troops helped separatists open a third front near the city of Mariupol. In 2013, Russian gas accounted for half of the total gas consumed in Ukraine. On June 16, Russia cut off gas supplies to Ukraine over unpaid bills. Earlier this month, Gazprom said that Ukraine's outstanding debt for gas supplies stood at $5.3 billion as of Aug. 1. As Alistair Newman of Nomura noted last month, Russia's arguments for humanitarian intervention and the potential for engineering a fresh gas crisis in Ukraine will become stronger in a few months if he can sustain the separatist militias until then. Moscow has already said that Ukraine would have to prepay for future gas shipments unless Kiev begins payments on accumulated debts. The EU is currently trying to broker a deal that would allow shipments to resume temporarily. In any case, Putin has the upper hand as Ukraine's gas reserves run out as winter sets in. “Can Ukraine now survive without Russian gas? No, it can’t," Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said earlier this month, according to RIA Novosti. "How much Russian gas do we need to buy? About 5 billion cubic meters."  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLONDON (Reuters) - Warren Buffett built a fortune of nearly $60 billion from astute stock picking, but when the 83-year-old dies, the vast majority of the money he leaves his wife will be parked in a fund that simply moves in step with an index. The afterlife plans of the man nicknamed the Sage of Omaha, revealed in a letter to his investors earlier this year, underline a sea change afoot in the investment industry. Fed up with high fees and poor performance, investors are increasingly shunning active fund managers who promise to beat the stock market in favor of cheaper, passive funds, which simply track it. Such funds account for about a quarter of the money invested in the UK stock market, up from 15 percent a decade ago. The switch is accelerating, with index funds attracting inflows of $3 billion in the first half of this year, while active UK-focused funds saw $4 billion leave, a Reuters analysis of data from fund tracker Lipper showed. The passive wind blows even stronger in the United States due to years of underperformance by active funds, which has led to institutions parking half of their equity allocations in index trackers, according to data from State Street. And the shift is spreading to other parts of the world, putting at risk revenues earned by money managers, banks and brokerages that service funds and more than half a million jobs related to fund management in Europe alone. Industry experts expect Europe, where active mutual funds are still the dominant force, making up 80 percent of allocations, to move more in sync with the United States, following the lead of Britain, the region's top capital market. "It's only a surprise that investors have taken this long to realize that the puffery around long-term outperformance, star managers, etc., is just that ... puffery," said Peter Douglas, founder of investment consultancy GFIA.  NICE N' EASY, TILL NOW Patchy economic recovery since the 2008 crisis and increased regulation, such as a proposed clampdown on a fund's activities in times of a crisis to ensure stability, have hampered active managers' ability to outperform. Weak gains have already made it harder to justify fees that are sometimes 10 times or more than the cost of a passive fund, which in the case of the most liquid exchange-traded funds can be less than 0.1 percent on a headline level, before factoring in brokerage, transaction and tax costs. While some active funds have cut their charges or introduced cheaper products in response to the threat, the gap is still large. Leading index fund providers such as Vanguard, Deutsche Bank and BlackRock have cut fees this year to grab market share, putting further pressure on the active managers to do more. "You can't charge what you could in the past," said Chris Iggo, chief investment officer for fixed income at AXA Investment Managers, which manages 582 billion euros ($764.39 billion). "In a way it's a good thing. For many years the fund management industry had it easy ... Return on capital in fund management has been very nice." Vanguard, whose S&amp;P 500 index fund Buffett favored in his letter to investors, and BlackRock have taken in the bulk of new money to European fund houses since the summer of 2013. The biggest equity fund investing across Europe, Vanguard European Stock Index Fund, managed $22.4 billion at the end of July, more than twice the size of Fidelity Funds-European Growth, the biggest actively managed fund for the region. The growth in passive funds is reflected in the industry's net revenues, which have remained flat globally for the last four years, according to the Boston Consulting Group, even as funds under management hit a record $69 trillion in 2013.   ADDED VALUE? The biggest problem for active fund managers charging more for their services is consistently beating the market. A study of fund returns in local currency over the last 10 years using data from Lipper shows only 35 percent of the funds investing in Britain have outperformed the FTSE All Share Total Return index, which includes dividend payouts from constituents. That percentage declined to 29 percent in the first half of the year. Active funds investing across continental Europe, meanwhile, have performed even worse, with just a fifth of them gaining more than the MSCI Europe Total Return index since 2003. The star managers that do manage to beat the crowd often fail to maintain their outperformance. Of the 107 top quartile funds, or those ranking among the top 25 percent by gain from investing in British stocks in 2013, only 18 managed to repeat the feat through June-end this year. Two of them held that spot for the previous five years, and none managed to achieve the feat over the last 10 years. A similar pattern is found when looking at other regions around the world, Reuters data showed. For Buffett, this meant one thing for the average investor. "The goal of the non-professional should not be to pick winners – neither he nor his 'helpers' can do that – but should rather be to own a cross-section of businesses that in aggregate are bound to do well. A low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund will achieve this goal," he said in his letter to investors. The struggle to pick a winner consistently has led some leading institutional investors to change how they invest, with some of them putting the bulk of their funds, as much as 70 percent in some cases, in passive investments, said Laurence Wormald, head of research at Sungard APT. Money managers of all stripes are also developing new products to offer cost-conscious investors a middle ground between the pure passive and active. So-called "smart beta" funds track a bespoke index that has been tweaked to weight it in different ways, using factors such as stocks' cheapness or price momentum. Net flows into U.S.-based smart beta equity funds stood at $234 billion in the first seven months of the year, already exceeding the total inflows of $208 billion recorded last year, according to data from BlackRock. In spite of the strong demand for low-cost passive funds, active fund managers will continue to play a key role in the global investment industry because the possibility of higher returns is always attractive, particularly in a low yield environment. In addition, there is only so far the market can go passive before the price of a stock - still the most popular asset class for passive investing - becomes detached from fundamentals, thereby allowing an active manager to profit more handsomely. The ability to profit in such as manner has been evidenced most recently by firms such as Glaucus Research and Gotham City Research, who have spotted corporate fraud through a deep investigation into company accounts, such as at Gowex. "Passive investing is obviously at the mercy of these frauds," said Michele Gesualdi, chief investment officer of hedge fund investor Kairos. "If you are with a long-only active fund or a hedge fund, then certainly you have a chance to avoid these frauds or maybe finding them as shorts," he added, referring to short-selling, the ability to sell a borrowed stock and profit when it falls. Still, some 3,200 money managers in Europe will need to broaden their expertise across asset classes and develop new products to reassure investors they are adding value. "That's the acid test," said Thomas Ross, head of European distribution at U.S. money manager William Blair, which manages $62 billion, largely for institutions. "Can you beat the benchmark after fees? If you can, you'll fare well, and if not, the market will move against you and you'll be indexed."   (Editing by Carmel Crimmins and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Yuya ShinoBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko KurodaAt last week’s gathering of central bank presidents in Jackson Hole, the European Central Bank’s Mario Draghi and the US Federal Reserve’s Janet Yellen stole the limelight. Rather less press attention was paid to the remarks of Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, whose monetary policies have been largely responsible for the recovery of the world’s third largest economy (after the United States and China).  An expansive quantitative easing program, one much bigger relative to the size of the Japanese economy than the quantitative easing undertaken by the Federal Reserve, has been the one element of Prime Minister Abe’s economic program (“Abenomics”) that has clearly been successful. QE is the first “arrow” of the program. The other two “arrows,” fiscal policy and economic reform, have been notably less effective. Economic reforms have been modest thus far, and the net effect of fiscal policy has been negative due to the consumption tax increase in April. In recent weeks, as the extent of the second-quarter pullback in the economy became evident, an increasing number of observers have asked whether “Abenomics” is failing. Friday’s lead editorial in the Financial Times was titled “Abe must keep his project on track – Japan’s economic recovery hangs in the balance.” It is evident that moving the economy onto a positive and sustainable growth path will require the Bank of Japan to maintain, and probably increase, its massive monetary stimulus well beyond the end of this year. Kuroda’s remarks at Jackson Hole imply that the BOJ is committed to this course. “We will continue our current monetary policy, but if there is anything which could derail our course toward the 2% inflation target, we will not hesitate to change or adjust our policy.” Furthermore, he noted that the BOJ’s monetary easing policy might have to be pursued “for some time.” That will be necessary to get to the point where “inflation expectations are anchored to 2 percent.” He explained that creating and maintaining  the expectation that inflation will continue at a positive, if modest, rate for the foreseeable future is essential to get firms to raise wages and invest rather than to continue hoarding cash. It looks very likely to us that reaching and staying at a core inflation rate of 2% will require additional monetary stimulus. That course will keep interest rates at a very low level, stimulate the Japanese economy, and be positive for asset prices. Even if the 2% target proves to be elusive, as some economists argue, Japan should see an end to the deflation that has had such a destructive effect on its economy. Of course, Abe should not rely solely on the central bank to keep his economic recovery program on track. He needs to sharpen and accelerate the economic reform “arrow” of Abenomics, focusing in particular on the labor market. Also, in view of the experience with the first of two planned increases in the consumption tax, he may find it prudent to delay or cancel the second increase, a move from 8 to 10%, scheduled for next year. It would be better to wait until consumer spending has a stronger basis of rising real wages. As the economic recovery appeared to stall in the second quarter, many individual investors decided to close their Japan equity market positions. Institutional investors were less quick to depart. Despite concerns about the recovery, the Japan TOPIX Index is up 10% over the past three months, a period when the S&amp;P 500 gained 5.5%. The latest flash (August) Japan Purchasing Managers’ Index for Manufacturing is the strongest since March, with output and new orders rising sharply. This  suggests the economy is resilient, recovering quickly from its second-quarter swoon. While we expect the Japanese economy will advance at a very moderate pace in the coming quarters, corporate earnings are expected to remain strong. At Cumberland, we remain positive about Japanese equities and are maintaining the significant Japan positions in our International and Global Equity ETF portfolios. Along with the expected general effects of the monetary stimulus program on the economy, the Japanese equity market is receiving support from the BOJ’s purchases of equity market ETFs. (Consider what the effect would be if the Fed started buying US equity ETFs.) . Also, the government pension plan is increasing its allocation to domestic equities. US investors now have some 19 Japan equity market ETFs from which to choose, not counting leveraged or inverse ETFs. The two most liquid by far are the iShares MSCI Japan ETF, EWJ, which is up 2.6% over the past six months, and the WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund, DXJ, which is up 5.12% over the same period. DXJ is hedged against changes in the yen-US dollar exchange rate, and its holdings are based on dividends. A currency hedge looks prudent to us. Our outlook for continued and expanded monetary stimulus implies further depreciation of the yen versus the US dollar in coming months. The Deutsche X-Trackers MSCI Japan Hedged Equity ETF, DBJP, is another total market-hedged ETF that has good liquidity and a lower expense ratio. It is up 4.04% over the last 6 months. The small-cap sector in Japan is also worthy of consideration. The most liquid ETF is the WisdomTree Japan SmallCap Fund, DFJ, which is up 7.10% over the past six months. The hedged alternative, the WisdomTree Hedged SmallCap Equity Fund, DXJS, was launched just last year and is considerably less liquid. It is up 7.81% over the past six months. This commentary was written by Bill Witherell, Cumberland’s Chief Global Economist.  He joined Cumberland after years of experience at the OECD in Paris.  His bio is found on Cumberland’s home page, www.cumber.com.  He can be reached at  Bill.Witherell@cumber.com. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan FundsIt's easy to look at charts like the one to the right and conclude that the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s was a lot like the credit bubble a decade later. Sure, the stock market made similar moves. But, no two bubbles are alike. And the last two bubbles were very different. Time.com's Pat Regnier recently interviewed PIMCO Chief Economist Paul McCulley. Regnier asked if we should be worried about bubbles in the stock market like the one we may be witnessing in biotech stocks right now. Here's the exchange (emphasis added): Q: You argued the 2008 crisis was the result of good times making investors complacent. With Fed chair Janet Yellen talking about high prices for things like biotech stocks, is complacency a danger again? A: I don’t worry too much about irrational exuberance in things like biotech. It doesn’t involve the irrational creation of credit, as the property bubble did. Think of the Internet and tech bubble back in 1999. It created a nasty spell, but it didn’t lead to five years in purgatory for the economy either. That distinction between a credit (bond market) bubble and an equity (stock market) bubble is an important one. Small startups like Internet and biotech companies tend to be unusually speculative because at the start, they have no revenue. Most of the time, all of their costs lead to losses. As such, banks don't want to lend, and these companies don't want to borrow for fear of going bankrupt before they even had a shot. As a result, there isn't much credit creation going on here. Goldman SachsThese companies, which have little or no debt on their balance sheets, are financed by investors who commit tons of equity capital with the expectations that they'll own a slice of what could one day become an extremely profitable company. That equity has the potential to swing wildly. An extreme example of occurred during the dotcom bubble, where companies with no earnings exploded in value and then saw that value fall to zero. People went went broke as fast as they got rich during dotcom bubble. While the dotcom bubble did cause some serious economic damage, it was relatively contained and it was nothing compared to the credit bubble that came later. The credit bubble was marked by the U.S. housing bubble. People were buying homes, and then buying more homes, and then borrowing against those homes to buy other stuff. With home prices only going up, everyone from banks to pension funds to mom-and-pop happily financed this behavior by buying up bonds. All of that borrowing and lending created inflated demand for goods and jobs. Calculated RiskThe Scariest Jobs Chart Ever.But when that bubble burst, the contraction was for more devastating. Just take a look at what's known as "The Scariest Jobs Chart Ever." It illustrates how long it took for the U.S. to recover all of the jobs it lost during the last recession (red line), or the Great Recession. Compare that to the recession that followed the dotcom bubble (brown line). The stock market may get a lot more attention on the news. However, the bond markets are much bigger (see below). And when the bond markets bust, then we've got some serious problems. McKinsey Global Institute FREE AppDownload
Danny Moloshok/ReutersRichard Branson, founder and chairman of the Virgin Group.They say the early bird catches the worm, and nowhere is this old adage more true than in business. Waking up early allows executives like AOL's Tim Armstrong and Pepsi's Indra Nooyi to get a head start on the day, knocking out tasks before the rest of the world is out of bed. The extra time also gives people the chance to work out and do some of their most valuable creative thinking. Whether they use the time to catch up on email or take their kids to school, these executives all make the most of their mornings. She also uses the time to fit in a workout,&nbsp;according to Laura Vanderkam's "What The Most Successful People Do Before Breakfast."&nbsp;Burns schedules an hour of personal training at 6 a.m. twice a week.&nbsp; Referring to his schedule and work ethic, one exec is quoted in the FT as saying: "Sergio invented an eighth day, and we work it." In that "60 Minutes" special, another exec said: "When it was a holiday in Italy he'd come to America to work. When it's a holiday in America he goes to Italy to work."&nbsp; He kept up that routine during a period in which he shuttled back and forth between Square and Twitter, spending about eight hours a day at both companies.&nbsp; He does his best to use those early hours to exercise before an early breakfast and getting to work.&nbsp; In a speakers series at Pepsi, she revealed that she was at work every day by no later than 7. He takes it easy on the weekends, arriving at the office by 7 a.m. instead. "Once or twice a week, I go for a walk in Central Park with a young person seeking my advice. This is my way of helping bring along the next generation. And if someone is up early in the morning, then they are serious about life. I can't take time at the office to do this, but doing it in the morning allows me to get exercise and stay connected with young people at the same time." She was formerly the CTO of Motorola and has been one of the most highly acclaimed women in business during her career. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren BuffettWarren Buffett turned 84 years old on Saturday. And even at that age, the billionaire "Oracle of Omaha" continues to be involved in some of the biggest investment plays in the world. Buffett is undoubtedly the most successful investor in history. His investment philosophy is no secret, and he has repeatedly shared bits and pieces of it through a lifetime of quips and memorable quotes. His brilliance is timeless, and we find ourselves referring back to them over and over again. We compiled a few of Buffett's best quotes from his TV appearances, newspaper op-eds, magazine interviews, and of course his annual letters. FREE AppDownload

NewMoney.govDriven by the real and anticipated divergence in economic performance and trajectory of monetary policy, the long anticipated US dollar recovery has begun.  As is evident in the positioning of the futures market, and confirmed by anecdotal evidence, speculative participants have amassed a significant large US dollar position.    Broader measures of portfolio flows are less timely, but those that track mutual fund and ETF flows also report foreign demand for US assets.   The two knocks against the currency market have been the lack of follow through and the low volatility.   The former has been exaggerated, and the latter may be changing.  Perhaps what many say was the lack of follow through was really about being on the wrong side of the trade.  Rather than continue to rally, the dollar's advance against the yen stopped dead in its tracked at the start of the year.  Sterling trended higher from around $1.65 in mid-March to $1.72 in mid-July and that back to $1.65 in late-August.    Sterling's recent decline including a 7-week losing streak that ended last week (just barely).  And with last week's losses, the euro itself has declined for seven consecutive weeks.   Volatility in the euro and yen have been moving higher.  The three-month implied volatility of both the euro-dollar and dollar-yen spent last week above their 100-day moving averages after bottoming in mid-July.   For the euro, it is the first time since the start of the year, and this is the longest the implied dollar-yen vol has stayed above its 100-day average since the middle of last year.   Sterling is an exception to the general pattern of a stronger dollar, higher volatility.  Sterling peaking against the dollar in mid-July, but the implied volatility peaked a few weeks later in early August. Perhaps at when sterling fell through a technical retracement objective near $1.68, the option players only then recognized that a top of some import was in place and were no longer looking to buy upside protection.  As the sterling has moved back into more familiar levels, volatility has continued to ease and is back to within striking distance of the multi-year low set in June near 5%.  That said, we can see how an out-of-the-money options could offer attractive returned if the Scottish referendum in the middle of September surprises or, if once passed this key event, sterling rallies.   Technically, the dollar looks stretched, but there is no compelling evidence to think that it has reached an important top against the yen, or that the euro is near a bottom.  Sterling has been nesting in the $1.6540-60 area and is fundamentally positioned to out-perform the continental currencies and yen. However, it might struggle to recoup much ground against the dollar until the Scottish referendum is held.    The ECB meeting is key, and ahead of it, the euro could lose a cent, but remain above $1.30. We see a better chance of a rate cut than the unveiling of an ABS purchase program, or some other variant of QE that many other observers have emphasized.  Many observers do think Draghi pre-committed ECB action in his Jackson Hole speech, especially the improvised additions.   We are bemused by the fact that many who have argued that QE was ineffective in the US, UK, Japan, and Switzerland are among those who advocate it for the ECB.    In any event, do see a heightened risk of either disappointment with the ECB's action or "sell the rumor buy the fact" type of activity that can potentially trigger a squeeze. Such a bounce can be anticipated by investors and used to help time the implementation of an allocation strategy.   It is interesting to consider who is selling the yen.  We know speculators in the futures market has built a substantial short yen position.  We know from the MOF weekly data that Japanese investors have stepped up their purchases of foreign assets.  Japan's public pension fund appears to have stepped up the diversification out of JGBs, raising foreign bond allocations.  Many suggest the carry-trade is back in vogue. While this is possible, we are skeptical.  There are other reasons to sell the yen besides carry, like momentum and portfolio allocation optimization.    Moreover, Japan is no longer the low-interest rate country.   Overnight money in the euro area briefly exchanged hands at less than zero.  The German yield curve, out to three years, had a negative yield at the end of the week.   None of the Japanese curve is negative.  At the long-end consider that Switzerland's benchmark 10-year bond yield is a couple of basis points through Japan.   The point is not that it is not a carry trade because there is no yield pick-up, but rather because the yen is not the most attractive funding currency now.  In addition, the fact of the matter is that the dollar-yen upside breakout was not a function of a wider US premium over Japan, which many, including ourselves had expected.   The dollar-bloc currencies do look to be better-positioned technically.  Since the end of the Q1, the Canadian and Australian dollars have been the best performers, gaining 1.7% and 0.8% respectively against the dollar.  We suspect the Canadian dollar can continue to outperform.  Both central banks meet next week.  Neither will change policy, but the RBA is more likely to complain about the currency's strength.   Currently, we would argue; Canada draws a bigger benefit of being integrated into the US economy that Australia does being tied to China.  The recent data suggests that the Canadian economy has greater momentum than Australia. This is especially important for equity investors, where the Toronto Stock Index is up 14.5% compared with the ASX's 5.1% advance year-to-date.   Australia does offer a higher yields than Canada.  We are also more inclined to see the RBA cut than the BOC (though not until late this year, or more likely, next year).    The US dollar found support ahead of CAD1.08.  This is an important area, and a break would allow the greenback to complete the double top pattern carved out near CAD1.10 and has a minimal objective of  CAD1.0720.  The 5-day moving average crossed below the 20-day at the end of last week  This is the first such crossing since mid-July that signaled a near-3% move.   US S&amp;P 500 made new record highs last week, though spent most of last week consolidating. August was its best month since February (up ~1.5%, NASDAQ up near 3%).  Volume was especially light during the last week and a half.  With interest rates low and still falling, what many see as the ultimate fuel for equities would appear to remain in place.  The US 10-year yield made new lows for the move before the weekend, while the 2-year yield was pushed back below 50 bp.  Lastly, we note that the price of oil (generic) rallied last week, snapping a six week declining streak.  It is testing its 20-day moving average near $96.  It has not traded above this average since July 22.  Observations from speculative positioning in the futures market:  1.  There were two significant position adjustments in the CFTC reporting period ending August 26.  The gross long yen position increased by 17.2k contracts to 122.4k.  The gross long Mexican peso position grew 15.5k contracts to 71.7k.  2. Separately, we note that the gross short euro position rose by 9k contracts to 204.6.    The record gross position was set in July 2012 near 244k contracts.  Even though the risk of break-up of the euro area and the risk that a large country defaults have fallen sharply, sentiment is almost as extreme.  3.  Many Treasury bears threw in the towel in the latest period.  About 22% of the gross short position was covered.  In numerical terms, this was 116.5k contracts.  This brought the gross short position down to 410k contracts.  The gross longs were pared by 65k contracts to 418k.   This was enough to swing the net position to long for the first time in a year.          Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThe competitive nature of playing a sport has helped a lot of folks succeed on Wall Street. And tennis is one of the most popular sports in finance today.  Wall Street is littered with top tennis players.  Many of them were top ranked junior players. Some were All-Americans in college. A few played professionally and were ranked globally. Hedge fund titans Bill Ackman (Pershing Square), Philippe Laffont (Coatue), Ricky Sandler (Eminence) and Barry Sternlicht (Starwood Capital) are also all active in this community. People have been able to do business around their forehands and backhands. That's because many of the tennis players on Wall Street know each other very well and feel comfortable doing business together. What's more, a bunch of the younger players met their employers on the court, and certain firms just love tennis players in general. We noticed in our list that Wexford Capital, ISI and Taconic Capital had a bunch of players.  In short, the tennis court is great place for networking in general. One big player joked that Bill Ackman seems to fill his 7:30 a.m. Saturday court with aspiring junior hedge fund analysts who happen to be stellar players.  Ackman actually met former Pershing Square analyst Mariusz Adamski playing tennis. Wexford Capital's Jason Pinsky is a frequent doubles partner for Ackman. Since the U.S. Open is happening right now, we thought it would be a perfect time to introduce you to some of the biggest players on Wall Street. Please note, this list is not a ranking. These names are not in any particular order. If you feel like we're missing someone, shoot an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. Please include why they should be on the list and include a photo. Thanks!  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGermany's Chancellor Merkel holds a news conference after a EU summit in BrusselsBERLIN (Reuters) - A German news magazine reported on Sunday that Chancellor Angela Merkel is unhappy with European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi for apparently proposing a greater emphasis on fiscal stimulus over austerity in order to boost growth in Europe. Der Spiegel reported, without citing any sources, that she and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble had both called the ECB president last week to take him to task about comments he made in a speech at Jackson Hole, Wyoming on Aug 22. German officials were not immediately available to comment on the Spiegel story. Draghi told a conference of central bankers that it would be "helpful for the overall stance of policy" if fiscal policy could play a greater role alongside the ECB's monetary policy. The magazine said Merkel wanted to know if the ECB had decided to change tack away from fiscal austerity in the euro zone, as championed by Germany, among others. Der Spiegel said Draghi had defended his Jackson Hole speech, which was interpreted as meaning that the ECB, having cut interest rates to record lows and injected money into the economy to support a recovery, was now looking at fiscal stimulus as a way of fomenting growth and facilitating reform. Schaeuble said last week that he believed Draghi's comments had been "over-interpreted". Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi is leading a call, with the backing of France, for less focus on austerity and more room for maneuver within the European Union's budget rules. REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi (L) talks to Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel during a European Union leaders summit in Brussels June 29, 2012. (Reporting by Stephen Brown; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Adrees Latif One of the first customers to purchase the Apple iPhone 5S celebrates after exiting the Apple Retail Store on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, New York September 20, 2013. WHEN Imperial Tobacco, the world's fourth-largest cigarette-maker, said in July that it would spend $7.1 billion to expand its business in America, its chief executive, Alison Cooper, was adamant on one point: it will not be buying companies.  Instead, in a three-way deal with Reynolds American and Lorillard, it will pick up a factory, a sales force and, above all, a collection of brands. Two of them, Winston and Blu (an electronic-cigarette brand), will be "the focus for the lion's share of time and money invested". No management expert would think it strange that Imperial would spend the best part of $7 billion on something as ethereal as brands. They are the most valuable thing that companies as diverse as Apple and McDonald's own, often worth much more than property and machinery. Brands account for more than 30% of the stockmarket value of companies in the S&amp;P 500 index, reckons Millward Brown, a market-research company. Everyone knows that a Ralph Lauren Polo shirt costs more than a polo shirt; Coke without the logo is just cola. Ms Cooper hopes to exploit Winston's "untapped brand equity". Yet arguments rage about how much brands are worth and why. Firms that value them come to starkly different conclusions. Most of the time they do not appear as assets on companies' balance-sheets (see "Accounting for brands: Untouchable intangibles"). One school of thought says brands succeed mainly by inspiring loyalty. "Consumers would die for Apple," believes Nick Cooper of Millward Brown. Others take a cooler view. Bruce McColl, who as the chief marketer of Mars oversees Snickers chocolate bars, Whiskas cat food and other brands, is on record as saying that "consumers aren't out there thinking about our brands." And however much brands may have been worth in the past, their importance may be fading. Brands, of course, vary. Some identify products that are distinctive (like The Economist, we hope). Others confer distinction on products that are otherwise hard to tell apart, such as cola. The brands of banks and insurers are shaped less by advertising and marketing (the usual ways of building a brand) than by customers' experiences, points out Simon Glynn of Lippincott, a consulting firm. In such cases, consumers get the message only if employees do. The idea of brand equity arose in America in the 1980s after a bout of cut-throat discounting by consumer-goods companies, which prompted them to look for less-savage and more enduring ways to boost sales. Patiently building brands became the preferred alternative. They would allow companies to hold on to customers, win new ones and provide launching pads for new products. David Aaker, a business-school professor who helped spread the idea, identified three main components of brand equity: consumers' awareness of a brand, the qualities they associate with it (BMW summons up German engineering, Ryanair says "cheap") and loyalty. The arguments now are partly over how important each element is. THE ECONOMISTLoyalty is what excites marketers and advertising folk. So-called "lovemarks" such as Apple and Coca-Cola are trademarks that inspire "loyalty beyond reason", says Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, an advertising agency; the firm runs a website that lists hundreds of them. They have legions of fans, command a price premium and, most important perhaps, are forgiven when they fall short. The "emotional bond puts credit in the bank," says Mr Cooper. Brands are a promise to consumers, it is often said; they also serve as an insurance policy to cover the cost of breaking it. Much marketing gospel flows from this view, such as the idea that brands must differentiate, appeal to distinct groups of consumers and foster fidelity. Loyal consumers "really drive brand profitability," believes Millward Brown, which is part of WPP, a big marketing group. Loyalty and "emotional connection" also figure in the Brand Strength Index devised by BrandFinance, a competitor. Some companies even link pay to indicators of brand health. At HSBC, part of top executives' bonuses depend on Brand Finance's valuation. A second view holds that brands are "a shorthand for choice", in the words of Martin Glenn, chief executive of United Biscuits, producer of McVitie's. They make it easier for shoppers to cut through the information bombardment that rains down upon them. On this analysis, awareness matters more than loyalty or passion. Apple's computers, for example, may have a strong brand; but they command only a little more loyalty from buyers than do customers of less-ballyhooed makes of computer, argues Byron Sharp, a marketing expert at the University of South Australia. Their slightly higher tendency to stick with Apple probably comes from the hassle of having to convert to a different operating system, rather than love of the brand, he reckons. Harley-Davidson, a motorcycle company, is well known to have a devoted fan base. But in fact such fanatics account for only a tenth of its customers and just 3.5% of its revenue. On this view, companies that strive to differentiate themselves from their competitors' brands are mostly wasting their time. Take fizzy drinks. Mr Sharp's data show that less than one-fifth of the people who quaff them think there is anything unique or special about Coke, Pepsi and the like. Many products marketed mainly to women are largely bought by men, and vice versa. A consumer-goods brand that aimed its marketing at its most fervent fans would lose sales: a typical Coke drinker buys one or two bottles a year. Francois Lenoir/Reuters What constitutes brand equity, Mr Sharp contends, is "physical and mental availability", by which he means the opportunity for consumers to find products in shops and their propensity to think of the brand when shopping. That is achieved through traditional methods of mass marketing, such as television advertising, packaging and celebrity endorsements, rather than through the fashionable targeted sort made possible by the internet. Kellogg's takes this point of view. The cereal-maker thinks its tried-and-tested imagery, such as Rice Krispies' Snap, Crackle &amp; Pop, has proved its worth by planting brands in consumers' minds. "Hopefully, we're smarter about retaining things over time," says Jane Ghosh, Kellogg's commercial-marketing director in Britain. Loyalty is real, but does not vary much, or show that consumers are passionate about brands. They are loyal to stuff they can find easily in shops and in their memory banks. Even this argument is too starry-eyed for Itamar Simonson and Emanuel Rosen, authors of a recent book, "Absolute Value: What Really Influences Customers in the Age of (Nearly) Perfect Information". They argue that consumers are becoming more rational and need brands less. The original job of brands was to assure consumers about the quality of a product or service. Some, such as Sony in electronics, and over-the-counter remedies such as Tylenol, still seek to do this. But now customers can review products on shopping websites, talk to each other through social media and consult reviews websites like cnet.com and TripAdvisor. Brands thus have "a reduced role as a quality signal," write Messrs Simonson and Rosen. Shopping websites also make it easier for consumers to find the sort of product they like and filter out the sort they don't. So brands are less needed as a mental shortcut. "Brand equity is simply not as valuable as it used to be," the authors contend. People have been predicting the death of the brand since the birth of e-commerce. It has not happened, Mr Sharp says, because people are lazier, and reviews less useful, than the seers assume. Consumers have come to expect decent products at good prices. Brands guide them to the ones they want. They are likely to survive the age of (nearly) perfect information, though experts will continue to debate why. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei Bondarenko/Kazakh Presidential Office/PoolRussian President Vladimir Putin (L) shakes hands with his Ukrainian counterpart Petro Poroshenko, as Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev (C) stands nearby, in Minsk August 26, 2014.It is a quarter of a century since the Berlin Wall came down. The cold war was eventually won by superior western economic power and a new era began once the communist regime collapsed in the Soviet Union and the two halves of Germany were reunited. For the first time in 25 years, the west is seriously worried about Russia. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said at the weekend his country was "close to a point of no return – full-scale war". Russia faces the threat of tougher economic sanctions from the US and the European Union unless it withdraws its troops from eastern Ukraine. Economic warfare has the potential to damage Russia just as it did in the 1980s. Indeed, sanctions are already hurting the economy, making it more expensive to refinance loans and almost impossible to attract the foreign capital needed to modernise Russia's energy sector. Growth has slowed to a standstill and the country will soon be in what could be a deep and prolonged recession. If this of concern to Vladimir Putin, he has yet to show it. With the eurozone itself teetering on the brink of a fresh downturn, the Russian leader believes that in a war of sanctions between a west that is barely out of recession and a Russia accustomed to belt-tightening, it will be the west that blinks first. Whether he is right or not, one thing is clear: the era that began with the opening of the iron curtain is now over. Consider what happened when the Soviet Union collapsed. Instead of two great powers, there was now just one: the US. Instead of two competing ideologies, there was now just one: capitalism. "We know what works", said the then US president, George Bush, "the free market works". The next decade was the heyday for Bush's vision. Capitalism spread to parts of the world where it had previously been partially or totally off limits: China, India, and Russia. The dollar entrenched its position as the global currency. The Federal Reserve in Washington became the world's central bank. The completion of the seven-year Uruguay Round of trade talks saw tariffs reduced and markets opened up. A supra-national body, the World Trade Organisation, was set up in Geneva to act as the global trade policeman and to facilitate further liberalisation. Russia was subjected to shock treatment that saw its economy shrink by 40% by the end of the 1990s. Male life expectancy plummeted. Privatisation saw what had been seen state assets fall into the hands of oligarchs who got enormously rich. The poverty rate soared. In the west, the demise of the Soviet Union was felt in two ways. The obvious impact was that the end of the cold war delivered a hefty peace dividend. It was no longer necessary to spend as much money on defence, and governments were able to recycle part of the budget spent on combatting the perceived threat of the red army on tax cuts or other domestic spending priorities. The UK today spends 2.3% of national output on defence: at the end of the 1980s it was 4%. Over time, though, it also became apparent that the existence of rival ideology had knocked some of the rough edges from capitalism. Once the Soviet Union was no more, capitalism could show itself in its true colours, red in tooth and claw. For a few years, this was not immediately apparent as the flood of cheap goods from the new emerging markets meant low inflation and allowed western central banks to keep interest rates at levels low enough to generate booms in house prices. But once a model based around cheap credit and excessive borrowing hit the rocks, it also became clear that the new unencumbered variant of capitalism also meant outsourced jobs, falling living standards and welfare cuts. None of this has been popular, which is why so many governments have been kicked out since the financial crisis began. Politicians have got the message. They have come to the conclusion that in a tougher climate it is really a case of looking after your own interests no matter what the costs for everybody else. So, to take one example, for the unipolar world to work properly the Fed has to take seriously its responsibility as the global central bank. That means taking care that policies such as quantitative easing and the eventual normalisation of US monetary policy is conducted in a way that is sensitive to other countries. Yet Fed policy is being conducted solely with American interests in mind. If quantitative easing leads to a surge of hot money into emerging market economies and the end of QE leads to it surging out again, then that's too bad. QE has also been used as a way of trying to secure a competitive advantage. Central banks achieve this by electronically printing more money. One of the basic laws of economics is that the price of something goes down if the supply goes up. Increasing the money supply leads to a fall in the value of a currency, making a country's exports cheaper. So, when the Japanese, for example, announced that they were adopting policies designed to drive down the value of the yen, this was the equivalent of announcing that it was slapping a tariff on foreign goods. This is the equivalent of the competitive devaluations seen in the 1930s, only in a more subtle form. Free trade has also been a casualty. After 12 years of negotiations, the WTO finally thought it had clinched a modest deal in Bali in late 2013. This involved cutting trade red tape, making customs procedures more efficient and rooting out some of the more egregious examples of corruption. It was, in truth, the least the WTO could deliver while retaining its credibility. In late July, the deal was scuppered by India. Unless New Delhi has a change of heart, the Bali deal is dead, leaving the WTO a broken-backed organisation. This is a world in retreat from multilateralism. Although Putin has no alternative ideology to offer, times have changed. This is now a messier, less clearly defined, multipolar world. It is not just that the pre-eminence of the dollar has been challenged by Russia's announcement that roubles and yuan will be used in the oil deal it has brokered with China. It is not just that we are back to spheres of influence. It is not even that governments have become more interventionist and protectionist. It is that after the convulsions of the past seven years, it is hard to imagine a US president or indeed any western leader saying: "We know what works, the free market works." So RIP new world order. Born Berlin 1989. Died with Lehman Brothers September 2008. Laid to rest eastern Ukraine August 2014. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench Prime Minister Valls, attends the Socialist Party's "Universite d'ete" summer meeting in La RochellePARIS (Reuters) - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls reiterated on Sunday calls for the European Central Bank to go "further" in tackling the problem of an overvalued euro. Speaking at a Socialist party gathering in La Rochelle, Valls said the ECB's June decision to cut interest rates was a "strong signal" but more was needed. "The ECB is finally acting to sustain growth, but it must go even further," Valls said. On Thursday, Socialist President Francois Hollande cited the deflationary risk from the weakened euro and said the ECB needed to do more to fight it and boost growth. ECB President Mario Draghi hinted last week that weak euro zone growth and inflation could push the body to implement a broad-based asset purchase program. (Reporting By Alexandria Sage; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPicture shows magma along a 1-km-long fissure in a lava field north of the Vatnajokull glacier, which covers part of Bardarbunga volcano system STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - A small new fissure eruption in an ice-free area of Iceland's Bardarbunga volcano system prompted authorities to raise their warning of the risk of ash to aviation to the highest level on Sunday. Iceland's largest volcanic system, which cuts a 190 km long and up to 25 km wide (118 miles by 15.5 miles) swathe across the North Atlantic island, has been hit by thousands of earthquakes over the last two weeks and scientists have been on high alert. In 2010, an ash cloud from the Eyjafjallajokull volcano, in a different region of Iceland, closed much of Europe's air space for six days. "The eruption is a very calm lava eruption and can hardly been seen on seismometers," the Icelandic Meteorological Office said in a statement. "There is no ash, only lava," Eggert Magnusson at the National Crisis Coordination Centre said. The eruption began around 0600 GMT prompting the Icelandic Met Office to raise the aviation warning code to red for the Bardarbunga/Holuhraun area, the Department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management said in a statement. Red is the highest level on a five-colour scale and indicates that an eruption is imminent or under way, with a risk of spewing ash. Iceland's aviation authorities have declared a danger area which reaches from the ground to 6,000 feet around the volcano. On Friday, a 600 metre-long fissure in a lava field north of the Vatnajokull glacier, which covers part of the Bardarbunga system, erupted. That eruption only lasted for a few hours and was not in an area covered by ice. The risk of an ash cloud is highest when there is a sub-glacial eruption as meltwater and magma mix to produce ash particles. The new eruption is very close to Friday's. "It is almost in the same location. The crack has only extended a little bit further to the north," Magnusson at theNational Crisis Coordination Centre said. Scientists, however, said the new eruption was more intense than that two days ago. "This is a little bit larger fissure eruption than on Friday," Armann Hoskuldsson, a geologist at the University of Iceland who is working in the area, told Reuters. "There is more lava and more rifts in the ice cap. The rifts are approximately 1 km further to the north than after the fissure eruption on Friday." He said the lava flow now is at least 10 times larger than in the fissure eruption on Friday. Last week, scientists estimated around 400 million cubic meters of lava had flowed out from under the volcano in a long dyke. The eruption on Friday was at its tip.  (Reporting by Robert Robertsson; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Professional boxer Floyd "Money" Mayweather sent out a tweet on Tuesday night showing him and Warren Buffett squaring off in a prefight hype photo. Another tweet announced "Warren Buffett the 66.9 Billion dollar man joins The Money Team," referring to his company and brand. Mayweather has earned almost $400 million in the ring since turning pro in 1996, according to Forbes, including $105 million in the past year for two fights that lasted a total of 72 minutes. The 37-year-old Mayweather's record stands at 46-0, and he is a world champion in five divisions. Buffett recently provided $3 billion to finance Burger King's deal to take over the Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons. The 83-year-old's return on that cash will be 9%. The photos of Mayweather and Buffett are glorious.    The caption from the Instagram below reads: "It was such pleasure meeting @WarrenBufett when he came by @floydmayweather BOXING CLUB to show love &amp; support to the champ."     FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMario DraghiBRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Central Bank meeting on Thursday is the prime event for markets seeking clarity on the bank's response to a stalled recovery, disappearing inflation and the sluggish pace of reform in the euro zone. Inflation in the 9.6 trillion euro economy dropped to a fresh five year low of 0.3 percent in August and as the months fly by, the bloc's cushion against Japan-style deflation is getting smaller and smaller. Increased geopolitical risks from the intensifying conflict in Ukraine forced Europe to impose sanctions on its third biggest trade partner Russia, a move which dented the faltering economic rebound even further. "Pressure for the ECB to do more has returned, not only because of weak output/inflation data, but mostly following (ECB's President Mario) Draghi's speech in Jackson Hole," said Frederik Ducrozet, senior euro zone economist at Credit Agricole. Draghi struck a new, for some a groundbreaking, tone trying to cajole European governments into agreeing a common approach to reforming their economies - a drive he sees as necessary to allow the stagnant euro zone to grow with verve. He will have a hard time selling his message. Countries like the euro zone's second and third largest economies France and Italy are not growing and lag behind significantly with reforms. So the ECB may have to reach deeper into its policy toolbox, with some analysts even betting on an interest rate cut at the bank's meeting on Thursday. "We expect the ECB to cut all key interest rates by a further 10 basis points, thereby delivering a larger negative deposit rate (-0.20 pct) as well as a refi rate even closer to zero (0.05 pct)," Nomura wrote in its global market research. Beyond the euro zone, the week is packed with monetary policy meetings, with Sweden’s Riksbank, the Bank of Canada, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England all taking the stage. The latter will be closely watched as investors seek guidance on the timing of an expected tightening. Although no policy action from the Bank of England is foreseen on Thursday, it is still expected to be the first major central bank to lift interest rates when it makes a move early next year, just ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve. A string of data about the health of manufacturing in the euro zone countries and Britain will shed fresh light on how European businesses feel about their prospects amid the deepening crisis in Ukraine. In North America, the calendar will be dominated by Friday's U.S. jobs report for August, after the Fed suggested in its last minutes that the recent good economic news makes it more inclined to raise interest rates sooner. Markets see a U.S. rate hike coming in spring 2015. In China, the PMI reading for August is likely to print lower as the property slowdown weighs, reinforcing expectations that further policy steps may be needed to keep economic growth on track. Beijing will seek to implement much needed reforms to unleash fresh growth drivers and put the world's second-largest economy on a more sustainable footing over time. The government has pledged to keep policy support "targeted" by boosting investment in bottleneck areas. The chances of imminent cuts in interest rates and bank reserve ratios for all banks look slim. The Bank of Japan was expected to stay put this week despite household spending falling much more than expected and weak factory output in July. Analysts said the country was, for now, in no mood to expand monetary stimulus. However, such data undermines the BOJ's rosy economic forecasts and will keep it under pressure to act if the economy fails to gather momentum. Peter Kurdulija / Flickr The question most ECB watchers are now asking is when, not if, the Frankfurt-based bank will embark on quantitative easing -- the printing of money to buy government bonds which is now the markets' base scenario. Even though central banks in the United States, Japan and Britain among others embarked on such a course several years ago, the ECB has been reluctant to follow suit. This is partly due to strong resistance from German central bankers and policymakers and the perceived complexity of buying state debt in a multi-national bloc. However, a number of economists deciphered Draghi's tone at Jackson Hole as signaling that deflationary risks had risen enough to merit further policy easing, following a rate cut in June combined with measures to flood banks with more cheap money. The euro zone recovery stalled in the second quarter and the outlook looks poor, even with the bloc's powerhouse Germany expected to return to growth in the three months to September. "We tend to see the first bond purchases next year. We do not expect the ECB Council to act next Thursday, because it wants to wait for the targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTROs) to take effect," Commerzbank wrote in its Week in Focus research.  (Additional reporting by Jonathan Cable in London, Jason Lange in Washington and Kevin Yao in Singapore; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
© AFP Pierre-Henry DeshayesElectric cars crowd the bus lane (L) during the morning rush hour towards Oslo at Hoevik, August 19, 2014 "It's become a problem," said Erik Haugstad, a bus driver in the Oslo region who complains about the numerous electric cars clogging bus lanes, which they have the right to use in Norway. The cars are also exempt from urban toll payments or fees at public parking spaces, where they can recharge batteries without cost. But above all, they are exempt from Norway's sky high sales taxes and VAT. Norway brought in the generous incentives to cut back on greenhouse gas emissions from traffic, which accounts for 10 percent of total emissions in the Nordic nation. The policy has been so successful that 32,000 electric cars are now on the road -- by far the highest rate per capita in the world, in a country with a 5.1 million population. "I'm a bus driver and I want to transport my passengers as quickly as possible. So, I'd like electric cars to leave the bus lanes, where they're getting in my way," Haugstad said. "These delays have a cost for society. Time lost by thousands of our passengers in traffic is far greater than that gained by a few dozen electric car drivers." He said the cars can create a vicious circle -- tired of being stuck in traffic, bus users could be tempted to buy an electric car themselves, worsening the congestion problem. Electric cars already represent 85 percent of traffic in bus lanes during rush hour, according to a study by the Norwegian Public Roads Administration on a busy stretch of road outside Oslo. "It's a subject we discuss very often with colleagues during lunch break. Many of them are far more aggressive and don't measure their words as much as me," Haugstad said. No decision has been made so far, but it looks increasingly likely that authorities will take action to unclog congested areas -- especially during rush hour. In the meantime, electric car sales keep growing. From the popular Leaf by Japan's Nissan to high-end US-made Tesla S, they have accounted for 13 percent of new car sales since the beginning of 2014, far ahead of the rest of the world. In March, the Tesla became the highest selling car in a single month in Norway's history, despite its relatively high price. Although a basic model costs about 60,000 euros ($79,000), it still sounds like a bargain considering that a price including taxes would be roughly double. The popularity of electric cars has caught the authorities off guard, as they expected to keep the incentives in place until 2017, or until they number 50,000. At the current pace, that figure could be reached in the beginning of 2015, forcing the government to rethink its costly policy. The tax exemptions alone account for up to 4 billion kroner (500 million euros, $650 million), according to the state's own estimates. "We might make lowering adjustments in the future," Prime Minister Erna Solberg recently told Norwegian newspaper VG. "But I can promise drivers that there will still be fiscal advantages to driving an electric car." The commitment is important, because 48 percent of electric car owners say their main reason for buying them was to save money. According to a survey by the Norwegian Electric Vehicle Association, only 27 percent said it was for environmental reasons and 12 percent to gain time in their rides. "It's too early to remove the fiscal incentives. The market isn't competitive enough yet" compared to that of fossil-fuel-driven cars, said Christina Bu, general secretary of the association. "If the tax and VAT exemption ends, the market could collapse and it would be hard for Norway to reach its climate goals. We must increase the number of electric cars, not reduce it."  FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Johannes EiseleA McDonald's fast food restaurant in Shanghai pictured on July 28, 2014Shanghai (AFP) - Chinese authorities have formally arrested six employees from a unit of US food supplier OSI Group, the parent company and the government said, over a scandal involving expired meat sold to fast food giants. Authorities have previously announced the detention by police of six officials of Shanghai Husi Food Co., a subsidiary of OSI which operated a factory shut down by the city in July for mixing out-of-date meat with fresh product. OSI's clients in China previously included McDonald's and KFC. "OSI Group confirms that 6 employees of Shanghai Husi have now been arrested following detention by authorities," the company said in a statement provided to media. "OSI Group will continue to cooperate fully and in good faith with the authorities," it said, but did not identify the six. Shanghai's prosecutor's office said the employees were suspected of producing and selling "fake and inferior" products, according to a separate statement posted on its website. The scandal, which came to light after an investigative report by a Shanghai television station, caused shock waves because Western chain restaurants are widely viewed as upholding higher quality standards in a country hit by repeated food safety problems. The OSI Shanghai factory's customers in China also included Pizza Hut, coffee chain Starbucks, Burger King, 7-Eleven convenience stores and Papa John's Pizza. McDonald's restaurants in Japan and Hong Kong were also affected. McDonald's has severed its relationship with OSI in China, but the change in suppliers caused widespread shortages of its menu items in the mainland, including Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets, for more than two weeks. The Chinese government is now investigating OSI, while the US company is also conducting its own internal probe after shaking up its management in China.   FREE AppDownload
