AP/Fernando VergaraDeutsche Bank's David Bianco thinks stocks go higher from here as long as a few conditions are met. "The S&amp;P should climb to 2000 or higher by yearend if confidence remains solid in at least low single-digit EPS growth next year," Bianco wrote on Sunday. His forecast for 4.5% year-over-year earnings growth in 2015 assumes oil at around $85 per barrel and the Euro falling to $1.20 by the end of 2015. Bianco's research note included a list of 50 large-cap stocks to buy now. They're all rated Buy by Deutsche bank's analysts. They all have PE ratios below 22, expected earnings growth rates above 3%, and market caps above $10 billion. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA pedestrian uses his mobile phone as he walks past an electronic board showing the stock market indices of various countries outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares ticked higher on Friday on Wall Street's cheer  after upbeat U.S. growth data, while the dollar traded around four-week highs against the yen as investors awaited the outcome of the Bank of Japan's monetary policy meeting. The BOJ is widely expected to maintain its massive asset buying program and its upbeat forecast that inflation will hit its 2 percent target next year, suggesting no further stimulus is on the horizon. The policy decision is expected around 0230-0330 GMT (9.30-10.30 p.m. ET). But data released early on Friday showed Japan's annual core consumer inflation slowed for a second straight month in September, adding to evidence the BOJ is likely to miss its price goal. "It is difficult to have a baseline scenario that forecasts anything other than 'no further easing.' Amid the mobilization of Abenomics policy, however, we would now be unsurprised if the BOJ did take some kind of action," strategists at Barclays wrote in a note to clients. Wall Street surged late in the session on Thursday, after data showed surprisingly strong third-quarter U.S. economic growth as the trade gap narrowed. But domestic demand slipped, hinting at some loss of momentum. The data came a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve surprised markets with an optimistic assessment of the U.S. economy when it announced the end of its monthly bond buying stimulus program. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  nudged up 0.1 percent in early trade, while Japan's Nikkei stock average  added 1.2 percent. Japanese shares also got a lift from news that Japan's Government Pension Investment Fund is poised to approve on Friday allocation targets which aim to raise the portion of Japanese shares to 25 percent of its portfolio from the current target of 12 percent, two government sources said. But data released before the market showed Japan's jobless rate rose in September and the availability of jobs fell for the first time in more than three years, suggesting the labor market is starting to lose some momentum. Japanese household spending also fell more than expected in September. Against the yen, the dollar bought 109.26, up about 0.1 percent on the day and not far from Thursday's four-week high of 109.47. The euro edged down about 0.1 percent to $1.2603. In commodities trading, spot gold edged up 0.1 percent to $1,199.99 an ounce after plumbing a three-week low of $1,195.70 on Thursday.    (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George plans to send San Francisco Fed President John Williams some local barbecue sauce to commemorate his home team's World Series victory, spokesmen for the banks said on Thursday. Baseball's biggest annual contest wrapped up its seventh game on Wednesday with the San Francisco Giants' 3-2 win against the Kansas City Royals. The series' final games took place on the same two days that George, Williams and other U.S. central bankers met in Washington, where they made the historic decision to end the Fed's bond-buying stimulus and lay the groundwork for an eventual interest-rate hike. George and Williams disagree when it comes to U.S. monetary policy, with George a stalwart critic of the Fed's bond-buying program and Williams a supporter. Williams is also a longtime Giants fan, and had a Giants flag raised atop his bank's downtown headquarters at the start of the World Series. "Following a tradition of highlighting the unique characteristics of each region," Kansas City Fed spokesman Bill Medley, said in a statement to Reuters that George will send Williams "a selection of barbecue sauces and a gift from Kansas City’s Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, which showcases an important part of American history." The statement did not touch on monetary policy or the economic outlook, which Fed regional presidents are banned from discussing until Friday at the earliest. "At risk for President Williams was a selection of wines from the Twelfth District," a reference to the San Francisco Fed's geographic writ, which includes California, Oregon and Washington. "We congratulate San Francisco and Kansas City on an exciting series," Medley said.   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorld Bank President Jim Yong Kim speaks on a panel during the IMF-World Bank annual meetings in WashingtonBy Anna Yukhananov WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The World Bank said it plans to cut 500 jobs over the next three years as part of a broad restructuring meant to make it more efficient but that has rattled employees. The long-expected layoffs, along with budget cuts and internal reorganization, have sparked regular staff protests and fears of a broader revolt at a time when the bank is trying to ramp up its work in fighting the Ebola outbreak and other global challenges, and maintain its relevance. The cuts, announced on Thursday, represent about an 11 percent reduction in the 4,500-employee workforce of the bank's internal-facing divisions, including finance, human resources, research and security. These divisions employ about a quarter of the bank's total staff. The bank also plans to cancel 70 vacant job openings, though it wants to hire 250 to 300 new people, largely in its Chennai, India office, which runs some of its administrative and other operations. Some of the 500 employees whose jobs will be cut will also be able to apply for jobs in other World Bank divisions, said the bank, which provides financial and technical assistance to developing countries. The net result will be a loss of about 250 positions, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said in a note to staff on Thursday. "Staffing decisions are always challenging," Kim said in the note, which was obtained by Reuters. "But we feel confident that the changes we are making will help us better align our staffing to our strategy, which is what our clients want and what we must deliver." Kim launched the first major reorganization for the lender since 1996, to make it more selective and better attuned to the needs of the governments it serves. The reorganization has entailed $400 million in budget cuts to make the institution more competitive with development rivals and allow it to boost lending to middle-income countries. Employees complain the bank is overly focused on minor cuts to areas such as breakfast allowances and parking instead of dealing with meaningful changes to the quality and efficiency of the bank's lending. Staff were also incensed after discovering the bank's chief financial officer, who has pushed much of the cost-cutting, received a $94,000 bonus this year. To quell staff discontent, Bertrand Badre earlier this month said he would forego the $24,000 or so of the bonus that he had not yet received. But that has not stopped employees from organizing regular work "stoppages" on Thursdays, advertised via yellow flyers of unknown provenance. About 300 staff showed up at the latest meeting earlier this Thursday, according to one attendee, to discuss the declining quality of World Bank projects and the so-called "expenditure review," among other issues. The bank plans to announce further details about the budget cuts and layoffs next week, Kim said in the note to staff.  (Reporting by Anna Yukhananov; EDiting by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
US shale oil is now the marginal swing barrel in the new world oil order, and as Goldman Sachs warns (despite Larry Kudlow apparently knowing better), a decline in WTI to $75/bbl would start to significantly slow US shale growth (and thus employment, capex, and the entire US economy). Via Goldman Sachs, Our oil forecast calls for a slowdown in US shale oil production which our North American Energy equity research team led by Brian Singer estimates will occur at $75/bbl WTI prices. They estimate that the WTI oil price at which average wells in the Eagle Ford, Bakken and Permian Basin plays achieve an 11% IRR ranges between $70-$80/bbl. More importantly, they believe that funding gap constraints below $80/bbl WTI will ultimately drive the slowdown in production. Specifically, balancing capex with cash flow is likely to be the key constraint for shale producers, which continue to outspend their cash flow. Historically, E&amp;Ps under our equity research coverage have spent 120% of cash flow annually, with only 2012 above this threshold when several companies which have since changed strategy were large spenders. At our pre-oil price decline capex assumption for 2015, this 120% reinvestment rate would be reached at $80/bbl WTI prices. Based on their analysis of key shale play production growth at various oil prices, we estimate that WTI prices will need to remain at $75/bbl in 2015 to achieve the required 200 kb/d slowdown in production growth. Given the lag of 4-6 months between when rigs are dropped and when there is an impact to production as well as the impact of hedging, this price forecast implies a larger slowdown in US production growth in 2H15 to 650kb/d yoy. Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge The uncertainty around this estimate remains elevated nonetheless: Some cuts could occur prior to $80/bbl WTI as companies with below-average free cash flow hit reinvestment thresholds first and less well capitalized companies reduce activity. Further, non-core parts of each play have higher breakevens such as non-core Bakken, which represents 19% of total Bakken production and has breakevens above $90/bbl. Finally, the decline rate at major shale plays remains high, potentially exacerbating the production growth slowdown once capex is cut. Conversely, balance sheets have strengthened over the past few years, leaving less pressure for some companies to cut back on spending during a downturn. Further, these estimates do not assume any service cost deflation that likely would occur in a lower price environment and could lower well costs and the threshold prices at which E&amp;P budgets would fall. Finally, should the global oversupply be significantly larger than we expect, reaching a point of production shut-in would likely require meaningfully lower prices given the low variable costs of shale extraction. Core-OPEC can cope with lower oil prices Estimates of breakeven oil price above our 2015 Brent forecast of $85/bbl for many OPEC members raises the question of the fiscal sustainability of these countries. First and foremost and as we discuss above, cutting production to maintain prices at a higher level is not the optimal (revenue-maximizing) alternative for core-OPEC swing producers, given the current size of shale. Second, eliminating the primary deficit does not imply debt sustainability as it does not set new debt issuance to zero, but rather equal to outstanding debt service. From a sustainability point of view, what actually matters is not the level of debt, but the relative size of debt to GDP: countries with very low debt-to-GDP ratios might be able to afford running primary deficits for a few periods without compromising their position. Third, for oil producing countries, a drop in oil prices– all else equal – reduces GDP and raises the debt-to-GDP ratio, potentially adding debt sustainability pressure. Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge As a result, we consider other breakeven metrics that provide a broader picture and account for these issues. We consider the following simple model across OPEC producers and Russia: we split the economy into two sectors, oil and non-oil, and let non-oil GDP grow at the going rate while fixing oil production constant at our 2015 expected level. We calibrate the fiscal sector to account for oil and non-oil revenue, expenditures and debt. We then look for: (1) the oil price that lets the debt-to-GDP ratio grow up to 40% over a given number of periods, and (2) how the oil price must evolve to keep the debt-to-GDP ratio constant at its current level. This analysis shows that in both scenarios core-OPEC producers require oil prices that are below our Brent forecast, comforting us in our expectation that they can implement such a change in strategy. In turn, Nigeria and Iran require oil prices well above current levels for either to contain their leverage. It is worth highlighting that this simple exercise abstracts from FX dynamics as core OPEC members have a pegged exchange rate to the USD. Therefore our breakeven may be an overestimation for countries with a flexible exchange rate, such as Russia and Iran. In particular, Russia’s vulnerability to oil prices is lower than for OPEC members given: (1) a flexible ruble that can act as an automatic adjustment mechanism, and (2) a banking sector now in a positive net international asset position, less dependent on foreign funding, and benefiting from a stronger ruble funding base. Shale is accelerating the deflation in production costs We are lowering our long-term Brent oil price forecast from $100/bbl to $90/bbl as we believe that the shale revolution has shifted the global oil cost curve down by $10/bbl. In the next few years, moderate demand growth can accommodate a pull back from more expensive projects. Medium term, continued cost deflation should allow for today’s more expensive project to still come online. Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge Specifically, our European Energy equity research team led by Michelle della Vigna estimates that a slowdown in capex outside North America at a time of material expansion of oil service capacity will lead to a potential 5%-15% cost deflation across oil developments after a decade of 10% inflation. The oversupplied market that we forecast for 2015-16 is likely to lead to a curb in activity that is likely to accelerate these deflationary forces. *  *  * And just one more thing... for those that shun 'demand' weakness as a reason for the plunge in oil... Goldman Sachs via Zero Hedge FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  The End Of QE Suggests That The First Rate Hike Is Close (Charles Schwab) The Fed officially ended quantitative easing on Wednesday. The committee maintained the near-zero target rate, and once again used the "considerable time" language. However, they also added that the rate hike will now be data-dependent. The end of QE means that there is "one less thing in the way" of the first rate hike, according to Collin Martin. "With the Fed using more qualitative guidance, we think it will be important to pay attention to each release of the economic projections to get an idea of when the Fed might start hiking rates and how high they may got. We still think a hike sometime in 2015 is most likely," he writes. Older Investors Have A Lot To Learn From Millennials (BlackRock Blog) Millennials were in high school and college as they watched their parents struggle with the financial crisis. As a result, "they perceive pensions as a quaint anachronism" and they "don't believe in the retirement fairy," writes Heather Pelant. Additionally, they have developed extremely good saving habits that the baby-boomer generation did not. First of all, they dedicate nearly half of their incomes to saving and investing — on average 22% goes to savings and 18% goes to investing. Millennials are more interested in investing in the stock market (and have more faith in it, too) than Baby Boomers. In fact, 56% of millennials regularly monitor their investments, and spend approximately 7 hours per months "reviewing the numbers." Strike Gold With Gold-Mining Stocks (Morningstar) The "pickings have been slim" for "bargain-hunting investors," but now's a good time to check gold-mining stocks, according to Christine Benz.  Historically, those who have invested in gold-mining stocks have done poorly because it's an extremely volatile group that requires perfect timing. However, Benz argues that investors who are willing to "look beyond the ugly near-term numbers are apt to find" gold stocks attractive. One good reason to invest in gold is that precious metals add diversification benefit to portfolios. Additionally, Morningstar analysts believe that most gold-mining stocks are currently undervalued, and that investors stand to benefit from that in the future. UBS Wants Its Advisers To Serve Only Super-Wealthy Clients (The Wall Street Journal) UBS wants its US-based financial advisers to only serve clients with over $1 million, and to more the clients with smaller accounts to the call center — UBS Wealth Advice Center, according to Corrie Driebusch. And this isn't uncommon: Many US brokerage firms are now pushing advisers to focus on wealthier clients.  UBS appears to be following in Bank of America's footsteps. Now, Merrill Lynch isn't paying advisers who are working with accounts of less than $250,000. Instead, those smaller accounts are being moved to its online and telephone-based advice service, Merrill Edge. Since 2011, Merrill Edge has grown to $109 billion. By comparison, the UBS Wealth Advice Center was created in 2013, and so far manages only $8.6 billion. And it looks like they are aiming to grow their call center to something similar to Merrill Edge. Spouses Should Share Long-Term Care Coverage (Financial Planning) Long-term care coverage is expensive. But there's good news: If both spouses are planning on getting coverage, then "a share policy might offer more coverage for less money by letting clients pool their benefits," according to Financial Planning. For spousal sharing, if a client buys a five-year policy, then the couple has 10 years of coverage between them. That means that if one spouse uses two years, then the second can use the other eight. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAngelica Gallegos, whose well has run dry, chops vegetables as she stands next to her sink where she washes dishes with bottled water in PortervilleSACRAMENTO Calif. (Reuters) - Californians face higher water prices and permanent conservation measures amid drought, global warming and population growth in a state that has long struggled to satisfy urban and agricultural needs, the administration of Governor Jerry Brown said Thursday. It will take up to $500 billion to improve the state's water infrastructure to improve supplies, reduce flood risk and shore up the fragile ecosystems that provide water for people, farms and wildlife, the state's top natural resources officials said in a long-awaited update to California's water plan. "Water is going to cost more for Californians in the future," said Mark Cowin, director of the state department of water resources, in a conference call with reporters on Thursday. "That's a reality we're all going to have to get used to." California is in its third year of a catastrophic drought that has dried up wells and forced farmers to leave fields fallow. But the state has long struggled to meet the water needs of thirsty cities and its mammoth agricultural sector, prompting a century of political fights between the wetter north and the drier south. A proposal to spend $7.5 billion on reservoirs, underground storage and other water-related infrastructure was caught in partisan bickering for nearly a year before lawmakers agreed to put it on next week's election ballot. Republicans argue for more funding for reservoirs while Democrats say damming rivers and flooding canyons would damage the environment. The state first developed a plan to manage limited water resources in 1957, updating it roughly every five years since then. The latest version focuses on ways to build and pay for improvements to the state's sagging infrastructure, including dams and reservoirs, as well as investments in new technology such as desalination plants and wastewater recycling. The plan also makes conservation a priority, reinforcing a 2009 plan to reduce statewide per capita water consumption by 20 percent by 2020. It calls for spending on public awareness campaigns, research into water-use efficiency and alternative water supplies, and improved irrigation techniques. "When the first plan was done in 1957, we had less than half the people in California than we have now," said Secretary of Natural Resources John Laird. "We did not have the impacts of climate change that we do now, and we did not have the pressure to make water conservation a way of life." (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
LinkedIn reported earnings for its fiscal third quarter of 2014 on Thursday. Revenue and expectations surpassed Wall Street's expectations — it reported $568 million on $0.52 EPS, versus predictions of $557.49 million in revenue on $0.47 EPS. Based on company data charted for us by BI Intelligence, LinkedIn's revenue continues to see steady growth in its three major lines of business — talent solutions, marketing solutions, and premium subscriptions — even though the company's year-over-year growth has been pretty flat. But LinkedIn has also been investing much of its own money to boost membership on the network: It recently redesigned its user profiles and even launched a new app called Connected to make networking among contacts easier. BI Intelligence FREE AppDownload
Citigroup has cut its third quarter earnings down to $0.88 from $1.07 as it reported earlier this month. The banks says that the cut is due to an $600 million increase in its legal reserves.  The stock is down 2% in after hours trading. Citi also announced that it would exit 11 markets around the world during its third quarter earnings release.   FREE AppDownload
ReutersStarbucks shares are falling after the company reported earnings that were slightly weaker than expected.  The coffee chain reported earnings-per-share of $0.74 for fiscal Q4, in-line with analysts' estimates. Net revenue came in at $4.18 billion, short of the $4.24 billion expected. The stock was down 5% in after-market trading. "Starbucks performance in fiscal 2014 was extraordinary by any metric or comparison,” CEO Howard Schultz said in a statement. Comparable stores sales increased 5%, and the company boosted its outlook for 2015. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierGoPro shares just jumped 8% after the company reported earnings ahead of expectations. Excluding nonrecurring items, the camera company earned $0.12 per share in Q3, beating expectations for $0.08 per share. Q3 revenue surged 45.7% year over year to $280.0 million, which was stronger than the $264.2 million expected. GoPro is famous for its portable mountable Hero line of HD cameras. "The global scale and execution of our HERO4 launch made this the most successful roll out in GoPro's history," CEO Nicholas Woodman said. "HERO4 pushes the performance envelope of our Emmy Award winning capture technology. Advancements in our desktop and mobile content management applications continue to make it easier for our customers to create and share compelling content stories that go on to virally drive awareness and demand for our business. This positions us well for an exciting holiday season."  FREE AppDownload
The stock fell initially, but then bounced back. It ended up about 1.7%.  Here are the major numbers: In recent months, LinkedIn has made efforts to increase its membership through redesigning its profiles and releasing a new app called Connected that makes networking easier. The company reported 332 million members this quarter, up 19 million from the previous quarter. It said that China is its second largest source of member growth after the US.   Here's a look at its historical membership: LinkedIn  The revenue LinkedIn pulls in from its "premium" profile subscriptions increased 43% year-over-year, and it now makes up about 20% of its revenue. Its "talent solutions" products, which help recruiters find the right candidates, make up 61% of the total revenue, and marketing makes up 19%.  Although revenue beat expectations, it only increased 45% year-over-year, compared to 47% year-over-year last quarter.  Revenue growth has been decelerating for a while: LinkedIn Earlier this quarter, LinkedIn's plan to break into the $50 billion business-to-business marketing space leaked to Business Insider soon after its acquisition of the company Bizo. The internal memo also noted that LinkedIn plans to turn its marketing solutions products into a $1 billion business by 2017.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/U.S. Geological SurveyA slow-moving lava flow from the Kilauea Volcano burns vegetation as it approaches a property boundary in a US Geological Survey image taken near the village of Pahoa, Hawaii.The stock market extended its rebound back toward all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The Dow far outpaced the rest of the market because of Visa, which surged 10% after its better-than-expected earnings announcement. Because it's a price-weighted index, the 21-point rally in Visa is adding a full 134 points to the Dow. (Currently, a 1-point move in a Dow stock translates to a 6.42195-point move in the Dow.) 2. US GDP grew at a 3.5% pace in Q3, beating expectations for 3% growth. Personal consumption climbed 1.8%, a bit lighter than the 1.9% expected. Real final sales (GDP less the change in private inventories) jumped 4.2%, up from 3.2% in Q2. 3. Notably, government spending jumped 4.6%, adding 0.83 percentage points to the GDP growth rate. "After being such a massive drag on the economy in recent years, the public sector is now a big positive," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. 4. Different economists were surprised by different components of the GDP report. "The big upside surprise in the data is the residential investment component, where the 1.8% increase is impossible to square with the monthly construction data — we expected a 10% drop — and a downward revision in due course is a decent bet," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson noted. 5. Initial jobless claims climbed to 287,000 from 284,000 a week ago. This was a bit higher than the 285,000 expected. The four-week moving average sat at 281,000, the lowest level since 2000. "Looking past weekly volatility, trend initial jobless claims remain at extremely low levels and are consistent with our outlook for further improvement in labor markets," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. 6. Gold fell below $1,200 again for the first time in a month. The yellow metal fell from around $1,215 to as low as $1,196. Don't Miss: WALL STREET'S BRIGHTEST REVEAL THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD » FREE AppDownload
I recently acquired this navy plaid suit from Black Lapel, and while it’s not the boldest suiting fabric ever, I can see its pattern posing a challenge to a Lean Wardrobe student venturing out past his basic solid navy or gray suit. Solid navy is always a great first choice, but if you relish the tiny details, you may be dying for a more interesting suiting fabric. This navy plaid strikes a great balance. The lighter plaid pattern is visually interesting without being too bright, since the navy ground balances and tones it down. You may have something similar in your closet, or you might have been interested in a suit with a bolder pattern, but weren’t sure exactly what to wear with it. In this article, I’ll show you three different ways to wear a bolder suit. I love mixing and matching suit jackets and pants, as well as pairing with more casual pieces to downplay formality. Check out some of the ideas below. Do your best to identify the basic principles behind my suggestions and apply it to the next bold fabric you choose! Effortless Gent   navy plaid suit, white dress shirt, plum tie, black wingtips The one concern you may have about wearing a bold suit is appearing too “loud” or attention-grabbing. Neutralize the boldness of your suit’s fabric by choosing a subtle shirt and tie combination (balance is a good rule of thumb for any suit, shirt, and tie combo). Black or dark brown lace-ups would complete this look nicely. Then again, don’t be afraid to punch up the contrasted pattern in your tie if the pattern of your suiting fabric is as subtle as this one. Effortless Gent navy plaid suit jacket, gray dress pants, light blue shirt, dark red knit tie, burgundy lace-ups We’ve chatted a bit about separating basic suits to create new outfit combinations. This is basically the same idea. That solid gray all-season wool suit you picked up for your Lean Wardrobe? Grab those nicely-tailored pants, pair with the jacket from your navy plaid suit, and BAM, killer combo. If you have a pair of gray flannels; those would work nicely as well. Throw on a light, light blue dress shirt, a deep burgundy knit tie, and dark brown lace-ups, and you’re good to go. Effortless Gent navy plaid suit jacket, wine-colored dress chinos, light pink dress shirt, cognac loafers My usual day-to-day outfit consists of something very similar to the pieces in look three. Chinos, a dress or a sport shirt (sans tie), and my favorite pair of cognac loafers. I wear this outfit for after-work drinks (which means it would work well in a business casual office), casual client meetings, or a relaxed weekend hanging out somewhere in the city. I may even swap the dressier chinos for something more laid back and rumpled. This is a good example of the high / low approach we discussed in this article. You may want to substitute an OCBD for that crisp dress shirt as well. Effortless Gent navy plaid suiting pants, white leather sneakers, light blue chambray, charcoal sweater You’re not stuck with jacket-only options; the trousers can be just as flexible. Using the pants as your starting point, throw on your favorite blue chambray, white Chuck Taylors (the ones pictured are leather!), and a medium gray V-neck sweater. (Want to lighten it up a bit? Try a cream cable knit sweater.) This article originally appeared at Effortless Gent.  Copyright 2014. Follow Effortless Gent on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (AP) — That bowl of chocolates for ninjas and ghosts won't cost you more this Halloween. Picking the perfect sweet for your Valentine could. The cost of ingredients in chocolate bars is rising, and the nation's biggest candy makers have already warned of price hikes next year. And it's not just costs that are pushing up prices. A growing sweet tooth around the world means more demand for chocolate. Here are the global trends putting pressure on the confection: Hershey and Mars, which together account for about two-thirds of U.S. chocolate sales, are hiking prices. Hershey cited the rising cost of cocoa, dairy and nuts when it announced an 8 percent increase in the average wholesale price of its candy this summer. Those higher costs weighed on the chocolate maker's most recent earnings, which fell 4 percent. Hershey CEO, John Bilbrey, said in an interview with CNBC earlier this month that shoppers wouldn't see a price increase this year because his company negotiated prices for its holiday items well in advance. However, consumers would notice an impact next year.Mars, a privately-held company, said this summer that its prices would rise by about 7 percent because of a need to support its marketing spending and "manufacturing capabilities." The company said that it last increased prices in 2011. People in the developing economies of Asia and Latin America are acquiring a taste for chocolate. While North America and Western Europe still account for more than half of global chocolate sales, demand is growing faster in emerging markets. That's raising concerns that demand for cocoa beans, the key ingredient in chocolate bars, will outstrip supply. Chocolate sales in Asia are forecast to grow by 23 percent over the next five years and by almost 31 percent in Latin America, according to London-based research firm Euromonitor International. That compares with growth of 8.3 percent in North America and 4.7 percent in Western Europe over the same period. Those forecasts helped push the price of cocoa beans as high as $3,371 a ton in September, the highest level since March 2011. The price has since fallen back to $2,923 a ton, but it is still 23 percent higher than it was two years ago. West Africa is the world's biggest cocoa producing region and accounts for about two-thirds of the global crop. Unlike large, modern farms in the U.S. and other developed economies, about 80 to 90 percent of the world's cocoa crop comes from small, family-run operations, according to the World Cocoa Foundation, a trade organization. The small-scale production makes it more challenging to introduce modern farming techniques that boost productivity from season-to-season to faster match demand. The WCF, which is backed by companies including Mars and Hershey, is sponsoring farmer training to encourage more efficient use of water resources and better soil management to improve crop yields. West Africa is also at the center of the Ebola outbreak. But concerns that cocoa production would be hampered by the virus' spread have proven overblown, so far. The Ivory Coast, which produces about 40 percent of the world's cocoa crop, has yet to register a single case of Ebola, despite sharing a western border with Liberia and Guinea, two of the nations at the center of the epidemic. Chocolate-covered bacon, anyone? It might be a hit to more than just your waistline. Bacon prices have climbed 7 percent this year after a fatal virus swept through the nation's pig herds. Coffee prices jumped after a drought in Brazil damaged the crop. Milk prices have also risen.The retail price of chocolate has climbed to an average of $5.93 a pound in 2014 from $4.92 five years ago, according to estimates from the National Confectioners Association, an industry group that represents candy and chocolate makers. In total, Americans will spend about $1.5 billion this Halloween filling bowls with chocolate, according to the NCA. That makes the last day of October the industry's most important holiday for sales — ahead of Easter, Christmas and even Valentine's Day. The timing of Halloween could make this week a big treat for candy companies. "We're optimistic on Halloween because it falls on a Friday this year," said Larry Wilson, vice president for customer relations at the NCA. People "will celebrate it later into the night, and they'll celebrate it all weekend." For consumers, that party will cost a little more next year. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
 The Harvard Crimson has a great long look at the differences between the Cambridge, Massachusetts Ivy League stalwart and its cross-coast competitor, Stanford University. What the growing rivalry between the schools might boil down to, though, is a stark difference in educational philosophy. While Stanford is certainly the hottest school in the country right now — with its engineering prowess leading to a near-domination of Silicon Valley — Harvard is playing catch up, The Crimson reports, and "is positioning itself to be the leader in education and research in the 21st century." The difference between the two educational juggernauts is fairly simple — Harvard has a focus on intellectual growth, while Stanford seeks to give its students more practical knowledge. As Meg P. Bernhard at The Crimson writes: Stanford's objective to "qualify its students for personal success, and direct usefulness in life," as stated in its founding grant, differs greatly than that of Harvard, which according to University literature, focuses primarily on the advancement of knowledge. ... Harvard focuses not so much on the application of education, but, as Harvard President Drew G. Faust wrote in an official capital campaign message, on the discovery of knowledge and the education of future leaders. The University remains true to its founding charter from 1650, part of which emphasizes the "advancement and education of youth in all manner of good literature, arts, and sciences." A Stanford computer science major offers a more real-life example — "We see Harvard as more focused on theory, the softer side ... Even in computer science, there's a lot more focus on how you do things as opposed to Stanford, which focuses a lot more on the practicality," he told The Crimson. This philosophical difference could be a reason why many Stanford students are finding early prominence in Silicon Valley. According to The Crimson, "at Stanford, the culture of looking forward is amplified by the successes of current students, not just graduates." As one Stanford history professor told The Crimson, "Every time a Stanford student reads that someone he met at a frat party just sold a startup for $1 million—and that happens a lot here—it dribbles a few more toxic drops into the water ... It shapes students' aspirations." Read more about the differences between Harvard and Stanford at The Harvard Crimson &gt;&gt;    FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc said on Thursday it would close 30 underperforming stores in Japan, scaling back in what was once considered one of the retailer's most promising markets and highlighting the hurdles it faces to securing growth overseas. Wal-Mart said the 30 stores operate under the Seiyu brand, and the closure is part of a revamp that will include remodels and other investments. The closures represent 7 percent of Wal-Mart's 434 stores in Japan. Wal-Mart first invested in Seiyu in 2002 and took full control of the company in 2008 with the aim of employing its low-cost model to win share from entrenched rivals like Aeon Co &lt;8267.T&gt; and Seven &amp; i Holdings Co &lt;3382.T&gt;. But Seiyu has sometimes struggled to meet the notoriously picky tastes of Japanese consumers and achieve the economies of scale needed to drive out competition via lower prices as it has in the United States. Wal-Mart estimated that the closures would result in charges of about 4 cents to 5 cents of diluted earnings per share, which it will record over the next several quarters. Wal-Mart also said that in an effort to shore up its performance in Japan, it would invest in upgrading its fresh and deli categories and remodel about 50 stores in 2015. It said it would also increase its fulfillment and service operations to meet growing demand for online delivery in the Tokyo area. The changes come as Wal-Mart is trying to find new growth overseas, where it operates around 6,000 stores and generates about a third of its overall sales. In the company's fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 1, net revenue of the international division rose 3.1 percent, but Wal-Mart has recently struggled to gain traction in some key markets, including China. (Reporting by Nathan Layne; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Americans aren't shopping like they used to.  Low-income and middle class retailers including Wal-Mart, JCPenney, Target, Macy's, and Family Dollar have reported disappointing earnings this year.  Executives at these retailers say that Americans are increasingly unwilling to spend money on discretionary items, despite modest gains in the job market.  "Low-end and middle-income retailers are still suffering because people are buying so close to need," Brian Yarbrough, consumer analyst at Edward Jones, told Business Insider. "In the past, retailers could depend on people spending a little more."  The Federal Reserve Board reports that all groups of consumers had a lower mean income in 2013 than they did in 2007. Mean wealth also declined for all the groups.  Yarbrough said that even fluctuations in the weather can make a big difference for retailers, like JCPenney, which recently said that unseasonably warm weather was hurting sales of its fall fashion assortments.  "Today's consumer is waking up when its 35 degrees and realizing it's time to buy long sleeves or a winter coat," Yarbrough said. "They're not going to spend the money before they absolutely have to." Federal Reserve Board Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren has said that customer malaise is hurting his business.  "The consumer has not bounced back with the confidence that we were all looking for," Lundgren said at the Goldman Sachs Annual Retail Conference, weeks after the company reported sluggish second-quarter sales.  Lundgren also said he doesn't expect things to get better in time for the holiday season.  "The performance I think we had in the second quarter, and we expect to have in the second half, is going to be a continuation of what we’ve been able to do over the last several years — and that is to capture market share and get the most out of the consumers that are in our stores," he said.  Kim Bhasin / Business InsiderMacy's CEO Terry Lundgren has said that consumers aren't recovering. Earlier this year, Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine said that economic conditions were worsening for his shoppers.  "The low-end consumer has not benefited in this recovery at all; in fact I think (they) have slipped further back," Levine said.  Even Wal-Mart is acknowledging that its customers are becoming choosier about how they spend.   Wal-Mart CEO Doug McMillon recently told investors that the brand has a renewed focus on offering the cheapest products.  "Price matters to our customers and it always will," McMillon said. "As a company, being a low cost operator is in our DNA. This will never change and we will be the price leader, across a broad assortment, everywhere we operate." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/U.S. Geological SurveyA slow-moving lava flow from the Kilauea Volcano burns vegetation as it approaches a property boundary in a US Geological Survey image taken near the village of Pahoa, Hawaii.The stock market extended its rebound back toward all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The Dow far outpaced the rest of the market because of Visa, which surged 10% after its better-than-expected earnings announcement. Because it's a price-weighted index, the 21-point rally in Visa is adding a full 134 points to the Dow. (Currently, a 1-point move in a Dow stock translates to a 6.42195-point move in the Dow.) 2. US GDP grew at a 3.5% pace in Q3, beating expectations for 3% growth. Personal consumption climbed 1.8%, a bit lighter than the 1.9% expected. Real final sales (GDP less the change in private inventories) jumped 4.2%, up from 3.2% in Q2. 3. Notably, government spending jumped 4.6%, adding 0.83 percentage points to the GDP growth rate. "After being such a massive drag on the economy in recent years, the public sector is now a big positive," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. 4. Different economists were surprised by different components of the GDP report. "The big upside surprise in the data is the residential investment component, where the 1.8% increase is impossible to square with the monthly construction data — we expected a 10% drop — and a downward revision in due course is a decent bet," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson noted. 5. Initial jobless claims climbed to 287,000 from 284,000 a week ago. This was a bit higher than the 285,000 expected. The four-week moving average sat at 281,000, the lowest level since 2000. "Looking past weekly volatility, trend initial jobless claims remain at extremely low levels and are consistent with our outlook for further improvement in labor markets," Barclays' Jesse Hurwitz said. 6. Gold fell below $1,200 again for the first time in a month. The yellow metal fell from around $1,215 to as low as $1,196. Don't Miss: WALL STREET'S BRIGHTEST REVEAL THE MOST IMPORTANT CHARTS IN THE WORLD » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann  A bizarre proposal from a Swiss political party would have the country's central bank holding one fifth of its $547 billion of assets in gold, a move that could vastly increase risk during a financial crisis as gold prices are extremely volatile.  Case in point: Gold is currently tumbling. It just broke below $1,200 for only the second time this year.  But the Swiss Peoples' Party, whom you may remember from their previous — and successful — referendum proposals for a stricter immigration policy and the banning of new minarets thinks this a good idea anyway.  The party has organized a referendum that would force the country's central bank to buy thousands of tons of gold. A Swiss-wide vote is set to take place in exactly a month's time. The Wall Street Journal lays out the details of the proposal: The referendum could very well pass based on recent polling, according to Reuters. In a warning, UBS economist Beat Siegenthaler told the news agency that the result could be "quite dramatic for the gold price, and maybe for markets beyond gold." It's a popular trope that gold investors (sometimes known as "goldbugs") retreat to the precious metal out of fear of coming inflation, often an instinct brought on by interest rate cuts and quantitative easing. So it's pretty funny that the new referendum would bring in a sort of QE for gold: As the asset (gold) price falls, the central bank would be forced to intervene again and again to buy more and more. Sebastien Galy at Societe General explains that having its hands tied would not be good for the bank in the case of a crisis: From a risk management perspective, a rule to maintain a 20% ratio of the Swiss foreign reserves in Gold is quite atypically Swiss. In times of crisis, it would vastly increase the portfolio’s risk while vastly reducing its liquidity. This may not be seen as an issue as the Swiss franc has proven to be a safe haven historically. However, the case for a safe haven may be less clear 10 or 20 years down the road. Galy goes on to show the policy would work in the favour of existing gold owners: The new gold rule would be the equivalent of giving a large put to the market. Each time Gold collapses, the SNB would automatically buy gold so that the 20% reserves ratio is maintained, and this would presumably be achieved by mostly selling euros and dollars. FREE AppDownload
If you’re between 18 and 34 years old, you should be getting ready for the prime of your life — at least according to recent history. That means getting a high-quality education, working a secure, fulfilling job, starting a family, and maybe even buying a home. But for most Millennials, that picture no longer vibes with reality. The Great Recession derailed many young people, and spawned an atmosphere of economic precariousness that’s undermining their potential, reordering their aspirations, and complicating their key life decisions. Yet there has been little recognition in Washington that this generation faces a unique set of challenges, leaving big disconnect between experience and a public policy response. While young people may hold themselves accountable for failure, they didn’t build this. They aren’t the ones who crafted the public policies that created such widespread instability. The “failure to launch” phenomenon has not occurred in a vacuum. The combination of the job-killing Great Recession and a general rollback in social protections, typified by a push to deregulate markets and replace pensions with individual 401(k)-type retirement plans, has saddled individuals with risks that were previously collectivized. Here’s a brief look at what this generational disconnect looks like in five key areas (the subheads are linked to more in-depth policy briefs on the subjects).  Parents of this generation really can say that things were better back in their day. For most young people, adult life has been characterized by downward mobility. The large-scale loss of jobs in the years following the recession and the slow recovery has made it difficult to climb the economic ladder. In 2012, 45 percent of all unemployed Americans-5.6 million-were between ages 18 and 34. The unemployment rate for this age group remains higher than it was in the 1990s and the labor force participation rate for young adults declined to the lowest level in four decades in 2012.  The drive for cost-cutting and flexibility among employers has led to a rise in freelance and contract work, which shortens employment tenure, contributes to an overall decline in income, and means that fewer young workers are receiving traditional employer benefits. It is increasingly common for young adults to resort to a stringing together of multiple part-time jobs. Despite this experience, there is scant attention being paid to large-scale job creation initiatives, efforts to systematically raise incomes, or rethinking the welfare state so that it works for young people today. It used to be that each generation born during the first half of the 20th century was wealthier than the one before. That pattern has broken down. This generation, and many of the younger Gen Xers, have accumulated less wealth than their parents did at similar ages. The median net worth for families headed by an individual under the age of 35 is currently around $10,000, which is $7,000 less (in 2013 dollars) than it was in 1995, a 41 percent decline. Those anemic numbers mean young people aren’t prepared to invest in assets and accumulate the wealth that comes from buying a home, for example. While middle age and older Americans have recovered much of the wealth lost in the recession, younger Americans have recovered only about one-third. Without public policy aimed at helping restore their balance sheets, Millennials will be playing catch-up for years to come to achieve their parents’ levels of net worth.  Many young adults spent the recession in hibernation – in other words, getting their graduate degree. If we’re measuring education by credentials, this generation is better educated than the last two. The share of 25- to 29-year-olds with a bachelor’s degree has grown by almost 50% since the early 1980s. That was all part of a grand bargain between student and university on which the university is now reneging. If you invest time and money in college — you earn more by becoming more valuable to the marketplace. That’s no longer true. The college wage premium (the difference in income between college grads and high school grads) has been stagnant for more than a decade, and colleges may not be preparing the next generation as well as we thought. In other words — this generation is spending more, and getting less. But really, we all may be getting less. Millennials are making a new set of choices about family - and some of those decisions are tied to their working opportunities and economic prospects. Millennials are less likely to marry than older generations. When they do marry, they are older. Today, the median age for a first marriage is about five years older than it was in the 1950s and 1960s. Having children is less popular than it use to be. The birth rate in the U.S. recently fell to a record low, dropping for the fifth straight year. Today, 29 percent of women ages 18 to 29 has ever had children; in 1998, that figure was 41 percent.  One new post-recovery work trend is destabilizing family life and making prospective parents fearful of having kids: it’s “just-in-time” scheduling — or the move in retail and service jobs towards unpredictable hours and unpredictable wages. Of course, the story of families struggling in low-wage, part-time jobs without adequate public support is only a new experience for some Americans: namely, the white middle class. This is a generation that’s allergic to vitriolic partisanship. Many have remained on the sidelines of many political debates. Yet they overwhelmingly support a stronger role for government to make the economy work better, provide services, and help those in need. Although young people have fewer attachments to traditional political and religious institutions than previous generations, they are connected to personalized networks of friends, colleagues, and acquaintances, which offer new tools for organizing collective action. The sheer size of the generation will make them an increasingly influential demographic. By 2020, Millennials will make up more than one in three adult Americans (and 39 percent of eligible voters), and by 2025, today’s youth will comprise as much as 75 percent of the U.S. workforce. In the years ahead, their preferences will increasingly set the political agenda. Without much doubt, the Millennial experience is distinct — and requires a distinct set of policy solutions. Demographically, they’re the most diverse generation in American history and their openness to alternative lifestyles means there is no longer a typical life trajectory. In fact, the very idea of a “typical” American is already starting to lose much of its meaning. Marriage, homeownership, and family no longer provide a standard blueprint for success. The paradox is that even as members of this generation have a greater degree of discretion in the choices they make, their economic outlook is limiting their options. At issue is whether or not American institutions, both governmental and in the private sector, can respond to the unique circumstances of young adults in ways that are aligned with the generation’s prevalent attitudes, preferences, and attributes. Millennials need a policy agenda capable of reversing downward mobility, increasing access to affordable education and training, supporting young families, making child rearing less costly, and cultivating economic resiliency. Millennials are no longer just kids. They are older than you think, but they are still our future. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David W CernyPhiladelphia Federal Reserve President Charles Plosser(Reuters) - Two regional Federal Reserve banks have taken steps to replace their hawkish presidents, Charles Plosser and Richard Fisher, whose departures early next year could change the tenor of debate within the U.S. central bank's policy-setting committee. The Philadelphia Fed said on Thursday it had hired executive search firm Korn Ferry to find a successor to Plosser, 66, who will retire on March 1 after more than eight years at the helm. A committee of Philadelphia Fed directors working with Korn Ferry will consider "a diverse group of candidates from inside and outside" the Fed, it said. Fisher, 65, will retire by April after about a decade as the Dallas Fed's president. Last month, Fisher told Reuters he assembled an advisory committee to search for his successor consisting of three former chairmen of the Dallas Fed – Hunt Oil's Ray Hunt, who hired Fisher in 2005; Southwest Airlines co-founder and former CEO Herb Kelleher; and Jim Hackett, former CEO of Andarko Petroleum. The Dallas Fed's current board chair, Mike Ullman, and its vice chair, Renu Khator, are also on the committee. Plosser and Fisher, both members of the Fed's policy-making committee this year, have been strident advocates of ratcheting down the central bank's extraordinary stimulus in the post-financial crisis era. Despite having dissented against a September policy decision to telegraph ultra-low interest rates for a long while to come, Plosser and Fisher on Wednesday backed the Fed's latest policy statement, which struck an optimistic tone on inflation and the labor market. Under mandatory retirement rules, Fisher needs to retire by the end of April, while Plosser could have stayed on until 2016.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer and Ann Saphir; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
screenshot/"The Usual Suspects""And like that ... he's gone."Last January, Credit Suisse wired $1.5 million to hedge fund manager Joseph B. Galbraith. One month later he disappeared off the map. According to a New York Times report, two weeks after Credit Suisse wired the money in three transactions to Galbraith, the bank realized that it made a mistake. "At the time of the wire transfers, the hedge fund, Galbraith Capital Investment Management, was winding down operations and it had no cash left in its account with Credit Suisse," according to the New York Times. Credit Suisse asked for its money back — but Galbraith never returned it. So, naturally, the bank's next move was to sue Galbraith and his hedge fund in an attempt to get back the funds. It seemed like a good plan — until Galbraith went missing in February. The last time anyone heard from him, Galbraith was on a ski trip. He sent an email to a Credit Suisse employee explaining that he was talking to his bank about sending back the money. "Don't panic over there, I'm dealing with this," he wrote. But then on February 5, when Credit Suisse got in touch with Galbraith's bank, it realized that Galbraith "had refused to give his approval to reverse the wire transfers." Today, Galbraith probably isn't anywhere in the US. Back in 2011, Galbraith renounced his citizenship following a bitter divorce with his first wife. In one email attached to litigation papers, Galbraith wrote to his wife: "I hate the [expletive] place and what it represents," according to the New York Times. Those who knew the hedge fund manager think he might be hiding out in Europe — probably in Monaco — with his second wife. Despite the mystery surrounding his whereabouts, a reporter actually got in contact with Galbraith via email recently. "Mr. Galbraith said he had not been aware of the Credit Suisse lawsuit. In an email, he said the accusations against him were 'ridiculous, bordering on laughable' and part of an effort to malign and slander his character," the New York Times reports. Perhaps unsurprisingly, this isn't the first sketchy situation Galbraith found himself in.  His hedge fund is also in a legal dispute with a computer technology company as well, according to the New York Times. The company claims that Galbraith's fund owes over $130,000 in fees. FREE AppDownload
Next time you are seated between a Baby Boomer and a  Millennial  ask them when they last reviewed their 401(k) statement. One will likely say “this morning” and the other will pause for a few seconds before replying “possibly last spring”. Which one is which? The answer may surprise you: BlackRock’s 2014 Global Investor Pulse Survey found that 56% of Millennials regularly monitor their investments, spending almost 7 hours a month reviewing the numbers. Compare this with 46% of Baby Boomers, spending a mere 2 hours a month on their investments. While my hypothetical example may be a bit of an exaggeration, Millennials seem more engaged, optimistic and confident in their financial situation than other generations. In fact, 57% of them felt “in control” of their financial future, versus 41% of Baby Boomers. While this kind of optimism is easier for those who have decades before they retire and likely haven’t experienced some of life’s biggest milestones such as marriage, children or divorce, consider for a moment when most Millennials came of age. Millennials are the ones who were in high school and college when their parents lost decades of retirement savings during the financial crisis. Today they are paying off student loans and watching their friends have difficulty finding work. They perceive pensions as a quaint anachronism and that cashing Social Security checks during their golden years isn’t likely.  In short, they don’t believe in the myth of the retirement fairy. An early read of this important generation is that they are forming good savings habits and following a routine of regularly monitoring their investments which will help pave the way for long-term financial success. Among the lessons Baby Boomers can learn from Millennials: 1.    Dedicating nearly half of one’s income to saving and investing. The Millennials surveyed said that they devote an average of 22% of their take-home pay to savings and 18% to investing. Boomers dedicate 12% and 11%, respectively. 2.    Believing in the markets. 45% of Millennials have a greater interest in investing in stocks compared to five years ago, compared to 16% of Baby Boomers. Again, this is difficult for someone who watched their savings dissolve during the financial crisis to undertake. But as I mentioned in a previous post, a market dip is the best time to get in. 3.    Taking advantage of a 401(k). 69% of Millennials agree that a 401(k) is a good way to save for retirement. If you have a 401(k), be sure to pay in enough to qualify for the company match and max it out if you can – no matter which generation you claim as your own. When was the last time you read your 401(k) statements? Are you more confident about your retirement than your peers? Share your stories here.  Heather Pelant is Personal Investor Strategist for BlackRock. She is a regular contributor to The Blog and you can find more of her posts here.  FREE AppDownload
At a spending rate of $1 million a day, most people would blow through their entire life savings in, well, a day. But for billionaire Bill Gates, it would take 218 years to spend his approximate $79 billion fortune at this rate, according to new research from Oxfam that was recently highlighted by The Guardian. That's about three Ferraris a day.  It would take Mexico's Carlos Slim, the world's richest man, even longer at 220 years. Warren Buffett could get through his fortune slightly faster, but it would still take 169 years to clear his bank account.  While few could keep up with these hypothetical spending patterns, more people than ever can call themselves billionaires these days. In fact, the number of billionaires in the world has more than doubled since the recession, rising from 793 in March 2009 to 1,645 in March 2014, Oxfam reports.  And wealth proves to be the gift that keeps on giving — billionaires average a 5.3% return on wealth, compared to the 1.95% return rate for the ordinary person. This means Gates makes an approximate $11.5 million a day from interest.  When comparing this extreme wealth to those on the other side of the economic spectrum, however, the report found some startling inequalities. Namely, the 85 richest people in the world have a combined net worth equal to the poorest half of the entire global population.  But Gates and Buffett aren't looking for ways to idly blow cash. Rather, both billionaires are known for their charitable ways. Gates runs the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which received nearly $3 billion from Buffett alone in 2014.  FREE AppDownload
Jefferies Bloomberg News' Stephanie Ruhle and Zeke Faux are reporting that Sage Kelly, the Jefferies investment banker embroiled in a messy divorce, has taken a leave of absence according to a memo from Jefferies CEO Richard Handler.  Kelly is Jefferies Global Head of Healthcare Investment Banking at Jefferies. His estranged wife, Christina Di Mauro Kelly, filed an affidavit last week as part of a divorce proceeding and custody battle that contained allegations of drug abuse and extramarital sex. She also accused some Jefferies managing directors and bank clients of using drugs. "We cannot express how deeply we regret the agony and distraction that this has caused all of us, not to mention our clients, each of whom has categorically denied the allegations,” Handler wrote in the memo cited in the Bloomberg report. "We are not happy to be in this unfair position."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayGold fell below $1,200 an ounce. Prices slid from Wednesday's high of $1,216.50 to as low as $1,195.50 minutes ago. Thursday's sell-off comes after the BEA reported the US economy grew by 3.5% in Q3, beating expectations for just 3.0% growth.  The yellow metal was once widely considered a safe-haven investment. However, the price of gold has performed dismally in recent years. Gold briefly dipped below $1,200 earlier this month. "Gold gets dug out of the ground in Africa or someplace. Then we melt it down, dig another hole, bury it again and pay people to stand around guarding it. It has no utility. Anyone watching from Mars would be scratching their head." That's what Warren Buffett said back in 1998. Here's a chart from FinViz showing the decline in the gold price Thursday morning:FinViz And here's the ugly chart for silver trading down to a 55-month low: FinViz   FREE AppDownload
In terms of legendary investors, there are few that stand taller than Warren Buffett. Dubbed the Oracle of Omaha, in roughly six decades, Buffett managed to turn roughly $10,000 into what Forbes estimates is a net worth in excess of $68 billion as of this past Friday. Buffett's formula for success is pretty simple: He looks for high-quality businesses and sticks with those companies over the long run, allowing time and compounding gains to take care of the rest. As Buffett has been previously quoted saying with regard to the holdings of his conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway, "Our favorite holding period is forever." One company on that potential "hold forever" list of Buffett's is technology and telecom giant Verizon Communications. Though Berkshire's portfolio is known for being financials and consumer products-heavy, Buffett does own 15 million shares of Verizon, equating to more than $730 million in market value. But, the big question we should be asking here is: Why is Verizon one of the biggest Warren Buffett stocks? Let's take a closer look at the reasoning behind Buffett's faith in Verizon, as well as deduce whether or not the telecom giant is still worth investors' money. Buffett's plan to profitability (i.e., buy and hold) may be as vanilla as it gets, but the reasoning behind his attraction to Verizon is likely a bit more complicated. First and foremost, the Verizon brand is highly recognizable and relatable with consumers. According to BrandZ's 100 most valuable global brand list of 2013, Verizon ranked 12th on the list, with a brand value of $53 billion, 8% higher than in 2012. What's more impressive is that Verizon is predominantly focused within the U.S., yet it ranked 12th among global brands, including Wells Fargo, Amazon, and Wal-Mart. Companies with strong brand recognition can often rely on their logo and loyal customers rather than excessive advertising to bring in new business. Kirsten Acuna, Business InsiderVerizon is predominantly focused within the U.S., yet it ranked 12th among global brands, including Wells Fargo, Amazon, and Wal-Mart. Secondly, Verizon's business is predominantly inelastic. Although all we really need is food and water to survive, wireless phone service and accessibility to the Internet are practically necessities now, too. As such, the price for wireless services and the demand for wireless subscriptions tends to not be affected much, if at all, by the strength or weakness in the U.S. economy. Any business that can produce predictable cash flow and maintain its pricing power during a recession is likely to catch Warren Buffett's attention. Third, Verizon has comparative advantages that keep its profits flowing. For starters, it has the nation's largest 4G LTE wireless network, which means it holds a comparative network advantage over the likes of AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, and Sprint, who have to spend heavily in order to try and catch up. In addition, its sheer size ensures that only a handful of other companies even have a shot at competing. This is why companies like MetroPCS and Leap Wireless were eventually sold, because they simply couldn't compete against the likes of Verizon and AT&amp;T. Also, Verizon has the ability to bundle its services, much like AT&amp;T, giving consumers many more content servicing options than most of its rivals. Fourth, Warren Buffett loves dividend stocks, and Verizon is certainly going to oblige by keeping its shareholders happy. In September, Verizon's board approved a nearly 4% boost to its quarterly payout, marking the eighth straight year that Verizon has lifted its annual payout. Currently yielding 4.6%, Verizon shareholders and Buffett are receiving more than double the average yield of the S&amp;P 500. Best of all, these dividends can be reinvested in the stock, yielding even bigger gains in the future.  Finally, you have to consider the nature of the wireless business. Buffett has to be impressed with the fact that Verizon and its peers can lock customers into contracts for two years and secure a steady stream of predictable revenue. Even more so, Buffett has to love the fact that Verizon Wireless' churn rate (a measure of the amount of customers who leave Verizon versus its subscriber base) was just 1% on the dot in the third quarter, as service revenue increased nearly 5%. Having purchased its remaining un-owned stake in Verizon Wireless from Vodafone Group, Verizon is free to bask in the incredible free cash flow associated with more than 100 million customers. Of course, even the great Warren Buffett has a bad buy every now and then. All we have to do is look toward Tesco for evidence of this. With that being said, let's have a look at a few of the headwinds Verizon is facing that could derail its stock. Probably the biggest threat Verizon faces comes from AT&amp;T. As I mentioned above, Verizon has superior 4G LTE coverage compared to AT&amp;T, but AT&amp;T also has the capital to quickly catch up to Verizon in terms of next-generation wireless coverage. Even more importantly, according to Brand Keys, AT&amp;T was deemed to have the most loyal wireless customers. To be clear, Verizon Wireless' 1% churn rate is phenomenally good, but when it comes to customer satisfaction, AT&amp;T Wireless continues to take the cake. Verizon Also, debt has to be another concern that sticks in the back of all investors' minds. The purchase of its un-owned stake of Verizon Wireless from Vodafone put Verizon in a deep debt hole. At the moment, the company is sporting $109.2 billion in debt, and more than $101 billion in net debt. Obviously, Verizon Wireless is going to allow the company to generate more free cash flow than it was previously, but that's still a disconcertingly high amount of debt to carry around. Now, back to our original question: Can this Warren Buffett stock head higher? I believe Verizon does have the tools to head higher over the long term, but I would certainly caution that its outlook over the coming years is heavily tied to its ability to pay down its debt. There's little question that its 100% ownership in Verizon Wireless is going to be a positive, as is its historically low churn rate. However, I also feel that as Verizon's PEG ratio approaches two, investors are going to be less willing to push its stock even higher. Income-seeking investors should do just fine with Verizon, but I'd temper your share price appreciation expectations to very modest gains at best. The smartest investors know that dividend stocks simply crush their non-dividend paying counterparts over the long term. That’s beyond dispute. They also know that a well-constructed dividend portfolio creates wealth steadily, while still allowing you to sleep like a baby. Knowing how valuable such a portfolio might be, our top analysts put together a report on a group of high-yielding stocks that should be in any income investor’s portfolio. To see our free report on these stocks, just click here. Sean Williams has no material interest in any companies mentioned in this article. You can follow him on CAPS under the screen name TMFUltraLong, track every pick he makes under the screen name TrackUltraLong, and check him out on Twitter, where he goes by the handle @TMFUltraLong. The Motley Fool owns shares of, and recommends Amazon.com, Berkshire Hathaway, and Wells Fargo. It also recommends Vodafone Group. FREE AppDownload
Noah Berger/ReutersYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer.How do CEOs who sleep for only four to five hours daily and manage to function and run multimillion-dollar companies? appeared as a question on Quora. Below we are republishing an answer from Alexandra Damsker, a CEO of a successful startup. I don’t have a multimillion-dollar company (yet), but I’m one of those CEOs who function on three to five hours of sleep. No, there aren’t any drugs involved, nor is there poor management (as far as I know). It’s a variety of things. First, reduce TV. You sleep much better, and do much more work, when you don’t watch much TV. Your brain is actually less active watching TV than when it’s sleeping. This dullness is addictive. My daughter becomes a giant mess when she watches too much TV — huge tantrums, crying, screaming, complete meltdown. She doesn’t want to eat or listen. It’s like she’s addicted, and I’m taking away her drug. My husband is very similar, without the actual crying. He just sort of grunts more. I’m not certain it happens with everyone, but I’d be surprised if most people aren’t highly susceptible to this “one more show” mentality, and the gape-mouthed stare is the death knell for good work, good eating, good sleep or good play. Second, limit carbohydrates. For me, anyway, they just make me sleepy. Third, limit meetings. Same as carbs. Blah blah blah — hate just droning on, or being droned at. Nothing good comes of this. Fourth, I actually have specific hours I need to sleep to do well, not a specific number of hours. It’s a quirk of my circadian rhythm, and it’s been that way since my 20s. If I can sleep from 4 to 8 a.m., I’m very happy. However, my home life doesn’t permit that, so I usually end up sleeping from 1 to 4 a.m., and 5 to 6:30 a.m. I have a hard time sleeping in the early morning hours, and love the morning. Fifth, when I get a few energy slumps, I rely on some tried-and-true solutions: I switch tasks to things I really like (so I save that stuff for sleepy times). I hang out on Quora (dangerous, because I’m on here WAY longer than I should be. There should be a stopwatch or a clock on this thing … !) I go outside. I email or chat with someone personal (not usually on the phone — hate the phone.) I play a set number of solitaire hands. I read the news or one of three gossip sites I frequent (I’m not proud). Or, if all else fails, I take a nap. I usually sleep more on slower days or if nothing is happening on a weekend, but it works out Sixth, and most important, I REALLY, REALLY, REALLY LOVE WHAT I DO. I love it so much! I am so incredibly happy that I get to do my job. I have days that suck. I have strings of days that suck. But they are just sucky days — my life is still pretty spectacularly awesome. Amanda Macias/Business InsiderChallenge yourself to start the day early.It makes me excited to wake up, to take the conference call I had today set at the incredibly ludicrous time of 6:30 a.m., to take calls and go to meetings while visiting family, to get over shyness and speak to the stranger next to me on the airplane, to spend the evening playing with my daughter knowing that I’ll be working on a document until 4 a.m. and begging Kinko’s for something. I mostly just think I am a very lucky person. I have a pretty supportive spouse, a fantastic kid, a wonderful dog. I’m healthy. I’m privileged to run a company that is about to split into 2, with customers that are acolytes that spare me marketing dollars. People believe in me and my ability to lead, they believe in what I’ve created. I do something that I think makes a difference in the world. And today I’m having a pretty good hair day. I don’t really worry about the sleep that I get. I get what I can, and do what I have to do every day. Everyone around me is trying to help me out (for the most part), I keep my priorities in order (my kid never suffers, I can’t make myself sick), and I just focus on what I have immediately ahead and in the near future, and what I need to get those done. I truly believe it will all benefit everyone in the end, and my support group does, too. And that’s how I do it. Quora is the best answer to any question. Ask a question, get a great answer. Learn from experts and get insider knowledge. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank analysts recently published their "Equity House View" report, which includes a map of anecdotes from various businesses around the world. They cover industrials as well as consumer goods makers. All together, it offers a nice snapshot of the world. "The picture from Corporates is positive in the US, mixed but not bearish on Europe and is largely negative on China," Deutsche Bank analysts write. Check it out: Deutsche Bank
Amazon is one of the more complicated and hotly debated stocks even among the most seasoned investors. The company has revolutionized the way we shop and built a $134 billion market cap that makes it among the most valuable in the world.  But on the way, Amazon has run a virtually break even business and still reveals very little about how new products and investments like AWS, Kindle, Amazon Prime, and Amazon Fresh are paying off financially.  Recently, fellow Fools Andrew Tonner and John Maxfield gave the basic facts surrounding the Amazon bull story, which focuses not on mounting GAAP losses but the company's impressive operating cash flow numbers. Operating cash flow has been an incredible $5.7 billion in the last twelve months compared to a $216 million loss on the income statement.  But before you start thinking Amazon is magically swimming in cash while reporting losses, you need to know where this cash flow is coming from and why there's such a discrepancy between net income and cash flow.  One of the flaws in an income statement that is often pointed out by analysts is that "its true purpose is to reconcile the change in a company's balance sheet between two accounting periods." There are lots of non-cash charges, like depreciation, and the income statement does little to show where cash came from or where it is going in any given period.  That's why the statement of cash flows is also reported along with the income statement and balance sheet by companies each quarter. The point of this statement is to show where cash came from and where it was spent in the quarter.  But it's also true that you can't take a statement of cash flows at face value because there are equally misleading components in that financial statement as well. Below I'll cover the three I think investors should keep in mind when looking at Amazon's cash flows.  One of the great advantages of Amazon's growth is that it has what's called a negative cash conversion cycle. When you buy something from Amazon you pay for it immediately, but Amazon will pay its suppliers 30, 60, or maybe even 90 days after it sells the item, so as long as Amazon is growing it'll be generating cash from its sales whether it's making money on each sale or not.  On the cash flow statement this can be seen in changes in accounts payable (what it owes suppliers) and accounts receivable (what customers owe Amazon). In the last twelve months, Amazon has generated $1.83 billion in cash by growing accounts payable while spending a net $1.17 billion in cash by growing receivables owed from customers. On a net basis, Amazon generated $661 million in operating cash flow from this negative cash conversion cycle.  Operating a business with a negative cash conversion cycle can make cash flow a desirable reporting metric as opposed to net income, which shows a better value of the profit made from each transaction. In that respect, this component of the cash flow statement can show deceptive value.  Another big line item that pops out on Amazon's statement of cash flows is "Additions to unearned revenue." These are primarily prepayments for Amazon Prime and its AWS service. For example, when you pay for Prime you pay upfront for the year's services so on the income statement Amazon spreads out the payment (or amortizes it) as revenue it earns over the entire year. A similar dynamic plays out with AWS.  What's key about this line item is that like the negative cash conversion cycle discussed above it can make near term cash flow look stronger than it is. In the last year, Amazon has recorded $3.87 billion in unearned revenue and amortized (or recognized) previously unearned revenue to the tune of $3.18 billion. That means that Amazon recorded a net cash gain of $699 million from services -- or costs -- it hasn't yet performed for customers.  Like the negative cash conversion cycle, the income statement does a better job than the cash flow statement showing services that have been paid for and the costs associated with performing those services. The costs associated with shipping your packages 2-day or buying content for streaming services are written off as they occur and a little slice of revenue is associated with some of those costs. But if you're losing money year after year you're probably not charging customers enough to cover the costs associated with Prime and AWS even if the operating cash flow from both are positive short-term.  The biggest argument that Amazon bulls make and the largest items on the cash flow statement are invested capital and depreciation. Depreciation is the way that the income statement accounts for the cost associated with buying a long-term asset that should generate value for many years. A building, for example, is typically depreciated over 30 years because it's expected to add value for at least that long. A server, on the other hand, may be depreciated over 5 or 7 years because its useful life is much shorter.  In Amazon's case, a $300 million fulfillment center will have just $10 million per year associated to cost of goods sold on the income statement for 30 years. On the cash flow statement, this would be shown as a $300 million cash outflow under "Investing Activities" the year the fulfillment center is built and then for 30 years the $10 million in depreciation on the income statement would actually be added back to the operating cash flow figure because it wasn't a cash outlay during the year.  Below I've built a very simple example of what this would look like on financial statements. In this example I say that in Year 0 the only thing the company does is buy a piece of equipment for $100. This piece of equipment has an estimated useful life of 5 years so it'll be depreciated for five years and it generates product that's sold for $20.  To make this example simple I've assumed that the company has no operating, financing, or tax costs and there are no cost of goods from the piece of equipment besides depreciation. Therefore the revenue the company generates is also the same as its cash flow.  The Motley Fool You can see that in Years 1-5 there's positive cash flow but zero net income because of the depreciation of the equipment. But also notice that the total cash flow from Year 0-5 is $0.  You can also see that both net income and cash flow are $20 in Year 6, which is when the equipment is fully depreciated.  Now imagine this investment in equipment happening over and over, year after year, and you get an idea what's on Amazon's income and cash flow statements. The equipment purchased will cause cash outflows in early years as money is spent on equipment and net income will be low despite the fact that operating cash flow may rise.  But notice that there's only a positive return on investments in capital investment if the equipment, software, or building outperforms its estimated useful life or if it generates higher returns than its depreciation cost. That's when net income is produced. We can look at the $181 million in net losses Amazon has had since the start of 2013 as evidence that there's not a positive return on the investment made over a decade or more. Another way to measure this is by looking at retained earnings, which is the sum of all profits the company has had in its history minus dividends paid ($0 in Amazon's case), compared to the capital that's been invested. By this measure, Amazon has invested $19.9 billion since 1999 on long-term investments and acquisitions and has retained earnings of just $1.74 billion in its entire history.  We would also expect that as growth of the business slows the cash spent on capital expenditures will come closer to depreciation recognized each year, at which point net income should begin showing the returns on that long-term investment. In Amazon's case, spending is slowing but we have yet to see the uptick in net income.  Amazon's slowing investment in growthWhat most people say about Amazon is that it's investing money in fulfillment centers and equipment that will drive future growth and profits. But the truth is that today it's barely investing enough to replace old equipment and has yet to record the net income we should now be seeing from more than a decade of heavy investment.  In the past twelve months, Amazon has invested $4.63 billion in property, equipment, and software while recognizing $4.33 billion in depreciation on investments in those items in previous years. Depreciated equipment gets old and needs to be replaced so, it's really just investing to maintain its business, not grow it.  Once a business reaches the point where it's depreciating as much in assets as it's investing in new assets it's hard to argue that the cash flow statement shows value better than the income statement.  Over a long enough period of time, net income and cash flow from operations and investing should be fairly similar. In many ways, I think the income statement actually shows the value Amazon is generating better than the cash flow statement, especially now that depreciation and investment in capital equipment is nearly equal.  But at the very least investors need to understand what's included in Amazon's $5.7 billion operating cash flow figure when someone starts throwing that figure around. It includes $661 million in cash from a negative cash conversion cycle, $699 million in prepaid revenue for things like Amazon Prime, and $4.33 billion in depreciation that's been added back from the income statement.  Those three items alone eat up nearly all of the operating cash Amazon generated in the past twelve months. That's important context to understand when looking at Amazon, whether you're a bull or a bear on the stock long-term.  FREE AppDownload
JPMorgan Vice Chairman Jimmy Lee is a legendary dealmaker on Wall Street.  We caught up with Lee on the phone this week before Bloomberg's "The Year Ahead" summit and he shared his keys to success.  "I think it's just a few things that you have to do every day," Lee told us.  Here they are:  1. Work hard.  "You have to work really hard. There's just no getting around that."  2. Become an expert. "You have to know each of the major products exceptionally well. You've got to know high-yield debt. You've got to know investment grade debt. You've got to know loan syndication. You've got to know M&amp;A. You've got to know IPOs and follow-ons, i.e. the equity business. You have to have a deep vertical experience and expertise."   3. Don't be afraid to give honest, objective advice. "You have to be unafraid of just telling the truth, especially with respect to CEOs. A lot of bankers are always looking to please the CEO, and in doing so they please them, but they may not give them, you know, objective advice. So I think it's being honest, open and giving your best objective advice, and being unafraid as to what can happen from that so long as you've thought it through."  4. Don't underestimate the importance of working well with people. "The most successful people tend to have relatively high IQs and relatively high EQs [the emotional quotient]. So having strong EQ and just fundamental working well with people I think is very, very important. Because investment banking at the end of the day—it's very technical, it's very complicated, but once you've learned all those skills it's really just about people." 5. Learn from mistakes.  "In a long career, a gazillion mistakes get made. And I've made my share of mistakes... When you make a mistake you A.) You have to acknowledge it and be fully accountable and then B.) You have to figure out what made you make the mistake and figure out how to not make the same mistake again."  On November 13-14, Lee will be speaking at Bloomberg's "The Year Ahead" summit where he'll talk about industry and economic issues going into 2015 along with other top executives.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer ECB president Mario Draghi. Two weeks ago, the New York Times revealed a stunning leak from the European Central Bank (ECB). The paper posted a story about negotiations pertaining to Cyprus' financial crisis from late 2012 to early 2013, a nugget that was pulled from the ECB minutes. "The New York Times has reviewed governing council minutes dating from May 2012 to January 2013 — just two months before the controversial Cyprus bailout," the article stated.  The Cyprus story was great on its own, but perhaps more significant is the fact that the Times was able to get its hands on the ECB minutes. Unlike the Fed, Bank of England, and Bank of Japan, the ECB will not release a record of its meeting discussions for 30 years.  And since the ECB was established fewer than 30 years ago, in 1998, none of the meeting minutes have been released to the public yet. This was the first time in history that any such documents had been obtained by financial media.  Which leads us to the next question: Where are the rest of the minutes and what was discussed in them? The eurozone was not quiet for the 9-month period that The Times says it has records of, so there could potentially be dozens more stories to come out of the minutes — except there haven't been. On Wednesday, Twitter's Nelder Mead noted the lack of articles on the subject. Using the ECB's own crisis timeline, it is clear that the documents from this timeframe could cover several other imporant areas, including: It's quite possible that the NYT is working on more pieces. Or maybe the ECB minutes just aren't that juicy. But since the majority of us have never seen any, we can't really say for sure.  FREE AppDownload
 To say that Warren Buffett has a deep understanding of business — training himself with critical thinking exercises and a rigorous reading program — is a bit of an understatement. The proof is in the profits. His Berkshire Hathaway holding company has amassed a market cap over $300 billion. His personal fortune is upwards of $68 billion. So when he starts doling out career advice, we listen.  In a series on Fortune in which CEOs offer their best advice, the Sage of Omaha counseled young women on how to advance their careers.  But we think it applies to everybody.  "You do the same thing a male will do," Buffett said. "You follow your passions. You find something you love." By doing that, the logic goes, you'll bring more energy to your work than everybody else.  "The truth is, so few people really jump on their jobs, you really will stand out more than you think," Buffett said. "You will get noticed if you really go for it.” In this way, Buffett's advice parallels what comedian Steve Martin says to people who want to break into show business: "Be so good they can't ignore you." For five strategies for doing just that, go here.     FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, the Russian ruble reversed its recent trend of breaking record lows against the dollar and the euro and came surging back. Rumors quickly circulated about the cause of the unexpected rally.  Here's what we know so far: After falling to yet another record low in early trading, the ruble suddenly began regaining lost ground from about 6 a.m. ET.  BloombergThe ruble versus the dollar. The first thing to note here is that over the past week the volume of trading in ruble markets has fallen off sharply. As Reuters' Eric Burroughs (who provided the chart below) said on Twitter, this suggests that the ruble falls have been increasingly built on fragile foundations. It also indicates that Thursday's rally could reflect low volume of trades rather than a genuine change in sentiment. However, there are a few reasons to believe that the rally may ultimately have some legs. Thomson Reuters Eikon/Eric BurroughsUSD/RUB trading volumes (DTCC reported). The Russian central bank is due to meet Friday to decide whether to move interest rates.  At the top of the list of concerns will be ruble movements, which have forced the central bank to spend $15 billion of foreign exchange reserves buying up the currency in an attempt to limit the scale of its collapse. However, the central bank will also be painfully aware that it has to deal with the competing problems of inflation at 8%, well above its 5% target, and an economy stuck in the doldrums because of international sanctions and weakening domestic demand. Markets appear to be anticipating a modest move by the central bank to keep inflation in check and help slow capital outflows, with analysts in the latest Reuters poll predicting a 50 basis point rise. If currency traders believe higher rates might succeed where foreign exchange have failed in stemming the outflows, which have so far seen more than $86 billion of capital flee the country in 2014, then the rally could well become more entrenched. The risk, of course, is that a rate rise also chokes off what little growth the Russian economy is forecast to achieve this year, sending the country into recession. Another rumor swirling Thursday was that Bogdan Yaremenko, a Ukrainian diplomat, was briefing journalists that Russian President Vladimir Putin had struck a deal with his Ukrainian counterpart Petro Poroshenko over gas supplies to the country and the disputed territory of Crimea. EU-brokered talks between the two sides appeared to have stalled earlier this week over Moscow's demand that Brussels and Kiev come up with a plan for Ukraine to pay off its gas debts before entering into negotiations. The talks were supposed to ease tensions ahead of elections planned this weekend by pro-Moscow rebels in the parts of eastern Ukraine under their control. Signs of de-escalation in the conflict would be welcomed by markets, not only as it reduces the chances of further destabilization in the region, but also because it could be used as a reason to soften or remove sanctions against Russia when they come up for review next year. The European Union is scheduled to review its sanctions package in March. Extending the sanctions requires a unanimous vote by member states, an eventuality that would be much less likely if there were tangible evidence of tensions cooling. This would provide a big boost to Russia's economic outlook and help improve investor confidence in the country — most likely leading to a strengthening ruble. So is this what we're seeing in the ruble market? Perhaps. But this latest rumor looks to have little to support it. Dmitry Peskov, Putin's spokesperson, has been quoted as saying, "I have no idea who Bogdan Yaremenko is, we have more than 3,000 such diplomats." His comments were reaffirmed by Alexei Miller, chief executive of Russia's state-owned gas behemoth Gazprom, who said that if there were no agreement over debt repayment, "naturally, there will be no meetings, no talks tomorrow, and no documents will be signed." What's underpinning the ruble rally may simply be a perception that the currency had become oversold in recent weeks, but the situation remains precarious. Concerns now will be focused on Russia's corporate sector, with Rosneft reporting that the ruble collapse effectively wiped out third-quarter profits and prompted it to request a (likely unrealistic) 2 trillion ruble bailout from Russia's sovereign wealth fund. Russian companies still have $140 billion in foreign debt repayments due by the end of 2015, and further ruble weakness could cause this problem to become a self-feeding cycle. If it does, the ruble flash rally may quickly be forgotten about. FREE AppDownload
Reuters Workers erect a sign for JPMorgan investment bank at Canary Wharf in London December 21, 2011. LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. bank J.P. Morgan pays managing directors at its investment bank in London an average of 461,000 pounds ($737,877), substantially more than pay across its rivals, according to a survey. Emolument, a website that benchmarks salaries, said on Thursday the average salary and bonus for JPMorgan managing directors was more than 13 percent higher than the next best paying bank, Deutsche Bank, which paid its managing directors an average of 402,000 pounds. Bank of America Merrill Lynch paid an average of 376,000 pounds, according to Emolument, which said its estimates were based on responses from 640 bankers regarding their 2013/14 salaries and bonuses. UBS, Citigroup, and Morgan Stanley each paid managing directors an average of more than 350,000 pounds, the survey showed. Goldman Sachs, long considered one of the top paying banks, ranked ninth in the survey with average pay of 330,000, and Barclays ranked 13th. FREE AppDownload
Throughout more than a decade working in financial services, Peter Hans noticed a pattern in his meetings: Investment professionals would gather and inevitably talk about their favorite stocks and investments. "Everyone was willing to share ideas, but that information was never publicly available," he says. "After years of this, I thought there had to be a way to create something where the information is more democratized and scalable, and flows freely between people who have access to information and people who don't." With that aim, Hans, along with Andrew Parmentier and Mike Perrone, created Harvest Exchange, a free website where money managers and financial insiders can share their thoughts and opinions about investments. Although Hans says Harvest isn't a social network, it provides a Facebook-esque feed of thoughts from investment professionals curated to showcase posts from top investors — but with the legally necessary compliance review to accompany posts on specific stocks or investments.  It also offers a million-dollar virtual hedge fund that Hans says is used by everyone from smaller asset managers looking to prove their expertise to students who want to build a virtual investing "resume" before hunting for a finance job. Business Insider's Julia La Roche profiled the site and its high-profile users in early 2014. But while the bulk of Harvest's 60,000-plus users are industry insiders like Dan Loeb and Sahm Adrangi, the site intends to break down the wall between financial professionals, clients, and would-be clients. As much as Harvest provides a platform for professionals to share their thoughts, it also provides amateur investors with a direct line to expert insight, without the price tag.  "There's pretty significant mistrust between the everyday retail investor who's trying to figure it out, and professionals," Hans explains. "We give the more experienced investor the ability to, in a really easy way, discover the products, services, and financial experts that are right for them, instead of being bombarded with cold calls or emails or banner ads. You can curate the info based on what interests you." HarvestWhile Harvest hasn't yet released an app, the site is fully functional on a mobile browser.Hans thinks the rise in automated investing platforms known as robo-advisers is a result of the average person's dissatisfaction with the financial industry's current system, and the costs that go with it.  "One reason you're seeing robo-advisers and different alternatives for consumers is that management fees are high across the industry, and there's a questionable value proposition when there's a lack of communication," he says. "With all the innovations in technology, the means of targeting and acquiring customers hasn't changed in 50 years, and the only way to offset those costs is higher fees." To combat those fees, Hans explains, you can either create new technology like robo-advisers, or give existing advisers a way to be more accessible at less cost to them, where they can either prove they're worth the high fees or eliminate those fees while communicating with clients and potential clients in a cost-effective way. "There's a lot of illnesses and problems in the system," he continues, "and you can offer new products or services that directly compete with the existing infrastructure because the existing infrastructure is sick [like robo-advisers], or you can cure the illness."  Because Harvest's professionals may tout specific stocks and investments rather than the broad, more conservative investment approach usually recommended for beginners, Harvest probably isn't the go-to option for an investor just dipping their toe into the market. Hans admits that not only would some of the site's content be over the head of the beginning investor, but that a lot of the information can even feel advanced for him. If you're looking into working with an investment professional or firm, however, Harvest is another way to learn more about the people you plan to trust with your money. FREE AppDownload
The US is well on its way to energy independence. The share of oil consumed by Americans that was produced in the US has sharply increased over the last 10 years, according to the Department of Energy. Back in 2005, less than 70% of oil consumed by Americans was produced by US oil. Thanks to the developments in hydraulic fracturing technology, that number's up to 86%. "The US oil production increased last week to 8.97 million barrels per day (bpd), which is the highest weekly level amount of domestic crude oil production in the 32-year history of the Energy Information Administration's "Weakly Petroleum Status Reports" starting in January of 1983," writes Mark J. Perry of the American Enterprise Institute. And within a few weeks, the US is expected to beat that number, and produce over a whopping 9 million barrels per day. (By comparison, Saudi Arabia produced roughly 9.8 million barrels per day in the previous year.) Net oil imports have been tumbling. Back in 2005, the number was above 60%; today net oil imports are below 28%. "The Great American Shale Boom continues to set new production records and reach new milestones on a regular basis and has turned out to be the most dynamic, successful, and powerful single sector of the US economy, thanks to the 'American-made' drilling technologies pioneered and developed by America's 'petropreneurs,'" writes Perry. FREE AppDownload
 Lakeland Industries has been cashing in on the spread of the Ebola virus and the fear that has come with it. The stock is up 35% in early Thursday trading following management's Wednesday evening update on Ebola-related business activity. "Lakeland has secured new orders relating to the fight against the spread of Ebola," management said in a press release. "The aggregate of orders won by Lakeland that are believed to have resulted from the Ebola crisis amount to approximately 1 million suits with additional orders for other products, such as hoods, foot coverings, and gloves." So far, about 5,000 people have been killed in the recent outbreak of the virus. Most of those deaths have occurred in West Africa in Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. In anticipation of demand, management cranked up its production capacity. "Monthly production capacity for sealed seam ChemMAX and MicroMAX protective suit lines has increased by nearly 50% from August 2014, prior to Ebola-related product demand, to October 2014, and is on track for a 100% increase from that level by January 2015, with the ability for additional increases as needed," management said. While most companies warn investors about the negative risks that come with fear-inducing phenomena like viral outbreaks, Lakeland sees dollar signs. "Ebola" is mentioned 12 times in this brief press release. Here's a look at the premarket trading via MarketWatch: MarketWatch   FREE AppDownload
Federal ReserveThere's a pattern here ... Janet Yellen, the first female chair of the Federal Reserve, is giving welcoming remarks Thursday morning at the Fed's National Summit on Diversity in the Economics Profession in Washington. In her speech, Yellen noted that both economics and finance recognized that diversity was fundamentally important to good outcomes, and that the Fed was "committed to achieving further progress, and to better understanding the challenges to improving diversity throughout the economics profession." The meat of Yellen's speech is at the end, when she focuses on how and why the economics profession fails to recruit a more diverse population in college and graduate schools, and whether better recruitment could have prevented some of the major failures of the profession (failure to predict the financial crisis, for one) in recent years. Here is the key passage (emphasis ours): The AEA has also done important work documenting and investigating the 'leaky pipeline,' trying to determine why some groups are more likely to abandon economics education and work before, and even after, receiving Ph.D.s. In reviewing the data on the representation and advancement of certain groups in the profession, there are differences in outcomes for women and minorities. To what extent are these disparities caused by differences in the experiences of those groups or due to broader and more general challenges faced in academia? Do the leaks from the pipeline that may be more noticeable for some groups reflect a broader lack of opportunity in academia? When economists delve into why there isn't more diversity among them, they end up asking about what is being taught in college, how economists are being trained in graduate school, and other questions that bear on the health and the future of the economics profession in general. These are not idle questions. All of you know that there has been a fair amount of public debate in recent years about the health of the economics profession, prompted in part by the failure of many economists to comprehend the dire threats and foresee the damage of the financial crisis. When the public asks whether economists did all they could have to understand those threats, in part they are asking whether our profession did enough over the years to test ideas and assumptions that turned out in some cases to have been mistaken or misplaced. And part of that question is this one: Did the economics profession recruit and promote the individuals best able to bring the energy, the fresh insights, and the renewal that every field and every body of knowledge needs to remain healthy? Here full speech is here.  FREE AppDownload
After an incredible 5-year bull market run, which saw the S&amp;P 500 double from its March 2009 low of 666, many stock market watchers were sure this would be the year that things would finally turn. There certainly has been no shortage of bad news that would cause investors and traders to sell. "Just this year alone, the list of anxiety-provoking events has been a long one: Emerging markets mini crisis (January 23), Crimea invasion (February 28), Yellen rate-hike scare (March 19), momentum stocks meltdown (April 3), ISIS invasion of Iraq (June 10), Portuguese bank panic (July 10), Malaysian jet crisis (July 17), sanctions imposed on Russia (July 29), and the global growth and Ebola scares (September 30)," writes stock market guru Ed Yardeni. "And the year isn’t even over yet." Yardeni's listing of bad news echoes of Warren Buffett's New York Times op-ed from the darkest days of the financial crisis in October 2008. Here's an excerpt: "...A little history here: During the Depression, the Dow hit its low, 41, on July 8, 1932. Economic conditions, though, kept deteriorating until Franklin D. Roosevelt took office in March 1933. By that time, the market had already advanced 30 percent. Or think back to the early days of World War II, when things were going badly for the United States in Europe and the Pacific. The market hit bottom in April 1942, well before Allied fortunes turned. Again, in the early 1980s, the time to buy stocks was when inflation raged and the economy was in the tank. In short, bad news is an investor’s best friend. It lets you buy a slice of America’s future at a marked-down price. "Over the long term, the stock market news will be good. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497..." Unexpected tragedies and disasters are just a part of life and investing. This doesn't mean the stock market won't crash tomorrow or next. All this means is that investors should never be surprised to see stock prices rise amid horrible news. Keep in mind, stocks are a discounting mechanism, which means much of their value is derived from expectations for the future, not the news of the present.                                                                         SEE ALSO:&nbsp;                    DEUTSCHE BANK: These Are The 50 Best Stocks To Buy Right Now                 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarGDP growth was much stronger than expected in Q3. According to the BEA's advanced estimate, GDP grew at a 3.5% pace. While this was down from 4.6% in Q2, it was well ahead of the 3.0% expected by economists. A few surprises included government spending, which jumped by 4.6%. This was responsible for 0.83 percentage points of GDP growth. "After being such a massive drag on the economy in recent years, the public sector is now a big positive," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. Despite some slowdown in the housing market, residential investment also had a nice showing. "The big upside surprise in the data is the residential investment component, where the 1.8% increase is impossible to square with the monthly construction data — we expected a 10% drop — and a downward revision in due course is a decent bet," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson noted. Personal consumption climbed at a 1.8% rate, which was a bit lighter than the 1.9% expected. The closely watched real final sales metric (GDP less the change in private inventories) jumped 4.2%, up from 3.2% in Q2. Here's a breakdown of contributions to GDP growth via @cigolo and Reuters' Vincent Flasseur. @cigolo Here's a breakdown of the components of growth. BEA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonA man waits in line to enter the NYCHires Job Fair in New York.Initial jobless claims rose to 287,000. The expectation was for 285,000. Last week's claims were revised to 284,000 from 283,000. The 266,000 reading two weeks ago was the lowest since April 2000. Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note: "Claims are already low enough, when coupled with mostly robust indicators of the pace of hiring, to signal payroll gains of 250K-plus over the next few months. If that happens, the unemployment rate will continue to fall rapidly and its collision with the 5.5% top of the Fed's Nairu range will come early next year, a year ahead of FOMC forecasts. No wonder they changed the labor market language yesterday; they had to." FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesShanghai has risen from the ground in just 20 years. China has the highest income growth potential for expats. It ranks first in the Expat Economics league tables, with nearly a quarter (24%) of expats earning more than US $300,000.  And Australians working in Asia are the highest-earning expatriates in the world, according to HSBC’s global Expat Explorer survey. “Asia is becoming the salary sweet spot for expats, and Australians are there en masse,” HSBC says. The in-demand jobs are in banking, finance, education, and Information Technology. The results of the survey, conducted by the research company YouGov, are classified into Economics, Experience, Raising Children, and Expenses. Nearly 9,300 individuals from 100 countries shared their insights about life as an expatriate. More Australian expats are choosing to live in Asia than expats from other countries, according to Expat Explorer. HSBC Elsewhere, 31% of Australians currently reside in the UK and 9% in North America. Asia’s higher salaries and lower living costs means that expats there earn the highest income. According to the survey, there are more expats in Asia in the higher-income bracket than expats in other markets — 14% in Asia compared with 5% in Europe — and the higher proportion of Australians in Asia compared with those there from other countries has resulted in Australians being the top earners globally. The survey shows 30% of Australians boasting remuneration packages in excess of US$200,000 a year. compared with the global average of 21% for expats. Graham Heunis, head of retail banking and wealth management for HSBC in Australia, says people go where the growth is. “With benign economic conditions in the UK and US over the past few years, it’s no surprise that career-oriented Aussies are flocking to fast-growing markets in Asia,” he says. “Swapping London and New York for a life in Shanghai and Singapore is certainly paying off for Australians abroad.” Of the Australian expats surveyed, 6% are in China compared with 1% of expats globally.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a MasterCard logo is seen on a door outside a restaurant in New York(Reuters) - MasterCard Inc, the world's second-largest debit and credit card company, posted a 15.5 percent rise in quarterly profit as more customers used its cards to make purchases. The company's net income rose to $1.02 billion, or 87 cents per share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 from $879 million, or 73 cents per share, a year earlier. Net revenue rose 12.8 percent to $2.5 billion.   (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!  Us futures are starting weaker this Am, led by a 80bp drop in the Russell.  The Selloff accelerated this AM when deflationary German CPI data got a bid under Bunds, driving flows from Equities.  The DAX is off 1.5% in decent volume, trading 30% heavier than normal.   The EU banks are under decent selling pressure again, led by a 3% drop in Spanish Fins.   Slowdown concerns are weighing on Industrials and Material issues in Germany as well.   Over in Asia, the MICEX has given up pre-morning gains, despite a massive squeeze in the Ruble on reports a Gas deal will be signed.  The Nikkei gained 70bp as the Yen fell, While Shanghai gained 80bp as more vauge reports of stimulus circulate.   Hang Seng was under pressure on the surging HK$ (Tied to USD) – While consumer and Fins propelled Aussie in the green, despite pressure in the Miners.   We continue to focus on Emerging Markets - Watch EWZ and PBR as Brazil raises rates overnight, Brazil is 10% of the EEM.  The US 10YY is off a few bp, mirroring the drop in German 10’s as the Euros chase yield.   Yellen is due to speak at 9amET although shouldn’t address policy (giving remarks on Diversity).  The $ is gaining against both Euro and Yen, the latter getting upside Y109 as we await the BOJ’s anticipated downgrade of their economy tonight.   The $’s Focus is on US GDP at 8:30ET.  Street at 3%, but peeps have been ramping higher of late – The top 5 forecasters on Bloomberg are all above 3% - as high as 3.5% - With the stronger $, commodities have a headwind.  We are seeing a sharp drop in Metals, with Silver breaking down 2.6% and Gold off 1.8% and nearing a $1200 test as Indian imports collapse and Inflation vanishes (Citi Cuts Global Inflation Outlook by Most in 5 Years, German CPI comes in at -30bp m/m, and US breakevens drop.   The Oil complex is under pressure this AM, as OPEC Secretary General sees no reason for panic on prices, and reports mount US shale is profitable at $70.   Continue to see the cover happening in the Grains and Beans – While Natty Gas continues to see a short-cover into a cold weekend in the Northeast.    Scheduled Catalysts today include GDP and Weekly Claims Data at 8:30, Yellen speaks at 9, we have a $29B 7Y auction at 1, and at 2:15 ECB's Linde Speaks in Madrid – while Pre-Opening Earnings include ABC, APD, APO, FIG, HAR, IVZ, K, MA, MGM, OAK, and TWC while CCI, GPRO, LNKD, MCHP, NEM, ONNN, SBUX, and WU come after the close. FREE AppDownload
Hiring managers spend just six seconds on your resume before they decide on you — this is exactly what they look at. Produced by Matt JohnstonFollow BI Video: On Facebook
Along parts of the Myanmar-China border, where heroin addiction is appallingly common, fresh needles are now so coveted that shopkeepers dispense them as change. Myanmar’s unruly hinterlands are in the grips of what may be Asia’s worst heroin epidemic — a scourge widely ignored by the rest of the world. The country is one of Asia’s most dysfunctional and war-torn nations. Its currency is so debased that clerks offer tissues, cigarettes or candy in lieu of notes worth 5 or 10 cents. Many customers rightly prefer a few mints or smokes to worthless, stained, taped-up bills. But in the heroin scourge’s heartland — along highways leading to Muse, a busy border town abutting China — some roadside shops also dole out clean needles as an alternative unit of currency. That detail is buried in a report called“Silent Offensive,” by the Kachin Women’s Association of Thailand, which monitors abuses in Myanmar’s remote borderland states of Shan and Kachin.  The report notes that many gas stations also make change using bottles of sterile water, which addicts draw into syringes to turn powdered heroin into an injectable liquid. Within the region, heroin is potent and cheap. A single dose can sell for as little as $1. Large swaths of Myanmar’s northern jungles are controlled by guerrilla armies, many of them now allied with the central government. These quasi-lawless hills churn out almost all of Asia’s heroin. Only Afghanistan produces more opium, heroin’s key ingredient. GlobalPost’s award-winning investigation of the epidemic turned up communities where heroin is sold as openly as vegetables. In Kachin State’s capital of Myitkyina, needles are strewn in the fields, on the streets and on the local university’s campus. In the internet cafes, patrons are warned not to shoot up while checking email. The Kachin Baptist Convention, an influential local Christian network claiming nearly half a million parishioners, offers this horrifying estimate: 80 percent of youth in Kachin State are drug addicts. “Where we live, police can barely reach us. So people make up the law themselves,” said Esther, 61, in a previous interview with GlobalPost. She’s the founder of an anti-drug vigilante group near Muse, where syringes are traded as currency. “In many villages, every home contains an addict,” Esther said. “We all have personal tragedies. My husband and son got hooked and sold everything in the house — even bags of rice.” Addicts in this far-flung region often check in to jungle detox camps, run by evangelical Christians, where they are locked in cages during the throes of withdrawal. Without restraint, addicts will run off and score more heroin, said James Naw, an ex-addict turned rehab counselor in Kachin State. During withdrawal, he said, “The world is a blur. Even the breeze hurts. You’ll do anything for more.” In recent years, Myanmar has been depicted as a success story — a totalitarian backwater struggling to become a freer society, with White House backing. But these bright hopes are disconnected from scenes in its untamed borderlands. There, insurgency has endured for decades, and guerrilla forces accuse the government of genocide by heroin. FREE AppDownload
The Russian Ruble is suddenly reversing after last week's sell-off and just one day after the currency fell to record lows against the dollar and the euro. Here's the 3.77% drop of the euro against the resurgent ruble, just now:  Bloomberg The dollar is also dropping against the Russian currency, down 2.57% to fewer than 42 rubles. Meanwhile, markets around the world are getting crushed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveGood morning! Here are the major stories making an impact early Thursday. Rosneft's Profits Are Collapsing. Rosneft, Russia's biggest oil producer, reported a net profit of just 1 billion rubles ($23 million) in the third quarter, down from 172 billion rubles ($3 billion) in the previous quarter German Unemployment Took An Unexpected Plunge. According to figures out Thursday from the country's statistical agency, the number of people out of work and looking fell by 22,000 in October. The rate stays unchanged at 6.7%. Modi Madness Catapulted India Stocks To Record Highs. India's Sensex stock index is climbing to record intraday highs early Thursday. It's up 0.92% on the day, sitting at 27,265.73. European Business Sentiment Ticked Up. After four months of stagnation or decline, economic sentiment among business managers in Europe has finally picked up in the euro currency area, by 0.8 points to 100.7. Chad Holliday Will Be Shell's First American Chairman. Chad Holliday, the former chairman of Bank of America, is about to become chairman of the oil giant Shell, according to a filing from the massive multinational Thursday morning.  European Markets Are Getting Hit. After opening up, the major European equities indices are taking a beating. France's CAC 40 is down 1.11%, Germany's DAX is down 1.40%, and the FTSE 100 is down 1.04%. Barclays Is Braced For An $800 Million Forex Fine. Barclays on Thursday set aside £500 million ($800 million) linked to probes into price-rigging allegations in foreign exchange markets and posted slumping third-quarter net profits. US GDP Is Coming. Third-quarter GDP figures will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting 3% annualized growth, a slight slowdown from the second quarter.  Retailers Are Changing Their View On Apple Pay. MCX CEO Dekkers Davidson shot down an earlier report from The New York Times that said MCX members would suffer fines or penalties if they accepted Apple Pay. Samsung Profits Are Sinking. Samsung Electronics says its third-quarter income has plunged 49% to the lowest level in nearly three years as its handset business slows down. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersConocoPhillips Chairman and CEO Lance rings the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - ConocoPhillips, the largest U.S. independent oil company, on Thursday reported a higher third-quarter profit as results were lifted by the sale of its Nigerian business. Profit was $2.7 billion, or $2.17 per share, compared with $2.5 billion, or $2.00 per share in the 2013 third quarter. ConocoPhillips had third-quarter oil and gas production from continuing operations, excluding Libya, of 1.473 million barrels oil equivalent per day (boed), up 25,000 boed from a year ago.  (Reporting by Anna Driver Editing by W Simon) FREE AppDownload
AllsopLots of potential.A disused, moss-covered shed in London has sold for £550,000 ($880,000), The Telegraph notes, in a testament to the capital's insane property market. House price growth in London is officially cooling according to new figures out Thursday. But even as rate growth slows, record prices in the UK are still being set.  British house prices rose 9% in October, down a bit from 9.4% in September, according to Nationwide Building Society’s monthly index. The Financial Times reported: The average price of a house rose by 0.5 per cent month on month to £189,333, beating the previous high of £189,306 in August. But  £190,000 — about $304,000 — won't get you very far in London, where prices have spiraled upward in a way that most people regard as slightly crazy. To be fair to the shed — a garage in Chelsea hemmed in by existing buildings — it's in a great neighborhood and sits on approximately 0.005 hectares (0.013 acres) of land.  This Google Earth map (below) shows you why it's worth so much. It's on the fancy King's Road, near to the Marco Pierre restaurant and Vivienne Westwood's store. The trendiest neighborhood in London, in other words: Google And while the garage looks a bit gloomy now, look at these imaginary architect renderings of what it could look like after you've built a 1,000-square-foot two-bedroom house on the site: Allsop The plot already has planning permission, which is why the sale was so expensive: Allsop FREE AppDownload
 Apple's CEO Tim Cook publicly came out as gay on Thursday in an essay for Businessweek. Writing in Businessweek, Cook said the following: While I have never denied my sexuality, I haven’t publicly acknowledged it either, until now. So let me be clear: I’m proud to be gay, and I consider being gay among the greatest gifts God has given me. He goes on to say: Being gay has given me a deeper understanding of what it means to be in the minority and provided a window into the challenges that people in other minority groups deal with every day. It’s made me more empathetic, which has led to a richer life. It’s been tough and uncomfortable at times, but it has given me the confidence to be myself, to follow my own path, and to rise above adversity and bigotry. It’s also given me the skin of a rhinoceros, which comes in handy when you’re the CEO of Apple. Businessweek editor Josh Tyrangiel explained in an interview today what prompted Tim Cook to come out.  On Monday Tim Cook gave a speech at the Alabama Academy of Honor in which he criticized his home state for its failure to advance LGBT rights. He said that the state was still "too slow on equality for the LGBT community."  Tim Cook attended San Francisco's annual gay pride celebration and parade earlier this year. Happy Pride, @tim_cook. Proud to see you marching with other LGBT Apple employees! pic.twitter.com/bbBb4M4GA9  Apple has a long history of supporting its LGBT workers. A 2013 Wall Street Journal op-ed written by Tim Cook called on the US government to protect LGBT employees from discrimination. "Embracing people's individuality is a matter of basic human dignity and civil rights," the op-ed stated. And in a 2013 speech at Auburn University, Cook expressed his support for equal rights, and hinted at the discrimination he experienced while growing up.  Since these early days, I have seen and have experienced many types of discrimination and all of them were rooted in the fear of people that were different than the majority. The Auburn University speech is seen as the first time that Cook had alluded to his sexuality in public. Rumors that Tim Cook is gay have existed for years. Out Magazine placed Tim Cook as America's most powerful gay person in a 2011 issue. In June 2014 a host on CNBC accidentally mentioned Cook's sexuality, which resulted in an awkward silence.  FREE AppDownload
Russia says its dispute with Ukraine over natural-gas supplies will not be resolved unless the European Union guarantees cash-strapped Kyiv pays up front for gas it wants from Russia this winter. After three-way talks in Brussels that began on October 29 and dragged on into the night, Russian Energy Minister Aleksandr Novak said the sides had agreed on the "basic parameters" of documents setting out prices, volumes of gas deliveries to Ukraine in November and December, and a mechanism for restructuring Kyiv's multibillion-dollar debt to Russia for previous supplies. But he said Russia, which halted deliveries to Ukraine in June, will not turn on the taps unless it is certain it will be paid for future deliveries. "If there's money, there will be gas," Novak said. He said the sides had agreed to resume the talks in Brussels later on October 30. But the chief of state-controlled Russian exporter Gazprom, Aleksei Miller, said the talks would take place only if EU and Ukraine agreed on a protocol guaranteeing payments. "If such an agreement is not reached, there will be no meetings or negotiations tomorrow [October 30] and no documents will be signed," Miller said. The latest gas dispute between Moscow and Kyiv is tied to the geopolitical turmoil former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych set off in November 2013 when he scrapped plans to sign landmark political and economic agreements with the EU and turned toward Russia instead. Yanukovych's about-face sparked street protests that led to his ouster in February in what Moscow claims was a coup d'etat and the rise of a pro-Western government in Kyiv that has denounced Moscow's annexation of Crimea in March and sent government forces into eastern Ukraine to fight pro-Russian rebels it says are armed and reinforced by the Russian military. Russian President Vladimir Putin promised gas price cuts in December 2013 to dissuade Yanukovych from moving Ukraine closer to Europe, but raised the price Moscow charges Kyiv after Yanukovych's downfall and, in June, halted all supplies meant for domestic consumption in Ukraine when Kyiv failed to pay the higher price. At the time, Russia said Ukraine owed $5.1 billion for gas. Russia is the EU's biggest external gas supplier, providing about one-third of the gas consumed there, and previous price disputes between Moscow and Kyiv have led to supply cuts that have chilled Europeans in wintertime. Ukraine relies on Russia for about half of the gas it consumes, and despite storage has a winter shortfall of around 3 billion to 4 billion cubic meters (bcm), depending on the weather. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said on October 18 that Kyiv and Moscow had agreed Ukraine would pay $385 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas delivered through March 31 of this year. He said Kyiv had proposed paying $325 per 1,000 cubic meters for gas used by Ukraine in May and June and $385 for gas delivered this winter, while Russia was insisting on $385 for all parts of the year. After Yanukovych's ouster, Russia was demanding Ukraine pay $485 per 1,000 cubic meters, substantially higher than any other Gazprom client. Francois Lenoir/Reuters"If there's money, there will be gas," said Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak.Ukraine is in discussions with existing creditors the EU and the International Monetary Fund, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- concerned about vital Russian gas supplies to the rest of Europe -- has spoken of possible financing for Kyiv. But the Russian negotiators in Brussels said they wanted to see a firm agreement on EU financing for Ukraine. "We were told today that Ukraine will see financing to provide for prepayment for 4 billion cubic meters of gas. But this is not a guarantee, it is only a declaration by the Ukrainian side," Novak said. The gas negotiations come amid persistent tension over the conflict in eastern Ukraine, which has killed more than 3,700 people since April, and driven East-West ties to their lower point since the Cold War. Hostilities continue despite a September 5 cease-fire, and Russia has angered Ukraine by saying it would recognize elections the separatists who hold large swathes of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions plan to hold on November 2 in defiance of Kyiv and the West. FREE AppDownload
Larry Downing/REUTERSUS President Barack Obama, right, with India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington on Sept. 30.India's Sensex stock index is climbing to record intraday highs early Thursday. It's up 0.62% on the day, sitting at 27,265.73. This might seem a little surprising: the US has just announced the official end to tapering, meaning no more new flows of stimulus by quantitative easing. India's stock market was one of the emerging markets hit hardest by the mere suggestion of tapering in the first place. But now, Indian equities seem to be going from strength to strength. At least part of the reason why is down to Prime Minister Narendra Modi: BloombergIndia's Sensex index of equities. The line just before the beginning of May is where the Sensex sat just before it became clear that Modi would not just win the mid-May Indian election, but that he would storm home with a large majority.   The Wall Street Journal has done a great timeline of the Modi-driven events that have lifted Indian stocks. Recently, announcements on diesel price deregulation and the continued success of the BJP (Modi's party) have cheered markets. Of course, there's a big downside to this. If Modi starts to disappoint, the expectations investors had for significant earnings growth are going to sour quickly. Once you're up on a pedestal, there's much further to fall. FREE AppDownload
ECAfter four months of stagnation or decline, economic sentiment among business managers in Europe has finally picked up in both the euro currency area (by 0.8 points to 100.7) and the wider countries of the EU (by 0.5 points to 104.0), according to the European Commission's latest survey. Sentiment about the region's economy improved across all of the region's largest economies except Spain, where it saw a modest decline. The improvement was driven by a more positive outlook for the retail trade, services and especially construction. The survey covers executives in all types of industries. The more modest increase in the EU sentiment index was driven by a sharp fall in sentiment for the UK, which fell by -2.1. Elsewhere the Business Climate Indicator (BCI) for the euro area remained virtually unchanged, with managers' optimism over the prospects for export order books offset by a cautious view on stocks of finished products and past production. EC FREE AppDownload
Fed Chair Janet Yellen made it official Wednesday: After nearly a year of "tapering," the Fed is done buying bonds. The next step, barring deterioration in the economy, will be to raise interest rates. Slowly but surely, in other words, the Fed is taking away the punch bowl. That's generally not good news for stock prices. For the past five years, the Fed has been frantically pumping money into the financial system, keeping interest rates low to encourage hedge funds and other investors to borrow and speculate. This free money, and the resulting speculation, has helped drive stocks to their current very expensive levels. But now the Fed's policy is moving the other way. To be sure, for now, the Fed is still pumping oceans of money into Wall Street. And if you limit your definition of "tightening" to "raising interest rates," the Fed is not yet tightening. But in the past, it has arguably been the change in direction of Fed money-pumping that has been important to the stock market, not the absolute level.  In the past, major changes in direction of Fed money-pumping have often been followed by changes in direction of stock prices.  Not immediately.  And not always.  But often. Here's a look at the past 50 years. The blue line is the Fed Funds rate (a proxy for the level of Fed money-pumping.) The red line is the S&amp;P 500. We'll zoom in on specific periods in a moment. Here, just note that Fed policy goes through "tightening" and "easing" phases, just as stocks go through bull and bear markets. And sometimes these phases are correlated. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now, lets zoom in. In many of these time periods, you'll see that sustained Fed tightening has often been followed by a decline in stock prices. Again, not immediately, and not always, but often. You'll also see that most major declines in stock prices over this period have been preceded by Fed tightening.  Here's the first period, 1964 to 1980. There were three big tightening phases during this period (blue line) ... and three big stock drops (red line). Good correlation! Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Now 1975 to 1982. The Fed started tightening in 1976, at which point the market declined and then flattened for four years. Steeper tightening cycles in 1979 and 1980 were also followed by price drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed From 1978 to 1990, we see the two drawdowns described above, as well as another tightening cycle followed by flattening stock prices in the late 1980s. Again, tightening precedes market drops. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed And, lastly, 1990 to 2014. For those who want to believe that Fed tightening is irrelevant, there's good news here: A sharp tightening cycle in the mid-1990s did not lead to a crash! Alas, two other tightening cycles, one in 1999 to 2000 and the other from 2004 to 2007 were followed by major stock market crashes. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed One of the oldest sayings on Wall Street is "Don't fight the Fed." This saying has meaning in both directions, when the Fed is easing and when it is tightening. A glance at these charts shows why. On the positive side, the Fed's tightening phases have often lasted a year or two before stock prices peaked and began to drop. So even if you're convinced that sustained Fed tightening is now likely to lead to a sharp stock-price pullback at some point, the bull market might still have a ways to run. SEE ALSO: Anyone Who Thinks Stocks Will Go Up If The Economy Grows Should Read This Buffett Quote  FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - The United States welcomed China's growing role in trying to ensure Afghanistan's stability on Thursday, saying a Beijing conference of foreign ministers on Afghan reconstruction this week shows its commitment to the region as Western troops pull out. The comments, made by a senior State Department official, are rare U.S. praise for Beijing, which this week hosts Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on his first visit abroad since assuming office in September. Washington and Beijing, which have typically contentious relations on geopolitical issues from Iran to the South China Sea, have both said they see Afghanistan as a point where their security interests converge. On Tuesday, China pledged to give Afghanistan $327 million in aid through 2017, more than the $250 million contribution it has so far offered since the fall of the hardline Islamist Taliban regime in 2001. "China's view of engaging in Afghanistan over the course of these past few years has really changed significantly, and in our view, in a very positive direction," the official told reporters during a telephone briefing. On Friday, foreign ministers from Asian and Central Asian countries will gather in Beijing for a fourth round "Istanbul Process" conference on Afghanistan, which China hopes will help boost development and security there. White House counsellor John Podesta will attend the meeting. "It's a real demonstration of China's commitment to Afghanistan, to its role in the region and one that we greatly welcome," the official said. Additional support on counter-terrorism "would be very valuable", the official said, noting that improving coordination on "terror-finance" issues at the United Nations would be an area of U.S.-China discussion in the future. China, connected to Afghanistan by a narrow, almost impassable mountain corridor, has been preparing for more responsibility in Afghanistan after the bulk of U.S.-led troops pull out this year. It says it does not seek to fill a void left by the U.S. withdrawal but has promised to play a big commercial role in reconstruction. Chinese officials are concerned that instability in Afghanistan could lead to more unrest in China's western Xinjiang region, where the government says militant separatists influenced by extremists along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border have carried out violent attacks. Experts, however, dispute the influence of foreign militant groups in China, and argue that economic marginalisation of Muslim Uighurs, who call Xinjiang home, is one of the main causes of violence there. (Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ EpsilonRosneft CEO Igor Sechin.Rosneft, Russia's biggest oil producer, reported a net profit of just 1 billion rubles ($23 million) in the third quarter, down from 172 billion rubles ($3 billion) in the previous quarter. The company, which is headed by close Putin ally Igor Sechin, has been hammered by a combination of international sanctions and a huge rise in the value of its foreign currency debt. Its net debt position reached a staggering 1.77 trillion rubles. As a testament to its recent struggles, Rosneft had earlier seen a request for 2 trillion rubles from the state National Wealth Fund to help it weather current market turmoil turned down. Last week Russia's Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said the scale of the request was impossible to meet without putting huge strain on the country's reserves. He said: The overall volume of the Fund is a little more than 3 trillion rubles and there is not enough unused, inactive capital to meet the request. Therefore, undoubtedly, the offer [from the government] will differ significantly from the request. Rosneft's woes show just how damaging sharp falls in the ruble can be for the Russia's vital commodities sector. The central bank now faces the difficult decision of whether to raise rates in an effort to stem capital outflows at the risk of damaging the country's fragile economy. The bank's board is due to meet Friday, when it will attempt to balance the demands of an economy that is seeing 8% inflation and flagging growth. The board's decision could mean the difference between the country falling into a recession or avoiding an even worse slump. FREE AppDownload
After two months of modest increases, the number of unemployed people in Germany took a surprise plunge this October. According to figures out Thursday from the country's statistical agency, the number of people out of work and looking fell by 22,000. The rate stays unchanged at 6.7%. That's not bad news for a country where business confidence just dropped to a 22-month low and where some analysts have already started predicting a recession. This graph from Pantheon Macroeconomics shows falling jobless numbers in Germany: Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Spain's GDP grew 0.5% in the third quarter, the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica reported on Thursday. The figure matches forecasts and is slightly slower than the 0.6% rise in the second quarter.  The annual rate of growth was 1.6%.  Here's a chart: INE   FREE AppDownload
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesChad Holliday.Bank of America's ex-chairman Chad Holliday is about to become oil giant Shell's chairman, according to a filing from the massive multinational Thursday morning.  Holliday is replacing Jorma Ollila, a Finn who was the first chairman from a country other than the Netherlands or Britain. Holliday will be the first American to hold the executive post when he is installed after Shell's annual general meeting in 2015. Holliday was chairman and chief exec at DuPont for a decade, ending his run in 2008. He currently sits on the the American Energy Innovation Council. In 2010, Holliday became chairman of Bank of America, and was succeeded by Brian Moynihan earlier in 2014.  The announcement came with a set of robust third quarter results, with earnings of $5.3 billion in comparison to $4.2 billion for the same quarter in 2013. Holliday will be stepping in at a tough time as Shell, like most other energy companies, will be dealing with the fallout of dropping oil prices over the last few months.  FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt / Getty Images WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A robust pace of business spending likely buoyed U.S. economic growth in the third quarter, a sign corporate chieftains have confidence in the sustainability of the recovery. Gross domestic product likely grew at a 3.0 percent annual pace, according to a Reuters survey of economists, with housing, trade, government and consumers also lending support. While that would be a step down from the second quarter's brisk 4.6 percent pace, it would the fourth quarter out of five that the economy has expanded at or above a 3 percent clip. "It was a very good quarter for business investment," said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester Pennsylvania. Businesses, with a war chest of about $2 trillion, have been slow to ramp up spending. But change is in the air. With unused factory capacity nearing pre-recession levels, the GDP report is expected to show a second straight quarter of double-digit growth in spending on equipment and a rise in investment in structures. While data on Tuesday suggested some moderation in the pace of equipment investment in the fourth quarter, it is still expected to remain strong enough to keep the economy on a higher growth pace. "There is no doubt that business investment activity has picked up over the last quarters, reflecting more confidence in the durability of the recovery," said Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Research in New York. One of the few areas that is likely to drag on growth is inventories. A build up in inventories had added 1.42 percentage points to growth in the second quarter. The Commerce Department will release its first snapshot of third-quarter GDP at 8:30 a.m. (1230 GMT) on Thursday.   CONSUMER SPENDING TO MODERATE The data comes one day after the Federal Reserve ended its asset purchasing program. Fed officials, who saw sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy, described business investment as "advancing." While growth in consumer spending is expected to have decelerated from the second-quarter's 2.5 percent pace, it likely still contributed to GDP growth. Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. The moderate pace of consumer spending likely helped keep inflation pressure under wraps during the quarter, with the two price indexes in the report expected to have decelerated sharply. Declining gasoline prices and accelerating job growth, which is expected to lift wages, will provide tailwinds for consumer spending in the fourth quarter. Housing will be another source of growth thanks to a rebound in home building and sales, which lifted brokers' commissions. Spending on home improvements will also help. Government spending is also expected to offer some support. A smaller trade deficit should be another boost to growth. Although there are concerns a strengthening dollar and slowing euro zone and Chinese economies will crimp U.S. export growth, economists believe the impact will be marginal. "We expect the positive momentum established in the third quarter to carry over into the fourth quarter," said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS in Stamford, Connecticut. "We believe the direct impact on U.S. GDP from a strong dollar and slower global growth is small."   (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Susana VeraA worker adjusts her gloves as she learns to put on her protective suit during an Ebola training session held by Spain's Red Cross in Madrid on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. The World Health Organization issued promising news about the state of Ebola, noting that the epidemic in Liberia may be slowing down. 2. A mudslide set off by monsoon rains may have killed in hundreds in Sri Lanka. 3. NATO said on Wednesday afternoon that it had intercepted an unusually high number of Russian bomber planes over the Atlantic, Black Sea, and Baltic Sea over a 24-hour period since Tuesday. 4. OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla Salem el-Badri said he expected a sharp fall in US shale output if oil prices stayed low.  5. It could take months for investigators to determine what caused a rocket built by Orbital Sciences and carrying a cargo ship bound for the International Space Station to blow up seconds after launch, obliterating an estimated $200 million in an instant.  REUTERS/StringerRescue teams from the Sri Lankan military engage in rescue operation work at the site of a landslide at the Koslanda tea plantation in Badulla on Wednesday. 6. Fiat Chrysler plans to spin off Ferrari, its most valuable brand.  7. Samsung posted a 49% drop in profit to its lowest total in three years as the electronics maker loses its grip on the smartphone market.  8. Former US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan believes that the third installment of the government's stimulus program, known as QE3, did not meet its goals, which he revealed after the Fed announced the program's end on Wednesday. 9. US government officials have openly criticized Secretary of State John Kerry, comparing him to a lost astronaut in space because he often gets "out of sync with the White House in his public statements." 10. The San Francisco Giants won the World Series Wednesday night, beating the Kansas City Royals, 3-2, in Game 7. And finally ... Behold: A prototype of the world's most advanced flying car.  FREE AppDownload
