The Federal Reserve is on track to trim its bond-buying program for the second time in six weeks as a lackluster December jobs report failed to diminish the central bank's expectations for solid U.S. economic growth this year, according to interviews with officials and their public comments. A reduction in the program to $65 billion a month from the current $75 billion could be announced at the end of the Jan. 28-29 meeting I think the Fed will continue reducing their asset purchases at each meeting, unless there is a significant change in the data (one weak job report will not change their views). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeNEW YORK (Reuters) - A former JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt; executive who ran the banks operations in Asia was questioned by FBI agents late last year about a bribery probe related to the bank's hiring practices, Bloomberg reported on Monday, citing a person briefed on the matter. Gaby Abdelnour, who left the bank in 2012, was questioned by the investigators in a New York-area airport, the report said. According to the report, Abdelnour and JP Morgan have not been accused of wrongdoing. Abdelnour could not be immediately reached for comment. JP Morgan declined to comment. U.S. authorities' interest in the hiring practices of banks operating in China first came to light in August when media reports disclosed that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was looking at whether JPMorgan's Hong Kong office hired the children of powerful heads of state-owned companies in China with the express purpose of winning underwriting business and other contracts. The U.S. Justice Department is also looking at conducting an industry-wide investigation into whether banks' hiring practices in China breached U.S. bribery laws, according to people familiar with the matter. Abdelnour headed the bank's Asia operations between July 2006 and 2012, and focused, in part, on building the bank's operations in China. In that time its Asia revenue doubled and net earnings tripled. Abdelnour joined JP Morgan in 1998 having worked at Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong and Singapore, and before that at Bankers Trust. (Reporting by Michael Erman; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiWomen, dressed in ceremonial kimonos, pose in front of an electronic board showing stock prices after the New Year opening ceremony at the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), held to wish for the success of Japan's stock market, in Tokyo January 6, 2014.SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian markets crept higher on Tuesday as Japanese stocks rebounded and Chinese money rates eased, while the U.S. dollar got a fillip from a report the Federal Reserve would again trim its bond buying next week. The dollar broke the early lethargy with a hop to 104.48 yen when the Wall Street Journal reported the Fed is on track to trim its bond-buying program for the second time in six weeks, paring back by $10 billion to $65 billion a month. A lackluster U.S. jobs report had not diminished the central bank's confidence in the economy, wrote Fed watcher Jon Hilsenrath. Investors suspect he has an inside line to policy makers and put a lot of weight on his opinion.  It was enough to nudge 10-year U.S. Treasury yields up a couple of basis points to 2.84 percent, following the U.S. market holiday on Monday. The drop in the yen helped Japan's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; bounce 1.1 percent, and dragged up markets from South Korea to Taiwan. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; swung round to be 0.36 percent firmer. Investors had a wary eye on Chinese money markets after the People's Bank of China (PBOC) announced a surprise injection of funds on Monday aimed at curbing a recent spike in rates. Traders on Tuesday said the central bank intended to add 255 billion yuan ($42.13 billion) to the money markets, the largest single-day injection since February 2013. The move dragged the 7-day bond repurchase rate down to 5.25 percent, from 6.60 percent on Monday. Dealers assume the authorities were attempting to avoid a repeat of the severe cash crunch that roiled markets in June. Likewise, investors will be watching liquidity operations by the European Central Bank later Tuesday to see if it acts to correct a recent sharp rise in money rates, a tightening of conditions that could threaten the region's recovery. The euro edged back a touch to $1.3542, not far from Monday's two-month trough of $1.3508. EARLY RISER The early mover in Asia had been the New Zealand dollar which surged half a U.S. cent to $0.8336 after inflation data came in higher than expected and fuelled already intense speculation of a rate rise. Annual inflation ticked up to 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, the fastest pace in 21 months. The country of 4.5 million is undergoing an economic revival thanks in large part to China's insatiable demand for its dairy exports, and particularly baby formula. That has greatly lessened the need for rates to remain at record lows of 2.5 percent and led markets to price in a series of hikes this year. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand next meets on January 30 and if it does not move then, an increase is considered virtually certain for March. Attention will also be on Turkey's central bank as a crumbling currency piles pressure on for a hike in interest rates at its policy meeting on Tuesday. The lira has hit a string of record lows while the cost of insuring Turkish debt spiked to 18-month highs as a government corruption scandal undermined investor confidence. In commodity markets, gold steadied at $1,251.49 an ounce, after hitting its highest level since mid-December at $1,259.85 on Monday. U.S. crude futures slipped below $94 a barrel in early Asian trade on Tuesday as supply worries eased after world powers and Iran took another step to end a decade-long dispute over Tehran's nuclear program. Brent crude oil for March delivery eased 2 cents to $106.33 a barrel, while U.S. crude fell 47 cents to $93.90. (Editing by Edwina Gibbs and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
When I tell people I live in Singapore, the most common misunderstandings I hear are: I’m not surprised when people misunderstand Singapore, because it requires a little explanation. Singapore is an island so small you can drive around the whole country in two hours. In 1819, it was set up by the British as a tax-free trading port, instantly attracting business from the entire region. So it’s always had a mix of Malay, Indian, and Chinese people, though the majority are Chinese. It quickly became an anything-goes town, with opium, prostitution and gambling, run by secret societies. Its nickname was “Sin-Galore”. In 1963, Singapore became a part of Malaysia. But racial tensions between the Malay and Chinese populations led to ongoing race riots. So in 1965, Singapore was kicked out of Malaysia, making it suddenly (and reluctantly) an independent country. Since Singapore had no natural resources, no local industry, and was geographically vulnerable, few people believed it would survive. But being a do-or-die survival situation, the government and people of Singapore got extremely focused, pragmatic, and competitive to do whatever it takes to make this tiny island thrive against the odds. Their main survival strategy was to focus on making Singapore an ideal place for big business — attracting multinational corporations to set up their Asian headquarters here. All these historical ingredients are important for the rest of this explanation to make sense. Because Singapore is so small, keeping it clean is a manageable job. (You can’t easily clean India or China.) But really the cleanliness is marketing. What better way to prove to multinational corporations that Singapore is a stable, trustable, and efficient place to set up your headquarters? It’s no coincidence that the highway leading from the airport to downtown has the most perfectly manicured landscape. First impressions matter to visiting CEOs. It’s why the country’s leaders all wear white. It’s a show of incorruptibility — a metaphor for being orderly and transparent with attention to detail. Getting to know Singapore’s government is like looking under the hood of a Ferrari. It’s incredibly well-designed and well-run. Singapore is always selling itself to the world. The chairman of the government’s Economic Development Board told his colleagues, “We are in the hospitality business.” The government works hard to stay competitive on every international measure. Any time there are international rankings comparing countries, you’ll find Singapore near the top of the list. Except for free speech, but I’ll cover that next. Lastly: why no chewing gum? Purely pragmatic. It was gumming up the subway system, causing delays, and was too hard to clean off surfaces, so the sale of it was banned. Keeping the country clean and running smoothly was more important. So that’s why Singapore has an international reputation for being so clean. It’s brilliant marketing — visual proof of the order and cleanliness you can expect if you set up your business or banking here. Three reasons: transformation, size, and marketing. First: transformation. To quickly turn Singapore from “Sin-Galore” to being the Switzerland of Asia would require great strategy and strict, uncompromising execution of that strategy. We’re used to seeing this in corporations, like Jack Welch at GE or Steve Jobs returning to Apple, but it’s surprising to see it carried out successfully in a government. (Many say Singapore is more like a corporation than a country.) And it worked! In one generation, Singapore went through the most dramatic increase in the standard of living that the world has ever seen. In one generation, this tiny dot went from being broke to being one of the richest countries in the world, without any natural resources, purely by strict execution of a great strategy. Its lack of corruption was an important ingredient in its success. In a region where political corruption is rampant, Singapore is the only country that severely punishes corruption. It regularly ranks in the top 5 least corrupt countries in the world. Next: size. Singapore’s UN representative once said, “America is like an aircraft carrier. If you jump up and down, it’s not going to shake. Singapore is like a canoe. If you jump up and down, it will sink. If you lose stability in Singapore, you lose everything.” Lastly: marketing. When an American teenager vandalized 18 cars in Singapore, he was sentenced to jail and caning. This turned into an international incident, with Bill Clinton asking Singapore not to prosecute him. But as a government official said, “It was a way of demonstrating that Singapore was prepared to stand up against the mighty America.” To me, that’s brilliant marketing. A memorable way for a country to prove to the world that they obey the rule of law, without exception, and don’t waive the laws for special requests from powerful people. I think this kind of approach makes corporate leaders more likely to do their business and banking in Singapore. All that said, you could argue that Singapore is not so strict — less strict than Switzerland or California — because it’s a laissez-faire “do what you want” approach where life and business are not regulated for most of us in the middle. Only the behavior that clearly hurts others or society is punished. Everyone else gets to live in an incredibly safe, crime-and-corruption-free place. The common thread behind everything here is pragmatism. The country’s leadership consistently makes rational choices to improve the strength and profitability of Singapore. It’s pragmatic, not dogmatic. It’s not that the leaders of Singapore hate chewing gum or are neat freaks. These were just rational decisions to do what was best for the country at that time. The prime minister has a degree in Computer Science, as does the deputy prime minister. This is a country run by engineers and economists. So it’s important to know that these things are changing fast. The government is constantly but conservatively re-assessing its stance on everything, to keep up with the times. The last few years have seen a huge move towards more democracy and free speech, with the theater and arts scene blossoming because of it. Singapore’s #1 enemy is complacency. Now that Singapore is one of the most successful countries in the world, the top priority is to keep that competitive edge. This “keep on your toes” message is constantly communicated at all levels — a reminder to never assume that things will stay this good. Keep pushing. Stay on top. Don’t let your guard down. Always be competitive. Singapore was founded on the ideals of the Age of Enlightenment — the age of reason and rationality — and its founder built those lofty ideals into its blueprint. So to understand Singapore, you need to understand that it’s always been designed top-down, from the beginning, to realize these rational ideals. FREE AppDownload
In 1949, Yale anthropologist George Murdock spearheaded the establishment of an inter-university research organization to continue his life’s work: the cataloguing of what he called cultural universals, the social behaviors that exist in every human society across time and geography.  The goal is to find patterns or commonalities in human social behavior, and it all stems from Murdock’s List: his compilation of the 67 universal social behaviors of the human animal. It’s a fascinating list, with items such as “propitiation of supernatural beings”, “eschatology”, and “kinship nomenclature” right alongside “joking”, “hair styles”, and “mealtimes”. Pretty much everything we do in life is instantly recognizable as an item on Murdock’s List, and what isn’t just needs a little tweak in perception to fit one category or another. I like looking at human behaviors through the lens of Murdock’s list for the same reason I like looking through the lens of evolutionary theory: behaviors that seem illogical or just plain stupid through our standard lenses of small-l liberalism or modern economic theory take on a new appearance with a change in perspective. In “Adaptive Investing” I discussed how non-economic behaviors such as routine mammograms and daily multivitamins (and portfolio risk scenario tests) make sense from an evolutionary perspective as a behavioral adaptation to demonstrate fitness, much like the dance of the Blue-Footed Booby or the ceremonial fight of the Oryx Gazelle, but they also make sense from a Murdock’s List perspective as a “propitiation of supernatural beings”, where we attempt to appease the great modern god Cancer (or in the case of risk scenario tests, the great ancient god Luck) with a ritualized sacrifice of our time and money. One of Murdock’s 67 cultural universals is dancing. You find dance in every human society that ever existed (more so than music), and it will exist in every human society in the future. Why? Because it is part of our eusocial nature, part of the 10% bee-ness than makes up the human animal. Like the bee, we dance both to communicate and as a hard-wired response to signals from fellow members of our species. It’s not a language that we hear or generate in the same way that we speak English, but it has a grammar and a vocabulary nonetheless. Because it so primal, dance has an urgency that modern spoken languages do not, and I say that as an individual to whom dancing is very much a foreign language. Interestingly enough, mathematics is not on Murdock’s List. Mathematics is an entirely formal language, about as far away in human terms as one can get from the language of dance (and yes, there have been efforts to create formal linguistic representations of dance, none of which have caught on). The unfortunate fact is that it’s very hard to represent human social behaviors in formal linguistic terms. That’s true whether the social behavior occurs in an artistic or cultural setting, like dancing, or whether it occurs in a market setting, like the “dancing” that Chuck Prince was referring to in 2007 when Citi was still underwriting and securitizing Alt-A and sub-prime mortgages as fast as humanly possible. But just because it’s really hard to describe a group dynamic like dancing with the same symbols that describe a capital asset pricing model doesn’t mean that dancing (or “dancing”) lacks a language and a grammar. You just need to develop an ear for it, and that’s where game theory can help. Game theory is a bridge between hot-blooded social languages like dancing and cold-blooded formal languages like mathematics. Game theory is an abstraction of dynamic social interactions. Because it’s an abstraction, game theory usefully adopts some of the formal grammar of mathematics, which remains the most efficient way to represent theory regardless of what the theory is about. But game theory has no meaning or usefulness outside of a social setting. Like the tango, game theory takes two. Also like the tango, game theory is all about movement, the fluid movement of separate individuals who are bound up with each other in a system of mutual expectations and individual goals. Put it all together and game theory uses some basic mathematical concepts to organize our thinking about dynamic and strategic behaviors that have their origins in our social animal brains and Murdock’s List. It’s a powerful tool kit. Some people have an intuitive ability to “speak” game theory fluently. These are geniuses like Dick Clark who can translate between the language of the social animal and the language of the self-aware brain effortlessly, and make an enormous fortune in the process. Clark recognized the trends, nuances, and idioms of popular culture just as surely as he recognized the economic formulas behind radio and television syndication. Was he a brilliant artist? Nope. Couldn’t dance, sing, or act. But he spoke the language of performers and somehow figured out how to communicate that primal grammar to Middle America in a way that felt “safe”. It seems weird today, as we are immersed in a popular culture of youth, but “youth culture” (a phrase coined by Paul Anka in reference to Dick Clark) didn’t exist before American Bandstand. As much as anyone over the past 50 years, from the Beatles to Elvis Presley to any performer you want to name … Dick Clark was responsible for the modern landscape of how the languages of music and dance are communicated in a commercially lucrative fashion. His secret (other than a bizarrely youthful face)? Clark understood the Common Knowledge Game. Clark didn’t poll America to determine their taste in music. He told them their taste in music … not directly, but by creating common knowledge – ideas that a crowd believes that the crowd believes. With the American Bandstand group dance staging and scripted questions, Clark allowed the TV audience to see a crowd of attractive young people act as if the music were popular. This is all it takes. Clark didn’t have to force his preferred choice of popular culture on his audience like some centrally-planned Ministry of Culture. The TV audience chose it all on their own, thinking all along it was their choice! This is the power of the Emperor’s New Clothes. This is the power of the sitcom laugh track and the live studio audience. This is the power of public coronations and executions. This is the power of Tahrir Square and Tiananmen Square. This is the power of the crowd seeing the crowd, and it is the most potent force in the social world. It’s certainly the most potent force in the social world of markets, and every Central Banker today is playing the Common Knowledge Game just as hard as Dick Clark ever did. Here’s last Thursday’s (Jan. 9) WSJ headline teaser at 9 am ET after the ECB press conference:  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi used unexpectedly strong language to stress that the central bank will remain accommodative for as long as necessary.  How is this the Common Knowledge Game? Since August 2012 we have watched the markets dance to Draghi’s tune. If you don’t know by now that Draghi’s words move the market crowd, then you’re an idiot. But you’re not an idiot. And neither is any one of the hundreds of thousands of people reading the WSJ headline. And neither is Draghi. We are told by the WSJ that Draghi’s words today have a good beat and you can dance to it. So we do. We dance, just like we’ve been trained to do by watching this show 30 times before. As a result, Italy and Spain’s equity and credit markets outperformed Germany’s by a mile after Draghi’s signal … which was exactly the intended effect (Spain is now borrowing money at the cheapest rate in the euro era!) and exactly why it is so difficult to be a macro Value investor today. All of your fundamental indicators that show (correctly) that Italy and Spain are ridiculously overvalued at current prices relative to, say, Germany don’t matter in the least. Or rather, they matter, but they evaporate like dew when the Draghi sun shines at a press conference. Note to Jeremy Grantham: it costs Draghi nothing to use "unexpectedly strong language" to keep this game going for a looonnng time. Here’s last Friday’s (Jan. 10) WSJ headline teaser at 9 am ET after the disappointing jobs report: “Weak jobs report complicates Fed plans.” Seems innocuous enough, right? Nope, this is a market roiler, especially for the most sensitive assets to the Narrative of Central Bank Omnipotence … assets like gold. Gold rocked last Friday, on deflationary news. Huh? I know that gold bugs will tell you how great gold can be in a deflationary environment, but come on, that only makes sense if you’re talking about end-of-the-world deflation. The jobs report last Friday was run-of-the-mill, plain vanilla disappointing growth news. Not end-of-the-world news, not even negative growth news … just disappointing growth news. This should be bad for gold prices, not good, and Friday’s price action made no sense through the lens of traditional economic theory. But it made perfect sense through the lenses of history and game theory, where the meaning of gold has shifted from an alternative store of value to insurance against Central Bank policy error. Of course, this sort of challenge to the Narrative of Central Bank Omnipotence could not go unaddressed, and sure enough by 7 pm last Friday you had a WSJ article by none other than Jon Hilsenrath, the Common Knowledge spokesman for the Fed, titled “Fed Unlikely to Alter Course After Jobs Report.” Over the weekend and on Monday you had at least three Fed Governors come out with similar statements, that there was no confusion or complication imposed by the jobs report. Nothing to see here folks, move along. None of these Powers That Be are taking issue with whether or not the Friday jobs report was bad news … the only thing that matters is how this news impacts the common knowledge structure that generates their power to control market outcomes. That’s the threat that must be squelched. This is what Bernanke meant when he talked about using communications as a policy tool, and this is what Yellen (and Draghi and Abe and everyone else in the club) will continue to do … use public statements to play the Common Knowledge Game and drive market outcomes by proxy. I can sleep well at night if you get nothing else out of Epsilon Theory beyond the recognition that a) you are being played, and b) there are rules and logic to how you are being played. But I’d also like to demonstrate that c) it’s entirely rational to play along (to a point), and d) you can be a player, too.  It can be entirely rational to act as if the Emperor is wearing a beautiful set of clothes. In fact, when you’re caught in a Common Knowledge Game others will look at you askance if you act publicly according to the evidence of your own eyes rather than the evidence of the crowd watching the crowd. But you need to recognize that’s what you’re doing. It’s critically important to avoid internalizing your behavior, falling into what Kant called a “dogmatic slumber”, believing in your heart of hearts that the Emperor truly looks marvelous. The tragedy of 1984 is not that Big Brother rules Oceania, but that in the end, Winston loves Big Brother and gives himself over to collective solipsism. The fright of Invasion of the Body Snatchers is not the cat-and-mouse with alien pod people, but that in the end, Donald Sutherland becomes a pod person and outs the human survivors. Other than the minor detail of losing your free will, why is it so important to avoid becoming a pod person? Why is it a bad idea solely from the perspective of being an effective investor? Because the tango is an unpredictable dance. Because your best move in ANY game is not pre-ordained or even fully under your control. Your best move depends not only on Know Thyself, advice that Socrates gave almost 3,000 years ago and is still the smartest, deepest thing that anyone has ever said, but also on Watch the Other, the sensitivity that all social animals possess to look for and pick up on minute changes in the signals that our hive-mates emit. The moment you give yourself over to the Dick Clarks of the world who create common knowledge, the moment you abdicate your keenly evolved human abilities of self-awareness and other-evaluation … that’s the moment you put yourself at the most risk. Because the game will change. Even if the external conditions of the world today are exactly the same as the external conditions of the world yesterday, a change in the internal conditions of the other game-players, whether it’s a queen bee like Draghi or a set of worker bees like us, can change your best move. This is the insight that game theory provides, an insight that econometrics (which only looks at external conditions) can’t – how social dynamics and group interactions impact market behaviors. Game theory predicts that gold prices will go up on ANY news – even deflationary news – IF that news creates a worker bee perception that the queen bees are rattled by the news. And vice versa, gold will go down on ANY news – even inflationary news – IF that news improves the perception that global central banks are large and in charge … the Narrative of Central Bank Omnipotence. It’s not the news itself, which is what an econometric perspective would say, but how that news impacts the belief structures that comprise the game. It’s not the card that’s dealt (the news), but how that card fits the hand that your poker opponent is representing. An ace of spades is good news for your opponent in the abstract, but it might be terrible news if he’s representing a heart flush. Game theory is all about playing the player, not the cards. That’s not a replacement for understanding the fundamentals and the math of drawing this card or that, but it sure is a complementary skill set. If you want to win. This article originally appeared at Epsilon Theory.  Copyright 2014. Follow Epsilon Theory on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Mr. President, I agree, and I ask you to add action to your words. For those indignant readers who will blast this personal commentary, I simply request: please restrain yourselves. Think through the arguments from both the personal side and the economic side. Here goes. Fact. A person caught possessing any amount of marijuana by a federal law enforcement officer may be arrested, penalized, maybe incarcerated, and may well end up with a criminal record. Fact. A cancer patient who wants to ease the pain with a marijuana cigarette violates federal laws and, in many instances, state laws, though the federal government no longer pursues the prosecution of patients in those states where medical marijuana has been made legal. That person probably also pays an exorbitant amount for an uncertain quantity and quality of material in order to relieve the discomfort of the disease. Fact. Lighting a joint at a recreational event is fraught with risks. In most states, marijuana can be obtained only from illegal vendors, and the distribution system linking growers and vendors violates the law nearly everywhere. Consuming marijuana at home with or without a doctor's prescription also remains a criminal act in much of the country. Marijuana production and consumption in the US is fraught with violent crime, high prices, and high insurance premiums to insure property against theft and malice. Huge sums are spent on law enforcement and incarceration. I personally know of cases of incarceration, probation and government costs incurred in policing younger offenders who if apprehended today would not be guilty of any crime. And there are companies that service prisons and operate them and are paid by inmate headcount. They have a vested interest in preserving an antiquated system that punishes younger offenders and turns a high percentage of them into prison-"educated" criminals. These companies profit enormously at the expense of the whole society. It is time to change this. The president has allowed us to launch a national debate and policy discussion. The legalization of marijuana is a controversial subject for some of us. For me the course is clear, since my personal life experiences have spanned all of the above, either directly or indirectly. Think about the fact that we now have a pot amnesty box in an airport (Colorado Springs).  Think about the fact that 20 states now permit medicinal use of marijuana for relief of pain. I know folks who obtain pain relief for cancer or other causes of chronic pain. Think about the fact that we now have two states that allow recreational marijuana used in a regulated environment with licensed vendors – and with the expectation of generating a revenue base to support the states. This list is only destined to grow. Think about the fact that the law enforcement agencies in those two states now regard marijuana in the same way, or nearly the same way, that we do when we talk about people drinking beer, wine, or whiskey. Imagine the savings in municipal and state budgets when the decriminalization of marijuana greatly reduces law enforcement, judicial, and incarceration costs. Think about all of these things. Then wonder whether the criminal justice system doesn't need to change throughout the US. Changing it requires legislation, yet we all know that our national (and most state) lawmakers are the last to change. They are not motivated by forward-looking strategies or plans. They only count the votes. Our governance is a mostly failed enterprise that responds only when citizens get sufficiently enraged to threaten lawmakers' re-election and throw the bums out. There is another option, but it requires leadership. Leaders like presidents or governors can alter the debate. And they have one power that cannot be diminished by legislators, and that is regularly used as they conclude their terms. That power is the pardon. It allows a criminal record that was established years ago in a different social paradigm to be expunged. It can reduce the costs of cities and states for the incarceration of marijuana offenders. It can reduce or eliminate the parole and probation periods of those who were convicted of minor marijuana offenses. The President of the United States can follow up his statements on marijuana by convening a national dialogue and proposing rational legislation. He could set up a screening committee to survey all the records and cases and come up with a sensible policy mix. Governors can do the same in their states. We Americans are moving towards a society that has accepted the reality of marijuana use and decriminalized it. When you decriminalize pot smoking, you can clean the house of former pot smokers who were convicted of a crime and carry the burden of that conviction. Think about what it would mean if the costs of fighting the losing battle against marijuana were eliminated. Jail and prison maintenance costs would fall. Hiring would improve, because individuals’ records would not show misdemeanor or felony convictions for possession of marijuana. There is a massive economic opportunity for leadership at the executive level in our government. All it takes is a willingness to act. This is my personal view, written after a lot of thought about whether to publish it. There is no pot ETF.  There may be a Mari-Muni revenue bond in the future but none exists right now. Marijuana is not an issue that involves decisions to buy, sell, or hold ETFs or municipal bonds; it is an issue I am addressing in a public way as a result of a series of personal experiences. Those experiences span decades of observations about marijuana, how it has been used, where it has been used, and what the results have been. The consequences list I compiled in the beginning of this commentary ranges from death to a slap on the wrist. I have also summarized attitudinal and legal changes regarding marijuana usage during the last half century. I have personal exposure to that entire gamut of experience, and so I have felt it necessary to speak up. It is time for a national debate about the decriminalization of marijuana. And it is time to repair a lot of younger lives. It is also time to improve our state and local economies. Like tobacco and alcohol, this change will happen over time anyway. With leadership at the executive level of government, this change can happen quickly. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Julie Bort/Business InsiderDropboxTech isn’t exactly booming, as we’ve seen from numerous revenue and earnings debacles. Most recently, Intel’s: revenues were down 1% from 2012 and 2.4% from 2011. Net income was down 13% from 2012 and 25% from 2011. Looking forward, they’d be flat, CEO Brian Krzanich warned. In 2013, the PC industry just saw its worst decline in shipments ever. Dell and HP announced big layoffs. Other tech companies too are “realigning” their workforce. And after rumors started spinning out of control on Friday, Intel confirmed that it too would axe 5% of its workforce of about 105,000 “to align our resources to meet the needs of our business.” Revelations of how the NSA has compromised products and services of US tech companies caused orders to collapse in China, Russia, and other countries, where orders were supposed to grow at big double-digit rates. It left IBM, Cisco, and brethren with a mess on their hands [read.... Costs Of NSA Scandal To Bleed US Tech For Years]. But that hasn’t kept valuations of tech startups from being pushed into the stratosphere. Turns out, it’s relatively easy these days. By the stroke of a pen and $250 million, an elite club decided amongst each other that the “valuation” of on-line storage provider Dropbox was close to $10 billion. BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager with $4.3 trillion in assets, is leading the deal, according to unnamed sources of the Wall Street Journal. The elite club includes “previous backers,” and they included Goldman Sachs, Sequoia Capital, Index Ventures, and Accel Partner. In 2011, Dropbox had raised $250 million from these previous backers. The deal valued it at $4 billion. With the above stroke of a pen, the value of their investments has jumped 150%. With that same stroke of the pen, they also jacked up the future valuations of all other IPOs, and many more billions will be made – just like Twitter’s IPO helped jack up Dropbox’s valuation.   Unlike certain other highfliers, like Pinterest, which raised $225 million last year in a deal that valued it at $3.8 billion though it hasn’t even figured out how to generate revenues, Dropbox has measurable revenues. Not a lot – about what a large Ford dealership might rake in, without the profits. Growth has been dramatic: In 2010, it had $12 million in revenues; in 2011, $46 million; in 2012, $116 million, and in 2013, more than $200 million, according to these unnamed sources. It has 200 million users, as co-founder and CEO Drew Houston claimed in November, up by a factor of 10 over the last three years. But growth is slowing. So it has been trying to refocus. Instead of only going after consumers, it’s trying to reel in corporate customers with its cloud storage services. Everyone and his dog is in this business, including Microsoft, IBM, Google, Amazon, and another furiously hyped startup, Box, which has a $2 billion valuation and is planning to sell its inflated shares to the public this year. Dropbox calls its cloud services “safe and secure.” But in April, it was widely reported that it wasn’t hard to hack into the service and then use it as a vector to deliver malware to a corporate network that could wreak all sorts of havoc and pilfer the digital crown jewels. Many corporate customers have now blacklisted Dropbox. Unperturbed, the members of the elite club decided out of the blue that it had a $10 billion valuation, printing an instant billionaire (Drew Houston) and a lot of multi-millionaires. All for just $250 million. For BlackRock, it was petty cash. But inflating Dropbox’s valuation to $10 billion manipulates the entire IPO market that depends on buzz and hype and folly to rationalize these ridiculous valuations. Unnamed sources “leaking” these valuations to the media are part of it. It balloons the valuations of other startups. It creates that “healthy” IPO market where money doesn’t matter, where revenues and profits are irrelevant, and where custom-fabricated metrics are used to sell these shares to the public – mostly mutual funds that bury them in your portfolio. Even the SEC, which hardly ever warns about anything, warned about these newfangled metrics that are designed, as Chair Mary Jo White said, “to illustrate the size and growth” of these outfits that lack outmoded metrics, such as revenues and profits. She and her staff were particularly concerned that “the true meaning of the metric (or more importantly the link from metric to income and eventual profitability) may not be clear or even identified.” So Dropbox’s 200 million users? A cute metric, sure. “It sounds good,” to use White’s words. But it says nothing about revenues and “eventual profitability.” In fact, “the connection may not necessarily be there.” Investors are supposed to be impressed and hand over their money. It’s all part of the IPO buzz and hype that characterize a “healthy” IPO market. “Healthy” for whom? Goldman and other members of that elite club. The purpose is to rationalize to the public that this deal is worth buying so that they will pile in and drive up the value even further. It makes the IPO market look “healthy.” Hopefully, the exuberance will last until the original investors get to dump their shares, take their hard-earned money, and move on. A similar wealth transfer takes place when a corporation prints a truckload of its shares to buy the startup, at the expense of existing shareholders. Happens all the time. There will be a few successes out of the hundreds of IPOs spilling out of a “healthy” IPO market, and they’ll be held up forever to whet your appetite. The rest will languish in mutual funds and retirement accounts, where they eat into people’s wealth and hopes. Many of them will become penny stocks. It isn’t often that the public is this blind to these machinations. It only happens during times of stock market exuberance, when nothing can go wrong, when stocks can only go up, and when high prices only justify even higher prices. When it all goes to heck, as it periodically does, the window of the “healthy” IPO market closes. At that point, IPOs receive actual scrutiny, buzz and hype fall on deaf ears, rationality reigns, and hardly any IPOs make it out of the gate. Those are the long years between stock market bubbles. Corporate earnings growth slowed to almost zero, as did growth in capital expenditures, cash-flow, and sales, and corporations hold more debt than they did in 2009, wrote Societe Generale’s exasperated Global Quantitative Research team. “Thank goodness equities went up in 2013, otherwise it might have been a rather depressing year.” Read.... The Corporate Malaise That The Stock Market Is Furiously Ignoring (for now) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Tickets to the National Football League's first cold-weather Super Bowl are a hot item, with some climate-controlled suites in New Jersey's MetLife Stadium priced at $1 million. Following Sunday's conference championships that set up a Denver-Seattle Super Bowl on February 2, the average resale price of tickets on secondary markets was $3,721, the highest figure in five years of tracking, according to SeatGeek (seatgeek.com). No single ticket on the secondary market had sold for under $2,000, a price that was 33 percent more than what the cheapest ticket sold for on conference championship Sunday during each of the past three NFL playoffs, the website said. Face value of individual Super Bowl tickets ranges from $1,000-$2,600. For high-rollers, one suite on the Commissioner's Level of MetLife Stadium, the shared home of the New York Giants and New York Jets, is listed for $1.019 million. The same luxury suite for an entire Giants or Jets regular season sells for $350,000. There were more than 12,000 tickets listed on secondary markets as of late Sunday, representing roughly 15 percent of the capacity at MetLife Stadium. Ticket broker Lance Patania told New Jersey's Star Ledger newspaper that he expected a busy market immediately following the conference title games as fans of the winning teams react. Patania, who buys and sells between 200 and 300 tickets for each Super Bowl, said the game's location, across the Hudson River from Manhattan, is a key factor in interest for the event despite the likelihood of wintry weather. "The game is really insignificant," Patania said. "Everything leading up to the game is what the whole experience is about. "And New York has shopping, and Broadway. There's hockey and basketball. There are a million things to do." (Reporting by Larry Fine in New York; Editing by Frank Pingue) FREE AppDownload
ESPN's corporate cafeteria often serves as the setting for the network's hilarious commercials. But what's the food like? ESPN's Darren Rovell offers a taste with this tweet. "At ESPN Cafeteria today: Bacon-wrapped steaks," said Rovell.   At ESPN Cafeteria today: Bacon-wrapped steaks pic.twitter.com/LWYVkmej3S FREE AppDownload
""It has been 408 days since the last 10% correction in the MSCI World index, the 8th-longest period on record," writes Andrew Lapthorne, global head of quantitative strategy at Société Générale, in a note to clients today. "However, simply not having a correction for a long time does not necessarily imply impending doom for equities; we find no relationship between time since correction and future returns. Nonetheless, we still worry how, in these times of interconnected asset markets and mark-to-market risk modelling, such extended runs can hide the real volatility in equity investing. In brief, it can lead to excessive risk-taking." SG Cross Asset Research/Equity Quant, MSCI FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rogan Ward(L-R) Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Jacob Zuma, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff and Russian President Vladimir Putin pose for a family photograph during the fifth BRICS Summit in Durban, March 27, 2013.LONDON (Reuters) - Which investment takes your fancy: BRIC, MINT or CIVETS? For many fund managers seeking the next big thing in emerging markets, the answer is none. Acronym investment - putting money into small groupings of markets which often have little in common beyond a broad economic concept - is giving way to acronym anxiety. Former Goldman Sachs economist Jim O'Neill set the ball rolling in 2001 when he created the BRIC family of Brazil, Russia, India and China. Many of these countries and others lumped together under separate acronyms have, at least until recently, enjoyed turbo-charged economic growth. But investment gains are not guaranteed and underperforming local stock markets have led fund managers to flee what had been fashionable groupings. Assets under management in BRIC funds fell to 9 billion euros at the end of last year from 21 billion at the end of 2010, according to Lipper data, while assets under management in broader emerging equity funds have grown in that time. Goldman Sachs's own BRIC fund has lost 20 percent in value over the past three years. Undaunted, O'Neill has coined a new acronym. In a series on BBC radio this month, he championed the MINT group - Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria, Turkey - as the next giants after the BRICs. O'Neill stresses that MINT - like BRIC before - is an economic, not an investment, concept and his programs explored each country's problems as well as its potential. Nevertheless, the appeal of acronym investment is fading. Fund managers say such groupings do not take into account different stages of development of the countries involved and risk sidelining other promising markets. The groupings have also frequently suffered from disappointing performances of their listed companies, the main target of foreign investors. O'Neill's timing is not ideal. Turkey has been rocked by an investigation into alleged corruption following street protests last summer, while Nigerian politics are in turmoil before elections next year. Indonesia, along with other emerging economies which are running large current account deficits, is experiencing a flight of investors. "Mexico, Indonesia, Nigeria and Turkey are all very interesting countries but not much connected beyond the excuse for having an acronym," said Richard Titherington, chief investment officer of emerging equities at JP Morgan Asset Management. Titherington prefers groupings by concepts such as markets where companies offer the highest dividend yields. Investors in the BRIC countries have already found out the hard way that economic growth may not convert into stock market gains, and some analysts blame problems with corporate governance in markets such as Russia and China. BRIC markets have underperformed the broader MSCI index of emerging stocks in dollar terms in the past three years, with emerging markets in turn lagging developed markets. NO MORE CIVETS In another sign of acronym anxiety, HSBC closed its CIVETS fund last year, leaving no managers tracking another group of emerging markets - Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa. Both the BRIC and MINT groupings focus on demographics - countries which are going to grow rapidly by the middle of the century, due to their young populations. This is an attraction of frontier economies - those which are at an earlier stage of development than established emerging markets. One such is Nigeria, whose stock market has been an extreme outperformer, doubling in value last year. But relying exclusively on demographics to make investment decisions is risky, says Andrew Brudenell, frontier fund manager at HSBC Asset Management. Instead, investors should look at countries with weaker corporate regulation and where relatively low levels of goods and services are available, offering potential for growth. These factors should produce the best returns on company earnings. "Demographics are definitely one of the (investment) criteria, the others are also criteria," Brudenell said. "We would not necessarily decide MINT are interesting countries to invest in, there are lots of other ones." Nigeria is at an earlier stage in the development cycle than the others. According to IMF estimates, its per capita gross domestic product (GDP) was about $2,800 last year measured by purchasing power parity. That compares with around $5,000 for Indonesia and more than $15,000 for Mexico and Turkey.  Turkey is the country most out of kilter in stock performance terms. It has been hit by weakness of its currency as foreign investors pulled out before the U.S. Federal Reserve begins scaling back its bond-buying this month, a program that had depressed yields in U.S. markets and encouraged investors to seek higher returns in riskier assets. The Turkish stock market has underperformed even the BRICs in dollar terms in the last three years. The corruption inquiry, which led to the resignations of government ministers, aggravated the problem. "Turkey remains a long-term investment opportunity but in the short term remains quite risky," said Mauro Ratto, head of emerging markets at Pioneer Investments. As with Turkey, investors are wary of political risk in Nigeria before the next year's elections and amid uncertainty over whether President Goodluck Jonathan will run. Whatever their differences or similarities, the danger with all emerging markets is that their performance is not always dictated by local stories, but by the global economic outlook. "These countries do not have an independent monetary cycle," said Bill O'Neill, chief UK strategist at UBS Wealth Management. "In these environments, emerging markets do struggle short term." Jim O'Neill said investors had got the wrong end of the stick by banking on the BRIC. "It is very important for me to emphasize, being Mr. BRIC, that I created the BRIC as an economic concept, not as an investment theme," he said. The same went for the MINT grouping, said O'Neill. "Each of the four MINT (economies) make up more than 1 percent of the world's GDP, except Nigeria - which has the best potential to make up 1 percent of GDP," he added. And as always, timing is vital with investing. While Goldman's BRIC fund has fallen in the past three years, it is up 26 percent since its launch almost eight years ago. "If you invested in the BRICS in 2008 for the first time, you would not be very happy. If you had invested in them in 2000, you would be very happy," he said. (Additional reporting by Sujata Rao; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Official figures on showed China's economy grew 7.7 percent in the quarter through December, down from 7.8 percent the previous quarter. For the full year, the economy expanded 7.7 percent, tying 2012 for the weakest performance since the 1990s. China's growth is far stronger than the United States, Japan or Europe. But an unexpectedly abrupt decline from the double digit rates of the previous decade has complicated the ruling Communist Party's plans to promote more sustainable growth based on domestic consumption and reduce reliance on trade and investment. "The 'boom' is ending, but sustained demand is just as important," said Evan Lucas, market strategist with IG in Melbourne, Australia. Britain's FTSE 100 closed 0.1 percent higher at 6,836.73 while France's CAC 40 shed 0.1 percent to 4,322.86. Germany's DAX dropped 0.3 percent to 9,715.90, led by a 5.4 percent fall in Deutsche Bank, which said it would book an unexpected loss in the fourth quarter. The report caused shares in financial companies across Europe to underperform the wider market. It follows weaker earnings at major U.S. banks such as Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. Trading on Wall Street remained closed for Martin Luther King Day. Earlier, in Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 sank 0.6 percent to 15,641.68 and China's Shanghai Composite index slipped 0.7 percent to 1,991.25 after news of the Chinese growth slowdown. Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 0.9 percent to 22,928.95. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 was down 0.2 percent at 5,295. Analysts said the U.S. corporate reporting season will be in focus when Wall Street reopens Tuesday after some disappointing earnings so far. Markets will also be cautious ahead of the Federal Reserve's next meeting on Jan 29. In other markets, benchmark crude for February delivery was down 28 cents at $93.68 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 41 cents on Friday. The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3558 while the dollar fell 0.1 percent against the Japanese yen, to 104.14 yen. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - For Detroit, the road in and out of U.S. bankruptcy court is paved with casino money. An economic lifeline, wagering tax revenue from the city's three casinos is at the heart of the bankruptcy plan submitted by Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr, and it is behind the surprise rejection of a deal with banks last week that has thrown a wrench into Detroit's route and timing to recovery. Moreover, some $330 million in assistance pledged by a coalition of philanthropic groups, including the Ford Foundation and the Kresge Foundation, will not begin flowing to Detroit until it exits bankruptcy, the head of one group told Reuters. Michigan voters in 1996 approved casino gambling in Detroit, hoping to revitalize the ghost town. Three glitzy resorts eventually opened, helping to spark a burst of energy and bringing as much as $180 million in annual taxes. But the funds have been tied up since 2009 by a separate, disastrous deal that Detroit is trying to reverse. In an effort to reduce its unfunded pension liability, the city sold $1.45 billion of bonds in 2005 and 2006, then used derivatives known as swaps to cut risk. The derivatives deal backfired as interest rates dropped, when Detroit expected them to rise. When Detroit's credit rating was cut to junk in 2009, banks had the option to demand $400 million, and the city fended off immediate payment by pledging casino revenue as collateral. The deal's continued threat to Detroit's financial future was one of the key elements that pushed the city into the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history in July. And now with an eye on exiting bankruptcy court, the city is seeking unfettered access to the casino funds to help improve city services - and finance a loan to terminate the derivatives deal. "Every day that we don't have access to casino revenue, we cannot make the necessary investment in this city to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens," Orr said in a deposition last August, shortly after bankruptcy was declared. In late December, he negotiated a deal for the banks behind the derivatives deal to take a 43 percent reduction in value, only to have federal bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes last week reject the plan, saying the discount was not deep enough. Orr had hoped to get Detroit out of bankruptcy by September 2014. "Reports of the quick in and out of Chapter 9 for Detroit may be measurably exaggerated," said William Brandt, president and CEO of Development Specialists Inc, which deals with restructuring and public finance. "NO WAY" WITHOUT CASINO MONEY Casino taxes, Detroit's third biggest revenue source after municipal income taxes and state revenue sharing, have been described by Orr and his consultants as the city's most stable source of money. "They've got to get the revenues. There's no way they can make the plan work without those revenues," said Laura Bartell, a Wayne State University law professor. As Orr was preparing to take Detroit into bankruptcy last summer, he first negotiated a deal with the banks behind the swaps, Merrill Lynch Capital Services and UBS AG, that would help emancipate the city from the swaps deal at a 25 percent discount to the nearly $300 million estimated cost at the time. As the bankruptcy proceedings got under way, under pressure from Rhodes, Merrill and UBS agreed to raise the discount to 43 percent, reducing Detroit's payment to $165 million plus up to $4.2 million in costs. But last week Rhodes declared the concessions still were not enough. He called the payment "too high a price" and put the casino money at the center of debate by declaring that Detroit probably did not have a right to pledge that money as collateral in the first place under state law. He suggested Detroit might win in a bid to invalidate the swaps altogether if a court were to find the city had no right to pledge the casino money. PAIN TO GO AROUND One message from Rhodes' ruling is that all creditors have to lower their expectations, said Richard Ciccarone, president and CEO of Merritt Research Services, a provider of municipal bond credit information. "(The judge) wants everybody to feel the pain. Nobody is getting special treatment," he said. James Spiotto, a municipal bankruptcy expert at law firm Chapman and Cutler, said Rhodes rejection of the deal may benefit Detroit in the long term. "It will motivate people that the emergency manager is negotiating with to rethink their positions," he said. Rhodes' ruling Thursday also introduced new questions about whether Detroit can count on casino money to fix its problems. His comment from the bench that the original pledge of casino money for the swaps deal may have violated Michigan's gaming law raised questions about Detroit's new plan to get out of the derivatives mess: a loan secured with a pledge of the city's income and casino tax revenue. Detroit had planned just such a loan, of $285 million, from Barclays, to pay off the swaps and provide funds for running the city as well. When he rejected the plan to end the current derivatives deal, Judge Rhodes effectively swept aside that plan. He also emphasized that he would need to approve any new loan involving casino revenue, to make sure they are not misused. (Editing by David Greising, Peter Henderson and Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
– Mark Twain In the 1850s, flat-bottom paddlewheel steamboats coursed up and down the mighty Mississippi, opening up the Midwest to trade and travel. But it was treacherous travel. The current was constantly shifting the sandbars underneath the placid, smoothly rolling surface of the river. What was sufficient depth one week on a stretch of the river might become a treacherous sandbar the next, upon which a steamboat could run aground, perhaps even breaching the hull and sinking the ship. To prevent such a catastrophe, a crewman would throw a long rope with a lead weight at the end as far in front of the boat as possible (and thus the crewman was called the leadman). The rope was usually twenty-five fathoms long and was marked at increments of two, three, five, seven, ten, fifteen, seventeen and twenty fathoms. A fathom was originally the distance between a man's outstretched hands, but since this could be quite imprecise, it evolved to be six feet. The leadsman would usually stand on a platform, called "the chains," which projected from the ship over the water, and "sound" from there. A typical sound would be expressed as "By the mark 7," or whatever the depth was. In modern English language, it is interesting to note that the expression "deep six," refers to this old method of measuring water. On the Mississippi River in the 1850s, the leadsmen also used old-fashioned words for some of the numbers; for example instead of "two" they would say "twain". Thus when the depth was two fathoms, they would call "by the mark twain!" (bymarktwain.com) And thus a young Samuel Clemens, apprentice Mississippi riverboat pilot, would take the "soundings" and from time to time would sing out the depth of two fathoms as "By the mark twain!" We think that is how he found his pen name. In Life on the Mississippi, Mark Twain describes sounding: "Often there is a deal of fun and excitement about sounding, especially if it is a glorious summer day, or a blustering night. But in winter the cold and the peril take most of the fun out of it." The pilot would much prefer to hear the sweet sing-song call of "no bottom," as that meant there was no danger of running aground. "Mark twain," or 12 feet, was getting rather shallow for some of the larger vessels and so sounded a note of caution. On their surface today the markets seem as smooth and flowing as Old Man River, but are there sandbars lurking in the depths? Will the journey this year be as fast and easy as in the last five? Can we plunge on into the night, relishing the call of "No bottom" that we are hearing from the bulls? Or is that a cry of "Mark twain!" telling us to be cautious? Perhaps we should take our own soundings from the data to see what might lie up ahead. This week, in the third part of my 2014 forecast, we'll look in particular at the US markets as a proxy for markets in general. (This letter will print a little longer as there are lots of charts.) But first, I am pleased to announce that my friend former House Speaker Newt Gingrich will be at my conference this May 13-16 in San Diego, joining (so far) Niall Ferguson, Kyle Bass, Ian Bremmer, David Rosenberg, Dr. Lacy Hunt, Dylan Grice, David Rosenberg, David Zervos, Rich Yamarone, Code Red coauthor Jonathan Tepper, Jeff Gundlach, Paul McCulley, and a few more surprises waiting to confirm. Nothing but headliners, one after the other. When I first broached the idea of our conference with Jon Sundt, the founder of cosponsor Altegris, the one rule I had was that I wanted the conference to be one I would want to attend. The usual conference boasts a few headliners, and then the sponsors fill out the lineup. I wanted to do a conference where no speaker could buy his way onto the platform. That means we often lose money on the conference (hard as that may be to imagine, at the price, I acknowledge); however, the purpose is not to make money but to learn with – and maybe have some fun with – great people. We do put on a great show, and my partners make sure it is run well. But the best part will be your fellow attendees. A lot of long-term friendships are forged at this conference. You can learn more and sign up at http://www.altegris.com/sic. It's All About the Earnings For over a dozen years I have regularly compared notes on S&amp;P 500 earnings with my friend Ed Easterling. For Ed, the subject borders on an obsession. I am, of course, far more reserved in my enthusiasm. We have co-authored numerous articles, and Ed never fails to call to my attention anything unusual that happens on the earnings front. He is the ultimate data wonk, and I say that in an affectionate way. Ed has what I think is one of the best data research sites anywhere at www.crestmontresearch.com. So this week I read his latest email, about the uptick in the forecast earnings of the S&amp;P 500, with considerable interest. As they do at this time of year, S&amp;P posted an update to their 2014 EPS (earnings per share) forecast. For newbies, "as-reported" earnings are earnings as reported to the tax authorities, and we can more or less think of them as real earnings. "Operating earnings," on the other hand, are what companies like you to pay attention to. They exclude one-time charges and other things that companies find inconvenient. I call operating earnings "EBIH earnings" – earnings before interest and hype. S&amp;P conveniently gathers forecasted earnings data from numerous analysts and amalgamates it in one big spreadsheet along with the history of actual earnings. You can access their spreadsheet here. The data we will be looking at will come from the first tab, but there is also a lot of data commentary from Howard Silverblatt, the longtime curator and maven of all things earnings. The forecast for 2014 as-reported earnings was $106 in late December. Now it's $119.70 – up 13% from the previous forecast just two weeks ago and up 20% versus the 2013 estimate of $99.42. Since 2013 has concluded, that number will be revised only slightly. Silverblatt says the revised figure is based upon an improved outlook rather than something technical like an accounting change. The table below is a screenshot from the Excel spreadsheet. Note that, depending on which set of earnings you want to use (and Ed and I prefer to use as-reported as opposed to operating earnings), if the forecasters are right, then the P/E ratio at the end of 2014 will be in the neighborhood of 15, less than the long-term average and down considerably from today's. This can only be described as a bullish number.  Ed notes in a quick email, which spurred a long telephone conversation, that "The 2015 forecast is still a month or so away – yet just imagine the bull stampede if it comes in +15%. That'll would take the figure to $138 and a forward "next year" P/E of only 13 when the trailing 20-year Shiller P/E10 is 25.4." I would have ended that sentence with an exclamation point (!), but Ed is more even-tempered in his writing. Still, a price-to-earnings ratio of 13, published on the official S&amp;P website for all the world to see, would have the bulls salivating. It would even have me close to "pounding-the-table-bullish," as a true P/E of 13 is quite favorable for the long term (say, ten years). So should we take the forward-looking view? If that P/E ratio of 13 based on today's price of the S&amp;P 500 turns out to be the reality, another 30% year is well within the scope of possibilities and might likely be considered the most probable outcome. And the markets seem to think that will be the case. Lately, it seems every week (and sometimes every day) brings a new all-time high. For fans of Mad magazine, it's an Alfred E. Newman world: "What? Me worry?" Volatility is back at pre-crisis lows, as the chart below illustrates.  This kind of news would normally point to prosperity across the real economy and call for a celebration – but take heed: prices do not always reflect reality, and analysts' expectations consistently tend to overstate actual earnings, as you can see in the following graph from a 2010 McKinsey on Finance Study, Equity analysts: Still too bullish. When that graph gets updated next year, we will see that nothing has changed. For the record, I was citing similar research back in 2003 in my book Bull's Eye Investing. In fact, there was a whole chapter on the topic of analysts' estimates. They also tend to be too bearish at market bottoms. Basically, analysts tend to forecast for the near future more of what has happened in the recent past. At turning points they really miss the boat.  If we look at recent years in light of long-term valuations and market behavior, we see that the combination of high and rising valuations, low and suppressed volatility, and a relatively weak trend in real earnings growth is a proven recipe for poor long-term returns and market instability. The S&amp;P 500 Index returned 32% excluding dividends from January 1, 2012, through January 17, 2014. Over that time frame, real earnings grew by less than 8%...  … while the trailing 12-month price-to-earnings multiple has expanded by nearly 30%, from 12.8x to 17.3x.  That means most of the recent gains in US equity markets have been driven by multiple expansion, in spite of sluggish real earnings growth. Despite an improvement in the real earnings trend since I dug into US stock market valuations, multiple expansion, and earnings last August, the disproportionate amount of gains attributable to multiple expansion versus gains attributable to earnings is a clear sign that sentiment, rather than fundamentals, may be the dominant force driving the markets higher.  Of course, the simple trailing 12-month price-to-earnings ratio can be misleading at critical turning points if you are trying to handicap the potential for long-term returns. For example, the collapse in real earnings during the global financial crisis sent the S&amp;P 500's trailing P/E multiple through the roof by March 2009. So, while trailing P/E is a useful tool for understanding what has already happened in the market, Dr. Robert Shiller's "cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio" (commonly known as the "Shiller P/E" or "CAPE") is far more useful for calculating a reasonable range of expected returns going forward. As I wrote back in August 2013 when the prevailing Shiller P/E sat near 24, this approach won't help you much with short-term market timing; but current valuations have historically proven extremely useful in forecasting long-term returns. In his book Irrational Exuberance (2005), Dr. Shiller shows how this approach "confirms that long-term investors – investors who commit their money to an investment for ten full years – did do well when prices were low relative to earnings at the beginning of the ten years. Long-term investors would be well-advised, individually, to lower their exposure to the stock market when it is high … and to get into the market when it is low."  As you can see in in the graph above, compared to the more common trailing 12-month P/E ratio, the Shiller P/E metric essentially smooths out the series and helps us avoid false signals by dividing the market's current price by the average inflation-adjusted earnings of the past ten years. Historically, this ratio has peaked and given way to major market declines at around 29x on average (or 26x excluding the dot-com bubble), and it has bottomed in the mid-single digits. Not only does today's Shiller P/E of 25.4x suggest a seriously overvalued market, but the rapid multiple expansion of the last few years, coupled with sluggish earnings growth, suggests that this market is also seriously overbought. Today's markets are just slightly less expensive than the 27x level seen at the October 2007 market peak and are only modestly below the levels seen before the stock market crash in 1929. Although we are nowhere near the all-time "stupid" peak of 43x reached in March 2000, a powerful narrative drove the markets to clearly unsustainable levels then, and a powerful narrative is driving markets today. In many ways, faith in the Federal Reserve today is roughly equivalent to faith in the words dot com in 1999. While it may be impossible to accurately predict when this policy-driven market will break, history suggests it would be very reasonable for the secular bear to eventually bottom at a P/E multiple between 5x and 10x, opening up one of the rare wealth-creation opportunities to deploy capital at truly cheap prices. Sometimes we have to wade through what may seem like deceptively dry technical details to sort out compelling conclusions, but I hope you'll focus on the main idea: We are not talking about the potential for a modest 20% to 30% drawdown in the US stock market. If the historical relationship between Shiller's P/E and consequent returns is any indication, we are talking about the potential for a 50%+ peak-to-trough drawdown and ten-year average annual returns as bad as -6.1%, according to the chart below from Cliff Asness at AQR. Such a result would fall in line with somewhat similar deleveraging periods such as the United States experienced in the 1930s and Japan has experienced since 1989. There is no way to sugarcoat it: too much equity risk can be unproductive and even destructive in this kind of economic environment.  But where there is danger there is also opportunity. I believe this is a terrific time to take some profits and diversify away from the growth-oriented risk factors that dominate most investors' portfolios. On that front, keep a lookout for a special report that we will release in the next week to share five critical steps you can take to defend your portfolio from economic disasters, bankrupt governments (or governments that are testing their borrowing limits), and increasingly desperate governments. It will be a free report for all Thoughts from the Frontline readers, and we hope you will share it with everyone you know. The Trouble with Earnings Let's be clear: earnings growth of 8% last year in a nominal GDP growth world of 4% is rather outstanding. Good on management in general to capture profits from something other than simple global growth. But how long can earnings in general continue to grow faster than the general economy? Understand, that is quite possible for an individual business, and it's why stock picking is an important part of the investment process. But research shows that the long-term trend is clearly that earnings of the broad corporate business world are highly correlated with GDP growth. How could it be otherwise? Again, not for individual businesses, but for the aggregate of all businesses. Profits are at an all-time high, as this chart from the FRED database of the St. Louis Fed illustrates. This series is mean-reverting. There is nothing that says profits cannot go higher, but the visual suggestion is that we are closer to a reversal than a breakout.  Why is this so? Part of the reason is that labor is getting less of the pie. The following chart from my friends at Research Affiliates (headed by Rob Arnott) shows that the longer-term correlation with labor costs is at a point where a correction is due, which does not bode well for longer-term profit growth.  Over the last year, this topic has been a large part of the conversation that I have had with Rob, one of the more thoughtful people I dialogue with. This recent post summarizes some of that conversation: The macroeconomic cause of today's profits bubble can be understood as a quarter century of politically facilitated globalization. During the 50 years following WWII, we lived in an open global developed economy containing less than one billion people in Europe, North America, Australia, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and a handful of others. Some countries were growing faster, some slower, but the technological level and population growth rates were not very different across the predominant countries within this relatively open global economy. The shares of income to labor and capital varied cyclically but tended to revert toward long-term averages. Beginning in the 1990s, we experienced a seismic shift in our global political economy. Approximately three billion people began to join this open global economy: about one billion each in China and India and another billion or so in Russia, Eastern Europe, South America, and Southeast Asia. Average wages, level of technology, and amount of accumulated capital in the countries of the aspiring three billion lagged far behind those enjoyed by the one billion in the developed world. Imitation and appropriation is far easier than innovation and invention, so catching up has been rapid for those nations willing to make even modest concessions to the aspirations of their citizenry. For the past quarter century, the capital and technology accumulated by the old equilibrium advanced global economy has been suddenly shared across a labor force and populace that quadrupled. This tectonic shift in our global political economy produced some winners and some losers. Incomes of many of the three billion newly joined rose quickly. Global poverty rates have plummeted. Meanwhile, wages in the old advanced-economy countries stalled, at least partly in response to competition from the lower wages welcomed by workers in developing countries. Profits grew to a much larger share of output and an unprecedented percentage of wages and salaries [see chart above]. To be sure, if we adjust wages to include the value of benefit programs and entitlements, we aren't quite at all-time highs in profits-to-total compensation ratios. But, even here, we're darned close to unprecedented records. In both cases, the five- and ten-year averages are at new highs. These longer-term trends are fueling popular unrest. What Would Yellen Do? The Fed is clearly looking at labor and employment. We will delve into this topic (once again) in a future letter; but before we close, this post from my friend Dan Greenhaus, Chief Global Strategist at BTIG, will give us a view on the latest JOLTS (Jobs Opening and Labor Turnover) data. (The word on the street is that incoming Fed Chair Janet Yellen does not look simply at the unemployment number.) What matters right now is the chart below, a chart to which [it] surely pays [to pay] attention. The chart plots the unemployment rate along the horizontal access and the aforementioned number of job openings along the vertical axis. The chart details the two-variable relationship as the economy entered and then exited recession. Slowly but surely, the economy is moving back towards a "normalized" state in which job openings are increasing while the unemployment rate is decreasing. Before the recession, four million job openings was associated with an unemployment rate of roughly 5.0%. Today, the same number of job openings is associated with an unemployment rate of 6.7% while just a few months ago, nearly four million job openings was associated with an unemployment rate of 7.8%. This normalization is good news and is further evidence that the labor market is healing. Janet Yellen is surely paying attention.  Forecast 2014: "Mark Twain!" The surface of the market waters looks smooth, but the data above suggest caution as we proceed. Perhaps slowing the engine and taking more frequent soundings (or putting in closer stops!) might be in order. The cry should be "Mark twain!" Let's steam ahead but take more frequent readings and know that a course correction may soon be necessary. And just so you know that you should take any forecast from me with multiple grains of salt, I am going to close this letter without having touched on the rest of the world markets. I know that only three weeks ago I said the annual forecast "issue" would be three issues, and now I see it will be at least four. Apparently, I am not very good at forecasting even the few things I should be in nominal control of. The legal types might like me to say something like "Often wrong, but seldom in doubt." Argentina, Vancouver, Edmonton, Regina, and Home This letter sees a change in a relationship I have enjoyed for several years. As some of you know, my letter is translated into Chinese, and I have had the pleasure of working with a capable young translator with the exotic-sounding name of Shadow Wong. It has been a true delight, and I will miss our banter and her cheery attitude. She is in a transition, so I will have a new translator as of next week – but she will be missed. I thank her for her perseverance and tolerance over the years, and I commend her for the consistent excellence of her work. I have decided to spend some R&amp;R time back in one of my favorite places in the world, Cafayate, Argentina. Some of my friends and partners have built a true world-class resort and development in a lovely mountain valley in northern Argentina. The only way to get there is through a magnificent canyon that stretches for miles. You arrive at a picturesque little village with lots of cool venues, all the amenities of a great resort, and a beautiful settings among mountains that change their colors and moods all day as the sun moves. I am going at the end of March, if you want to join in. The development has some 30 countries represented among its residents and has attracted a bunch of conservative libertarian types, which makes for great conversation. You can see a few pictures at www.lec.com.ar. Drop me a note if you want to know more. I am on the plane back from Tampa as I finish this note. I spent the afternoon meeting with scientists and researchers at the Rosskamp Institute there. My associate Patrick Cox arranged the meeting. What I heard and the research I saw makes me truly optimistic about the potential for a cure for Alzheimer's in maybe less than ten years. And they were doing lots of other work as well. Later that evening Pat and I and an associate compared notes on what we are learning about the coming changes. I like being around Pat because he makes my normally very optimistic view of the future seem not just sanguine but very realistic – and over the years his optimism has proven correct. The pace of change is just accelerating. I hesitate to share some of what we are learning as it just sounds so science-fictionish, but the world of tech is advancing on a thousand fronts. Keeping up with it all is difficult, but Pat and his team have launched a new, free tech digest and website at www.mauldineconomics.com/tech/tech-digest. Subscribe and join us as we explore the Human Transformation Revolution. I am off on a tour of Vancouver, Edmonton, and Regina starting Monday and then back Friday to enjoy life at home for a few weeks, although I may make a quick trip to DC and NYC for some meetings. I am settling into my new place. It has turned out even better than I had hoped, and not just the look and feel. It has become the magnet for my kids that I had wanted to create. It is a very comfortable place for us all to gather, share meals, and just hang out. We designed it with that in mind, and to watch it happen feels very good. Worth the hassle and the money. In family terms, it is a great investment. And at the end of the day, creating family togetherness is one of the true ways that we can create value, and that's one trend that does not ever have to revert to the mean. I had fun researching the Mark Twain reference, and I let Google lead me down a few memory lanes. Not the most productive use of time, perhaps, but enjoyable. Have a great week. Your buying arctic weather gear analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
If you have a question about your taxes, here's a tip: Be prepared to be very patient. The Internal Revenue Service answered a smaller share of taxpayer calls and kept taxpayers on hold longer last year than in other recent years, a new report finds. What's more, budget cuts could make it hard for taxpayers to get help this year as well. The IRS could answer only 61 percent of the calls it received from taxpayers during the 2013 fiscal year, National Taxpayer Advocate Nina E. Olson said in a report released to Congress on Jan. 9. That means that the rest of the calls—about 20 million—just didn't get through, the independent taxpayer advocate said.  (Read more: Identity thieves gear up to steal your tax refund) Taxpayers who got help had to wait a long time for it. The taxpayer advocate said callers who got through were on hold for an average of nearly 18 minutes before talking to a customer service representative during the 2013 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30. The level of service is a sharp drop from a decade ago. In the 2004 fiscal year, the IRS answered nearly 9 in 10 calls, and the average wait time was less than three minutes, according to the taxpayer advocate, an independent voice in the IRS that works on behalf of taxpayers. Olson blamed a lack of resources. The overall IRS budget has been cut every year since the 2010 fiscal year, her report said, and the amount allocated for training has been slashed significantly as part of that. It's not likely that things will get better this year. The spending bill passed by the House and Senate last week includes another cut to the IRS budget, even as the tax man grapples with problems including the continued threat of identity theft tax fraud. Given its limited resources,the IRS said that in 2014 it will stop preparing tax returns for people who need help, such as those who are elderly or disabled. The agency also plans to answer only "basic" tax law questions, and only during the normal filing season through April 15. Instead, it will direct people to the website and other automated sources of information. "(I)t is a sad state of affairs when the government writes tax laws as complex as ours—and then is unable to answer any questions beyond 'basic' ones from baffled citizens who are doing their best to comply," Olson said in the report.  (Read more: Marriage may not be magic bullet for poverty) In a statement in response to the taxpayer advocate report, the agency said: "The IRS continues to make progress on a number of the critical issues outlined in the Advocate's report. It is important to note that the IRS must carefully balance limited resources to meet its dual mission of providing taxpayer service and enforcing the tax laws." Outside experts say the lack of help is a concern both for taxpayers and for the government, which may not get all the money it should if people file their taxes incorrectly. (Read more: The class divide: Marriage as a 'luxury good') "It's a lose-lose situation," said Nina Crimm, a professor at St. John's University School of Law and an expert on tax issues. "It's a lose situation for … the average taxpayer, and it's a lose situation for compliance and collection of revenues." Crimm's advice: Get started on your taxes early this year, so you aren't frantically trying to reach the IRS on April 14. "They better start calling now," she said. FREE AppDownload
Two years ago, 3D Systems (NYSE: DDD) launched its first consumer-focused 3-D printer at the Consumer Electronics Show. That was the moment the 3-D printing industry began to move toward widespread adoption. This year, a $499 3-D printer made by Taiwan's XYZPrinting debuted at CES. Billed as a true plug-and-play system, XYZ's da Vinci printer boasts superior print fidelity (at its slowest print speed) to the Cube for a fraction of the price.  The $1,300 Cube, which accounted for 10% of 3D Systems' third-quarter revenue, competes directly with the MakerBot, a recent Stratasys (NASDAQ: SSYS) acquisition that reported similar revenue figures to the Cube shortly before its buyout. The cheapest MakerBot, a "mini" model yet to launch, costs slightly more than the entry level Cube. (Other Cube models compete with the typical $2,000-plus MakerBot.) Both of these machines, which are collectively touted as the next big thing in 3-D printing, now look like costlier, less-capable versions of an unknown device produced by an Asian upstart. Doesn't this remind you of the PC price wars all over again? Hardware on the firing line A year ago, I pointed out enthusiasm for 3-D printing technology and stocks had already far outpaced what was then possible. I also noted that 3-D printing, which relies on both hardware and software improvements to drive wider adoption, resembles nothing so much as the progression from large, commercial-scale mainframe computers to inexpensive desktop PCs. Investing in hardware-focused enterprises right as the industry shifts from one model to the next could be a recipe for long-term losses. Thus far, I've been wrong on that count, as both 3D Systems and Stratasys have soared in the past year: YCharts/The Motley FoolBut much of the excitement shown on public markets toward 3-D printing hasn't been directed toward consumer 3-D printing, but more commercial 3-D printing companies: million-dollar printer builder ExOne (NASDAQ: XONE) has doubled since its IPO last spring, and large-scale 3-D printer maker voxeljet (NYSE: VJET) clings to a 40% gain since its October IPO, after a one-month double was undone by weak guidance. Aside from the Cube and MakerBot, which are both smallish consumer subsets of the two largest commercially focused 3-D printing companies on the market, most consumer 3-D printers are typically more hobby kits than complete plug-and-play systems. The da Vinci, which is made by a subsidiary of the multibillion-dollar Kinpo Group conglomerate, is probably only one early salvo in what's certain to be a barrage of lower-cost and higher-capability consumer 3-D printers. While these models will never have the sheer size of the large commercial models (ExOne's largest model tops out at 155 times the total "build volume," or 3-D printable area, as the da Vinci) the progression toward cheaper models does point toward the inevitability of a 3-D printer price war. Another factor in this inevitability is the simple fact that some very important 3-D printing patents expire this year, opening up a new avenue of low-cost competition. REUTERS/Brian SnyderTwelve-year-old Leon McCarthy (R) talks about a MarkerBot Replicator 2 Desktop 3D Printer, with the company's CEO Bre Pettis, at the new MakerBot store in Boston, Massachusetts November 21, 2013. McCarthy, whose prosthetic hand is made of parts printed from a MakerBot 3D printer, broke a piece of it last week while playing football, so he printed a new finger to repair it. The da Vinci, Cube, and MakerBot all use fused deposition modeling technology, which went off-patent several years ago. In fact, the MakerBot's rise would not have been possible if FDM had remained patented. This year's patent expirations involve laser sintering, which is a more advanced and accurate form of 3-D production. Some laser sintering patents cover (or will have covered) a high-end desktop machine called the Form 1, which I covered more than a year ago and which uses stereolithography, a different form of laser-based printing. This higher-capability printer is nearly an order of magnitude more expensive than the da Vinci. In a few years' time, the lack of patent protection should bring costs on laser-based 3-D printing down to the price of a new iPad, if not lower. If 3-D printing becomes common in the home, it won't be because of today's large companies pushing proprietary models -- it'll be the result of a commodification process similar to what happened during the rise of the PC. American manufacturers found themselves pressured on price by a growing group of hungry foreign competitors, and eventually the PC became a commodity with razor-thin margins in which American manufacturers couldn't really compete. The real profit in the PC industry was eventually found in software, and it's quite likely that software and services will become the profit engines of 3-D printing as well. It won't matter whether that software runs on commercial-scale machines in on-demand manufacturing centers or on millions of small desktop printers -- once commodification kicks in, it'll push the profits out of hardware, as it has many times in the past. There’s a huge difference between a good stock, and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and it’s one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report: "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just click here to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company. Fool contributor Alex Planes holds no financial position in any company mentioned here. Add him on Google+ or follow him on Twitter @TMFBiggles for more insight into markets, history, and technology. The Motley Fool recommends 3D Systems, ExOne, and Stratasys. The Motley Fool owns shares of 3D Systems, ExOne, and Stratasys and has the following options: short January 2014 $20 puts on 3D Systems. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe U.S. markets are closed. But the rest of the world goes on. Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are reading and chatting about as they wait for markets to come back online: Good Morning!   Following is a roundup of overnight Market Action – Key headlines (With Story Links), and this week’s calendar.   Euro Markets are under pressure – weighed down by Banks after DB released early.  DAX off 40bp in average trading, but most EU markets trading 30% light to average volumes.  EU Fins are retreating, losing 1% on the back of DB’s 6% drop overnight.   Asian Markets were under pressure on Weak China data – Nikkei lost 60bp, Shanghai lowest in 6 months, and most EM Asia weaker.  India’s market jumped as the RBI injected capital into their bond Markets.  Aussie lost 20bp, but Miners under pressure after recent run on weak China data.  China’s CDS has jumped 10% overnight on liquidity concerns into the New Year Holiday The 10YY is slightly lower as Bills have a slight bid in CBOT trading.   The DXY is weaker as both the Euro and Yen pop against the Greenback.   Platinum is jumping 2% overnight and 7% over the last week (South Africa Strikes).  Gold hit a new YTD peak overnight, testing $1260/oz before retreating.   Copper and Steel futures remain under pressure (China).   The energy complex is mostly red, with WTI off 50bp (Iran deal), but Nat Gas is off 1.5% despite the frigid temperatures in the USA this week.     Market Trading Hours During The US Holiday Today ·      New York, Chicago trading floors: closed ·      CME Equity products closes at 11:30 AM Eastern, resume trading at 6:00 PM Eastern ·      CME and CBOT Interest Rate &amp; FX Products close early at 1:00 PM; resume trading at 6:00 PM ·      NYMEX, COMEX early close 1:15 Eastern; resume trading at 6:00 PM Eastern ·      NYSE Liffe – Normal close ·      Eurex – Normal close   Summary for the week ahead ·      Holiday Monday ·      Light US Economics, Highlights: PMI, Existing Homes ·      Heavy China Data - GDP, IP, Retail Sales, Flash Manufacturing PMI ·      Earnings Season accelerates in Tech ·      Bank of Japan and Bank of Canada Rate Decisions ·      Bank of England Minutes + Carney Speaks ·      AIA architectural billings Index ·      Sov Ratings Reviews: France, UK and Germany   SOME OF THE HEADLINES TRADERS ARE READING CHINA / ASIA ·      China growth lowest in 14 years - the country's economy grew 7.7pc last year, the same as 2012, which was the slowest since 1999. Gross domestic product expansion for the October-December quarter also came in at 7.7pc, the National Bureau of Statistics said, from 7.8pc in the previous three months. ·      China banks face sub-10% profit growth - Analysts expect single-digit growth for first time since 2005 ·      China Traders are also anxious about  tightening credit conditions ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday at the end of the month. The seven-day repo rate rose 145 basis points to 6.6 per cent. ·      In a rare accommodative measure, the state-run People's Bank of China is providing short-term cash to the country's biggest lenders, in a move seen as a  bid to avoid a liquidity crisis near the Lunar New Year holiday ·      Crédit Agricole said they maintained a bearish position on the Japanese currency but short-term gains were possible because  market participants do not see the Bank of Japan easing policy further after Wednesday’s policy meeting - “[BoJ governor Haruhiko Kuroda] stressed that the economy is moving smoothly towards inflation as prices will continue to rise for the time being. Under such conditions the central bank is unlikely to become even more aggressive unless sentiment turns sour” EURO/UK ·      The early release of Deutsche Bank’s earnings late last night,  which showed a €1.2bn Q4 loss, weighed on Banks ·      According to Sky News, the  IMF will increase its forecast for UK growth in 2014 from 1.9pc to 2.4pc - The upgrade will be significantly stronger than the upgrade expected for world economic growth. ENERGY / MENA ·      Iran  halted its most sensitive uranium enrichment work on Monday as part of a landmark deal struck with world powers, easing concerns over the country's nuclear program and clearing the way for a partial lifting of sanctions, Tehran and the U.N. said. ·      Iran said it will attend this week's (weds) Geneva conference aimed at finding a resolution to Syria's war, and that it will do so  without agreeing to anything in advance - Syria's main opposition group in exile Syrian National Coalition (SNC) said here on Monday that it suspends its participation in Geneva II conference due to UN's invitation to Iran. ·      Hedge Funds Cut Brent Crude Net-Longs to  Lowest in 14 Months    OTHER COMMODITIES ·      Militant union AMCU has today  served notice to strike within 48 hours at South Africa's top platinum mines - Leading producers Anglo American Platinum, Impala Platinum and Lonmin confirmed members of the dominant Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union will start their strike for higher wages at morning shift from Thursday. ·      A standoff over cost overruns in the Panama Canal expansion has Panamanians as anxious as the global shipping industry - Panama's plan has suddenly run into rough waters because of ballooning cost overruns. European construction companies hired to expand the canal are  threatening to bring the project to a halt as soon as Monday ·      Bitcoin doesn’t meet the definition of a currency or even an electronic payment form in Finland, where the  central bank has instead decided to categorize the software as a commodity ·      OAO Uralkali, the largest potash producer, agreed to supply the soil nutrient to China at a price 24 percent less than a contract that expired in July ·      South Korea discovered the H5N8 avian influenza virus in dead migratory birds after  confirming an outbreak at two duck farms in the country’s south - About 100 dead birds found in a reservoir in North Jeolla province tested positive for H5N8, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, said in a statement today. ·      China is abandoning a stockpiling programme that has seen the nation run up an  outsized hoard of cotton that it must now sell at a loss, pledging instead to switch to a subsidy system for cotton farmers this year. ASIDE ·      It will be the  NFL's No. 1 offense (Denver) vs. the league's No. 1 defense (Seattle) at MetLife Stadium in New Jersey on Feb. 2. ·      Live Blog:  Davos 2014   ·      UBS has struck two deals to  outsource most of its fixed income trading platform in a radical step highlighting the scale of cost pressures in the investment banking sector - The Swiss bank will replace its patchwork of multiple trading platforms with standardised solutions from technology groups Murex and Ion Trading, people close to the situation said. ·      Lenovo Group is in  serious discussions to acquire International Business Machines Corp.’s low-end server business, and a deal may be signed within weeks ·      Argentina will make an offer to members of the Paris Club on Monday to  renegotiate the terms of its outstanding debt owed to the group of creditor nations, an Argentine source said. ·      FT:  US regulators ‘funded at a level to fail’ ·      A rising number of economists say the U.S. will reach 3% growth in 2014 for the first time in nine years - but similar predictions have  been dashed in the past few years FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifAs oil major Shell starts a disposal programme, we look at the assets that could be sold Oil giant Royal Dutch Shell has started one of the largest asset disposal programmes in the global oil industry with the £700m (1.15 billion) sale of natural gas assets to Kuwait. Ben van Beurden, who recently took over from Peter Voser as chief executive, needs to sell assets in order to balance the books at Shell, as the FTSE 100-listed group continues to invest heavily in oil exploration in harder to reach places. Analysts from investment bank JP Morgan Cazenove recently drew up a shopping list of assets that could be on the chopping block: 1 - 23.1pc stake in Woodside Petroleum worth $7bn Shell wanted to own the whole refinery located in Perth, western Australia, but the deal was blocked by the Australian government, now it has an orphaned stake. Shell has already sold down a third of its holding in November 2010 for $3.3bn, so the remaining $7bn stake tops the list of assets that could be for sale. Rumoured buyers would be sovereign wealth funds interested in the long-term earnings potential of the facility. 2 - 10pc of global retail network worth $4.4bn Quite literally a garage sale, in early January Norwegian newspapers highlighted that Shell was considering selling more than 400 gas stations across Norway, this would be the beginning of a continued shrinking of the global network of Shell stations. 3 - Pipelines worth $3.5bn Shell has huge amounts of pipeline infrastructure that expose the group to maintenance and running costs that are arguably outside the group's main focus of finding oil. 4 - Shale oil assets worth $3bn Shell has interests in US shale oil in Mississipi Lime, Kansas and Oklahoma. However, after drilling test wells this shale oil, or tight oil, does not meet with Shell's long-term investment targets, basically it is too complicated and costly to get out of the ground in reliable amounts. Fine for a smaller operation but not suitable for an oil major. 5 - Eagle Ford shale asset worth $2.1bn Sale plans for the 106,000 acre shale oil site at Eagle Ford in South Texas were announced in September of last year. Once again smaller firms have thrived in this business but larger players have had an unhappy time and are looking to exit. 6 - Nigerian Delta licenses worth $1.8bn Oil exploration in Nigeria is fraught with difficulties. Theft, corruption and sabotage have been grabbing the headlines rather than profitability. Shell will probably want to distance itself from the region the sale of licenses in the East Niger Delta and the Nembe Creek Trunk Line would help this process. 7 - Refinery operations around the world worth $1.8bn Oil and gas refineries located around the world in places such as Geelong, Australia, and Buenos Airies, Argentina, are earning lower margins as competition increases. 8 - Showa Shell stake worth $1.4bn The Japanese based oil refinery operator in which Shell owns a 35pc stake could be sold off so the company can focus on exploration. 9 - Liquefied Petroluem Gas (LPG) business worth $1.2bn The oil major has been slowly exiting its LPG businesses around the world and the sale of remaining interests in Vietnam and elsewhere could be speeded up under a new strategy. 10 - Property portfolio worth $545m The group has built up some significant property holdings around the world during its history. As property prices rise it would make sense to capture some record high prices with well timed sales of around a third of the global portfolio. The top ten assets make up $25bn of a potential $30bn in assets that Shell could sell during the next two years. Monday's sale comes after Shell warned on Friday that full-year profits would be "significantly lower" than expected, sending shares down 1.2pc. They fell another 0.9pc on Monday morning. Mr van Beurden is expected to reveal his long-term plan for further asset disposals when he presents full-year results next week.  FREE AppDownload
Stefano Paltera/U.S. Department of Energy Solar DecathlonThe sloped exostructure of Team Ontario's Solar Decathlon house holds the photovoltaic array and solar thermal systems and is designed to maximize the benefits of passive shading.Solar companies, already benefiting from booming share prices, are turning to increasingly innovative ways to raise capital, including bond issues, bank loans and even crowd-funding. SolarCity—Wall Street's newest renewable energy darling—last week announced that it will offer debt investments backed by pools of solar assets this year. Last year, SolarCity, which is backed by Tesla Motors founder Elon Musk, issued about $54.4 million in the first-ever solar bonds. They secured an investment-grade rating from Standard &amp; Poor's. EIA/CNBC Observers say SolarCity's fortunes are the latest signs of a maturation process that could hasten the day when renewable energy is less dependent on government subsidies. It also comes as demand for solar power is expected to see what research firm NPD calls "explosive growth," with demand expected to surge more than 36 percent in 2014. "As we're seeing costs and price point for solar systems fall, we're seeing concomitant increase in deal structures and investment vehicles available to individual investors and utilities," said Nadav Enbar, senior project manager in power delivery utilization at the Electric Power Research Institute. "As a result of this maturity, investors consider renewable energy/solar as a potential area with less risk for their dollars." Solar securities are still largely unproven, and the relatively short tenure of solar projects–less than 20 years in many instances–may become a barrier to wider adoption of solar financing. Still, the move toward tapping capital markets means green projects could make the sector less vulnerable to the backlash that often ensues from using public funds. Private investors are starting to warm to the idea: US Bank has a alternative energy arm that has doled out more than $1.7 billion to a spate of renewable projects in the U.S. A steep drop in solar prices and costs—data from the Solar Energy Industries Association says sun-power is now 60 percent cheaper than it was just a few short years ago—is fueling strong demand. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), growth in renewable power generation is expected to exceed 858 billion kilowatt hours by 2040, with a bulk of that growth coming from solar. Renewables generated 524 billion kilowatt hours in 2011. Because solar power can be generated at the local level, and because its infrastructure can be built easily without the politically-tinged problems that accompany crude, it makes for a comparatively attractive investment. (Read more: Critics question 'green loans,' but US points to the numbers) Mike Sheppard, senior energy and power analyst with research IHS, says investors "see it as a trend…that opens up new sources of capital investment from people not yet willing to risk money in technology" that may not be proven, he added. "Securitization smooths out [risks], diversifying over multiple projects," Sheppard said. "That concept is relatively new…and its a definite trend that a lot of people are looking forward to." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gopal Chitrakar Most agree that we have witnessed the end of a massive, three-decade bull market in bonds. Some are also skeptical of the potential for returns in the stock market in the years ahead, given common valuation multiples that are currently above historical averages. We asked a few of our favorite traders, strategists, and economists for their best investment ideas for the next 10 years. Here's what they told us: "These instruments are a bi-product of Greek debt restructuring and will pay a cent a year if and when Greek GDP hits certain thresholds. They won't pay those cents for several years yet because Greek GDP is still some way from the triggers, so they are suited to the patient professional investor with a long term horizon. But in the meantime default risk is tiny; it's hard to default when you only have to pay in good times." —Gabriel Sterne, fixed income economist at Exotix "On a ten year view I'd invest in the Tehran stock exchange, but given its difficult for US citizens in particular to do so, I'd pick the Doha Stock Market in Qatar. Qatar is a country with a GDP per citizen of around $1m that will be investing aggressively into World Cup 2022 to transform itself into a destination for millions of tourists. The country's stock exchange is being promoted to the main MSCI Emerging Markets index this May and trades at under 10x earnings (versus a historic level of 15-20x) with a 5% dividend yield and likely EPS growth of 10%, backed by the government who are extremely shareholder friendly given the locals own the majority of shares. The currency is pegged to the US dollar with appreciation potential. If/when US rates start to rise, net interest margins of local banks will expand dramatically. An easy way to invest is the closed-end Qatar Investment Fund listed in London, which gives you index exposure at a 10% discount to NAV. This should easily triple over 10 years in dollar terms with minimal downside risk." —Emad Mostaque, strategist at NOAH Capital Markets "No brainer." —Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management "There is a great deal of room to rebalance income and output domestically from tier-1 cities that do not have the productivity to justify their high prices and incomes into tier-2 cities. Cities that are competitive may not be the outright cheapest: they are cheaper than tier-1 cities, but still have the fixed capital and stability to support enterprise." —Matt Busigin, editor and principal author of Macrofugue Analytics "I'd choose ZIV, an ETN that tracks short exposure to medium-term VIX futures. The reason for this choice is that the volatility risk premium is one of the best and most persistent sources of risk-adjusted returns, and selling the middle of the VIX curve has outperformed a lot of related volatility strategies." —Jared Woodard, principal of Condor Options "Ten years is a long time in investments (this time 10 years ago, Eastman-Kodak was a Dow component) so a ten-year single lock-in investment is going to have to meet some criteria: (1) unlikely to be disrupted by technology; (2) meets a need somewhere towards the bottom of Maslow's pyramid; (3) produces a yield; and (4) expectation of capital gain. With this in mind, my ten-year lock-in investment would be agricultural land. The customer base is growing. The customers have little choice about buying the production from agricultural land. It produces a yield. Supply is limited (full disclosure — I own a farm)." —Lorcan Roche Kelly, strategist at Agenda Research "You are getting paid a premium for risk (extension and prepayment) that has largely been removed. And if we are entering a rising rate environment, you get to reinvest amortizing principal in higher coupons. Rates would have to fall significantly to accelerate prepayments. Plus supply will be shrinking acting as a natural cap on yields. Banks still have tepid loan demand and rising deposits. Buying Fed induced market pukes has been very profitable." — Vince Foster, interest rate strategist "The one investment I think I'd make to hold over the next 10 years would be in oil services, particularly focusing on international pressure pumping. While crude oil continues to ratchet upwards in price and get more and more expensive to find, natural gas through hydraulic fracturing seems to get easier with the boundaries for ever wider-scale production halted by the factionalism and arbitrary hypocrisy of government controls, particularly in the shale rich areas of South America. Those barriers must fall, given the price differential that continues to expand between crude and gas; and the international services group will be the most likely long-term benefactors — think Schlumberger (SLB) and Baker-Hughes (BHI)." —Dan Dicker, president of MercBloc "On the horizon of the next ten years I would probably be looking at Southeast Asia, very favorable demographics and growth potential, and property in the U.S." —Michael McDonough, chief economist at Bloomberg LP "In particular, residential housing looks like an attractive long term bet, especially in places where big adjustments have taken place – or there hasn’t been a bubble in the first place. Baltics in Europe is one good spot with favorable macroeconomic environment amidst stimulative external conditions. Latvia joining the euro zone this year, and Lithuania likely from 2015, the countries will likely catch up with Estonia where home prices are already rising at a double digit pace." —Aurelija Augulyte, macro strategist at Nordea "And sunscreen." —David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank "Phew, it’s going to be low return world. Something with as solid yield as possible in a decent currency. I own a yield play in Singapore dollars, as an example. Or, if you can find it, rural land with a yield (so probably counts out US farms)." —Gerard Minack, principal of Minack Advisors "If I could own something for the next 10 years, it’d have to be base metal and rare earth mining companies. It’s an area that has not matched in any sense the uplift in global equities. China is key. Any dips in copper prices have been bought by the Chinese as they add to inventories. Once these start to run out and when we see a proper return to growth here in Europe and the US, I would expect to see these very much in demand. On the rare earth metals, the fact that China is moving to tighten control on this industry. Their uses in defence and telecommunications, particularly make them a relevant investment for the future." —Brenda Kelly, chief market strategist at IG Markets —Rich Bernstein, founder of Richard Bernstein Advisors "Not only do I think this is the best investment out there on a risk-adjusted basis, I don't think it's particularly close. White flight and the de-industrialization of our cities is a trend that's over. The white population of Detroit shrank by 96% from 1950-2010. Meanwhile, while the outer suburbs of those cities continues to shrink, the inner cores are getting younger and more educated. While house prices per square foot are north of $1,000 in parts of San Francisco and New York, you can buy into most of these cities for under $100/square foot. It's only a matter of time before we start talking about places like Buffalo and Pittsburgh and Milwaukee as the Berlins and Brooklyns for the next generation. Not all of these cities will be home runs, and it'd be preferable to live in one yourself if you're going to invest, but the list of options is very long: Milwaukee, Chicago, Indianapolis, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Hartford, Providence, Kansas City, St. Louis, Memphis, and Birmingham, for starters. I'd focus on ones with pro sports teams, strong universities, and busier airports." —Conor Sen, portfolio manager at New River Investments —Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank "For the next 10 years: healthcare, pharmaceutical, bio-pharma and bio-tech stocks with significant markets exposure outside the US. Investment case for these is made by the expectation that once Emerging and Middle-Income economies' middle and upper-middle classes satisfy their demand for leather couches and SUVs, their demand will refocus on their health and life expectancy. This demand acceleration will likely coincide with continued build up of health threats to the emerging markets from internal pollution and environmental degradation, and accelerating ageing and health concerns in the advanced economies. Timing for the demand pressures materialisation is a lot longer than 10 years, but investment window for pricing these risks forward is closing fast. The next 'perfect storm' in global economies is likely to be ageing-related one." —Constantin Gurdgiev, adjunct professor of finance at Trinity College, Dublin, and University College, Dublin "In yourself, from both a physical and educational perspective." —Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S&amp;P Capital IQ "For the next 10 years, I like shorting commodities. I expect little inflation—and more likely, deflation—so changes in real and nominal commodity prices will be about the same. The attached chart shows that real commodity prices have fallen steadily since the mid-1800s, despite huge growth in commodity demand from the American Industrial Revolution after the Civil War, forced industrialization of Japan in the late 1800s, mass-produced autos starting in the 1920s, etc. Commodity price spikes caused by demand leaps in the Civil War and World Wars I and II were soon reversed as were price leaps due to the oil supply constraints in the 1970s. Many look for jumping commodity prices in future years since there are limited amounts of copper in the earth’s crust, two billion more mouths to feed, upgrading of diets and rising consumer spending in developing countries, etc. The reality, however, is that human ingenuity always beats threatened shortages. Coke made from coal saved the Industrial Revolution, which was threatened by a shortage of hardwood trees to make charcoal to smelt iron. In the early 1800s, overhunting had decimated the world’s whale population to the point that the lights would go out from a lack of whale oil, many feared. Then in 1858, Edwin Drake drilled a crude oil well in Titusville, Pa., and kerosene lamps rode to the rescue. I can recall when serious economists forecast the end of telecommunications growth because of shortages of copper for wires. Then came fiber optics." —Gary Shilling, economist "I hate to be unimaginative here, but 10 years is a long time to hold a very specific investment.  Sure the energy renaissance has a long time horizon, but what will it look like in 3 years much less 10? Who can say? I’d say the S&amp;P 500. I have a chart below that is my favorite chart of all time. I created it over a decade ago and it hasn’t failed me yet.  It simply shows the trailing PE and the next 10 years price return for the S&amp;P 500.  Below is the shortened version of the one I have going back many decades. It’s amazing right? Future Nobel Prize, baby! AMIRIGHT?! Take that Shiller—this one actually WORKS. But I digress… Anyway, right now it shows the S&amp;P 500 will generate about an 8% price return on average over the next 10 years. Add a 2% dividend and you get 10%. A 10% annualized total return is not a bad deal compared to bonds, commodities, or cash for the next 10 years. I'll take it." —Jeff Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial "Energy-intensive manufacturing in the USA, generic biopharmaceutical products and any company globally that will be able to lever off the Chinese consumer."  —David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff + Associates and author of "Breakfast with Dave" "As it turns out, that is an easy question: Our own business. I have been plowing money into our own asset management business. This is not a reflection on the price of stocks or bonds, but more on the state of the financial industry. Wall Street is very good at serving its own interests, but terrible at serving its clients. This has created a huge opportunity or anyone who wants to put their clients first. I expect we have a 5 year ramp up before the rest of Wall Street starts to notice something is amiss. I believe there are 4 areas ripe for disruption: 1) Full service Financial Planning/Asset management, 2) Retirement Planning, 3) low cost asset management, 4) RIA Advisory services to members of the industry. We are in the midst of a very significant set of changes; The financial services industry is likely to look very different 10 years hence." —Barry Ritholtz, chief investment officer at Ritholtz Wealth Management "10 years is a long time. I am partial to Asian growth and was initially going to offer EWH or EWS but they both have small populations. The Indonesian ETFs give exposure to a large population with trading relationships throughout Asia but also seems too concentrated.  I would offer up Vanguard's Total World Stock Index ETF (VT) as a decent alternative. Though not having nearly enough exposure to emerging markets, it should offer downside protection in a big sell-off and inflation + performance on the upside."  —Daniel A. Baffoe, Treasury sales/strategist at large "Practice Investment discipline — conduct quarterly portfolio reviews, practice diversification midst, rotation, use losses to offset tax liabilities from profit taking — back to basics. Never forget the quote Mark Twain is credited for: 'History may not repeat itself but it often rhymes.'" —John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer "GVAL (Cambria Global Value ETF) buys equities in the 10 cheapest countries as determined by long-term valuation metrics like the Shiller CAPE ratio." —Meb Faber, chief investment officer and portfolio manager at Cambria Investment Management "Giving stocks picks and the like is not the business of Abnormal Returns  I have written a lot over the past couple of years talking about the advances in low-cost investing. So in that regard investors would do well to take advantage of this 'free lunch.' So instead of spending countless hours trying to tease out the next hot stock why not invest in yourself. I know that sounds like a bit of new age cliche, but hear me out. The best investment you can make with your marginal dollar (or hour) is in your intellectual, social, physical and emotional capital. Most investment advice is about staying rich. The key to a richer, fuller life is maximizing your potential. For the vast majority of people, time spent in front of the computer searching for the next Twitter or Tesla isn't it." —Tadas Viskanta, founder and editor of Abnormal Returns "The demand from frontier and emerging economies will collide with inefficient and archaic storage and distribution systems in the developed world. Climate change is altering the natural supply areas." —Kevin Ferry, chief market strategist at Cronus Futures Management FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsJoshua Tree National ParkAll U.S. markets will be closed on Monday to observe Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The rest of the week will be extremely light in terms of economic data. But this will also give folks time to think about their investments. Last week, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin managed to send chills through the markets with his warning about stocks. From Kostin: "The current valuation of the S&amp;P 500 is lofty by almost any measure, both for the aggregate market as well as the median stock: (1) The P/E ratio; (2) the current P/E expansion cycle; (3) EV/Sales; (4) EV/EBITDA; (5) Free Cash Flow yield; (6) Price/Book as well as the ROE and P/B relationship; and compared with the levels of (6) inflation; (7) nominal 10-year Treasury yields; and (8) real interest rates. Furthermore, the cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio suggests the S&amp;P 500 is currently 30% overvalued in terms of (9) Operating EPS and (10) about 45% overvalued using As Reported earnings." Yikes. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Everybody hates gold and the gold miners. But Gundlach thinks that's where money can be made. The median forecaster sees the yellow metal falling to $1,220/oz this year. He sees gold rallying to $1,350/oz. Gundlach also said that Chipotle should drop 30%, Apple could go to $600, Bitcoin will fall further, and Puerto Rican and JC Penney debt are money-makers for anyone willing to stomach tons of volatility. Economic Calendar Market Commentary "We believe that we are now entering the global synchronous phase of a long but bumpy recovery process that started in 2009," wrote Henry McVey, KKR's Head of Global Macro &amp; Asset Allocation. "However, unlike many other synchronized global recoveries, developed market central banks are—in aggregate—likely to remain accommodative in an attempt to offset some of the inherent volatility that accompanies de-leveraging cycles. Against this macro backdrop, our asset allocation view for 2014 is that investors should “Stay the Course,” retaining key overweight positions in global equities and alternatives, including private credit, special situations and real assets." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid A Deutsche Bank sign is seen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange January 15, 2014. FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; shares tumbled on Monday following a surprise fourth-quarter loss due to a steep drop in debt trading revenues and heavy litigation and restructuring costs that prompted the bank to warn of a challenging 2014. Germany's biggest bank said revenue at its important debt-trading division, fell 31 percent in the quarter, a much bigger drop than at U.S. rivals, which have also suffered from sluggish fixed-income trading. Deutsche's bond trading business is one of its biggest and contributed 73 percent of total trading revenue in 2013, the bank said. The unexpected loss is likely to compound problems that have dogged the bank over the past year, which include a list of lawsuits and regulatory wrangles. It will also increase pressure on co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen to overhaul the group, including pushing through a culture change. Deutsche's bond trading slump highlights the impact of a debt market slowdown in anticipation of an end to the U.S. Federal Reserve's bond buying to help the U.S. economy. But bond trading revenues at other big investment banks have not fallen as sharply as at Deutsche. At Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; and Citi &lt;C.N&gt;, for example, revenue from bond trading fell 11 percent and 15 percent respectively in the fourth quarter. "The investment bank is losing market share," Shailesh Raikundlia, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo, said. "They're losing ground to the likes of Barclays because they don't have the capital (to support a big investment bank)." Heavy costs for litigation and restructuring also hit the bank's performance, as well as one-off accounting charges. Litigation cost it 528 million euros in the quarter, bringing the year's bill for fines and settlements to 2.5 billion euros and lowering litigation reserves to 2.3 billion euros at year-end. Deutsche was fined $1.9 billion in December by the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency and was also fined 725 million euros by European Union antitrust regulators for rigging benchmark interest rates. The bank's fourth-quarter pre-tax loss was 1.15 billion euros ($1.6 billion). Deutsche's shares fell as much as 5 percent but pared losses to trade down 3.66 percent by 1051 GMT, compared with a decline of 0.62 percent by an index of its peers &lt;.SX7P&gt;. On the positive side, the bank's restructuring plan is ahead of target and its all-important capital ratios met industry expectations even after the higher losses thanks to a greater than expected reduction in assets. Analysts had been positive about Deutsche before the bank's unexpected publication of results on Sunday, with 23 of the 36 covering the stock rating it a "strong buy" or "buy" and another seven rating it a "hold," according to Thomson Reuters data. Analysts at JPMorgan remained positive, saying management deserved credit for cutting balance sheet exposure and settling some outstanding litigation. JPMorgan has Deutsche Bank rated "overweight". "Overall, we believe Q4 results show that DB is still in restructuring mode but management has delivered on our wish-list of aggressive exposure reduction, bringing forward of cost savings and settlement of some litigation," JPMorgan said. Citi analyst Kinner Lakhani said even though Deutsche's story was two steps forward, one step back the shares still offered significant upside potential for patient investors. Before Monday, Deutsche Bank shares had rallied 13 percent so far in 2014, in line with European banking rivals. The bank took a one-off charge of 197 million euros from the expected sale of BHF-Bank and accounting charges. And Deutsche also took 623 million euros of charges for credit valuation adjustments (CVA), debt valuation adjustments (DVA) and funding valuation adjustments (FVA). "The CVA and DVA are things that as analysts we tend to strip out," said Espirito Santo's Raikundlia. "It's an accounting thing that doesn't make any difference overall in the grand scheme of things." The bank posted full-year pre-tax profit of 2.1 billion euros, half of the 4.21 billion euros expected by analysts, according to data from Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The bank was originally scheduled to report results on January 29. ($1 = 0.7376 euros) (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; additional reporting by Laura Noonan and Steve Slater in London and Jonathan Gould in Frankfurt; editing by Tom Pfeiffer and Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/lvf8What might be the perfect tune for dozing in the sun, for running along a stormy beach or, perhaps, the soundtrack to the first flush of true love? A new feature being discussed by the music service Spotify could use sensor's on the listener's body or in their smartphone to measure their heart rate and then use that to select appropriate music. The more data Spotify can collect on listener habits, the better the recommendations its algorithms can produce. As well as music, motion, heart rate, and temperature, Spotify could start to monitor sleep patterns, according to Donovan Sung , Spotify’s product manager for discovery and recommendations. "Maybe with motion sensors in phones, we can start guessing things whether users are running, biking or driving? Maybe the phone has a temperature sensor, or a heart rate sensor, we could guess whether the user is tense..." said Sung, talking to TechRadar. Sung explained that information provided by sensors could be used to automatically generate playlists based on activities such as workouts, driving, sleeping or late-night working, without user interaction. The service could automatically start playing pumping music when it is time to go for a run or peaceful ambient tracks for when sleep is required. “The more we know about you, the better the [recommendation] engine can be,” said Sung, who warned that overloading listeners with choice provided a poor user experience, and that a fine balance must be struck between quantity and quality of recommendations. Spotify’s recommendation engine is currently powered by a combination of human editors, algorithms, social data and previous listening history, which provide personal recommendations for users of artists, albums and tracks. These also inform Spotify’s shuffle play feature, which it unveiled in December 2013 and is continuing to improve. “Nearly half of mobile listening, if not more, is people listening to their own curated playlists," said Daniel Ek, Spotify’s founder at the time. "With shuffle play, you can now play any of your playlists for free. Spotify's new mobile experience is music for anyone and the best experience and access in the history of music.” • In December 2013, Led Zeppelin made its streaming debut on Spotify as the service made ad-supported streaming available on mobile devices This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
The world's wealthiest people aren't known for travelling by bus, but if they fancied a change of scene then the richest 85 people on the globe – who between them control as much wealth as the poorest half of the global population put together – could squeeze onto a single double-decker. The extent to which so much global wealth has become corralled by a virtual handful of the so-called 'global elite' is exposed in a new report from Oxfam on Monday. It warned that those richest 85 people across the globe share a combined wealth of £1tn, as much as the poorest 3.5 billion of the world's population. The wealth of the 1% richest people in the world amounts to $110tn (£60.88tn), or 65 times as much as the poorest half of the world, added the development charity, which fears this concentration of economic resources is threatening political stability and driving up social tensions. It's a chilling reminder of the depths of wealth inequality as political leaders and top business people head to the snowy peaks of Davos for this week's World Economic Forum. Few, if any, will be arriving on anything as common as a bus, with private jets and helicoptors pressed into service as many of the world's most powerful people convene to discuss the state of the global economy over four hectic days of meetings, seminars and parties in the exclusive ski resort. Winnie Byanyima, the Oxfam executive director who will attend the Davos meetings, said: "It is staggering that in the 21st Century, half of the world's population – that's three and a half billion people – own no more than a tiny elite whose numbers could all fit comfortably on a double-decker bus." Oxfam also argues that this is no accident either, saying growing inequality has been driven by a "power grab" by wealthy elites, who have co-opted the political process to rig the rules of the economic system in their favour. In the report, entitled Working For The Few (summary here), Oxfam warned that the fight against poverty cannot be won until wealth inequality has been tackled. "Widening inequality is creating a vicious circle where wealth and power are increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few, leaving the rest of us to fight over crumbs from the top table," Byanyima said. Oxfam called on attendees at this week's World Economic Forum to take a personal pledge to tackle the problem by refraining from dodging taxes or using their wealth to seek political favours. As well as being morally dubious, economic inequality can also exacerbate other social problems such as gender inequality, Oxfam warned. Davos itself is also struggling in this area, with the number of female delegates actually dropping from 17% in 2013 to 15% this year. Polling for Oxfam's report found people in countries around the world - including two-thirds of those questioned in Britain - believe that the rich have too much influence over the direction their country is heading. Byanyima explained: "In developed and developing countries alike we are increasingly living in a world where the lowest tax rates, the best health and education and the opportunity to influence are being given not just to the rich but also to their children. "Without a concerted effort to tackle inequality, the cascade of privilege and of disadvantage will continue down the generations. We will soon live in a world where equality of opportunity is just a dream. In too many countries economic growth already amounts to little more than a 'winner takes all' windfall for the richest." The Oxfam report found that over the past few decades, the rich have successfully wielded political influence to skew policies in their favour on issues ranging from financial deregulation, tax havens, anti-competitive business practices to lower tax rates on high incomes and cuts in public services for the majority. Since the late 1970s, tax rates for the richest have fallen in 29 out of 30 countries for which data are available, said the report. This "capture of opportunities" by the rich at the expense of the poor and middle classes has led to a situation where 70% of the world's population live in countries where inequality has increased since the 1980s and 1% of families own 46% of global wealth - almost £70tn. Opinion polls in Spain, Brazil, India, South Africa, the US, UK and Netherlands found that a majority in each country believe that wealthy people exert too much influence. Concern was strongest in Spain, followed by Brazil and India and least marked in the Netherlands. In the UK, some 67% agreed that "the rich have too much influence over where this country is headed" - 37% saying that they agreed "strongly" with the statement - against just 10% who disagreed, 2% of them strongly. The WEF's own Global Risks report recently identified widening income disparities as one of the biggest threats to the world community. Oxfam is calling on those gathered at WEF to pledge: to support progressive taxation and not dodge their own taxes; refrain from using their wealth to seek political favours that undermine the democratic will of their fellow citizens; make public all investments in companies and trusts for which they are the ultimate beneficial owners; challenge governments to use tax revenue to provide universal healthcare, education and social protection; demand a living wage in all companies they own or control; and challenge other members of the economic elite to join them in these pledges. • Research Now questioned 1,166 adults in the UK for Oxfam between October 1 and 14 2013. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach hosted a pretty interesting webcast about the markets on Tuesday afternoon. As he laid out his forecasts for 2014, he presented a ton of eye-opening charts including this one, which he says he looks at literally every morning. It compares the US dollar / emerging market currency exchange rate to the yield on the 10-year Treasury note. Gundlach noted that there was a remarkably tight correlation between the two measures with the currency cross acting as a slight leading indicator of the 10-year yield. And the 10-year yield is benchmark for basically the entire bond market. Given the recent movements in the currencies, Gundlach says this chart confirms his expectation that the 10-year yield is likely to move lower in the near-term. During his webcast, Gundlach said the 10-year yield could fall to as low as 2.5%. DoubleLine Funds FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA shopper rides an escalator past Nintendo advertisements at an electronics retail store in Tokyo January 20, 2014.TOKYO (Reuters) - Nintendo Co Ltd will likely be reluctant to make radical changes such as allowing its games to be played on rivals' devices as it grapples with poor sales of its flagship Wii U game console, which forced it to slash its outlook and sent its shares tumbling. Unlike rivals Microsoft Corp and Sony Corp, whose recently released XBox One and PlayStation 4 have seen strong sales, the creator of "Super Mario" has resisted pressure to open up game development to other firms. Nintendo relies on the popularity of its franchises, such as Mario and Zelda, to drive sales of its hardware. Some analysts say Nintendo is missing out, however, by not releasing a version of its games for smartphones or tablets, which now exceed 1 billion in use and account for a rising proportion of games played. But there are no signs that Nintendo, which plans to unveil a new management strategy on January 30 after releasing quarterly results, is likely to soften its stance. "I think the company needs to see more failure before anything more radical is considered," said David Gibson, senior research analyst of games at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo. "It's like a couple of wheels stuck in the mud. We all think they're heading for deeper mud but they're not convinced as such. They're going to try to change a little bit and move this way and that and do a new strategy." The company, which warned on Friday that it now expects its third successive year of operating losses after previously forecasting a profit of 100 billion yen ($960 million) for the year to end-March, promised changes. "It's right to question whether Nintendo should continue to use the same model of selling a console for 20,000 yen to 30,000 yen and games for several thousand yen each, and so if you ask if we are thinking about a new business structure, the answer is 'yes'," CEO Satoru Iwata told reporters in Osaka on Friday. But he dismissed the idea that the rise of games on smartphones and tablets would usher in the decline of game consoles. "It's not something as simple as the spread of smart devices meaning that game machines won't sell," he said. "If we offer something that is in line with the changes around us today, I think people will still need game machines." Iwata, who has long opposed relinquishing control over software, also said he would not be stepping down and there would be no management reshuffle. A more subtle change in gear could involve selling Wii U or 3DS games for as little as $1 or a free-to-play model, Macquarie's Gibson suggested, or creating a lower-priced handheld device to attract a younger audience. Iwata has long maintained that the value of Nintendo's games and consoles comes from their simultaneous in-house development and that allowing other companies to develop games or licensing their own to be played on other devices would affect their quality. "If we were going to provide Mario for other platforms and if Nintendo stops being the hardware manufacturer, then actually in terms of sales and profit, it might make sense for us in this fiscal year but Mario is going to lose its inherent value," he told media at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) last June. Analysts attributed weak Wii U sales to its lack of differentiation from its predecessor, Wii, which propelled Nintendo shares to a record high of 73,200 yen in November 2007. The stock has lost more than 80 percent since then. Nintendo shares closed down 6.2 pct on Monday, wiping off about $1.2 billion from its market capitalization, although this was a substantial recovery from the open when it fell 18.4 percent. Nintendo suppliers also came under pressure, with Hosiden Corp down 6.4 percent, MegaChips Corp off 4 percent and Mitsumi Electric Co Ltddown 4.3 percent. ($1 = 104.2700 Japanese yen) (Additional reporting by Dominic Lau and Yoshiyuki Osada; Editing by Ed Klamann and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/DenhamThere’s a clothing manufacturer in the Netherlands called Denham which specialises in jeans and jackets. And, as of a week ago, amazing viral marketing featuring beardy hipsters and bloody murder. American Psycho fans will immediately recognise the business card scene from Mary Harron’s cult classic film version starring Christian Bale. ‘Denham Psycho’ director Hugo Keijzer took some inspiration from that scene when he first heard Jason Deham talking about jeans. “I recognized the same manic attention to detail and ravenous appetite for craftsmanship,” he notes on his website. “This triggered the idea for a modern-day remake of the scene.” Keijzer teamed up with award-winning creative agency Flickering Wall and pitched the proposal to Denham, who noted that it “perfectly reflected the compulsive ‘otaku’ culture that tends to characterize the inner core of the denim scene”. We were confident it would make a brilliant parody of fashion in general and the recent ‘heritage’ trend in particular. Plus, it reminds us to keep having fun and not to take ourselves too seriously.” The ad was launched in Berlin at Denham’s ‘Blue Yard’ Pop-Up Store &amp; Cinema last week. It’s a bit graphic and definitely contains strong language:  Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
"Thank You For Smoking"Nick Naylor aka "The Sultan of Spin"Nicotine levels in cigarettes went up 15% between 1999 and 2011, according to a study published this week in the journal Nicotine and Tobacco Research. The data were collected from the annual report filed with Massachusetts Department of Public Health by four major manufacturers of cigarettes from 1997 to 2012. “Young people could have an easier time becoming addicted to cigarettes the first few times they do smoke,” lead author Thomas Land, director of the Office of Health Information Policy and Informatics at the State Health Department, told Deborah Kotz of The Boston Globe. From The Globe: Each day, 3800 American teens try their first cigarette and 1000 become hooked, according to a 2012 Surgeon General’s report. Those who are unable to quit as adults will die, on average, 13 years earlier than their peers.  This is not the first study to find rising nicotine levels in cigarettes. In 2007, a Harvard study found nicotine levels had gone up by nearly 11% between 1997 and 2005, the Globe noted. Industry executives disputed the findings and attributed the increase to agricultural and rainfall variations that led to more concentrated levels of nicotine in tobacco crops. But Land told The Globe that if that were the case, “we would have seen a similar trend of increased nicotine yield for all cigarette makers since they tend to buy their tobacco from the same regions. We did not.” The study concludes that nicotine levels "are controllable features of cigarettes, and should be monitored and regulated by government agencies." While federal law lets the FDA set new regulations to lower nicotine content, according to Kotz, he noted that the agency has not set new limits on the amount of nicotine allowed in each cigarette. FREE AppDownload
2.  At his press conference earlier this month, ECB President Draghi provided two general conditions for new action.  a worsening of the disinflation outlook and an unwarranted increase in money market rates.  There is little to add to the inflation picture over the past couple of weeks, but money market rates are elevated.  EONIA was above the 25 refi rate in the second half of last week.  Indicative prices suggest 3-month interbank lending rates have doubled over the past three months to 27 bp.   Pressure will mount on the ECB to act, but politically possible effective options are few and far between.   Banks will continue to pay down their LTRO borrowings and, while lending to to households appear to be stabilizing, lending to SMEs continues to fall.  3.  The BOJ is past the half way point toward reaching its 2.0% target (core inflation, which excludes fresh food prices).  The December report is due out from January 30.  The headline rate of 1.5% is just above the Germany's December rate.   Starting next month, the BOJ's QQE purchases will surpass Federal Reserve purchases.   The sales tax hike from 5% to 8% effective April 1 is the next key economic challenge and the BOJ appears more likely to react than to preempt.   The rally in global bonds appear to have helped cap JGB yields that had risen from 60 bp to 75 bp in December and settled just above 66 bp before the weekend.  4.  The Australian and Canadian dollars remain out of favor.  Poor employment data in Australia has seen a dramatic swing in the pendulum of market sentiment toward a rate cut. The lack of a surprise by the Q4 CPI report on January 21 will underscore the idea that the RBA has scope to cut rates.  The trimmed mean CPI remains well below the longer term averages (Q3 2.3%, 5- and 10-year averages 2.8% and 2.9% respectively).  A similar pattern can be seen in headline rate as well. A series of poor data and elevated official concerns about disinflation has spurred speculation of a rate cut by the Bank of Canada.  Yet action this week, at its Wednesday, January 22 meeting is a highly unlikely.  At most, a reduction in its inflation forecasts seems like the most that can be expected.  Given the record short speculative position in the futures market and the pace of the recent decline in the Canadian dollar, there seems be heightened risk of a "sell the rumor, buy the fact" short squeeze.  5.   European asset markets are outperforming here in early 2014.  Turning first to flows, we note that ETFs that invest in European equities have seen assets under management (AUM) increase by $1.4 bln in the first half of January.  Japan equity ETFs have also continued to report inflows.  The AUMs have increased by $1.3 bln.  The retreat from emerging markets equities has continued, with estimates of $4.2 bln leaving so far this year.  US equity ETFs have experienced $1.3 bln of outflows. Looking at some national bourse reports, Taiwan stands out.  It appears to be non-residents' favorite equity market in Asia, recording $1.06 bln of inflows already this year.   In contrast, South Korea, which was favored by foreign investor last year, has seen light profit-taking.   Interestingly, Japan also reports net foreign sales so far this year.  In terms of performance, Spain and Italy continue to stand out with 5.5% and 5.3% gains respectively among the large European bourses, but Greece continues to shine (9%) and Portugal is main index is up nearly 7.5%.  Of core European countries, Austria has begun  the best, gaining 6.8%.   The Dow  Jones Stoxx 600 is up 2.3% here in January, while the Nikkei is off 3.4% and the S&amp;P 500 is down 0.5%.  The MSCI Emerging Market Equity index is off a little more than 3%.  Lastly we note that like last year, small caps are generally out performing large caps.  6.  The major bond markets have begun the new year with advances, despite Fed tapering and amid generally constructive economic data.  The US benchmark 10-year yield is 10 bop lower than where it finished last year.  The UK's 10-year gilt yield is off 19 bp, while the benchmark bund yield is 17 bp lower.   Japanese bonds have lagged in the rally as they lagged in the sell-off.  The 10-year yield is 6 bp lower here in the first part of January.  Asset managers continue to see value in peripheral European bonds.  Italy's 10-year yield has fallen 222 bp this year; not bad, but Spain's 10-year yield is off 40 bp.  However, growing confidence that Portugal can exit its aid programs has seen its 10-year benchmark yield drop 70 bp this year. Ironically, Ireland, which was upgraded by Moodys, back into investment grade, has the only 10-year bond in the euro zone that has weakened this year.  The yield has risen a little more than 4 bp.  Turning to the short-end of coupon curve, the US and Japanese two-year yields are essentially flat so far this year, and Germany and the UK of 3-4 bp lower.  Spain and Italy continue to experience yield declines in absolute terms and relative to Germany.  Their two-year yields are 34 bp and 16 bp lower on the year. Portugal is also experiencing a bullish flattening, as its two-year yield is about 7 bp lower on the year.  7.  China is experiencing another squeeze in its money markets and this may ahead of the new year celebration at the month.  The 7-day repo rate surged before the weekend, nearing 9.8% before finishing near 8.47%, compared with 5.28% at the end of the previous week.  The Shanghai Composite is off 5.25%, given the dubious honor of being the worst performing Asian market.  In addition to Lunar New Year considerations, reports suggest a number of wealth management products are set to mature at the end of the month as well.  At the end of last week, new concerns about the China's shadow banking arose.  ICBC, the world's largest bank by asset values, took what appears to be an unprecedented step, announced it would not make investors whole who bought some of a CNY3 bln (~$500 mln) investment product it had distributed four years ago.  The investment product is set to mature at the end of January.  The product reportedly offered a 10% yield when the benchmark deposit rate was around 3%.  The regular practice by trust companies to make investors whole has created a moral hazard to which government officials are sensitive and looking for ways to rectify.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - After years of hiding under their desks, short sellers are re-emerging - slowly. Investors who make a living betting that stock prices will fall are happy to forget 2013: The S&amp;P 500 gained nearly 30 percent while Credit Suisse's index of hedge funds with a dedicated short bias lost 25 percent. Buying the most heavily shorted stocks was a much better bet than the S&amp;P 500: A list of top shorted stocks from SunGard's Astec Analytics beat the S&amp;P 500 by 26 percentage points on average last year. But with the Federal Reserve beginning to cut back on its bond buying - in a withdrawal of the stimulus that underpinned the rally - there's hope for short sellers in 2014. Jim Chanos, president and founder of Kynikos Associates and one of the most prominent short sellers, said the market is primed for people like him and as a result he has gone out to raise capital. "Now I think is not a bad time to be raising capital for what we do. When we got a rough going in the mid-90s, that was exactly the time to raise capital," Chanos said, adding it was better to do this when critics viewed him as "like the village idiot and not an evil genius." Already, there are signs 2014 may be different. Stocks haven't been rising as a herd in the way they did in 2013, and some of last year's high-profile winners are being re-examined. Electronics retailer Best Buy Co shares suffered their worst day in 11 years on Thursday, falling almost 30 percent after disappointing sales undermined the bullish thesis that helped the stock triple in 2013. It fell further on Friday. The 50-day rolling correlation between the S&amp;P 500 and its components peaked last year in May at 0.73, soon after Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke first broached winding down the stimulus. It dropped to 0.5 in October before bouncing back late in the year, but has since resumed its decline after the Fed announced cuts to its monthly bond buying, according to data from Bespoke Investment Group, a financial research firm based in Harrison, New York. Bill Fleckenstein, president at Fleckenstein Capital Inc in Seattle, a notable short-seller who closed his short fund around the time the market bottomed in 2009, said he was about to start the process of raising money for a new short fund. "We're about done with the document and I'll be marketing it officially very shortly, like within a week," he said. That's not to say he is brimming with confidence - not yet. "It's dangerous to be short still, but we might be building toward a moment - whether it's two weeks from now or 10 months from now I don't know, where the market becomes quite vulnerable," said Fleckenstein. Don Steinbrugge, chairman of Agecroft Partners, a global consulting and third party marketing firm for hedge funds, said "long/short" equity - a strategy betting both on and against stocks - will see the most demand among all hedge fund strategies this year. Long/short equity represented more than 40 percent of the hedge fund industry assets before 2008. The sector then experienced large outflows to other hedge fund strategies including commodity trading advisers (CTAs) and various fixed income-oriented strategies. Its market share of industry assets bottomed out at approximately 25 percent in the beginning of 2013. "Last year saw this trend reverse, and we expect very high demand for long/short equity in 2014," Steinbrugge said. In fact, 2013 saw record inflows to long/short funds of more than $20.5 billion, up from $5.7 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Morningstar. Neuberger Berman Group LLC is taking advantage of the environment. The New York-based investment firm recently launched its second mutual fund that employs external hedge fund managers to manage its assets. The Neuberger Berman Long Short Multi-Manager Fund will employ the "long/short" strategy. Long/short funds are slowly shifting toward the short side, though for now they're still aligned bullishly. Their long/short ratio sits at 55 percent, according to Credit Suisse, down modestly from the beginning of the year. They had built short positions late in 2013 and the ratio did fall to about 47 to 48 percent in mid-November, until the year-end rally caused hedge funds to cover those positions. In the last week, S&amp;P 500 companies that have seen the biggest increase in shares borrowed for short bets according to Markit include Borgwarner, BB&amp;T Corp, and Best Buy, all of which recently touched 52-week highs. Internet retailers TripAdvisor Inc and Expedia Inc, big winners in 2013, have seen an uptick in interest as well. "There's growing interest on (shorting) a number of stocks, concentrated in areas that did well last year," said Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. In 2013, just one of Astec Analytics' 10 most shorted stocks of the year made it to Markit's list of top 20 performing North American shorts - department store group J.C. Penney. Still, going short Penney, whose sales collapsed after bad missteps by management, was enough for some. Suvretta Capital Management, founded by a former portfolio manager for top investors George Soros and Steven A. Cohen, told clients this week its bet against Penney shares helped contribute to solid returns for its long/short strategy in the last two years. "On the short side, we have now generated profits three times (generating a total return of approximately 130 percent) in the past two years with our J.C. Penney positions," Suvretta Chief Investment Officer Aaron Cowensaid in a client letter obtained by Reuters. Ariad Pharma and Aveo Pharma, down 64 percent and 77 percent last year, respectively, were also among the few bets that worked for short sellers in 2013. Some see more opportunities in the sector. "Biotech is in full bubble mode, meaning companies that have no prospects of a drug continue to grind higher," said John Hempton, chief investment officer and founder of Bronte Capital, a Sydney, Australia-based asset management firm that often takes short positions. Short sellers say they believe bulls may be getting too confident. The S&amp;P 500's forward price-to-earnings ratio is at its highest since mid-2007. Goldman Sachs, in a recent note, expressed concern that investors expect P/E multiples to continue to expand to a level that would match the 1997-2000 technology bubble. "Short selling over the last two years has been a hedge against profits," said Douglas Kass of hedge fundSeabreeze Partners Management Inc. But he said recent disappointments from companies as varied as Ford, Intel, and Elizabeth Arden are signs that the "tide might be turning." (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos and Sam Forgione; Editing by David Gaffen, Jennifer Ablan, Martin Howell and Sophie Hares) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrian MylneFishermen in wetsuits hunt dolphins at a cove in Taiji, western Japan, January 20, 2014. In an unusual move, U.S. ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy has expressed deep concern over the traditional dolphin hunt in western Japan, where local fisherman corral dolphins in a secluded bay before killing many for meat. The annual dolphin hunt currently underway in Taiji in western Japan has long been a source of controversy and was the topic of "The Cove," an Oscar-winning documentary.TOKYO (Reuters) - In an unusual move, U.S. ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy has expressed deep concern over the traditional dolphin hunt in western Japan, where local fisherman corral dolphins in a secluded bay before killing many for meat. The annual dolphin hunt currently underway in Taiji in western Japan has long been a source of controversy and was the topic of "The Cove," an Oscar-winning documentary. "(I am) deeply concerned by inhumanness of drive hunt dolphin killing," Kennedy tweeted at the weekend, adding that the U.S. government opposes drive hunt fishing. Every year the fishermen of Taiji - a small fishing town in Japan's Wakayama prefecture - drive hundreds of dolphins into a cove, select some for sale to marine parks, release some back into the sea and kill the rest for meat. Sea Shepherd, one of several animal protection groups that monitor fishermen in Taiji, said on Monday that more than 200 dolphins have been rounded up into the secluded bay by the shore off Taiji. The organization is streaming live footage of Taiji's cove, showing fishermen on several fishing boats rounding up the dolphins inside the bay. The dolphins are cordoned off by large fishing nets. Taiji shot to global infamy after the 2009 release of "The Cove," which was directed by former National Geographic photographer Louis Psihoyos. The film followed eco-activists who struggle with Japanese police and fishermen to gain access to the location of the hunt. The movie met with fierce opposition in Japan from groups saying it was "anti-Japanese" and an affront to traditional culture. Japan has long maintained that killing dolphins is not banned under any international treaty and that the animals are not endangered, adding that dolphins need to be culled to protect fishing grounds. (Reporting by Antoni Slodkowski; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakA woman looks at beer produced by South Korea's second-largest brewer Oriental Brewery at a liquor shop in Seoul.HONG KONG (Reuters) - Anheuser-Busch InBev SA, the world's largest brewer, has agreed to buy South Korea's Oriental Brewery Co Ltd from KKR &amp; Co and Affinity Equity Partners for $5.8 billion including debt, regaining ownership of a key Asian asset at a time of strong growth in the industry across the region. The deal, Asia's biggest ever private equity sale through an acquisition, comes one week after Japan's Suntory Holdings agreed to buy Beam Inc for $13.6 billion, with the transactions underscoring rapid consolidation in the global liquor industry. Carlsberg, Heineken NV and SABMiller Plc have also struck deals in Asia over the past five years, lured by the region's $258 billion market that is growing twice as fast as the rest of the world. Leaven, Belgium-based AB InBev sold Oriental Brewery in 2009 for $1.8 billion to KKR, as part of its efforts to ease the debt burden incurred in the $52 billion acquisition of U.S. beer maker Anheuser-Busch by InBev a year earlier. KKR agreed to pay around $800 million in cash for OB and the rest in debt, later splitting the cash portion with Affinity roughly in half. "OB will strengthen our position in the fast-growing Asia Pacific region and will become a significant contributor to our Asia Pacific zone," Carlos Brito, Chief Executive Officer of AB InBev said in a statement. AB InBev has a relatively small presence in Asia Pacific, with the region accounting for 14.3 percent of the 403 million hectoliters of beer it sold and 2.5 percent of its $15.5 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) in 2012. KKR and Affinity's sale of Oriental Brewery represents a multiple of over five times the cash they paid, according to a source with knowledge of the matter, a huge return for a deal of this size, rewarding the firms with hundreds of millions of dollars in net profit. AB InBev, which sells brands including Stella Artois and Bud Light, retained an option to buy back OB, as the South Korean biggest brewer is known, within five years from the date of the 2009 sale. For the buyout firms, it was a high risk deal less than a year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers when there was no clarity on how long the global recession would last. Under its private equity owners, OB cut costs, increased cash flow and gained market share to become South Korea's biggest brewer. At the end of 2013, OB had an estimated $500 million in EBITDA, a core measure of cash flow, the statement added. AB InBev was keen to reach an agreement well before the fifth anniversary of the initial deal as it had feared rival suitors to be interested in OB, which along with Hite Jinro controls 90 percent of South Korea's beer market. It has also been keen on South and Central American growth and last year it acquired its remaining shares of Mexico's Modelo Grupo for $20.1 billion. Rapid growth in Asia's beer market has drawn global brewers seeking to offset sluggish sales in mature markets and as a result, beer-related M&amp;A in Asia has commanded rich premiums. Heineken NV paid $6.4 billion for control of Tiger beer maker Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd in 2012, translating into a multiple of 35 times earnings. (Reporting by Stephen Aldred and Denny Thomas; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty and Joyce Lee and Phil Blenkinsop; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiDeutsche Bank logos in Tokyo, Japan.FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; shares fell 5 percent on Monday after it posted a surprise pre-tax loss of 1.15 billion euros ($1.6 billion) for the fourth quarter and warned that 2014 would be another year of challenges and reform. Germany's biggest bank said revenue at its strategically important debt-trading division, one of the bank's top money-makers, fell 31 percent in the quarter, dragging down overall revenue from investment banking. Heavy costs for litigation and restructuring also hit its performance, as well as one-off accounting charges. The bank released its quarterly figures ahead of schedule on Sunday night. Deutsche Bank shares pared losses after the open to trade down 4.4 percent, compared to a decline of 0.9 percent by an index of its peers &lt;.SX7P&gt;. The unexpected loss is likely to compound problems that have dogged the bank over the past year, which include a lengthening list of lawsuits and regulatory clashes, and to redouble pressure on co-chief executives Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen to prove a turnaround plan is on track. "This is anything but good news. You've got the high provisions for the never-ending legal problems," said a Frankfurt-based trader. "Deutsche Bank is having a hard time convincing investors about their attempted cultural change."  The bank posted full-year pre-tax profit of 2.1 billion euros, half of the 4.21 billion euros expected by analysts in a poll by I/B/E/S. Litigation alone cost the bank 528 million euros in the quarter, bringing the year's bill for fines and settlements to 2.5 billion euros and lowering its litigation reserves to 2.3 billion euros at year-end from a previous 4.1 billion. Analysts had been overwhelmingly positive about Deutsche heading into Sunday night's profit warning, with 23 of the 36 covering the stock rating it a "strong buy" or "buy" and another seven rating it a "hold," according to data from Thomson Reuters' Eikon. Some retained their optimism on Monday morning. Analysts at JPMorgan said management deserved credit for cutting balance sheet exposure and settling some outstanding litigation. JPMorgan has Deutsche Bank rated "overweight". "Overall, we believe Q4 results show that DB is still in restructuring mode but management has delivered on our wish-list of aggressive exposure reduction, bringing forward of cost savings and settlement of some litigation," JPMorgan said in a note. Citi's Kinner Lakhani told clients that even though Deutsche's story was "two steps forward, one step back" the shares still offered significant upside potential for patient investors. Before Monday, Deutsche Bank shares had rallied 13 percent so far in 2014, the same as the wider Dow Jones index of European banking stocks &lt;.SX7P&gt;. ($1 = 0.7376 euros) (Reporting by Thomas Atkins; additional reporting by Laura Noonan; editing by Jonathan Gould and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Nir EliasA worker waits for customers inside a dumpling store in downtown Shanghai.BEIJING (Reuters) - A Chinese court sentenced a man to life in prison on Monday for poisoning frozen dumplings more than six years ago at the plant where he worked, making ill four Chinese and nine Japanese consumers and further straining ties between the two countries. The court in the northern city of Shijiazhuang found Lu Yueting, 39, guilty of adding dangerous substances to food, the official Xinhua news agency reported. Lu, who worked at the Tianyang Food Plant, hoped he could "attract the attention of his managers in order to boost his salary" by injecting insecticide into the frozen dumplings with syringes, Xinhua reported, based on court proceedings. He sneaked into the factory's refrigerated storehouse three times between October and December 2007 to carry out the deed. After reports of the poisoning surfaced, Chinese security and quality watchdogs initially blamed Japanese "sabotage" for contaminating the dumplings. The sentence coincides with worsening ties between Asia's two largest economies. Tensions have focused on a row over a group of islands in the East China Sea claimed by both countries as well as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's visit last month to a controversial shrine for war dead. Chinese police detained Lu in March 2010, Xinhua reported. Lu confessed to the crime during his July 2013 trial, saying he felt sorry for the people he had made ill. Food safety scandals, from chemical-laced dairy products to recycled "gutter oil" used in cooking, have plagued Chinese companies and weighed on consumer confidence in China and abroad. The verdict was delivered with officials from the Japanese embassy in Beijing in attendance, Xinhua reported. (Reporting By Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Ron Popeski) FREE AppDownload
