Thomson ReutersFile picture of a woman walking past a Li Ning sportswear store in HuaibeiBy Donny Kwok HONG KONG (Reuters) - In 2010, former Chinese gymnast Li Ning led a surging $4 billion sportswear business, a gold-medal pinnacle echoing his victories at the 1984 Olympic Games. Now, the Li Ning  business is more reminiscent of the ex-sportsman's exit from the 1988 Olympics without a podium finish. As customers have turned to aspirational global brands like Nike Inc  or cheaper local firms, Li Ning has racked up heavy losses, losing four-fifths of its market value. The company has long pinned a turnaround plan on targeting trendy, fast-growing areas of sport in China, like basketball, hoping to attract younger consumers with a mid-range pricing strategy. But company watchers fear what Li Ning sees as the middle ground could turn out to be a no-man's land, while still-loyal older customers may be turned off by the focus on youth goods. "They tried to go younger, but in the course of doing that they lost a lot of those aged over 30 who were traditionally a more loyal customer base," said James Roy, senior analyst at China Market Research Group in Shanghai. Equally, many younger customers have yet to buy into the strategy. "It seems like (Li Ning) products are targeted mostly at students aged 13 or 14," Ding Jianan, a 22-year-old student, told Reuters in China's commercial capital Shanghai. "I can afford higher-priced items from Western brands, which offer better quality. In college, people like to compare each other's outfits so the peer pressure will push us to buy Nike or Adidas ." Li Ning, backed by private equity powerhouse TPG Capital [TPG.UL] and Singapore wealth fund GIC [GIC.UL], last month reported a first-half net loss of nearly $100 million, more than three times that of the corresponding period a year earlier. It said at the time its recovery could take up to two more years as it invests hundreds of millions of dollars in promotion and advertising. The company declined to comment for this article. "It's hard to say if their direction (of transformation) is right or not when the loss is getting bigger and bigger," said Steve Chow, analyst at Sunwah Kingsway Group Research.  ADVERTISING BLITZ Li Ning's efforts to recapture its glory days by appealing to a younger generation have been evident in its product design and high-profile marketing campaigns using Western sports stars. Bright colours, including hot-pink basketball shoes that retail for $289 a pair and loud green polka-dot trainers, have increasingly replaced the classic red and white look favoured by Li Ning himself that resonated with the company's traditional market in its heyday. Li Ning, who is now executive chairman, declined to comment. In that price range, Li Ning is positioning itself above local competitors such as ANTA Sports  and Peak Sport , but slightly below foreign rivals Nike and Adidas. It's a strategy that has yet to bear fruit. The company's declining fortunes provide a stark contrast to the positive results from home-grown rivals as China's sportswear industry shows solid signs of recovery following an expansion blitz after the 2008 Beijing Olympics led to bloated inventories. Li Ning's push to revive the brand has seen a multi-million dollar marketing drive that included signing up NBA basketball superstar Dwayne Wade. The company's promotion and advertising expenses accounted for 19.4 percent of its 3.14 billion yuan ($511 million) revenue in the first half of 2014, compared with 10.8 percent at ANTA. Even as Li Ning invests to try to build the brand, the company still faces inventory issues that can effect its reputation, said James Button, a director at Shanghai-based consultancy SmithStreet. "They're trying to say they're a high-quality brand and are at the same level as foreign players, but at the same time it is very visible that they're dumping inventory at very low prices," he said. The company has said it is prepared to take the time it needs to achieve its goal of making Li Ning the only brand that represents the "Chinese Dream" - the ideal of individual success in the country's society - across all categories of sportswear. "I think Li Ning is so tied in with the Chinese Dream ... it's more a part of national positioning than it is sports positioning," Button said.  (Additional reporting by Shanghai Newsroom; Writing by Anne Marie Roantree; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
You'll be surprised to find that these icons of American pop culture have one thing in common -- a Canadian passport. Watch and learn. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
Thomson ReutersFrench President Francois Hollande speaks with European Central Bank President Mario Draghi at the Elysee Palace in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande and European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi agreed on Monday that deflation and weak growth were threatening the European Union's economy, an official in the president's office said. Draghi called last week for greater emphasis on fiscal stimulus over austerity - comments that irritated German leaders but were welcomed in France because they hinted at a shift away from a current emphasis on budgetary austerity. "I think the diagnosis is a shared one," an advisor to Hollande told reporters after an hour-long meeting between the Socialist president and Draghi at the Elysee presidential palace. The two men shared the view that weak growth and a threat of deflation in the European Union were problems that needed to be addressed, the advisor added. "We need to work together on demand in Europe," he said. France has been singled out as a laggard in an otherwise tepid European recovery due to its weak growth rate, record-high unemployment rate and repeated delays in bringing its public deficit below EU targets. Hollande told Draghi that France - which has already been granted two reprieves by the European Commission on its deficit-reduction targets - would respect commitments to keep enacting structural reforms and bringing down the deficit. "There are rules to follow, and France will respect them," the advisor said. "This will to raise the growth potential with structural reforms is enormously appreciated."     (Reporting By Julien Ponthus; Writing by Nicholas Vinocur) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSAE at Dartmouth.Excerpted from "Confessions of An Ivy League Frat Boy" by Andrew Lohse. Copyright © 2014 by Andrew Lohse and reprinted by permission of Thomas Dunne Books.  Andrew Lohse pledged Sigma Alpha Epsilon at Dartmouth College and later went public with allegations of hazing within the fraternity. The following passage is his account of a night early on during his time as a pledge. Later on in the novel, Lohse writes of date rape, drugs, and being forced to swim through a swimming pool filled with human waste. “There are three things you have to remember,” he said. I nodded, unsure if I was supposed to speak. The other brothers stared me down. I didn’t want to look up and recognize them, because I didn’t want to remember later who was there or that this strange thing was happening. No one spoke except Goodrich. “Number one. Always trust the brotherhood.”  “Always trust the brotherhood,” I repeated. “Good. Take a shot.” I reached for the first glass. My hand shook. Cheap gin. It was warm. My throat burned—my lips puckered and I almost dropped the shot glass trying to set it back down on the table. Innumerable eyes trained on me, wreaking a havoc of anxiety on me from my peripheral vision. Confessions Of An Ivy League Frat Boy“Number two. Always trust your pledge brothers.” I repeated Goodrich’s injunction and drank the second shot, this time gagging more than I did on the first. I couldn’t tell if it was salt water, spit, urine, or some mix of all three. By this time I was already drunk and tired and my stomach was beginning to send urgent messages to my brain. Sadly, these messages went missing between depressed nerve endings somewhere in my spinal cord, and the warning diffused, beaten into submission by my desire not to disappoint the bros. Onward, my willpower demanded. Always trust the brotherhood. You heard the dude. “Number three. What happens in the house stays in the house.” “What happens in the house stays in the house,” I muttered, reaching for the third shot. Before I could touch it, Goodrich grabbed my wrist and I accidentally stared into his eyes, then quickly averted my glance. He released his grip. For some reason I looked down, expecting to see a mark, but there was no mark. Then it was time for the twist. “Now, whales--t, what were the three things I just told you to remember?” The three things that were, f---, like, impossible to recall in order, even though I’d learned them only seconds before. Goodrich stared me down over the flickering candle. He had eyes like a mad Puritan minister. The brothers on the risers leaned toward me in unison, staring. They were expecting something, I realized. I had to say something. How was I supposed to remember? Who can even remember these things? “Always trust—the house—” I stammered. “No!” Just like everyone else before me, I’d f---- it up. The instructions were so easy, but I’d f---ed them up. I felt devastated. Davis opened the door, frowning, and led me back through the dim hallway to the Libes, forced a copy of The Phoenix back into my hands. “Sit back down on the floor and study, whales---,” he said. “You clearly have progress to make.”  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCity lights, gas flares, auroras, wildfires, and reflected moonlight across America.We remain convinced that the best way to explain anything is through maps. They combine the frenzy over data with an instantly recognizable visualization for how all that data fits.  With that in mind, we've put together a new edition of the 27 maps that explain America. You'll find pretty much everything in here: eating and drinking habits, pet ownership, ethnicity, language, and more. Check it out. FREE AppDownload
Here are 7 proven methods you can use to talk your way into an even cheaper gym membership. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Adam FensterChief Operating Officer of Wellsboro & Corning Railroad Bill Myles shows a sample of the high grade sand his company transloads from railcars for energy companies drilling natural gas wells, in Wellsboro, Pennsylvania April 3, 2010. American oil and gas companies are running out of sand.  In a new note, Morgan Stanley's Ole Slorer, Benjamin Swomley, and Connor Lynagh write that exploration and production (E&amp;P) companies have discovered that if they use more sand when they frack unconventional shale plays, they are able to increase the amount of reserves they can extract from the ground. The sand helps prop open the rock, allowing the hydrocarbons to flow more freely.  MS forecasts sand demand growth 0f 96% in 2016 from 2013, compared with just 76% of sand capacity growth. Here's the chart: Morgan Stanley "As E&amp;P operators seek to optimize well results, they are using significantly more frac sand per well and experimenting with different types of proppants," they write. "In particular, the trend toward higher frac sand volume completions has accelerated frac sand demand YTD, and we believe the industry now sits on the verge of a prolonged frac sand supply shortage."     Right now, the country's top 10 sand users pump approximately two times more sand than other operators on average, and three- to four times more sand in their leading edge wells, they say. But that gap is likely to close as larger but slower-moving drillers realize the efficiencies that can be gained from higher sand volumes. "We believe the industry is beginning to form a consensus regarding the superior economics of high sand usage, and believe we will see continued movement towards these operators’ consumptions levels," MS says. "For example, SM Energy recently highlighted its improved completion techniques in its 2Q earnings call. These new techniques, which, among other modifications, included longer [well holes] (+3%) and higher sand usage per well (+86%). SM reported that average well [rate of return] increase 40% as a result." The market will further be constrained by the lack of rail available to transport sand from places like Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Pennsylvania; and by potentially longer lead times as local opposition mounts to opening new mines.  "Sand could become stranded thousands of miles away from O&amp;G basins," they write. Sand prices could increase as much as 50%, though what that means for crude contract prices isn't discussed directly — MS says well costs could increase by 20% on average, but that estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) could increase by 40-60%. They do suggest oil and gas companies' profitability per ton of sand used will likely increase thanks to the aforementioned output gains. And they are raising their price target for U.S. Silica Holdings to $80 from $59, with a 17.2x price-to-earnings ratio.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoThe United Kingdom will push the European Union this weekend to consider the most punitive sanctions yet against Russia for its involvement in escalating the crisis in Ukraine. According to Bloomberg, the U.K. plans to propose blocking Russia from the SWIFT banking transaction system, a move analysts say would effectively cut off Russian businesses from the rest of the world's financial system. U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron will put forward the proposal during a meeting with E.U. leaders in Brussels on Saturday. "This would be a major escalation of the sanctions. Most international payments flow through SWIFT. Banning Russian banks and companies from SWIFT would effectively cut off Russian businesses from the rest of world," said Bruce Johnston, a London-based analyst at Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius.  "It would also have a major impact on European businesses who need to paid by Russians, and want to consume Russian energy." The move would have a significant effect on Russia's banking sector, as many financial institutions across the world use the system. According to SWIFT's website, it transmitted more than 21 million financial messages per day in July. It helped process payments among more than 10,500 financial institutions and corporations across 215 different countries. Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, compared the potential move to one leveled on Iranian institutions in 2012. "SWIFT is the electronic bloodstream of the global financial system," he told Business Insider in an email. "Cancelling Putin's credit card could have far reaching consequences for the Russian economy as Iran discovered when scores of its financial institutions were expelled from SWIFT in 2012." ReutersDavid Cameron will propose blocking Russia from the SWIFT network.The U.S. and E.U. have imposed multiple rounds of sanctions on Russia over the conflict in Ukraine. Most recently last month, they leveled targeted sanctions on Russia's energy, arms, and finance sectors. But so far, the sanctions have not changed the calculus of Russia or President Vladimir Putin. This week, the conflict has sharply escalated, as Ukraine, NATO, and the West said Russia sent troops across the border to fight with pro-Russian separatist rebels in eastern regions of the country.  This week, the rebels have opened a new front in the cities of Amvrosiivka and Starobeshevo. One fear is that Russia is attempting to create a land link between Russia and the strategic peninsula of Crimea, which Russia annexed with special forces troops in March. Poroshenko said Russian troops are leading a separatist counteroffensive in the east, bringing in tanks and firing artillery from inside Ukrainian territory. President Barack Obama and European leaders have agreed on the need for new "costs" in the wake of the latest escalation, but officials in both areas are questioning the legitimacy of the strategy. In the U.S., multiple Republican lawmakers have called on Obama to provide military assistance to Ukraine, saying a political resolution to the conflict is not possible if Russia continues to pursue its goals through military means. In Europe, geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group told Business Insider he expected there to be high-profile breaks among leaders on the sanctions strategy. "It's hard to see the west holding off for much longer in not calling Russian forces an invasion. That leads to more 'level 3' (sector wide) sanctions on Russia, yes, but we'll now see a real fragmentation of European leaders publicly calling the policy a failure and looking to break from further coordination," Bremmer said. "After all, many Europeans have been deeply skeptical of Russian sanctions from the beginning, and to the extent that the purpose of sanctions was to prevent an invasion. That's clearly failed."Senior Obama administration officials declined to comment about possible new sanctions on Russia during a conference call with reporters Friday about new sanctions leveled on individuals and businesses in relation to Iran's nuclear program. An administration official did not immediately respond to a subsequent request for comment. Ukraine National Security and Defense CouncilThe situation in eastern Ukraine on Friday, Aug. 29. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueHappy Labor Day! This weekend’s must-read is quite apropos of today’s holiday. ‘Profits Without Prosperity’, an incredible article at the Harvard Business Review, shows exactly how corporate share buybacks have gotten out of control in the last decade. It then goes on to point out the various ways in which buybacks-gone-wild are killing the capital formation process in America, holding back the investments needed to keep us competitive and decimating the middle class workforce that actually built this country. The evidence is presented by William Lazonick, professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, and one of the nation’s foremost experts on corporate buyback activity. Having studied the subject for some three decades, Lazonick concludes that an SEC rule rewrite in the early 1980's meant to drive Value Creation has instead ushered in an era of Value Extraction – wherein an increasingly smaller group of corporate executives and hedge fund managers reap an increasingly larger share of the productivity benefits of the economy. For example, buybacks and dividends – which serve to drive compensation higher, enriching shareholders while diverting resources away from investment and innovation – accounted for over 75 percent of net income for long-time S&amp;P 500 member companies last year. Contrast that with the retain-and-reinvest model that the economy ran on from the end of World War II to the end of the 1970's, in which corporations were much less preoccupied with “maximizing shareholder value” and padding CEO salaries. The chart below illustrates this point starkly: Since the early 1980s, when restrictions on open-market buybacks were greatly eased, distributions to shareholders have absorbed a huge portion of net income, leaving much less for reinvestment in companies. (Note: Data are for the 251 companies that were in the S&amp;P 500 Index in January 2013 and were publicly listed from 1981 through 2012. If the companies that went public after 1981, such as Microsoft, Cisco, Amgen, Oracle, and Dell, were included, repurchases as a percentage of net income would be even higher.) Reformed Broker Josh here – No one is denying that stock prices haven’t gone up as a result of this trend. The claim, however, is that much more value has been extracted as a result of this than has been created for the real economy and other stakeholders – like taxpayers, employees and society at large. You may not agree with all of Lazonick’s points or his prescriptions for a better way forward, but I guarantee this piece will change the way you think about how markets are currently working and whom they’re actually working for. Find the time to read it this weekend (free registration may be required, just do it): Profits Without Prosperity (Harvard Business Review) FREE AppDownload
Ananta Bhadra LamichhaneRussia has banned Western fruit imports.Last month, we showed how Russian citizens had taken to social media to denounce their government's decision to bad food imports in response to Western economic sanctions. Those complaints do not appear to have been misplaced: Deutsche Welle is now reporting that food prices have skyrocketed in Russia's import-dependent far east, and that the rest of the country will soon follow. In Primorsky, a territory near China, meat prices have climbed 26%, while fish prices soared 40%. Chicken legs on Sakhalin Island, north of Japan, skyrocketed by 60%. "...Remote regions like Sakhalin are completely dependent on imports due to the lack of local suppliers and harsh weather conditions which make growing their own crops impossible," DW's Irina Filatova writes. "Analysts estimate the share of groceries in the consumer basket used to track inflation at about 37%. The ban on food imports is expected to fuel annual inflation by the end of the year in what will be a serious blow to Russia's economy, which is already balancing on the edge of recession." Experts are now saying Russia will hit its 8% food inflation ceiling by the end of 2015, well above the inflation target of 4.5% set by Russia's Central Bank for next year, Filatova says. The country has seen at least two-consecutive weeks of 0.1% consumer price increases, Filatova says. Meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, nuts and dairy products were banned from the U.S., E.U., Norway, Canada and Australia. The ban appears poised to have some perverse impacts in other countries. Russia is now calling on Switzerland, which which not subject to its countermeasures, to meet its dairy needs, the BBC recently reported. Switzerland has strong economic ties with Russia, and it's begun debating whether to risk the ire of its Western partners to allow its cheesemongers to meet Russian demand. "We join the sanctions and tomorrow I tell five employees in my company that I don't have any more a job for them because we don't sell to Russia?" one Swiss producer said. "I don't want this situation for my company or for Switzerland."  Meanwhile, Finnish grocery shoppers have begun rushing supermarkets to take advantage of rock-bottom food prices that have resulted from goods not being able to head to their Eastern neighbor.  "Branches of City Market and Prisma in South Karelia have described scenes akin to 'panic buying' as Finnish consumers snap up the cut-price milk, yoghurts and cheese," YLE reports. "Increased numbers of Russian shoppers have also been reported in supermarkets in eastern Finland, although there are currently no signs of the predicted cross-border exodus of Russians in search of their favourite Finnish dairy products." FREE AppDownload
ReutersIn honor of Labor Day, which was signed into law as a national holiday in 1894, I'd like to share some graphical snapshots of a major change in our nation's workforce over the decades. The Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics has monthly data on employment by industry categories reaching back to 1939. The first chart below is an overlay of the compete series of employment numbers for the two major categories, manufacturing and services industries. When I say major, I'm referring to the complete domination of the labor market by these two industries -- anywhere between 91.3% to 95.3% of total nonfarm employment. In 1939 service industries employed more people than manufacturing by a ratio of 2.1-to-1.0. But that ratio was soon to change. For a clearer picture of the relative growth of manufacturing and services, the next chart illustrates just that: The cumulative growth of the two series, along with total nonfarm employment.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the same data adjusted for population growth, I've used the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Civilian Labor Force as the "deflator", hence the 1948 start date, which was when the Civilian Labor Force 16 and Older began being tracked in the monthly Household Survey.  Click for a larger image During WWII, manufacturing employment rose dramatically, but it began returning to its pre-war pattern after the war ended. Thereafter, manufacturing employment has had a complex history with a peak in the late 1970s and a secular decline thereafter. Here are some observations about manufacturing and services over the past seven plus decades: I'll close with a curious overlay of the population-adjusted growth of the services industries since 1948 and the S&amp;P Composite (the S&amp;P 500 with a few years of the S&amp;P 90 spliced at the front end). The correlation is quite remarkable.  Click for a larger image Happy Labor Day to all! FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotIf you're considering going to Wall Street, you should really know what you're getting into. Yes, you will get paid better than average people all over the world. Yes, you will get to learn new things constantly, and yes, you will be involved in important transactions (well, hopefully) and meet interesting clients. However, there is a downside, and it's generally all in your head. A Wall Street veteran, who will remain anonymous, gave us a laundry list of ways working on the Street can actually ruin your life. Wall Streeters have to deal with a distorted sense of money, questions about self-worth, arrested development and most importantly, the fact that they never ever have enough time. They can try and pay for it, but that only gets you so much. The point is — you better love finance if you're getting into this business, because it's going to take over your life. FREE AppDownload
Since 2009, natural gas production out of the Pennsylvania-centered Marcellus shale play has soared 650%. Today, daily new-well gas output from the region totals 7.5 million cubic feet — making it the largest or second-largest unconventional gas play in the world, depending on who's counting.   A new report argues the Marcellus has only just begun to boom, though.  Wood MacKenzie, an energy consultancy, forecasts that there remains up to $90 billion-worth of recoverable gas reserves in the play. The agency raised its estimate of 2020 output to 20 billion cubic feet equivalent per day from 14 billion bcfed, and that the Marcellus will soon account for nearly 25% of total U.S. shale gas supply. "Although rig counts have fallen across the Marcellus since early 2012, we can see that improved efficiency and a renewed focus on the play's core sub-plays have led to on-going growth," they say. Last year, recovery rates, or the amount of gas extracted from a given well, increased 10% thanks to improving horizontal drilling.  Wood MacKenzie's data is borne out by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which just raised its short-term energy outlook for total marketed natural gas production in 2014 by 0.8 billion cubic feet per day to 73.9 Bcf/d thanks to output increases out of Marcellus states and Texas. This EIA chart further illustrates it's taking fewer drilling rigs to yield more hydrocarbons. EIA This will mean energy prices will remain subdued, the agency says. "Rapid natural gas production growth in the Marcellus formation has contributed to low natural gas forward prices in the Northeast, and as a result new infrastructure has been proposed to take gas to other market regions," they write. "In June, the eastward-flowing Rockies Express Pipeline (REX) began service on its Seneca Lateral, which will take Marcellus gas westward to the Midwest. REX's parent company, Tallgrass Energy, plans to add bidirectional capability on a significant portion of REX's easternmost segment." Here's the EIA's overall natural gas production forecast: EIA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakStephen RoachThe world economy is growing, but not by much. "Collectively, the annual growth rate in the major developed economies averaged a little less than 0.7% in the first half of 2014," write economist Stephen Roach in a new piece for Project Syndicate. "America’s paltry 1% growth led the way, while Japan and Europe, whose combined GDP is roughly equal to that of the US in purchasing-power-parity terms, recorded no better than a 0.3% increase." Sure, any amount of growth is better than no growth. However, we're certainly more vulnerable than we could be. Here's Roach (emphasis added): But there is another problem with persistently subpar growth: It provides no cushion to shield economies from unexpected blows. That is especially true when growth falls below 1%, leaving a thin margin between expansion and contraction. Such sluggish performance is the economic equivalent of “stall speed” – the heightened vulnerability that aircrafts can encounter at low velocity. Under such circumstances, it does not take much to lead to an aborted takeoff, or worse. The analogy is all too apt today. Shocks, whether traceable to weather, geopolitical disturbances, strikes, or natural disasters, are the rule, not the exception. When hit by them, vigorously growing economies have cushions to withstand the blows and the resilience to shrug them off. Economies limping along near stall speed do not. The odds of a recessionary relapse in an environment of unusually weak growth – very much the problem today – should not be minimized. Roach isn't the only veteran economist sounding this warning. "We are running out of buffer in the economy," former Fed Chair Alan Greenspan said in July in reference to the U.S. economy. "We don't have the capability should, for example, we run into a major conflict in the Middle East or elsewhere where it requires a major increase in our defense budget. Our defense budget is heading in a direction where in a couple, two or three years it will be at the lowest level relative to GDP since before World War II. We don't have the physical resources to respond." A wider margin of safety would certainly bring more comfort. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRussian President Vladimir Putin talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel as they attend the International 70th D-Day Commemoration Ceremony in Ouistreham June 6, 2014.BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Europeans could be barred from buying new Russian government bonds under a package of extra sanctions over Moscow's military role in Ukraine that European Union ambassadors were to start discussing on Monday, three EU sources said. EU leaders decided at a summit on Saturday that the direct engagement of Russian troops in the war in eastern and southern Ukraine - still denied by Moscow - called for a stepping up of sanctions imposed so far unless Russia pulled its soldiers back. German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who led the drive for a tougher EU response, said on Monday that Moscow's behavior in Ukraine must not go unanswered, even if sanctions hurt the German economy, heavily dependent on imported Russian gas. "I have said that (sanctions) can have an impact, also for German companies," Merkel told a news conference in Berlin. "But I have to say there is also an impact when you are allowed to move borders in Europe and attack other countries with your troops," she said. "Accepting Russia's behavior is not an option. And therefore it was necessary to prepare further sanctions." The leaders asked the executive European Commission to prepare further measures within a week, building on steps taken at the end of July, which targeted the energy, banking and defense sectors. "I'm hearing that a ban on buying Russian government bonds could be in the next package," an EU official familiar with the preparations said. Tighter restrictions on dual use technologies with military as well as civilian applications could also figure, along with some more curbs on advance energy exploration equipment, the official said. An EU diplomat said ambassadors of the 28 member states would hold an emergency meeting on Monday at 1300 GMT to start work on a "significant" package of further measures although no immediate decisions were expected. A further meeting is set for Wednesday. The leaders said the Commission should include in the sanctions "every person and institution dealing with the separatist groups in the Donbass", potentially leaving a very broad area that could be targeted. However several EU countries heavily dependent on Russian gas, including the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria, are opposed to new sanctions, which require unanimous agreement. "I consider sanctions meaningless and counterproductive," Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said on Sunday. "Until we know what is the impact of the already imposed sanctions, it makes no sense to impose new ones," Fico said. "I reserve a right to veto sanctions harming national interests of Slovakia."  FINANCIAL SECTOR, GAS EU diplomats said the main thrust of new steps could be financial because that would hit the Russian government rather than citizens. It could be coordinated with the United States, whose measures were also focusing on the financial sector. Two diplomats said they did not rule out a ban on the purchases of Russian sovereign bonds to make it more difficult for the Russian government to finance itself on markets. In July, the EU banned Russian state-owned banks from raising capital or from borrowing in EU markets. Moscow has retaliated against sanctions by banning most agricultural imports from Europe and the United States. The risk of a ban on buying Russian sovereign bonds is that the Kremlin could hit back by dumping European government bonds, of which Russian state institutions have significant holdings. Asked about the idea that Russia could be cut off from the international money transfer system known as SWIFT, one diplomat said the idea had been floated several months ago, but that there was opposition to it among several EU countries. "The problem is that while it would probably work well in the short-term, as in the case of Iran, in the long-term it would trigger the creation of an alternative system to SWIFT and the setting up of two alternative world transaction systems and nobody wants that," the diplomat said. The July sanctions also hit equipment for the oil and defense sectors, and the sale of "dual use" technologies to military end-users. That restriction could now be broadened. Russia's gas sector, which powers European industry and lights its cities, has been spared so far. Moscow is the world's biggest exporter of gas and second biggest exporter of oil. But the new package could also include high technology for gas excavation, another EU diplomat said. "It would make sense to target high-tech gas technologies when it comes to possibility of further sanctions against Russia as it would impact Russia’s gas project signed with China," the diplomat said.  (Additional reporting by Adrian Croft, Tom Koerkemeir, Paul Taylor and Robin Emmott.; Writing by Jan Strupczewski. Editing by Paul Taylor.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Kuroda attends the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan will maintain its existing stimulus policy and optimistic economic view on when it meets on Thursday, sources say, preferring to take more time to gauge whether a run of weak data is sufficient to threaten a fragile recovery. But signs of prolonged disruption from a sales tax hike in April are beginning to sap the conviction of many central bankers that the economy will rebound steadily from a severe second-quarter contraction caused by the higher levy. While the BOJ is likely to stick to its assessment that the economy is recovering moderately, pessimists on the board may propose offering a bleaker view on components such as factory output, say sources familiar with the bank's thinking. "It's pretty clear from data out so far that the economy is undershooting the BOJ's forecast," said Yoshiki Shinke, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute. "The rebound in July-September may prove to be much weaker than expected." The BOJ cut its assessment on exports earlier this month to say they were "weakening" but left intact its view that factory output, while also weakening, continues to "rise as a trend". That view may be subject to change after data on Friday showed July's factory output barely recovered from a steep fall in June, which was the biggest retreat since the March 2011 earthquake as weak sales left firms with huge inventories. Household spending fell more than expected in July and analysts expect bad weather and lasting effects from the tax hike to weigh on consumption in coming months, casting doubt on the BOJ's view that domestic demand remains firm. The recent run of weak data will be closely scrutinized at the BOJ's two-day rate review that ends on Thursday. At the meeting, the bank is expected to leave unchanged its policy framework, under which it pledged to increase base money by 60-70 trillion yen ($578-674 billion) per year via aggressive asset purchases to reflate the long-moribund economy.   INFLATION VIEW INTACT Japan's economy shrank at an annualized 6.8 percent in the second quarter, more than erasing a first-quarter surge in the run-up to the sales tax hike. Analysts polled by Reuters expect a 3.8 percent bounce this quarter. The BOJ is likely to cut its economic growth projection for the current fiscal year when it reviews its long-term forecasts in October. But it still expects the economy to ride out the tax hike and recover strongly enough to meet its 2 percent inflation target sometime in the next fiscal year starting in April. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, unfazed by the second-quarter contraction, has stressed that the recovery remains intact and that Japan is making headway in meeting the price target. He is likely to stick to that message at a post-meeting briefing on Thursday, analysts say. Sources have told Reuters that the BOJ is likely to keep its bullish price forecasts, which see consumer inflation nearing 2 percent next fiscal year, even as it cuts its economic growth forecast in October. Behind the BOJ's optimism is a steady improvement in job and income conditions. The jobless rate is at levels the BOJ sees as near full employment and job availability is at a 22-year high. Companies, after holding down wages for nearly two decades on prospects that deflation will persist, are gradually raising salaries and bonuses, offsetting some of the pressure on households from the sales tax hike. There is also a practical reason for the BOJ to put a brave face. The key goal of its massive stimulus program is to lift public sentiment and make people believe that prices and wages will rise in coming months. Comments revealing concerns over the economic outlook may dampen sentiment and undermine the effect of the stimulus, BOJ officials say. Still, the widening gap between Kuroda's upbeat tone and the pessimism spreading among private-sector analysts may dent the BOJ's credibility, particularly if upcoming data continues to disappoint, analysts say. "The economy continues to undershoot the BOJ's forecast but the bank hasn't changed its bullish price forecasts. With the data so weak, it's becoming more and more difficult to explain why prices could keep rising even when growth is slow," said Izuru Kato, chief economist at Totan Research Institute. "Kuroda probably thinks it's too early to give up (on meeting the target). But at some stage, he will either have to ease further or delay the timeframe for meeting the price goal." Under its "quantitative and qualitative easing" scheme launched in April last year, the BOJ has pledged to engineer 2 percent inflation in roughly two years in a country mired in 15 years of deflation. None of the analysts polled by Reuters expect the BOJ to meet the target within the two-year timeframe.   (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIs the Fed about the sound more hawkish?Change could be coming to the Fed. In a note to clients, Lew Alexander at Nomura writes that the Fed is likely to make "significant changes" to its forward guidance. Forward guidance refers to the language the Fed uses when it tells the public its plans for monetary policy. "At a minimum, we expect the FOMC to add language that stresses the 'data dependence' of future interest rate decisions," Alexander writes. "We expect the FOMC to continue to state that the adjustment of interest rates, when it comes, will be 'balanced' and that it expects interest rates to converge to normal levels more slowly than employment and inflation. But in light of sustained improvement in labor market performance, and the inherent complexities in assessing their state, we expect the FOMC to drop its assessment that 'lift-off' is still a 'considerable time' away." Dropping the "considerable time" language would be a big change for the Fed.  The Fed has signaled that it is on pace to conclude this program in October, which then starts the countdown to the Fed's first interest rate increase. In recent monetary policy statements, the Fed has said that, "it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." Back in March, the market freaked out when Yellen put a number on this "considerable time." At her post-FOMC meeting press conference in March, Yellen said rates could rise "something on the order of six months" after the end of the Fed's asset purchases. In her June press conference, however, Yellen did not give a six months timeframe again, and stuck with the Fed's "considerable time" language instead. In his note, Alexander gives four reasons for why this language could change in September, and why "considerable time" may no longer be part of the Fed's forward guidance lexicon: Alexander still sees the first rate interest rate hike occurring with the June 2015 FOMC meeting, but notes that, "recent developments in U.S. monetary policy have shifted the risk around our call forward."  So expect a change when the Fed announces its latest monetary policy decision on September 17, and expect that change to have people wondering if rate hikes are coming sooner rather than later. This chart from Nomura shows how market expectations for interest rates are well below the FOMC's latest projections, indicating that a more hawkish tone from the Fed could spook the market. Nomura FREE AppDownload
Steve Jurvetson / Flickr, CC Apple stock closed at an all-time high on Friday ($102.50) and is set to open at a similar level in Tuesday morning's U.S. trading. It's an impressive track record. But has AAPL peaked? Yahoo There is basically one thing driving the stock right now: The new iPhone 6, expected to be unveiled on Sept. 9 at an Apple media event. Unlike iPhone 5S and 5C, the iPhone 6 will be a genuinely "new" model, coming in a bigger size with a number of new functions. And it will catch Apple users on the cusp of a massive upgrade cycle that will likely make the iPhone 6 a huge best-selling phone.All of that news — and the stuff about the new smartwatch ("iWatch) wearable device coming at the same time — is priced into AAPL right now. That would suggest that once the Sept. 9 event is over, and the market has digested the news, the price might start to fall as investors decide to lock in their gains. Unfortunately, history is no guide. CNBC / YahooYou bet against Apple after a new iPhone at your peril, it seems. But use a different timeframe and the opposite trend appears. CNNOne thing is different this time around: Apple is not just launching a new iPhone, it's going to unveil a smartwatch too. Estimated sales for that watch will depend on its capabilities, and until we get exact details it will be difficult to price in the revenue effect of a new watch. Also new will be iPhone 6's "iWallet" payment system, rumored to include near-field communication technology with Apple's finger printing system to enable users to pay for things with their phones. Investors have generally under-appreciated Apple's potential in mobile commerce and payments, even though it has 1 billion credit cards on file. That's more than Amazon. Again, depending on the mobile payment capabilities of iPhone 6, that could bolt on a massive new set of additional revenue streams from iTunes, the App Store and even Beats. With all those new variables, expect volatility. FREE AppDownload
Suhaimi Abdullah/Getty ImagesYouTube now attracts more than 1 billion viewers a month watching 6bn hours of video, with nearly 40% of it watched on mobile devices. Its top channels are taking advantage. In fact, the monthly view-count for the top 100 YouTube channels has grown by 80.5% over the last year, according to new data published by online video industry site Tubefilter and analytics firm OpenSlate. The former’s chart of the 100 most-viewed YouTube channels in July 2014 reveals that they collectively notched up 9.46bn views that month. That’s up from 5.24bn views in July 2013. The big winner from the last year’s growth is PewDiePie, the alter ego of Swedish gamer Felix Kjellberg. Between July 2013 and July 2014, his monthly views nearly doubled from 221.6m to 438.9m, while his subscribers grew from 11.75m to 29.47m. The second biggest YouTube channel in July 2014 was DisneyCollector, with its collection of toy-unboxing videos racking up 268m views in the month, putting it ahead of musician Shakira’s 226.6m views. Gaming channels Stampy (199.6m views) and The Diamond Minecart (186.1m views) took fourth and fifth places in Tubefilter’s latest monthly chart. It’s another mark of YouTube’s evolution over the last 12 months that DisneyCollector, Stampy and The Diamond Minecart did not feature in the top 100 chart for July 2013, meaning they had less than the 100th-ranked channel’s 32.6m views that month. The July 2014 rankings reveal that music, games and comedy remain the three key categories for YouTube. Games in particular: in fact, a separate chart published by Tubefilter reveals that the 100 top gaming channels on YouTube generated 4.34bn views in July. YouTube and parent company Google may have lost out to Amazon in the race to acquire games live-streaming service Twitch, but gaming remains one of the key planks in YouTube’s appeal as an alternative entertainment network. • From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing our TV viewing This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
MarkitAll of the economic signals confirm that growth in the eurozone economy is going nowhere. The eurozone manufacturing purchasing managers index plunged to a 13-month low of 50.7 in August, down from 53.8 in July. This was worse than the 50.8 expected by economists. Any reading above 50 signals growth, and the eurozone's PMI is rapidly tumbling to that no-growth level. "Although some growth is better than no growth at all, the braking effect of rising economic and geopolitical uncertainties on manufacturers is becoming more visible," Markit's Rob Dobson said. "This is also the case on the demand front, with growth of new orders and new export business both slowing in August." We already know that GDP growth in the eurozone fell to 0.0% in Q2. However, the July and August data have suggested a failure to rebound in Q3. "In one line: Alarming signs from the eurozone manufacturing sector," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The downbeat economic news is intensifying." Vistesen pointed to the country-specific PMI reports, which were mostly worse than expected. Germany, the eurozone's largest economy, saw its PMI fall to 51.4, which was worse than the 52.0 expected. Italy, the eurozone's third largest economy, saw its PMI plunge to a 14-month low of 49.8, missing expectations for 51.0. MarkitAny reading below 50 signals contraction. "Some marginal growth was still recorded on the output front, but the paring back of purchasing activity, inventories and employment would indicate that the recovery in the manufacturing sector has hit a roadblock," Markit's Phil Smith said of the Italy PMI report. Vistesen characterized Italy's report as "a shocker." France, the eurozone's second largest economy, fell to a 15-month low of 46.9 in August from 47.8 in July. Believe it or not, this print was actually better than the 46.5 expected by economists. However, it remains deep in contractionary territory. "Sharply falling output led firms to cut back employment, purchasing and stock levels further in August," Markit's Jack Kennedy said of the France PMI report. "This sort of across-the-board weakness has been a common theme in recent months and there remains very little to suggest any turnaround in fortunes will be imminent." Eurozone consumer price growth fell to just 0.3% in August. Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels characterized this as "dangerously close to the deflation threshold." Prices in Italy actually fell 0.2%. This combination of deteriorating prices and stagnating economic activity puts increasing amounts of pressure on the European Central Bank to unleash more monetary stimulus. The next big move would be quantitative easing (QE), which is when a central bank goes buys up bonds in order to boost credit market liquidity and keep interest rates low. The ECB meets Thursday, and currently economists expect no change in monetary policy. "So this coming Thursday’s ECB press conference will be the most eagerly anticipated event of the week for financial markets," Fels said. "As I see it, there is scope for some disappointment though. Broad-based QE, defined as a large-scale asset purchase program including government bonds, remains a measure of last resort that is unlikely to be put in place any time soon because the political and legal hurdles, particularly in Germany, continue to be very high." These legal hurdles have been among the hindrances that have prevented the ECB from being as aggressive as the U.S. Federal Reserve. We also can't forget about the complex politics of the 18-country eurozone. "Also, the ECB council will likely worry about the moral hazard aspects of QE, which could easily tempt governments in Italy, France and elsewhere to go even slower on reforms," Fels added. AP ImagesMario DraghiQE isn't the only trick the ECB has up its sleeve. It also has room to lower short-term interest rates, which includes a main refinancing rate of 0.15%, a marginal lending facility rate of 0.4%, and a deposit facility rate of -0.1%. "[I]t is more likely that the ECB will use other means of easing monetary conditions before embarking on QE, including another cut in official rates and a targeted ABS purchase program," Fels said. "Yet, even on these two measures, it is probably too early to expect concrete action this coming Thursday. My guess: the council will at best pre-announce an ABS purchase program for later this year, with details to be announced at a later stage, and could re-insert a bias for lower rates further down the road in its forward-guidance language." The ECB will make its monetary policy announcement on Thursday at 7:45 a.m. ET, which will be followed by a press conference at 8:30 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhere is everyone?Last week was really something. The stock market hit new record highs, with the S&amp;P 500 finally closing above 2,000 for the first time ever. And we also learned GDP growth surged 4.2% in Q2 thanks to big upward revisions in business spending. The U.S. will be closed on Monday for Labor Day. However, we have a stacked line-up of top-shelf economic reports coming our way. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Jesse Livermore, the pseudononymous blogger behind the brilliant Philosophical Economics blog, has a lengthy examination of the cyclically adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio. This is the stock market valuation measure popularized by Nobel laureate Robert Shiller. "Why is the Shiller CAPE so high?" he asks. He explains that valuations in general have been higher than usual largely due to elevated earnings per share growth rates, which have been boosted by expanding corporate profit margins. Livermore believes current conditions will likely allow for very low-singled digit returns in the near-term. Here's his scenario: The increase in profit margins is not going to fully hold.  Some, but not all, of the profit margin gain will be given back.  On this assumption, it becomes harder to defend the market’s current valuation.  Importantly, profit margin contraction tends to occur alongside stronger sales growth.  In terms of the effect on EPS, stronger sales growth will help to make up for the profit margin that will be lost.  However, almost half of all sales growth ends up being inflation–the result of price increases rather than real output increases.  With inflation comes lower returns in real terms (the only terms that matter), and also, crucially, a tighter Fed.  If the Fed gets tighter, a TTM P/E of 19.3 will be much harder to sustain.  The market will therefore have to fight two headwinds at the same time–slow EPS growth due to profit margin contraction and a return drag driven by multiple contraction.  Returns on such a scenario will likely be weak. But they need not be disastrously weak.  In a prior piece, I argued that they might end up being 5% or 6% nominal, or 3% or 4% real.  Of course, that piece assumed a starting price of 1775. Nine months later, we are already at 2000.  The estimated returns have downshifted to 3% or 4% nominal, and 1% or 2% real.  Such returns offer almost no premium over the returns on offer in the much-safer fixed income world, and therefore, if any kind of profit margin contraction is coming, then the current market is probably pushing the boundaries of defensible valuation. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIndia's PM Modi and Japan's PM Abe shake hands before their talks at the state guest house in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan and India agreed on Monday to strengthen strategic ties as Asia's second and third biggest economies keep a wary eye on a rising China, and agreed to accelerate talks on the possible sale of an amphibious aircraft to India's navy. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi also agreed to speed up talks on a so-far elusive deal on nuclear energy cooperation. "The two prime ministers reaffirmed the importance of defense relations between Japan and India in their strategic partnership and decided to upgrade and strengthen them," Abe and Modi said in a statement after a summit in Tokyo. Modi, on his first major foreign visit since a landslide election win in May, arrived on Saturday for a five-day trip aimed at capitalizing on a personal affinity with Abe to bolster security and business ties in the face of an assertive China. In a sign of their close ties, the two leaders greeted each other with a bear hug when they met on Saturday in Japan's ancient capital of Kyoto for an informal dinner. Modi is one of three people that Abe follows on Twitter, while the Indian leader admires Abe's brand of nationalist politics. "The 21st century belongs to Asia ... but how the 21st century will be depends on how strong and progressive India-Japan ties are," Modi told Japanese and Indian business executives earlier in the day. Sino-Japanese ties have also been chilled by a row over disputed isles, feuds over the wartime past, and mutual mistrust over defense policies as China seeks a bigger regional role and Abe loosens the constraints of Japan's post-war pacificism. (Writing by Linda Sieg; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesThere's no shortage of things that should be fixed in the U.S. There's the "crumbling" physical infrastructure, the never-ending bipartisan arguments in D.C., the inadequate public school systems ... and list goes on. But there are also things that are going right in the U.S. U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan identifies these in his "What's Right With America" thesis. "From our vantage point, America needs to leverage its strengths to correct for its weaknesses," he wrote. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Qantas Airlines Frequent Flier card is seen in this photo illustration in SydneySYDNEY (Reuters) - Australia's flagship airline, Qantas Airways Ltd, is making a mint helping other companies keep their customers - even as it struggles to retain the loyalty of its own. Hiding behind Qantas' staggering A$2.8 billion ($2.6 billion) headline annual net loss announced last week is a hugely profitable loyalty program that is the envy of the airline world - and the carrier isn't letting go. Some investors have urged Qantas to sell all or part of Qantas Frequent Flyer, which is valued as high as A$3 billion. Rival carrier Virgin Australia Holdings &lt;vah.ax&gt; announced on Friday it was offloading a stake in its loyalty plan. "The Frequent Flyer program isn't a 'cash-in' for Qantas, it's a cash cow," said Steve Worthington, a marketing professor at Melbourne's Monash University. "They were the first mover in the domestic market and their program runs far deeper than any other." Qantas Frequent Flyer boasts more than 10 million members - almost half the Australian population - in a program that goes well beyond the traditional loyalty schemes that award points for travel and credit card services. Qantas offers consulting services, data mining and even runs gift card programs for top Australian retailers, giving the airline such an extensive reach that its loyalty points are often referred to as the country's de facto second currency. The airline's loyalty division was the only ray of light in an otherwise gloomy earnings report last week. The unit posted its fifth straight year of double-digit earnings growth to hit a record underlying profit of A$286 million. Chief Executive Alan Joyce said last week the airline had ruled out a partial sale of the loyalty division after a long-awaited review of the business. "This business is a great business," he said. "We believe there is shareholder value still for us holding that business." American Airlines was the first carrier to start a frequent flyer program in 1981, offering a straight flights-for-miles deal to gain an edge in the highly competitive U.S. market. As they were adopted across the industry, including by alliances such as Oneworld, Star Alliance and Skyteam, airlines began monetizing the programs by selling miles to hotels, credit card companies and retailers. That effectively gives them a license to print money as they determine the value of the points. Companies pay to acquire them because they calculate customers will favor the points-earning option when choosing between products or services, gaining them loyalty also. The airline gains working capital as the points are generally not redeemed for a good 18 months. Qantas, which counts the country's leading grocer Woolworths Ltd &lt;wow.ax&gt; as a key partner, posted an 8 percent rise in billing last year as it added 14 new partners. Others include Westpac Banking Corp &lt;wbc.ax&gt;, InterContinental Hotels Group &lt;ihg.l&gt; and Avis Budget Group Inc &lt;car.o&gt;. That Woolworths alliance has given Qantas one of its key extras over other frequent flyer programs, giving it deep market penetration via a valuable database of consumer spending habits - which it then uses in its consulting business. While some carriers such as Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd &lt;0293.HK&gt;, which charges for entry, like to keep their programs exclusive, Qantas is extending its loyalty business. More than 35,000 small-to-medium businesses signed up for its Aquire loyalty program launched last year, which offers spending rewards. Around 300,000 people decided to activate a chip in their standard frequent flyer card that turns it into a debit card that can store money in nine currencies. Like other airlines, Qantas also benefits in the old-fashioned way, using point scorers to fill seats and to persuade passengers to stay loyal. Helping out the carriers is points "inflation" - it now costs far more points to get a free flight than it did a decade ago. Analysts said Virgin's surprise announcement on Friday that it was selling 35 percent of its Velocity program to private equity firm Affinity Partners was about gaining fast cash. "The timing for this proposed transaction is perfect for us as the program is far from reaching maturity and there's no doubt that it will propel the business significantly forward," Virgin CEO John Borghetti said after reporting a A$355.6 million annual net loss. The sale values the unit at A$960 million, giving Qantas shares a bump in the process as analysts speculated about a higher valuation for Frequent Flyer. Virgin's plan has just 4.5 million members, fewer than half as many as Qantas. Applying a similar valuation, Qantas Frequent Flyer would be worth somewhere between A$2.5 billion and A$3 billion, said Angus Geddes, an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. That's significantly more than the 185 million euros ($243.72 million) that Germany’s ailing Air Berlin &lt;ab1.de&gt; received from Etihad for a 70 percent stake in its Topbonus program in 2012. Air Canada &lt;acb.to&gt;, which has the only program that analysts said was comparable to Qantas' plan, raised C$287.5 million in a 2008 initial public offering of Aeroplan that valued the business at C$2 billon ($1.85 billion). Analysts said the unit's long-term value for Qantas far outweighs the benefits of any quick cash. "It's the jewel in the crown of the Qantas asset portfolio," said Bell Potter's O'Shea. "If they can get away with keeping it, it's what they should do." (Editing by Emily Kaiser and Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithApple CEO Tim Cook delivers his keynote address at the World Wide developers conference in San Francisco, California June 2, 2014. (Reuters) - Apple Inc plans to enable its next iPhone to become a mobile wallet by allowing owners to securely make mobile payments in a store with the touch of a finger, Bloomberg said on Sunday, citing a person familiar with the situation. The agreement includes participation by Visa Inc., MasterCard Inc and American Express Co and will be announced Sept. 9 along with unveiling of the next iPhone, according to the source, who Bloomberg said asked not to be identified because the talks are private. The new iPhone will simplify mobile payment by including a special communication chip, along with a fingerprint recognition reader that debuted on the most recent iPhone, the source said. Officials could not immediately be reached at Apple, Visa, Mastercard and American Express. But Apple has reportedly signed up all three major partners for its mobile-payment system. BI's Jay Yarow contributed to this report. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter BERLIN (Reuters) - Weak investment spending and slow trade led Germany to contract for the first time in over a year in the second quarter, data showed, suggesting Europe's largest economy is running out of steam just as the impact of the crisis in Ukraine starts to bite. Germany's Federal Statistics Office confirmed on Monday an earlier estimate showing a 0.2 percent contraction in seasonally-adjusted gross domestic product (GDP) on the quarter. The disappointing performance of an economy once considered the last bastion of growth in a sickly euro zone echoed the region's second and third largest economies, France and Italy, which respectively stagnated and fell back into recession over the same period. "The second-quarter contraction was a reaction to the strong first quarter so I think we'll return to moderate positive growth in the third ... but there's no shortage of uncertainty factors at the moment," said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Postbank, referring to the standoff between Moscow and the West over Ukraine and the crisis in Iraq. Gross capital investment in Germany fell by 2.3 percent and construction investment dropped by 4.2 percent, in part due to a mild winter which boosted building activity in the first quarter. Heidrich said a 0.4 percent drop in plant and equipment spending could be partly due to the Ukraine crisis and sanctions against Russia. Foreign trade, traditionally the driver of German economic growth, subtracted 0.2 percentage points from growth while private consumption and inventories made a positive contribution. "The domestic economy will be responsible for growth this year and it's possible that exports will suffer a bit more due to the Ukraine crisis and trade sanctions," said Heidrich. The finance ministry has partly blamed the second-quarter contraction on the Ukraine crisis and sanctions against Russia. Economy Minister Sigmar Gabriel has said GDP will probably increase in the remainder of 2014.[ID:nL5N0QR3L4] But some economists expect the second-quarter weakness to carry through into the third quarter, with the Ifo institute estimating growth will be "close to zero" in the third quarter while the DIW institute has warned of the danger of recession. Recent data has been mixed, with business and investor morale souring while industrial orders have tumbled and joblessness has risen. Exports and output have, however, risen modestly.  (Reporting by Michelle Martin; Editing by Noah Barkin and John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby Yip Pro-democracy lawmaker Leung Kwok-hung is dragged away by security guards as he protests against Li Fei (not pictured), deputy general secretary of the National People's Congress (NPC) standing committee, who is speaking at a briefing session in Hong Kong September 1, 2014.  Good morning! Here's what people will about on Monday, also Labor Day in the United States. 1. In response to the killing of three Jewish teens in June, Israel said it has plans to takeover nearly 1,000 acres of land in the Palestinian-occupied West Bank. The move is believed to be the "largest seizure by Israel in 30 years," the BBC said.  2. Police used pepper spray on pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong after China ruled on Sunday that it would not allow the open nomination of candidates to elect its new leader. 3. The European Union warned they will unleash more sanctions on Russia in the next week unless Moscow de-escalates its presence in eastern Ukraine.  4. Iraqi forces announced Sunday that they have broken a more than month-long siege by ISIS militants on the northern Shiite Turkmen town of Amirli, the Associated Press reported.  6. In Pakistan, protests against prime minister Nawaz Sharif have turned deadly.  6. A Swedish man that may have been infected with the Ebola virus has been hospitalized in Stockholm.  7. Nude photos of several celebrities, including Jennifer Lawrence and Kate Upton, were leaked online in an alleged hack to Apple's iCloud.  8. Texas Gov. Rick Perry's verified Twitter account posted an image Sunday night that mocked the district attorney at the center of his criminal indictment. Perry followed up with a post that said the tweet was "unauthorized." 9. A federal judge temporarily blocked a Louisiana law that "would likely have closed of all five abortion clinics in the state," Reuters reports.  10. Cambridge University researchers said in a new study that we will be unable to stop climate change unless we start eating less meat.  And finally... Today marks the 100th anniversary of the death of Martha, the last known passenger pigeon. The species, once ubiquitous throughout North America, was hunted to extinction during the 19th century.  FREE AppDownload
