Brad Barket/Getty ImagesAndreessen Horowitz has announced a $50 million investment in BuzzFeed. The news puts BuzzFeed's valuation at $850 million, the New York Times' Mike Isaac reports.  In a post on his blog, AH's Chris Dixon compared the site to Tesla, and Uber, explaining the site has "technology at its core" and will generate "triple-digit revenues" this year: Its 100+ person tech team has created world-class systems for analytics, advertising, and content management. Engineers are 1st class citizens. Everything is built for mobile devices from the outset. Internet native formats like lists, tweets, pins, animated GIFs, etc. are treated as equals to older formats like photos, videos, and long form essays. BuzzFeed takes the internet and computer science seriously. Dixon will also be joining BuzzFeed's board.  Click here to read Dixon's full post explaining the investment decision » Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeIn their recent book "The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies," MIT Sloan business school scientists Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolfsson try to predict what civilization will look like as technology starts replacing an ever-increasing number of tasks usually done by humans. In a new post on Harvard Business Review, McAfee says he recently experienced a direct example of how this transformation has already begun: an Uber trip.  In general, McAfee says, Uber is amazing. But the experience of his driver shows we have entered a mostly uncharted phase of economic history: My driver said he’d been with Uber ever since he’d graduated from his master’s program in IT project management last year. This profession was, according to him, going through hard times. In the wake of the great recession steady jobs had been replaced by short-term contracts, and there weren’t even a lot of these to be had. As a result he was now competing against much more experienced people for each new gig that came up, and he hadn’t had a lot of success since graduating. So to cover his monthly fixed costs of student loan payments (on more than $100k in debt), rent, and healthcare he was driving for Uber. A lot. He estimated that he spent more than 60 hours a week behind the wheel. This allowed him to pay his bills, but not to build up any real savings. To which I say good for him, and for Uber. This is a guy who could be sitting around waiting for the dream job he’d gone to school for, collecting unemployment, defaulting on his loans, and/or dropping out of the labor force for good. Instead, he was working hard at a job that was available. He goes on to recount a subsequent conversation with futurist Ray Kurzweil on the subject of what the rise of Uber will mean for everyone else:  As far as I can tell [Kurzweil] thinks that there are no real challenges accompanying today’s rapid tech progress. He predicted that there will be plenty of jobs, and that they’ll be fulfilling ones that allow people to pursue their passions. Well, my driver couldn’t find work doing what he went to school for, and he didn’t describe driving people around as his passion. My read of the evidence is that good, secure, fulfilling jobs are declining as we head deeper into the second machine age, not spreading throughout the economy. There may not be much regulators can do, McAfee says, but new policies will have to focus on education, taxes and the social safety net. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannA motorcyclist rides past a traditional stagecoach on the St. Gotthard mountain pass road August 8, 2014. The stagecoach is used for tourist excursions over the St. Gotthard mountain pass in Switzerland. The weekend is over and stocks are up everywhere despite more ugly news out of Iraq.  Japan's Nikkei opened up 1.7%. Korea's Kospi index was 0.7% higher. U.S. futures were up about 0.2%. Another quieter August week in econ data, though we remain in heart of earnings season with Priceline, Deere, Tribune Company and Macy's among others all reporting. Click here to read Sam Ro's full-week preview » FREE AppDownload
Yossi Zamir/ReutersSteve Averbach, one of the plaintiffs listed in the civil suit against Arab Bank, was paralyzed in after a suicide bomber detonated his weapon on this bus in Jerusalem on May 18, 2003.A long-awaited trial starts Monday, in which U.S. victims of Hamas and their families are suing a massive Middle Eastern bank for allegedly funneling money to family members of terrorist suicide bombers. The decade-old case alleges the Jordanian Arab Bank helped funnel "martyr payments" to the relatives of terrorists through its New York branch during the second Palestinian Intifada between 2000-2005 (a period of intense fighting between Israel and Palestine that reportedly cost 4,000 lives). The high-profile suit will be the first-ever civil trial involving terror financing, according to Osen Law, the firm representing the plaintiffs. The Supreme Court rejected the bank's petition for it to hear the case in June, paving the way for the controversial case to go to trial in Brooklyn federal court this week. The suit claims Arab Bank helped funnel money from insurance benefits provided by the Saudi Committee, a group that supported the Intifada, to the families of Palestinian terrorists who had become "martyrs" or been injured or captured by Israeli forces.  This insurance "is ultimately designed to provide substantial material support to Palestinian terrorist organizations and to provide a meaningful incentive both to prospective recruits and to individuals contemplating the commission of independent acts of violence in the name of the 'popular resistance," according to the complaint. The complaint list five terrorist attacks in which Arab Bank allegedly funneled money to terrorists' families.  One case involves John Linde Jr., who was killed along with two other security officers by an IED in northern Gaza as they were escorting U.S. diplomats to interview Palestinian candidates for Fulbright Scholarships in October 2003.  In another case, Tehilla Nathansen, just 3 years old, was killed while sitting on her mother's lap on the No. 2 bus in Jerusalem in August of 2003. In another attack on a child, Jacob Mandell, an 8th-grader, was stoned to death, along with another friend, by Palestinians while he was hiking in May of 2001. The suit claims Arab Bank has violated Section 2339B of Title 18 of the U.S. Code, which makes it illegal for an entity within the U.S. to provide material support or resources to designated foreign terrorist organizations. Originally filed in 2004, the suit is only now reaching trial because Arab Bank did everything they could to withhold information from the plaintiffs, lead attorney Gary Osen of Osen LLC told Business Insider. "They've done everything in their power to deny us the opportunity to have a full record and to delay the proceedings for as long as they could," Osen said. If Arab Bank is found liable, a jury will determine the amount in damages the plaintiffs will receive. "We can't obviously predict what impact, if any, the proceeding or trial could have one way or the other, but if liability is found, we hope it will impact the way foreign financial institutions conduct their risk management in the area of terror financing," Osen said. Although some have speculated that Arab Bank will try and settle this case out of court, Osen said he "fully expects this trial to start Monday." Arab Bank contends that, though the plaintiffs allege the Saudi Committee sent money that supported Palestinian terror acts, the organization was never placed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's list of prohibited parties. In addition, White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer had said the group was in good standing with the government back in 2002. In addition, the bank claims it did not choose the recipients of the money from the Saudi Committee. Arab Bank merely processed the transfers lawfully under existing commercial agreements, and the bank was acting in accordance with money laundering and terrorism regulations. “Arab Bank has great sympathy for all victims of terrorism but is not liable for the tragic acts described by Plaintiffs," according to a statement from Arab Bank. "The full evidentiary record – much of which may be excluded from the jury because of the sanctions order and other pre-trial rulings by the Linde court – demonstrates that the Bank did not cause or provide material support for the acts of terrorism involved in this case." Also within the statement, Arab Bank mentions that that United States Solicitor General Donald Verilli said the bank is “a constructive partner with the United States in working to prevent terrorist financing,” and “a leading participant in a number of regional forums on anti-money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism.” However, that statement was made within a brief Verilli wrote to the Supreme Court saying the high court should not intervene as Arab Bank had petitioned, the New York Times reports. Arab Bank's statement also claims that, if found liable, it will mean that banks will now be liable for transactions made "when proper compliance requirements are followed and the parties were in good standing at the time." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Gray A bird flies across a supermoon as it rises behind the roof of the Sydney Opera House August 10, 2014. The astronomical event occurs when the moon is closest to Earth in its orbit, making it appear much larger and brighter than usual.Good morning! Let’s start the week… 1. Australians have an increasingly bleak outlook on their living standards. That’s one way of looking at a Newspoll survey in The Australian this morning, which mirrors the dip in consumer sentiment around the federal budget. Almost one-third of respondents said they expected their living standards to fall in the next six months. Looking at the other side of the ledger, though, and more than half of Australians are still confident they’ll be unaffected. 2. Two major surveys this week will give us more information about the mood in the Australian economy. Tomorrow, there’s the NAB business survey which will include employment intentions, an important number to watch following last week’s surprise fall in Australian jobs. On Wednesday we get the Westpac consumer sentiment survey, which will show the recovery – or lack thereof – from the budget-induced gloom. The ANZ-Roy Morgan survey retraced last week after a few weeks of sharp bounceback while the budget receded from the headlines. Businesses and investors will be watching Wednesday’s result closely. 3. To the markets and after an ugly day for Australian and Japanese stocks on Friday, the US bourses bounced back at the end of the week. The Dow finished up 1.1%, the Nasdaq gained 0.8% and the S&amp;P 500 was up 1.2%. It gives a stronger lead to the start of the week, with the key ASX futures contract up 37 points ahead of the start of trade in Australia. The eyes of the world will be on the European GDP result on Wednesday, where we’re likely to see some horrible numbers for the French and German economies particularly, and a flat quarter for the Eurozone. 4. Companies reporting this week include Domino’s, Commonwealth Bank, and the casino groups Echo and James Packer’s Crown. We also get JB Hifi this morning, and Telstra on Thursday. 5. The Australian jihadist’s son with the decapitated head. A photo of a seven-year-old boy, believed to be the son of Australian Islamic extremist Khaled Sharrouf, holding up the severed head of a Syrian soldier, is a sickening example of the extreme propaganda from the ISIS militants who are running amok in Syria and Iraq. (You can read about it here, with a pixelated photo, which is still disturbing.) Sharrouf posted the sickening photo to Twitter with the words “That’s my boy.” This comes amid continuing reports of the horrors ISIS is inflicting in Iraq: the militants are said to have killed 500 Yazidis – some by burying them alive. 6. The rise of ISIS is staggering. Patrick Cockburn in the London Review of Books explains: “As the attention of the world focused on Ukraine and Gaza, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (Isis) captured a third of Syria in addition to the quarter of Iraq it had seized in June. The frontiers of the new Caliphate declared by Isis on 29 June are expanding by the day and now cover an area larger than Great Britain and inhabited by at least six million people, a population larger than that of Denmark, Finland or Ireland.” Airstrikes against ISIS are now into their third day, with the US military this morning confirming its most intense strikes yet. 7. Cheese supply warning. One of the consequences of the Russian sanctions announced last week – with Australia one of the affected countries – might be an oversupply of cheese on the global market, because 70% of Russia’s cheese imports come from Western countries. Capital Economics’ Tom Pugh warns the surplus could affect prices for producers. 8. Wave breakthrough. Australian physicists have surprised themselves by being able to manipulate waves in a way that they can control the direction of objects floating on the water – including getting the objects to move in the opposite direction to the waves. They aren’t quite sure how it works. Chris Pash has the details here. 9. Monday motivator. Here are 11 ways you can stop procrastinating. 10. Kyle and Jackie O had an on-air fight. News.com.au reports that Jackie O walked out on Kyle Sandilands after an on-air argument over Kyle’s sick day that he took on Friday. Sandilands reportedly asked: “Have you got the sh**s or something?” and Jackie O said she did “a little”, adding “You’re always sick on a Friday… I’m putting it out there”. After a break, when the nationwide FM show came back on air, Kyle had to tell listeners Jackie O had left. Awkward. Have a cracking Monday. I’m on Twitter:@colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Kinder Morgan announced it would buy out all its subsidiaries, making it the largest energy infrastructure firm in North America, according to Bloomberg's Susan Warren. At an all-in valuation of $71 billion, its the second-largest energy transaction ever, according to the FT's Stephen Foley.  The Houston-based firm currently has three additional sub-units independently trading on the New York Stock Exchange. These firms will now all be consolidated under the KMI ticker.  The move comes nearly a year after an analyst named Kevin Kaiser of Hedgeye Risk Management called into question how  Kinder Morgan was booking expenditures and criticized the wave of so-called Master Limited Partnerships, which Kinder Morgan had taken part in. MLPs are designed to allow energy companies to get around some corporate taxes. But Kaiser said MLPs constituted a "regulatory nightmare." In a statement on its site Sunday, Kinder Morgan CEO Richard Kinder said the transaction " dramatically simplifies the Kinder Morgan story." Over the last year, Kinder Morgan and its units have underperformed peers like Enbridge, TransCanada and Williams: Yahoo For some perspective on Kinder Morgan's American footprint, here's a map showing all their assets: Kinder Morgan FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningU.S. President Barack Obama at the White House after he talks about the humanitarian relief situation in Iraq on Thursday. U.S. airstrikes on Islamic State positions have begun. Fighter jets also bombed Islamic State militants in northwest Iraq on Thursday night. But it's not clear who the pilots were. The Pentagon immediately denied a New York Times report that the U.S. carried out Thursday's strikes.  Iraqi military officials told CNN and The Wall Street Journal that the Iraqi Air Force had struck ISIS targets near Erbil, which is the regional capital of Iraqi Kurdistan and host to hundreds of U.S. military advisers.  The Iraqi Air Force is poorly equipped, consisting of several Cessna planes carrying American-supplied Hellfire missiles, some American- and Russian-supplied helicopters, and Russian-made Su-25 aircraft.  @MichaelKelleyBI Or at least Russian and Iranian pilots in planes with iraqi insignia (Fittingly, geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia group told Bloomberg TV this morning that the U.S. was "fighting shoulder-to-shoulder, as it were, with the Russians and the Iranians.") Garrett Khoury, the director of research at The Eastern Project, explained that the Iraqi Air Force "recently acquired around a dozen SU-25 ground attack aircraft from Russia (with more possibly coming from Belarus) ... [which] give them the ability to conduct serious ground-support operations. Thursday's attack came two days after Iraqi jets struck an ISIS convoy near the northern city of Mosul. "[The Su-25s] are Russian jets bearing Iraqi insignia, but possibly piloted by Russians," Khoury continued. "Iraq did use the SU-25 during the Saddam Hussein era, and there are probably former Iraqi pilots who flew them, but it has been at best 12 years since any Iraqi pilot got any significant flying time with the plane." The most probable answer is Iraqi Su-25s, manned by Russian or Iranians — or maybe Iraqis.  "The Iraqi government was just as quick to take credit for the strikes as other governments were to deny their involvement, and so, combined with the fact that the IAF can launch such operations, it actually looks like they managed to do it on their own," Khoury told BI. In any case, Iraq's skies are crowded.  A former high-ranking CIA official in Baghdad told Jeff Stein of Newsweek that Turkish jets carried out the airstrikes. “There’s no question about it,” he said, adding that "certainly we are giving them targeting data.”  Stein notes that Turkish F-16s were reportedly patrolling the skies over the area near Sinjar in northern Iraq, where about 50,000 Yezidis are starving after fleeing ISIS militants.  "Iran has used its own Air Force to attack ISIS since the beginning of the group's offensive, but mostly to keep them away from the Iranian border," Khoury said. "Syria has likewise conducted air strikes on ISIS targets on the Iraqi side of their shared border."  Even U.S. President Barack Obama, while announcing the authorization of airstrikes and humanitarian aid in Iraq, allowed for ambiguity about Thursday night's strike. Obama didn't say airstrikes had already happened. He didn't said they hadn't, either. In any case, ISIS is now getting hit from the sky to push it back from Iraqi Kurdistan. Iraqi Air Force Commander Lt. General Anwar Amin told WSJ that Iraqi forces and American advisers were coordinating in joint command centers in Baghdad and Erbil as the Kurds continue to fight on the ground. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ints Kalnins This might seem obvious, but it's worth repeating: European economic policy has been a complete failure. By every measure, things have been a disaster for years. Nobody is doing anything right. This coming Thursday we get the latest European GDP report, and the prognosis is really grim. Here's Carl Weinberg of High Frequency Economics telling it straight. If you don't want to read the full paragraph, you can just read the first, bolded sentence. For Euroland, the big picture is that the economy is in its seventh year of depression. On our estimate of a 0.7% contraction in the second quarter, GDP was still 3.2% lower than it was in the first quarter of 2008, when the depression began. Euroland’s economy actually contracted in the first quarter of this year when you exclude Germany’s unexpected surge to a 3.3% annualized rate of growth. Only people who were misled by Markit’s untested and unproven PMIs believed that such growth was real and sustainable. Our estimate of second quarter GDP for the Euro Zone includes a contraction of Germany’s economy at a 2% annualized rate, reversing the windfall in the unexplained and inexplicable first quarter spurt. If our forecast proves correct, average GDP growth for Germany in the first half of 2014 will work out to 0.7% at an annualized rate, clearly less than potential but very much in line with the experience over the last few years. Our estimate for France’s economy is a more horrible contraction of 1.1% for the quarter, or 4.3% at an annualized rate. Back in 2010-2012, Europe did have a crisis, which it largely solved, and that was the sovereign debt crisis. That was fixed when the ECB offered an implicit debt backstop to every country. That caused borrowing costs to plunge and removed the fears that a country would default and be forced to leave the common currency. But nothing else has worked. The countries are still largely on an austerity track (even as debt loads continue to rise) and the ECB has twiddled its thumbs, letting loan growth and inflation fade. And Q2 likely won't mark the end of the pain. Here's Citi's forecast for dismal GDP growth and inflation that misses ECB targets: We lower our 2014 &amp; 2015 GDP forecasts by 0.1pp each year to 1.1% and 1.7%, respectively and also shave a decimal point off our 2014 inflation forecast to 0.5%. Although our bean-count models suggest that euro area real GDP growth was around 0.4% QQ in 2Q-14, our bottom-up estimates point to 0.3% QQ. To be sure, most business surveys have been painting a somewhat less constructive picture of economic activity in the latter part of the first half. Our analysis of the business cycle highlighted risks that the initial and strongest phase of business cycle improvements could be behind us. Recent developments in Ukraine and the persistence of a strong euro indicate that the balance of risks to economic activity remains skewed to the downside, notwithstanding better signs from the U.S. and China. Turning to inflation, strong base effects will likely drive the euro area headline rate to a new multi-year low of 0.3% YY in July (flash estimate on 31 July), with limited prospects of a rebound before Q4, in our view. Our forecast of weak wage dynamics suggests core inflation will stay low, in contrast to the ECB’s expectations of an imminent rebound. As the above hints at, on top of everything else, now there's the Russia situation and the sanctions, which won't help anyone's confidence.  It's all gloom, with no lights at the end of the tunnel. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a Mercedez-Benz sign at a dealership in downtown ShanghaiBy Michelle Price and Norihiko Shirouzu HONG KONG/BEIJING (Reuters) - In the early afternoon of Monday, Aug. 4, ten men in suits and casual business wear barged into a busy office at Mercedes-Benz's east China sales office, near Shanghai's Hongqiao international airport. "People were starting a new week and were just back from lunch, when the men arrived," said a person familiar with the scene. "They didn't have the slightest idea they were coming to rip the office apart and question people for data and information for the next 10 hours," he said, adding the men were antitrust investigators from China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC). Such U.S. and European-style "dawn raids" have become a powerful weapon for China's increasingly aggressive antitrust enforcement agencies, the NDRC and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC), allowing them to seize evidence that may aid broader probes into antitrust violations or corruption. Several major foreign companies have been raided in recent months - from car and drugs manufacturers to technology firms such as U.S. software giant Microsoft Corp - as China steps up enforcement of a 2008 anti-monopoly law. The raids have spawned a cottage industry in preparing multinational companies on some basic do's and don'ts in the event of a surprise visit. Companies are giving staff practical coaching, including holding mock raids, and bringing in legal experts to train them on how to handle intense, on-the-spot questioning, negotiate cultural hurdles, and make contingency arrangements to source emergency legal advice. "We're seeing an increase in the sophistication of the enforcement agencies, and personnel," said Marc Waha, a partner in the antitrust practice at law firm Norton Rose Fulbright in Hong Kong. "They've spent a lot of time with other agencies in Germany and Europe learning about conducting investigations and the value of onsite inspections. That's why we're seeing more active enforcement."  "WILD WEST" Companies operating in China have few rights with respect to dawn raids, and laws about what evidence can be seized - such as original documents and files rather than copies - are ambiguous. Critically, legal privilege, which in the United States and Europe protects communication between a company and its legal adviser and is regularly used to withhold evidence, is generally not recognised in China. "In China, there's very little guidance out there, it's much more Wild West because it's all so new," said Mark Jephcott, head of the Asia competition practice at Herbert Smith Freehills in Hong Kong. The SAIC and NDRC did not respond to requests for comment. Raids typically involve 10-30 antitrust agency officials arriving unannounced at a company's premises, usually early in the morning, and searching desk drawers, computers, files, lockers, safes and even vehicles, lawyers familiar with the process said. Raids by uniformed SAIC officials are generally regarded as relatively professional, while the NDRC and local Development and Reform Commissions can be more heavy-handed and often arrive in plain clothes, they said. Either way, "it's very stressful and unpleasant," said Jephcott, who has been present at several raids, both as a former EU antitrust official and as a legal adviser.  CULTURAL NICETIES Amid the initial chaos of a corporate raid, it's important to remember basic Chinese customs and courtesies, said Liyong Jiang, a partner at Beijing-based law firm Gaopeng &amp; Partners, and a former official at the Ministry of Commerce, China's merger control agency. Exchanging business cards and offering tea or coffee, and maybe ordering in lunch, too, are important gestures of cooperation, he said. "It doesn't matter what you offer, it's the gesture that's important. It's the Chinese way." Having the regulators' business cards can also help a company's lawyers track down officials later for further communication - not always a simple process due to the bureaucracy at China's state agencies. Sitting down to a take-away lunch can help senior managers and lawyers chat with officials and build a rapport, Jiang said. "They'll be less stringent - they are human, too." That may not work for everyone, though. Another of those with knowledge of the Mercedes-Benz raid said the investigators, backed up by two or three computer technicians, went through the office "cubicle by cubicle and room by room ... questioning senior managers ... and downloading information from computers." "Those investigators didn't take any breaks. They didn't drink tea or eat snacks or dinner," the person said, adding the officials only left at 11 p.m. "It was a very serious affair."  MAKING THINGS WORSE Dawn raid training - through seminars, online courses and one-on-one coaching for frontline staff such as receptionists and security guards - aims to mitigate blunders, help companies contain the inspection and bring out officials' human side. Lawyers recalled instances when well-meaning but naive employees made the situation worse - such as receptionists turning away officials because they didn't have an appointment or, worse still, allowing officials to roam the premises unchecked. In other examples, jittery employees deleted personal emails in what the Chinese authorities later construed was an attempt to obstruct the investigation. "It's a detailed exercise," said Eva Crook-Santner, a member of the antitrust practice at law firm Baker &amp; McKenzie in Hong Kong. "We guide clients through a dawn raid, focusing on all job functions - from the security guard to the IT team." Employees are trained how to handle intense questioning. This is key in China where an individual cannot refuse to answer a question on the basis they may incriminate themselves. Failing to respond constitutes a fine-able obstruction. Sometimes, lawyers said, staff wanting to appear helpful can share too much. "Staff have to respond very carefully," said Jephcott. "They have to cooperate fully, but try to limit themselves to factual answers." Simple IT resource planning can also help things go more smoothly. In China, officials will often take off with original documents and files. Having a high-performance photocopier and back-up hard drives can help provide copies of evidence, lawyers said. Officials can sometimes show their human side. One lawyer, who didn't want to be identified, recalled how an official on one raid spent more time flirting with the secretarial staff than searching for incriminating evidence.  (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
 The business of Wall Street is changing — trading desks are shrinking, while once-"boring" businesses are bringing in the revenue that banks need to pull through quiet markets. This is the kind of environment in which all kinds of unexpected things can happen if the right person sees an opportunity and seizes it. It's how four partners in a Morgan Stanley wealth management office in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, The W H M Z Group, quietly amassed just under $1 billion in assets under management in four offices across the southeastern U.S. Consider this as a case study of the changing landscape of finance — of what's working and what isn't since the crash of 2008. There are new challenges. Offices like W H M Z are regional and independent, but they have to be sophisticated and strategic on the business side as well. Of course, it always helps to think ahead and see these kinds of changes developing. "Michael [Warr, the executive director,] was very early to recognize that the role of the brokers and financial advisers was just an access point and was not the future," said Alistair Harding-Smith, a CFA and Senior Portfolio Manager at W H M Z. "It was not going to be the foundation of our practice. The complexity of families managing wealth was going to get harder and harder." What that means is that when Warr started out as a sole practitioner in financial advising 15 years ago, he saw that the industry and market conditions were changing rapidly. Investing wisely for the future was about to get more intricate, no matter whom or what you were investing for. To Warr, that meant building the right team, one focused equally on risk management and investment expertise, as well as relationship building. "The team concept, when we built the team, was still new to the industry," Warr said. That's where Harding-Smith came in. British by birth, he spent much of his career at Barclays and BlackRock as an investment strategist and portfolio manager for pension funds. He focused on hedging strategies and risk management. Combining Harding-Smith's sophisticated investing experience with Warr's local relationships proved to be a hit with clients, and it became the cornerstone of their business. And there's a lot of business to be done. Like Warr, after the financial crisis, Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman saw that Wall Street was shifting away from riskier operations like trading, toward more stable ones like wealth management. Thus, becoming a leader in wealth management became the firm's focus. Now Morgan Stanley's wealth management division has $2 trillion assets under management. In Q2 2014 the division brought in $3.7 billion, up from $3.5 billion at the same time last year. Pre-tax income came in at $767 million compared with $655 million in the same quarter of 2013. Additionally, profit margins hit 21% for the first time since Morgan Stanley bought brokerage Smith Barney. The purchase was as a joint venture with Citigroup (Morgan Stanley bought Citigroup out of the venture last year). But again, not all of this can be run out of New York City and other regional financial centers. To succeed in a business like this, one must get to clients where they feel comfortable. Warr was able to get the importance of Harding-Smith's knowledge across to clients who may or may not have heard of the CFA exam at all. That's important, but what W H M Z found was that its clients really just wanted to deal with the right adviser close to home. "We really like to hang our hat on a very impressive background in investment strategy," Warr added, "but at the end of the day people do business with people they like and they trust." There are additional challenges away from the mothership in New York City — one is the daily operations of an office and its business development. As the market becomes more competitive, it's more important than ever that clients know who you are and what your business is about. Things need to run like a dream. Every office has to come up with its own strategy to do that. Each year the W H M Z goes through a rigorous evaluation of its operations — how the office's 16 employees communicate with one another as well as the clients. "We're not trying to build something to be the best down here; we're trying to be the best," Warr said. That's part of how, from an office in the deep South, W H M Z Group was able to snap up clients from not just regional centers like Charlotte, North Carolina, but also New York City and Los Angeles. It's a whole new world, people.   FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotBreaking up is never easy.  But sometimes you just gotta do what you gotta do. This is especially true if your significant other works on Wall Street — and starts to show some very telling warning signs. We get it. Finance is a demanding job. Your boyfriend or girlfriend might be busy, stressed, stretched to the breaking point, and not be fulfilling all his or her duties as your significant other. But there's a point at which the behavior becomes unacceptable. To help you out, we've created a list of some common indicators that you're headed for trouble. If your significant other starts exhibiting any of these signs, you'd better run for the hills.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottAmerica's supercenters are dying a slow death.  Huge big-box stores like Wal-Mart Supercenters and Target are being phased out in favor of "some combination of value and convenience," Goldman Sachs recently wrote.  "Just about every major trend we're following right now bodes poorly for power center retail," Doug Stephens, founder of industry website Retail Prophet and author of "The Retail Revival: Re-Imagining Business for the New Age of Consumerism" told Business Insider.  Americans are driving less than they have in decades. Populations are flocking to smaller, urban communities over sprawling suburbs. And consumers in their 20s and 30s increasingly prefer small, local shops to big-box retail.  The proliferation of e-commerce also means that consumers can order many products online rather than having to drive to the store.  "The days of swinging the doors open on a dusty warehouse and waiting for throngs of customers to descend on it are numbered," Stephens said. In response to this trend, retailers like Wal-Mart and Whole Foods are building smaller stores. But that solution still leaves empty supercenters.  Retailers could repurpose the stores in a few ways, Stephens said. Some spaces could be used to test showrooms or store formats. Retailers could also use the venues for e-commerce.  McAllen Library/FacebookA library in McAllen, Texas, is housed in a former Wal-Mart. "Either you turn them into retail spaces that are so wildly experiential and memorable that people will travel to get to, or you make them multi-purpose distribution centers that allow for direct-to-home delivery, buy-online-pickup-in-store and other types of services," he said. Many retailers have begun to use stores as e-commerce distribution centers. Wal-Mart and Sears have recently started encouraging customers to pick up pre-ordered merchandise in stores.  In some markets, communities are turning deserted stores into public spaces.  The town of McAllen, Texas, turned an old Wal-Mart into an award-winning library.  Using the old spaces for community good will probably become more common over the next 20 years, Stephens said.  "I suspect we'll see the format die a slow death," he said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA man holds a basket with mannequins wearing masks, similar to the ones used by members of the female punk band Pussy Riot, during the "March of Millions" protest rally in Moscow, September 15, 2012. Russia has been all over the headlines recently. Earlier this year, it was for the Sochi Winter Olympics. More recently, it's because president Vladimir Putin has been flexing his muscles again, this time in Ukraine. As the world's eighth largest economy Russia can't be ignored. The sheer scale of its pipelines, for instance, its stockpile of highly enriched uranium, or its population decline are mind-boggling. We put together some key facts about Russia. FREE AppDownload
Columbia PicturesItaly is contracting after GDP shrunk by 0.20% in the second quarter. But Italy is not the only Eurozone economy with growth going nowhere. France is too. So is Spain.  The only remaining star seems to be Germany, with a 0.8% growth rate in the first quarter, Eric Reguly from the Globe and Mail said. But even the brightest candles eventually burn out. "It may be a flat-liner in the making," Reguly added. "Last month, the German central bank warned that the economy probably stagnated in the second quarter and today’s report on industrial orders confirmed that growth is almost certainly waning. German industrial orders fell for the second consecutive month, at a 3.2% rate, following at 1.6% fall in May." Western sanctions placed on Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine have had a "weak, fragile and uneven" effect on the recovery, Mario Draghi, head of the European Central Bank said on Thursday.  The Telegraph's Ambrose Evans-Pritchard said that "Hopes for a swift rebound in Germany are fading. In June, new orders in manufacturing dropped by 0.32%; orders from the rest of the eurozone shrunk by 10.4%." "What this shows is that Europe is nowhere close to recovery," Steen Jakobsen from Saxo Bank told The Telegraph. "Monetary policy has run out of traction," a reference to the European Central Bank's yearslong policy of keeping interest rates at close to zero percent. FREE AppDownload
Many people have trouble getting to sleep or waking up in the middle of the night – here are the reasons and how to fix the problem. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
artisrams via www.flickr.com creative commonsThe Great Recession has had a huge affect on people's retirement plans — and many households are not adequately prepared for the future. This is according to the results of a new Federal Reserve survey. Adults now expect to keep working past retirement age. According to the survey, 40% of non-retired adults over the age of 45 have delayed their planned retirement date because of the recession.  For the most part, non-retired adults ages 55 to 64 don't expect typical retirements. 24% of those surveyed expect to keep working for as long as possible; 18% expect to pick up a part-time job after retirement; and 9% expect to become self-employed after retirement. Additionally, some people were forced into early retirement because of the recession. Approximately 15% of those who retired since 2008 reported that they retired earlier than they intended. And not only are people's retirement plans changing, but the survey results suggest that many households are not prepared for retirement. 31% of non-retired respondents (including 19% of those aged 55 to 64) said that they don't have any retirement savings or pension. Almost half of adults reportedly "were not actively thinking about financial planning for their retirement". A whopping 25% of adults reported that they had done no financial planning for their retirement, and 24% said that they had thought "only a little" about it. In addition to not saving, many Americans have a spending problem. "Just over half of respondents were putting some portion of their income away in savings, although about one-fifth were spending more than they earned," wrote the study's authors. FREE AppDownload
Capital EconomicsOn Thursday, Russia announced a ban on food imports coming from the European Union, the U.S., Canada, Australia, and Norway. Russia is the world's fifth largest importer of food, which means we should expect price distortions stemming from excess supply. These price distortions may be pronounced in the global cheese market. According to Capital Economics' Tom Pugh, food exporters to Russia could be saddled with a lot of extra cheese. "The Chart ... shows the percentage of Russian imports which come from the sanctioned western nations," wrote Pugh in a note to clients on Friday. "The ban is likely to have a much bigger impact on the markets for food in which Russia gets most of its imports from these countries. For example, over 70% of Russian imports of cheese come from the Western countries in question and almost as much pork and chicken. So we could expect to see a surplus of dairy and meat products over the next year, which may weigh on prices." Russia is likely to experience the exact opposite problem: higher cheese prices due to supply shortages. "The upshot is that the Russian ban on imports is likely to put downward pressure, both directly and indirectly, on a wide range of agricultural commodity prices over the next year," wrote Pugh. This should be good news for anyone outside of Russia who loves cheese. FREE AppDownload
Sonja Heikkilä Sonja Heikkilä.By now it's become clear that Scandinavians and Nordic nations do a lot of things better than other countries. They have the smallest gender gaps, among the highest test scores, and the lowest levels of inequality. Now, they're set to rub their transportation superiority in our faces. Finland's capital, Helsinki, is about to launch a program that could virtually eliminate car ownership and give its residents the ability to plot an on-demand commute from their phones.   It's mostly the vision of Sonja Heikkilä, a 24-year-old Helsinki transportation engineer.  Her idea was to create a real-time marketplace for customers to choose among transport providers and piece together the fastest or cheapest way of getting where they need to go. The providers' services would be distilled into an app through which a customer could plan a route. In her master's thesis, Heikkilä used the character of Taneli, a 34-year-old married father of four young children, to demonstrate how the whole thing works. Helsinki already has a dial-up bus service called Kutsuplus (Finnish for “call plus”), which for more than a year has been letting riders dial up a minibus on their phone, choose their route, and select whether they want their own private ride, according to Wired. Here's what the Kutsuplus app looks like:   Heikkilä's vision combines minibus shuttle service with city bicycles and ride-sharing to all but eliminate the need for cars: [Taneli] usually bicycles with his own bike to a station, ascends a bus, and carries the bicycle with him in the bus or leaves his own bicycle at the station and continues the trip with a city bike. In case the conditions are not satisfying for bicycling, Taneli finds a car or ride-sharing service with the help of a platform that he uses through the mobile phone. In addition, a daily demand responsive transport service, such as Kutsuplus, fetches [his son] and his classmates from preschool and conveys them [home], where they can continue spending the afternoon together.  "One app would allow to plan the entire route, including all modes," she told Business Insider in an email. "However, there would be several competing apps, as there would be several private companies running the mobility operator business." Heikkilä said the idea came about because Helsinki is growing too fast for its current transportation options, with a population projected to increase 40% in the next 35 years. As a result, many people are forced to own a car, but 95% of a car's life is spent parked at home or at work, according to Heikkilä. Widespread car ownership also runs counter to Finland's environmental ambitions. Plus, there's been a generational shift in attitudes about cars.  "First of all, the young want to be connected at all times," she said. "They value convenience and spontaneity. They are also very familiar with technology and expect systems to function well. Additionally, the phenomena of sharing economy and 'servicizing' [organizing and selection of a service is bought and performed by a third party, and customers receive merely the outcome of the actions] are rising. The city of Helsinki wants to meet these changing requirements."  Right now, the city has a monopoly on public transit, but the public sector moves too slow to adapt to changing transport demands, Heikkilä said. At the same time, Helsinkians are uncomfortable with full-on privatization. The transportation engineer hopes to combine the best of both worlds. "We want to allow the emerging mobility operators to sell all mobility services, including public transit," Heikkilä said. "The core of our work is to determine what the public sector and the city of Helsinki can do to enable and promote the emergence of this kind of mobility service ecosystem and mobility operator market."  Heikkilä credits Sampo Hietanen of ITS Finland, a not-for-profit public/private sector association that promotes transportation innovation, with having pioneered the concept of "Mobility As A Service" in Finland. In a presentation earlier this year, Hietanen predicted transport would be hit by a "tsunami wave" of change on par with the digital revolution in communications. Soon, commuters will be able to purchase mobility plans, as they would a cell phone service, at rates according to their needs. The Swedish city of Gothenburg has already rolled out a similar service, called UbiGo, though on a much smaller scale. The Helsinki plan will eventually operate citywide.  "We do not want to launch a project on this but truly create a permanent service ecosystem, which companies may enter at any time," Heikkilä said.  The pilots in certain Helsinki neighborhoods will be launched early next year. Heikkilä said any city that already had a decent public transport system in place could adopt their model. FREE AppDownload
Look around the room at a meeting during your next business trip and try to find that guy — the guy in the wrinkled shirt who may or may not be wearing two slightly different socks. The guy who's going to un-tuck his dress shirt at the bar after dinner to be more "casual." If you don't see this guy, look down. Make sure you're not him. Why? Because you do not want to be this guy. You want to be a gentleman. At some point in every man's life he will have to pack a suit. In fact, he may have to pack up his entire life and be on the move for weeks. Neither of these circumstances are an excuse for not looking fresh. "It comes down to wear-ability, versatility, and then style," says Colin Hunter, co-founder and CEO of men's custom suiting shop, Alton Lane. Hunter himself worked as a consultant for Bain before launching Alton Lane in 2009, and during his time traveling extensively on projects, he perfected the art of looking like a gentleman while living out of a bag. So first, lets talk about wear-ability. Even if you're going to a warmer climate, you don't want any fabric that wrinkles easily. No linen or light wool — in fact toss the light fabrics all together. When it comes to shirts go with broadcloth or oxford over poplin. If you travel a lot, you may even want to invest in a suit made with a material repels water, like Aquaplan by Dormeuil, which Alton Lane carries.  As for versatility — "It's all about efficiency of packing," said Hunter. "Leave the bold patterned suits or blazers at home... You want solid colors you can get more than one use out of — shark skin [gray] or navy." Think seriously about the number of suits you need. They can be re-worn with the right easy-to-pack accessories — like pocket squares, ties, or shirts — to change their look. If you're on a business trip for about a week, bring up to 3 suits. "I try to wear my dress shoes on the flight, even if I'm flying to Hong Kong," said Hunter. "You don't want to be packing shoe trees — [you need one] pair of lace ups, one pair of loafers. I try to stick with brown...it's more versatile, better with navy and gray." If you must bring a black shoe, bring a loafer in brown. This isn't rocket science. Hunter favors putting his suits in garment bag and carrying it on the plane. You can put your loafers and ties in there as well. The garment bag thing is, however, a hot debate. Justin Jeffers, of The Fine Young Gentleman blog told Business Insider that the key is really making sure that everything in your suitcase is tightly packed so there's no movement. "When they are able to shift around a likelihood of creases (and thus ironing) increases...garment bags are a waste of money. You can pack your suit, shoes and shirts in your normal suitcase and they will emerge in a similar, if not a better state." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich Marc R. Benioff, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Salesforce.com, speaks during a session at the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos January 22, 2014.While some tech CEOs, including Facebook head Mark Zuckerberg and  Google cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, have opted to receive a $1 annual salary, others are still bringing in the big bucks.  The New York Times recently put together a list of the 200 highest-paid CEOs in America. Many of them run tech companies. Only chief executives leading companies with a market capitalization of at least $1 billion were considered.  While longtime CEOs like Larry Ellison and Marc Benioff are no strangers to lists like this one, there were some surprises.  FREE AppDownload
The Economist"THE harder I practise, the luckier I get," said Gary Player, one of history's greatest golfers. And it is a widespread belief that experienced professionals are a lot better than neophytes. But is that true of fund managers? A new study* suggests that the answer is distinctly mixed. The paper examined the records of 2,846 American mutual funds between the start of 1996 and the end of 2008, overseen by 1,825 managers (some looked after more than one fund). Turnover was high; fewer than a quarter of the managers lasted more than five years. Just 195 of them lasted a decade. Unsurprisingly, those managers who were poor performers in their early years were more likely to lose their jobs. In their last year in charge of their funds, these neophytes underperformed the veterans. However, the veterans did not outperform consistently; what they did do was avoid periods where they did particularly badly. The authors concluded that "even long-term managers show no ability to beat the market on a risk-adjusted basis. The key to a long career in the mutual-fund industry seems to be related more to avoiding underperformance than to achieving superior performance." Another conclusion may be that it pays to start well. A few years of outperformance at the beginning of your career will establish a reputation as a star manager, and the money will roll in. At that point, it may not matter what happens next in terms of returns. A previous study by the same academics found that successful performance in the first five years of a manager's career is not predictive of success in the following five years. A similar conclusion was reached in a study backed by Vanguard, a manager best known for its "tracker" funds--which aim simply to replicate the market's performance rather than beat it, as "active" funds attempt to do. It analysed the performance of equity mutual funds that had been in the top quintile (20%) of their sector, and thus might be favoured by investors. In the following five years, their performance deteriorated, with more of such managers ending up in the bottom quintile than in the top (see chart). Why is it so difficult to be a consistent outperformer? In another paper**, Charles Ellis, an investment consultant for more than 40 years, explains the reasons. Fifty years ago, institutions did less than 10% of all trading on the New York Stock Exchange; now it is more than 95%. In general, fund managers have access to the same information as their peers and, for liquidity reasons, tend to focus on the largest stocks in the market; this makes it very difficult to perform better than the benchmark, particularly after costs and fees are deducted. A few genuinely brilliant managers may outperform the index but it is all but impossible to identify them in advance. REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the start of trading August 6, 2014.  Academics have been alive to this issue for 40 years; what is surprising, however, is how slow the active funds' clients have been to catch on. Tracker funds still have only around 11% of global fund-management assets, according to a report by PwC, a consulting firm. The simplest explanation seems to be blind optimism. Mr Ellis cites a survey that shows clients expect the average manager to beat the market by a percentage point a year, after fees. Pension funds run by trade unions, bizarrely, are the most optimistic of all. There are a number of potential explanations. Some are psychological; the "Lake Wobegon effect", in which everyone thinks they can pick above-average managers; or what might be called the "don't just sit there, do something" problem, in which trustees have to justify their existence by shuffling managers, rather than just buying a tracker and going to sleep. Another possibility is that investors have to be blindly optimistic if they are to justify the high returns assumptions they have made. Public pension funds in America routinely assume returns of 7.5-8% a year even though the risk-free rate is less than 3%. If they are not going to earn these returns by tracking the index, they must assume they can beat the benchmark. As Mr Ellis tartly remarks, "among pension-fund executives, the elusive magic of outperformance is now the most favoured way of closing funding gaps." The best, it seems, is the enemy of the good. In the hope of earning outstanding returns, investors are paying active fund-management fees that will only dilute the modest returns they are likely to earn. Economist.com/blogs/buttonwood Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
So, having recently covered Tips for Surviving a Goldman Sachs Internship and Attending a Sporting Event With Your Boss, my latest attempt (by request) is a fresh, succinct, and definitive guide to dressing like an investment banker. The genesis of this post is simple; American men dress like s---.   It doesn’t matter where you look, from the endless stream of bright-eyed but hopeless-looking students vying for the ever-shrinking number of analyst positions on Wall Street, to the haggard, white-collar, middle class masses traipsing their way from airport lounge to departure gate, while getting Hilton Reward Points rich and Chipotle fat. Who better to help than the aggregated and infinite wisdom of GSElevator, with a comprehensive list of business fashion tips from the halls of Goldman Sachs? So, here we go… Shoes #1: He's really wearing square-toed shoes... #2: Wait, it's intern season already? WATCH: The Strange Fashion Choices Of European MenSocks  #1: Most Brits aren't gay, but their socks are. #1: I wear a brand new pair of socks every day. That's probably my only indulgence. That, and watches... And wine. Pants/Trousers No cuffs and no pleats; pleats are for guys with gunts (front asses).   #1: Dude, cuffed pants are for limo drivers. Belt loops are optional.  If you have a decent tailor, rock the side tabs.  #1: Did you forget your belt today? #2: I don't need one; did you forget to get your suit tailored? Actually, side tabs are rather convenient if you are a junior banker. You’ve got less time for the gym and spend many a lunch and dinner hunched over your desk.  Throw in the boozy nights out and extravagant client dinners and it’s a recipe for looking like 2011 Alec Baldwin. Belts/Suspenders Shirts WATCH: How To Tie A Windsor KnotTies It’s all about the Windsor knot, with the perfectly symmetrical triangle.  A half or full Windsor are both fine, depending on the thickness of the tie and the spread of the collar. MD#1: Handshakes and tie knots. I don't have time for someone that can't master those basic skills. #1: Don't show up to an interview in a Hermès tie. I don't give a f*ck if you can afford it, you have to earn it. #1: Hermes ties are like Air Jordans for white people. Everyone has a favorite tie, but don’t wear it every damn week. #1: There's nothing pretentious about keeping a tie journal. It keeps me on a solid 10-12 week rotation. WATCH: How To Pack A SuitSuit Jacket #1: Is that a brown suit? The back office is in Jersey City, pal. #1: Gucci suits are like Corvettes. They're a great way of telling people you didn't always have money. #1: I spent $2,000 on a suit I don't need or like, just to impress a sales chick I don't find attractive. Business Casual  #1: Why do people wear wool if they know cashmere exists?  #1: There is no such thing as turtleneck weather. Stick with Polo shirts; no one cares to watch you inevitably mime golf swings. #1: Nothing says douchebag quite like wearing an Augusta golf shirt when the Masters are on. Watches #1: Wearing a Rolex is like driving an Audi. It says you've got some money, but nothing to say. Thanks to Hank Paulson, Nike running watches and Livestrong bracelets were to 2004 what Lloyd's stubble beard has been to 2012-13.  There are quite a few senior guys that still wear a Nike sport watch, intentionally, or even no watch at all. #1: Not wearing a watch is the new Patek. Forget all about Hublot.  It’s a great way to tell people that you’re an idiot who has more money than taste.  Hublot was a second-rate brand with third-rate craftsmanship until about 15 years ago when they arbitrarily doubled the price and started paying celebrities and sport figures to wear them. It's been a marketers wet dream.  #1: Hublot put the ‘whore’ in ‘horology’  Miscellaneous Tips #1: In New York, don't trust a banker with a pocket square. In London, it's a pinky ring. And in Asia, don't f--king trust anyone. Like Ambien and red wine, the wrong fashion combination can become a disastrously lethal cocktail of Larry Kudlow-esque proportions.  MD #1: A double-breasted suit and a blue shirt with a white collar? Was it a rough night in the water bed? #1: Plaid shirt, bow tie, and pocket square is the douchebag trifecta.  Finally, "an architect is only as good as his builder, and a fashion designer is only as good as your tailor." There you have it; head to toe. These tips won’t exactly get you laid at Soho House or on the cover of GQ; but on Wall Street and in business, you can’t go wrong taking this advice. Just don’t go out and break the law or get scapegoated… Ask any juror, Fabrice Tourre’s ‘fabulous’(?) and expensive-looking fashion sense was a coffin nail come deliberation time. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Skye Gould The Texas Pacific Land Trust has traded under ticker symbol TPL since ticker tape was an emerging technology. But at a time when billions of shares change hands every day and a high-frequency head start measured in milliseconds can be enough to game the system, few on Wall Street have ever heard of it. That’s their loss. With a colorful history peopled with scheming robber barons, corrupt politicians, wildcat oilmen, farsighted hedge funders, and one rebel heiress, TPL is currently outpacing 99% of the stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Its operating margins are orbiting near the stratosphere: around 90%, compared with 30% for Apple, Inc. A share purchased in August 2009 for $30 would today go for $170 — for an average annual growth rate of of 41%. This year alone, the stock is up 73%. Not bad compared with the increase of .68% we’ve seen in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (which doesn’t include TPL) during the same period. Business InsiderThe Trust is a highly atypical company, and not only in terms of its financial performance. It manufactures no products and provides no services. It has never released a killer app or built a game-changing innovation, and it controls no patents. It maintains no factories, facilities, equipment, machinery, or inventory, nor does it carry any other meaningful expenses, aside from eight employees occupying a modest 27th-floor suite in a bland office tower in Dallas’ City Center. It has no competitors, no liabilities, and no debt. Its chief asset — land, lots of land — is finite and tends to steadily, reliably increase in value over time, that is, until someone figures out a way to suck out more oil, at which point it goes bananas. TPL’s only real goal is to maximize returns while gradually liquidating its assets. “Imagine the PowerPoint presentation,” muses Louis Geser, chief analyst for White Space marketing and an independent microcap analyst, who began purchasing TPL when it was around $35. “You could list what this company does on one hand, and it’s on autopilot.” Not exactly, says David Peterson, the Trust's CEO, who along with his team is kept pretty busy making real estate deals and keeping an eye on the accounts receivable. "It's not as sleepy as it once was, that's for sure, sir," he says.   Lara Barrett/ShutterstockLand in West Texas.TPL’s assets aren’t much to look at. Just mile after dusty mile of bone-dry, mostly featureless desert and grassland, studded with creosote and acacia shrubs, stretching forever across the empty expanse of West Texas. The Trust has its origins in 1871, when the State of Texas and the U.S. government, eager to spur the construction of the Texas Pacific Railway, proffered a massive land grant — or what some might call a giveaway. With the land as collateral, the railroad financed its construction by selling nearly $9 million in bonds to the public. Several years later, it went bankrupt, and in 1888 it began liquidating parcels to satisfy those investors. It’s been a very drawn-out process. “Yep, we’re going out of business,” TPL’s former manager, Roy Thomas, joked in a 2005 interview with The Dallas Morning News. “It’s just taking us a while.” What began as more than 3.4 million acres has now been pared down to 911,216, and Peterson seems in no hurry to dispose of the rest. “If the trustees were to receive an offer, they would consider it,” he tells Business Insider. “In the meantime, the race has started, and we’re pointed in the direction of the finish line.” He laughs. “Of course, no one knows how far that finish line is exactly....”    That’s just fine with TPL’s stockholders, who tend to be among the most patient of investors. Hodges CapitalDonald Hodges. The Trust has a few sources of cash flow. In addition to slowly liquidating its holdings — an acre here, an acre there, usually buildable parcels near towns or cities — it derives some modest income from grazing rights and wind farms, receives surface damages from pipelines and other infrastructure, and earns royalties from oil found in shale formations miles below the surface. Currently, the latter revenue stream is by far the most lucrative due to the boom in fracking and other secondary recovery methods, which have unleashed significant reserves in areas that were abandoned by Big Oil decades ago. But even without that recent windfall, TPL would be a highly appealing investment. The Trust spends its cash two different ways: It distributes a small fraction to shareholders in the form of dividends (at a current yield of .27%), and it systematically repurchases and retires outstanding shares. As a result, there are fewer of those out there all the time. Donald Hodges, chairman of Hodges Capital, which counts oilman turned financier T. Boone Pickens among its clients, has been in the stock for decades and currently owns more than 6% of the Trust. “Mathematically, to me it’s just one of those stocks where you can’t really say what it’s worth,” Hodges says, “but you know it’s worth a lot, and you just better hang on for the ride.”   Texaspacificrailway.orgA stock certificate from the Texas Pacific Railway.Back in 1904, The New York Times ran an article in its financial pages taking note of the Texas Pacific Land Trust’s novel approach to doing business. Even then it was clear that by canceling its liabilities more quickly than it disposed of its assets, TPL represented a uniquely lucrative proposition for a patient investor. “It has been possible by the sale of a small portion of the trust’s lands to buy for cancellation a much larger percentage of the outstanding certificates,” the article explained, noting that in just four years, the float (or outstanding shares) had been reduced by 21% through the sale of just 5% of the land. It was, The Times declared, “the acme of financiering.” Nearly a century later, in 1995, hedge fund manager Murray Stahl came to a similar conclusion. A “Contrarian Research Report” released by his fund, Horizon Asset Management, described a little-known stock that was “slowly but steadily buying itself out of public ownership. “Although this process has been ongoing for over a century,” the fund reported, “it may now have reached a point at which this dynamic begins to naturally accelerate …” Predicting that within a decade, “the company’s assets could become concentrated in the hands of a few share owners,” the report concluded that seeing as how the shares represented 1 million acres of Texas land, “the magnitude of this accumulation of per-share value could be extraordinary.” The price of a share at that point was a reasonable $20. Factor in subsequent stock splits, and anyone who followed Stahl’s counsel would have turned that $20 into $1044, for an increase of 5120%. Horizon, now Horizon Kinetics, took its report to heart. While Stahl and his colleagues declined to speak with Business Insider for this article, public filings show that the company’s position in TPL is now around 1.5 million shares, worth around $200 million.  A full decade after that first report, the stock underwent a notable adjustment, losing a third of its value in just two months. But when Horizon released a follow-up report in 2005, the fund was if anything more bullish, describing the precipitous price drop as a win for stockholders, because the cheaper the stock, the faster the trust could repurchase the outstanding shares, driving up the value of those that remained. “If you’re a long-term shareholder, you almost want the price to decline,” notes Eric Marshall, portfolio manager for Hodges Capital, who has been tracking TPL for decades. “The lower the stock price, the more shares get bought back, the more acres you own per share at the end.” Further, as Horizon pointed out, the more shares the Trust owns, the less it has to pay out in dividends, leaving still bigger piles of cash lying around to purchase more shares. Donald Hodges, who recently celebrated his 80th birthday, puts it succinctly: “The guy that ends up with the last shares is going to be a rich son of a gun.” Generally speaking, he adds, TPL’s business model is “about as good of an equation as I’ve seen since I’ve been in this business, which is 54 years. I haven’t found a negative to it yet.” There is, perhaps, no company quite like it in the world. “They don’t even have to be successful as a business,” Louis Geser marvels. “All they have to do is keep doing what they’ve been doing for 125 years.” By that reading, the mineral royalties that have been pouring into TPL’s bank accounts of late are just the slimy, black icing on the cake. Oil has painted the sands of West Texas more than once in the past century, spawning corporate empires and political dynasties (the Bush family is one), winners and losers, and boom towns that blossom overnight then tip into a steep decline when the pump jacks start sputtering. But fracking or no, TPL has quietly been making its investors wealthy for more than a century. All because of one big bet that went very, very bad — back when the country was young, capitalism was practiced with bare-knuckled zeal, oversight was virtually nonexistent, and land seemed all but limitless.   APAn anonymous drawing of a Texan herd being driven to the railhead.In the mid-19th century, the idea of building a railroad through Texas and on to California was more than a compelling business proposition. It would be “the greatest commercial achievement, in art and science, contributed by the intellect and enterprise of man upon the globe,” in the words of one well-respected commentator of the era. Listen closely and you can hear the same lofty Utopian spirit that still sets pulses racing in today's Silicon Valley: the ardent faith in the power of technology to bring people together and ultimately redeem them. The railroad would, as we say these days, make the world a better place. “It would form a connecting link between nations and peoples, by affording communication between the continents, islands, rivers, zones, climates, seas and gulfs,” the writer went on. “It would unite the old with the new, the Latin blood with the Saxon, the present with the future, lift ignorance into the sphere of intelligence and power, and give to the peoples of the world a new life full of prosperity and promise.” It’s a familiar idea — deploying a disruptive new networking technology to make life easier, increase communication, and expand horizons. In this case, the new technology was a railroad, the Texas &amp; Pacific, and the goal of the pitch was to persuade the government to help finance its construction. Portal to Texas HistoryA map of Texas published by the T&P, 1876.Grandiose though the author’s language may sound today, it reflects the spirit of the Reconstruction era. Manifest destiny, as the nation’s imperialist impulses were then earnestly called, was still a heady, blood-stirring notion for many Americans. The nation’s fragility had recently been illustrated by the devastating loss of 750,000 soldiers (and an unknown number of civilians), during the Civil War, which had only just ended a few years before. The executives of the Texas &amp; Pacific Railway were not ones to soft-pedal the scheme’s potential. “Prosperous communities of farmers, and thriving towns inhabited by intelligent mechanics, manufacturers and traders, will spring up like magic,” they promised. “School houses and churches will everywhere adorn infant towns and incipient cities, and civilization will take firm and permanent root in what is now but a wilderness.” Another contemporary advocate reeled off a long list of more practical benefits, from promoting the settlement of the West and “intercourse with the Indian tribes” to increasing frontier security, facilitating military transport, spurring trade with Asia, and bringing “the lights of American civilization to regions remote and hitherto involved in the darkness of pagan idolatry and imperial despotism.” Meanwhile, failing to build the railroad, its proponents warned, could have dire consequences, including the possible secession of California and Oregon. “Who can doubt that a new republic will grow up on the shores of the Pacific, which would perhaps … obtain supremacy of [its] own,” one observer suggested ominously. texaspacificrailway.org The railroad’s partisans marshaled another argument to pry more subsidies out of the Texas legislature and the U.S. Congress — and it too has echoes in today’s tech industry. A southern route to the Pacific was needed to counteract the monopoly that had sprung up to the North, where the Central and Union Pacific railroads had created a stranglehold on interstate commerce and transport. This rationale was an especially compelling one for Southerners, still reeling economically from the war (not to mention the new labor costs brought about by the abolition of slavery) and eager to wrest their fates from the clutches of Northern robber barons. So what if getting the railroad built meant a massive transfer of the public domain into private hands? “It was worth 25 cents an acre,” Louis Geser says. “There wasn’t seismic data on the property. No one knew there was oil in tight seams that could be accessed 100 years later by fracking. It was just an asset to give away to incent people to build a railroad to move goods.” The Texas &amp; Pacific Railway (T&amp;P), which received its Congressional charter in 1871, wasn’t the first effort to build a railroad across Texas. One attempt, which brought its backers 18 million acres of Texas state lands, ended in failure with just six miles of railway completed. The property was turned over to a receiver, eventually becoming the basis of T&amp;P’s land grant. In exchange for building the portion of the railroad that would connect Texas to San Diego — passing through New Mexico, Arizona, and California — Congress kicked in 16 million more acres in those territories. And T&amp;P’s acquisition of two smaller Texas railroads added many millions on top of that. Wikimedia CommonsCol. Thomas Scott.By 1873, the T&amp;P — under the able leadership of Col. Thomas A. Scott, also a vice president of the powerful Pennsylvania railroad and a would-be robber baron himself — had cobbled together one of the most impressive land grants in history, larger than the state of Massachusetts. The land was considerably more than was necessary to situate the railroad tracks, intentionally so. The idea was to sell it off piecemeal to settlers to finance construction. Such subsidies were all the rage in those days. In total, as much as 10 percent of the country was handed over to railroads and other interests, a Gilded Age free-for-all that the Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Vernon Louis Parrington dubbed “the Great Barbecue” — a grand banquet laid out by the federal government, at which the nation’s wealthiest citizens made gluttons of themselves. “Congress had rich gifts to bestow,” Parrington wrote in 1927. “The eating and drinking went on … until only the great carcasses were left. Then at last came the reckoning. When the bill was sent in to the American people the farmers discovered they had been put off with the giblets while the capitalists were consuming the turkey.” Still, T&amp;P’s generous helping was not secured without considerable lobbying, log-rolling, and probably outright theft, as detailed in “Reunion and Reaction” by the late Yale historian C. Vann Woodward. One scheme engineered by Scott and his colleagues involved the creation of a construction company — its primary stockholders consisting of themselves, their cronies, and, it was alleged, numerous members of Congress — which was then handed all the railroad’s construction contracts, a sweetheart deal with guaranteed profits. Still, the land grants came with conditions: Work would have to be completed on a set timetable, or the property would be returned to the public domain. Mindful of its deadlines, T&amp;P quickly set to work selling bonds and laying track. In an early annual report, Scott assured bondholders that the board “saw no reason why the entire line shall not be finished within a period of five years.”   Obstacles began piling up almost immediately. First, an untimely lack of rainfall rendered the Red River impassable, which meant supplies had to be hauled overland. Then, in the spring of 1873, the workers were beset by an epidemic of yellow fever. Most devastating of all was the stock market panic of 1873, when the bank Jay Cooke &amp; Co. went under, taking the whole U.S. economy — as well as many European economies — with it and contributing to a “Great Depression” that lasted years. Scott, by this time known as the Railroad King, sought extensions and further government subsidies, using every means at his disposal, from providing elected officials with free passage on the various lines under his control to initiating a lobbying campaign so aggressive it raised eyebrows in the media. “Of course, there are the pamphlets printed, and dinners eaten, and the usual consumption of champagne,” The Times wrote when one massive T&amp;P bailout came up for a vote. “Congressmen are classified, as an entomologist arranges his bugs before pinning them in frames … and any Senator or Representative who ventures to question the claim of Mr. Thomas Scott to receive this subsidy … is at once argued with, cajoled, threatened or persuaded.” Despite these efforts, Scott’s entreaties met with increasing skepticism. One bid for a time extension, in 1880, turned into a scandal when a whistleblower named James A. George submitted a letter to a House committee accusing T&amp;P officials of having committed “bribery and fraud” in procuring its original charter. Promising documentary proof, he alleged that the company’s executives had paid “over 30 members of Congress” a total of nearly $300,000 for their votes. The evidence was never forthcoming, and a few years later a House member claimed to have paid George $300 (a relative bargain) “to keep his mouth shut.” Regardless of whether George’s claim had any basis in fact, there is little doubt that fraud and corruption were par for the course in the late 19th century and beyond. “Those sorts of charges appeared constantly, and they were probably all true,” says Randolf Campbell, professor of history at the University of North Texas. “In that age, anything went. These guys were all such wheeler-dealers. It’s just astonishing the sort of shenanigans they got away with.” APRailroad tycoon Jay Gould. Because of T&amp;P’s failure to build the requisite track, even after a five-year-extension, the company was forced to relinquish the 15 million acres granted by the Federal government in New Mexico, Arizona, and California — but not before its leaders cooked up a deal to transfer the property to the California-based Southern Pacific Railroad, which in the meantime had managed to lay down track from San Diego to Texas along the same route the T&amp;P once hoped to use. The deal would have been, The New York Times declared in a 1885 editorial, “one of the most audacious swindles ever attempted upon the Government of the United States.” Scott had meanwhile been replaced by Jay Gould, the widely reviled railroad tycoon and stock speculator, who had managed to complete the Texas portion of the T&amp;P, securing much of the land grant originally offered by the state of Texas. Alas, as the T&amp;P’s empty rail cars began rattling across the mostly uninhabited scrub land of West Texas, it quickly became evident that, for the time being at least, the “prosperous communities of farmers” promised by the railroad’s founders had failed to materialize.   The Southern Pacific scheme was eventually thwarted, and T&amp;P’s subsequent return of more than 15 million federal acres to the public domain goes down as the largest land grant forfeiture in history. But the railroad was still left more than 3.4 million Texas acres to play with when it went belly up and was forced into receivership. In a reorganization plan, shares in the Trust, valued at $100 each, were issued in exchange for the original railroad bonds. Each stock certificate represented 100 shares — and a board of trustees set about liquidating the land. Doing so proved difficult, at least initially. Despite the T&amp;P’s aggressive sales pitch to settlers a decade before — when it promised that “those who earliest avail themselves of the unrivaled advantages of cheap lands and eligible situations, will, of course, reap the largest reward” — immigrants who took the bait were met with dire challenges. The great-grandparents of President Lyndon B. Johnson were among those early Texas settlers. In the biography “The Path to Power,” Robert A. Caro chronicled how within just a few years poor management of livestock and an ignorance of the science of crop rotation quickly transformed what appeared to be a fertile arcadia into an unforgiving desert.   “It had taken centuries to create the richness of the Hill Country,” Caro wrote. “In two decades or three after man came into it, the richness was gone …" On their arrival, the landscape was covered with grass, but as the planting seasons went by, farmers and cattlemen realized that under a small layer of rich soil, “it was a land of stone ... and the implications of that fact had become clear.” As word got out, TPL ran into difficulty selling off its holdings — a circumstance that would prove auspicious to those who held onto their stock certificates. At that very moment, it just so happened, German inventor Karl Benz was perfecting the gasoline-powered automobile, and within a few decades, oil would begin gushing from that barren “land of stone,” making a lot of Texans very wealthy.   New York Social DiaryAlice De Lamar, age 5. Sometime in the waning days of the 19th century, as the Texas &amp; Pacific railroad bonds were being converted into shares in the land trust, one of the stock certificates went missing. This was Certificate No. 390. In the ensuing decades, as its value ballooned, the missing certificate became the subject of several lawsuits on behalf of heirs of the long-defunct New York brokerage firm that had handled the transaction. As Max Hensley, president of the International Bond and Share Society, recounted in the journal Scripophily, the tale of the lost certificate became legendary. “The story appeared in Reader’s Digest and constituted a whole radio program by Art Linkletter,” he wrote. “Needless to say, all this pot stirring yielded a fine cornucopia of crackpots and delusional hopefuls.” Courts continually ruled in favor of the Trust, however, and for years the shares went unclaimed, and the annual dividends were placed in escrow. But in the mid 1970s, one Jack Lewin, a retired Chicago trade magazine editor with a penchant for digging through dusty library boxes to track down old stock certificates (for $15 apiece and a 30% cut of whatever proceeds he could recover), developed an obsessive interest in No. 390. It eventually turned up in the archives of the Wells Fargo Bank, where it had sat moldering for 75 years. The stock, it soon transpired, had been given to the Dutch mining industrialist Joseph Raphael De Lamar in consideration of a $15,000 loan he’d made to a man named Joseph Decker. Originally valued at $10,000, the certificate didn’t even cover the balance. De Lamar was an interesting character. Born in Holland, he stowed away on a merchant ship as a boy, eventually becoming a sea captain and making his first of several fortunes salvaging shipwrecks. In later years, he entered the mining business, but his use of cyanide to mine gold, although wildly effective, was also devastating to the health of his employees. Many of De Lamar’s miners lasted only a year on the job before succumbing to silicosis from the “Deadly Delamar Dust,” as it was called. According to historian Arthur H. Clark, as many as 500 men gave their lives to create De Lamar’s mining fortune. Wikipedia The Joseph Rafael De Lamar House in New York, now the Polish Consulate.Some of the fruits of that sacrifice can still be seen at 37th and Madison Avenue in New York, where De Lamar erected a Beaux-Arts mansion, one of the most opulent in the city, for his beloved daughter, Alice. It now serves as the Polish consulate. When Joseph died in 1918, leaving Alice half of his $20 million fortune, the society press was breathless with speculation about her romantic life. But Alice ditched the Madison Avenue residence, along with a palatial estate in Glen Cove, Long Island. She spurned her various aristocratic suitors and seemed embarrassed by her vast fortune (perhaps she had an inkling of where it came from), leading one newspaper to dub her “The Girl Who Can’t Get Away From Her Millions.” In later years, she became a patron of the arts and a friend to Ernest Hemingway, Paul Cadmus, Benny Goodman, Hubert de Givenchy, and many other of the day’s most prominent cultural figures. Eventually, Jack Lewin tracked her down in Palm Beach, where the 82-year-old society doyenne and gallery owner lived with her longtime lover, the actress and theater producer Eva Le Gallienne, in a Spanish-style beachfront estate. By then, Certificate No. 390 was worth $5.7 million (half of which went to charity, per Joseph’s wishes). For Alice, who had no surviving relatives, the unexpected windfall was most likely a meaningless addition to an accursed inheritance she never wanted in the first place. It's not known whether Lewin collected any of his anticipated 30% commission.   APAn oil jack pump sits near the Permian High School football stadium.The Permian Basin, a massive oil formation in West Texas and Southeastern New Mexico, was first drilled in the twenties, not long after Joseph De Lamar’s death. Before long, shares of TPL exploded, becoming for a time the highest priced securities listed on the NYSE. By 1983, the reserves were tapped out — or they might as well have been. There was more oil down there; nobody doubted that. But amid a worldwide glut, it was too hard to reach and too costly to mess with. Big oil producers packed up and made for greener pastures — the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, South America. Pumps were capped, oilfield workers drifted into other lines of work, if they could find work at all, and former boom towns like Midland and Odessa took on a haunted cast, their rusting derricks standing as forlorn monuments to a swaggering era. For two decades, TPL stock never crept past $10.   Cruise down the once empty I-20 between Midland and Odessa today and — well, you can’t. The lines of wide-load semis and oil tankers, Mercedes GL-class SUVs, and jacked-up Denalis, stretch for miles. Traffic accidents are routine, with an average of one fatality per week. Housing is impossible to come by, unless you want to bunk in a “man camp.” Years after the members-only Petroleum Club became a hangout for old-timers reliving the glories of the the 1970s oil embargo, there’s now a wait for lunchtime tables. Per capita income in Midland is second in the nation. New “breastaurants” are opening their doors. Chalk it up to the development of hydraulic fracking and horizontal drilling. There are more rigs operating in the Permian Basin today than there were when J.R. Ewing took two bullets to the gut. By some estimates, as many as 70 billion barrels of oil are sitting down there, trapped between the layers of shale — more than they have in Kuwait. And Texas Pacific Land Trust still has the title to a great big chunk of it, and perpetual mineral rights to a good bit more. Which explains why its stock price is on such a steep uphill ride. So why hasn’t anyone heard of it? “That’s what I love about it,” Donald Hodges says. “It’s under the radar. If you asked 1,000 investors, I’d be surprised if 5 knew about it. It’s not a candidate for any investment banking. It doesn’t owe any money. It’s being ignored by the Wall Street industry.” “When the receptionist told me a journalist was calling,” Eric Marshall tells Business Insider, “I thought you might have the symbol wrong.” Ultimately, TPL is just too difficult to classify and too small for most portfolio managers to take notice of. It doesn’t appear on any stock index, and only 11,000 shares change hands per day on average. “You can find the most beautiful collector’s item in the world,” Louis Geser observes, “but if you’re a portfolio manager and you can’t take a meaningful position in it, why bother?” Of course, that still leaves plenty of room for individual investors. At this point, only one factor might emerge to slow TPL’s rise, and that’s this little thing called climate change. Whether the frackers will actually manage to blast all that oil out of the ground before carbon taxes and new regulations turn it into a “stranded asset” — or Elon Musk consigns Karl Benz’s combustion engine to the scrap yard of history — is a question that probably doesn’t get asked a lot around the Petroleum Club. Not that the possibility worries TPL’s fans. Land in Texas will always have some value. They’re not making any more of it, after all.   Read more of Business Insider's long-form features » FREE AppDownload
Throughout Israel’s military operation in Gaza, Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan appeared committed to outdoing himself in his hyperbolic criticism of Israel. A series of references to Israel massacring the population of Gaza culminated with accusations that Israel had “surpassed Hitler in barbarism.” The comments marked only the latest nadir in Turkey-Israel relations. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has typically been muted in his responses to Erdogan’s previous outbursts. But Netanyahu reacted differently to his Turkish counterpart’s latest paroxysm. He called Erdogan’s comments anti-Semitic, and downgraded diplomatic relations with Turkey to the “minimum required”. In the scheme of the four-plus year Turkey-Israel feud, this incident might seem to change little. The deal that began with Netanyahu’s apology for the Mavi Marmara snagged on the question of payment, but its outlines remain clear — if the sides can ever move beyond petty insults, that is.  Erdogan certainly benefits domestically from harsh rhetoric toward Israel, and he is presently in the home stretch of a presidential campaign he desperately wants to win on the first ballot. All the while, economic relations between Turkey and Israel have never been better — with trade up 39% to $48.5 billion in 2013, and on pace to break that record in 2014. Tourism between the two countries remains strong, and there were a record number of Turkish visitors to Israel in 2013. It is enough for optimists to look past the histrionics and see relations that are stable and productive, at least beneath the surface. That analysis may be breaking down, however, when it comes to one huge economic topic: energy, and specifically Israel’s gas reserves.  There is widespread agreement that a gas pipeline from Israel’s fields to Turkey’s ports is the most logical and lucrative export route available. Yet Turkey’s scorching rhetoric has, in Israel’s eyes, undermined its reliability as a partner for new initiatives — even for what is, at core, a mutually beneficial economic project. As a result, a joint venture that by any reasonable measure should commence seems to be indefinitely stalled, to the economic and strategic detriment of both parties. Turkey’s interest in Israeli gas stems from its rapidly increasing domestic needs. Natural gas consumption has risen threefold since 2001 and rose by a third between 2009 and 2012 before leveling off around 47 billion cubic meters (BCM) per year in 2013.  Russia supplied more than 55% of Turkey’s natural gas, and Iran chipped in nearly another 20 percent. Russia’s market power enables it to extract a high price for its gas, and Turkey’s long term take-or-pay contracts only exacerbate the financial burdens. In an effort to achieve cost savings through competition, Turkey has actively sought to diversify its supply lines. Azerbaijan currently provides roughly 4 BCM to the Turkish market, with plans to increase its supply to Turkey above 10 BCM in the coming years. Turkey also seeks gas from the Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) rich gas fields in northern Iraq, though these are unlikely to come online until nearly the end of this decade. Turkey has factored Israeli gas into its strategy as well. Even with projected increases in consumption to 70 BCM per year by 2025, Kurdistan, Azerbaijan, and Israel collectively could help the Turks limit their dependence on Russia and Iran. Israel would not be some bit player in this scheme.  With fully-funded infrastructure projects and based only on current reserves, Israel could export 22 BCM per year. Even with Egypt claiming 7 BCM per year at present, Israel could conceivably still pipe 15 BCM to Turkey — more than 20% of the Turks’ projected domestic needs a decade from now.  For its part, Israel faces open questions about how Leviathan — its largest gas field — will be funded. In late July, Noble Energy elected to delay until 2015 its decision about investing $6 billion in Phase 1 development. Strictures on reserving gas for the domestic market and the threat of anti-trust intervention to fix prices factored heavily into the decision. At the same time, only Egypt has emerged as a viable revenue-driving export destination. Yet Turkey’s voracious appetite for natural gas could ensure the profitability of a fully-developed Leviathan field, while incentivizing further development of Israel’s gas industry through exploration. The country's direction under Erdogan endangers this arrangement. Turkey has positioned itself less and less as the mediating, facilitating actor of the late-2000s and early-2010s. An increasingly divisive foreign policy — consisting of fevered perorations after Abdel Fattah al-Sisi’s coup in Egypt and an apparent toleration of Syrian jihadist group Jabhat al-Nusra's presence on Turkish soil — culminated in Turkey taking its place as Hamas’ deputy interlocutor in negotiations with the U.S. and Israel during the latest Gaza crisis. Israel has taken note of the Turkish government’s shift. While Israel is not reckless or foolish enough to cancel profitable existing business relationships, future ones — especially in areas of such strategic import, like energy — will attract heavier scrutiny.  Some experts argue that this is sound policy. Why should Israel provide a strategic asset to an openly hostile leader like Erdogan? Others believe that, while Israel should still pursue the deal, it will not.  They explain that the deal is in Israel’s best interest, so why should it matter who stands at the other end? But, they claim, Netanyahu feels too bitterly toward Turkey’s AK Party government to countenance rebuilding strategic ties and selling them gas.  Whether Israel should or will sell to Turkey, few in Israel believe that a pipeline deal with Turkey is in the making in the near term. Turkey will carry on paying Russia and Iran’s steep fees, and Israel will await word on Noble’s future plans for Leviathan.  This is merely one consequence of the Gaza operation: the non-realization of a deal on natural gas that both sides want — and may desperately need. Dov Friedman is a graduate student at Yale University's Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. He is currently researching foreign policy in emerging energy states with support from the Coca-Cola World Fund. Follow him on Twitter @DovSFriedman. FREE AppDownload
The EconomistTHERE is a fine line between laudable perseverance and a stubborn refusal to admit that change is needed. Those running the World Trade Organisation (WTO) risk falling into the latter category. On July 31st an agreement to lubricate trade by streamlining customs rules worldwide collapsed.  Narendra Modi, India's new prime minister, refused to sign the deal, painstakingly thrashed out in Bali last year, because the WTO would not change its rules to let him expand food subsidies. The spat raises a new question-mark over Mr Modi: sound economics was the most respectable bit of his chequered CV. But it also shows that the WTO needs radical reform to survive. India is hardly the only protectionist when it comes to agriculture. Rich countries are the worst culprits. Japan's tariffs--778% on rice and 328% on sugar--aim to block trade completely, insulating its small and inefficient producers from competition. The European Union's common agricultural policy soaks up 40% of its budget. But Mr Modi has run away from reform. India's food subsidies are massive, costing around 1% of GDP. They lead to huge stockpiles of unwanted, rotting produce, and fan pervasive corruption (see "World trade: Bailing out from Bali"). Giving poor families cash or food stamps would be better at helping the neediest while minimising waste--as Brazil, for example, has demonstrated. That is permitted under WTO rules. Mr Modi should be working to change the subsidy regime instead of scuppering a deal that would have benefited India. So blame Mr Modi. But it was the job of Roberto Azevêdo, the WTO's director-general, to iron out such differences between members. Indian dissatisfaction with the WTO rules was allowed to build until it broke the Bali agreement--just as has happened before with other developing countries, even though the new emerging powers have most to gain from the stagnant "Doha round" of trade-liberalisation talks. The WTO's troubles run deeper still. Its core belief in the value of global trade liberalisation is shared by this newspaper. But the way the WTO pursues this goal, by seeking grand bargains covering many industries, is not working. In theory it should promote dealmaking: Europe, say, will let in more South American farm produce in return for being able to sell more cars to South America. In practice, rioting French farmers don't care whether Renault's sales rise in Brazil. Attempts to strike comprehensive pacts have caused deadlock. The Doha talks have dragged on for almost 13 years. The last big trade round was concluded in 1994, before the WTO was created. As the WTO has stumbled on, year after year, a "spaghetti bowl" of regional and bilateral trade agreements has filled the gap. This tangle of treaties, often with mutually incompatible rules, makes global pacts ever harder to reach. It also makes the bit of the WTO that works best--mediating between countries in trade disputes--less relevant. So Mr Azevêdo should ditch the all-encompassing deals to pursue a number of modest ones covering specific industries: seek a deal on cotton, for instance, not one lumping together various bits of farming with customs facilitation (as in the Bali proposal). He should aim to get each done in a matter of months. In each case, if consensus is not reached, a "coalition of the willing" should be allowed to sign up and start reaping the benefits. The foot-draggers would be allowed to join later. This would cut gamesmanship of the sort Mr Modi has just displayed. It would be a drastic departure from the way the WTO has done business. But two decades of sustained failure is too long. Don't let the best be the enemy of the good. Better to have some small trade deals than none at all. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
USDAWall Street is always coming up with new complex instruments to trade and invest in. But some surprisingly simple investments are still capable of making a killing. They just aren't the traditional investments. In a report released Tuesday by Bloomberg Markets Magazine, Devin Banerjee outlines some of the strange but highest-performing investments in the past couple of years. Ranging from fine wine to lean hogs, these commodities have gained exceptional returns. One such investment even went up 465% in only a year. Check out some of the weirdest investments that are making a fortune in the market. FREE AppDownload
Take this Wall Street word challenge to test your knowledge of finance lingo. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Flickr/elisfanclubJefferies CEO Richard Handler sent out a clever email to his employees, giving his bankers 10 Wall Street life lessons he wants them to learn this summer. The lessons are in the form of an imagined summer reading list. The books he lists are made-up, but within each title is a lesson he wants everyone to learn. Here's the email he sent to his employees:  In keeping with our strong desire to maintain maximum focus and momentum in August and into our fourth quarter, we came up with a way to make everyone’s life a little easier. When at the beach or in the mountains on vacation, it is always fun to bring along a few good books to help relax, unwind, and stretch the mind. With the goal of saving everyone some time, we have included our list of books we would like everyone to take with them on vacation. The good news is you need only read the titles and merely imagine the hundreds of pages that could fill each volume: Please stay focused in August on building Jefferies and enjoy any time away you may be taking. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaThe Seekonk River Bridge in Providence was recently featured on the Art in Ruins blog. For the better part of a century, Providence, Rhode Island, was known as "the jewelry capital of the world." At its peak, the city boasted an estimated 85% of the precious metals products manufactured in the U.S., and the industry was the state's primary source of revenue.  But by the 1980s, jewelry manufacturing was in a tailspin. Between 1978 and 1996, the number of jewelery employees shrank to 13,500 from 32,500, according to The New York Times. Today, Rhode Island employs just over 3,000 jewelry workers, a 70% drop from 2000. It's called the Ocean State, but Rhode Island might better be considered a satellite of the Rust Belt, as it's been in a state of unending decline for nearly three decades. At 7.9%, it now has the country's highest unemployment rate. A plurality of Rhode Islanders are now employed in either healthcare or tourism, while total manufacturing employment has declined 43% since 2000 to 41,000 workers, less than 10% of the overall workforce.   "Rhode Island became a post-manufacturing economy ... over 25 years ago," Len Lardaro, a University of Rhode Island economist, told Business Insider.   What happened?   Andy Kiersz for Business Insider "Several years ago a major American company offered to buy 100,000 corporate medallions from me if I could match, or even come close to, the unit prices they cost in Taiwan: twelve to fourteen cents each,” a retired Rhode Island jewelry executive told editor Ted Klein in his book on the state published in 2008. “I contacted nearly a dozen firms in Providence, and the cheapest price they could quote me was twenty-eight cents.” And yet the cost of doing business did not come down. The state's 9% corporate tax rate has long been one of the highest in the nation. Between 1988 and 1998, property values in the state's five largest cities declined by 24%, or more than $3.3 billion. At the same time, their effective tax rates went up by 44%, according to a 1999 report. And following the Great White concert disaster in 2003, which claimed 100 lives, the state revised its fire code in a way that Bryant University economics professor Ed Tebaldi says inadvertently made it one of the most expensive in the nation.  So the state put its hopes in housing. And it got clobbered. Property values climbed higher and fell harder than the national average, and have struggled to recover since. FRED Since the crash, lending standards have remained ineffectually high, Moody's Chris Lafakis said in a recent note, as the percentage of first mortgage holders with a credit score above 700 climbed much faster in Rhode Island than nationally. And the state's foreclosure inventory remains massive.  Many economists agree that there's only so much elected officials can do to turn around a state's fortunes. The best strategy is ultimately to limit losses and create an environment where companies can thrive. That has not happened in the Ocean State.  "The mindset of our elected officials is, 'When the economy turns around, when the economy turn around' — because most problems tend to be cyclical," Lardaro said. "But that doesn’t happen in a post-manufacturing economy. You have to reinvent yourself." State officials seemed to recognize this. In 2010, they began holding talks with former MLB pitcher Curt Schilling about investing in a project called 38 Studios, according to Boston Magazine's Jason Schwartz. Schilling's firm planned to create a new massively open online game, like The Sims. Faced with a non-existent industrial base and eager to get a foot in the door on what smelled like a techy, innovative source of growth, Rhode Island committed $75 million in loans to the firm. Two years later, 38 Studios filed for bankruptcy, the victim of poor timing in the business cycle, mismanagement, and, allegedly, fraud.  Schilling himself lost $50 million, but the damage to the state's finances, not to mention psyche, has proven more profound. The state now owes 38 studios bondholders $90 million, and just allocated $12.3 million for its latest interest payment.  "People from all persuasions are disgusted" that they remain on the hook for "a crackpot investment scheme concocted behind closed doors by politicians with possibly dubious motives," the Providence Journal said in a recent op-ed.   Repaying the state's obligations has become a central campaign issue in the race to replace Gov. Lincoln Chafee, who is stepping down. The field of five Providence hopefuls are actually split on the issue.   “38 Studios was a bad deal and a bad investment from the very beginning, and now Rhode Island taxpayers are being asked to take the hit for bondholders who should have known better," Republican candidate Ken Block said in May. "As long as there are serious legal questions still to be decided, we need to stop the repayment process.”  The 38 Studios boondoggle has driven state officials already struggling to turn the state around to distraction, Lardaro said. "Our elected officials are spending too much time there," he said. "They need to be looking to the future and addressing our structural deficiencies."  REUTERS/David McNew Former MLB player Curt Schilling with a reporter at the Electronic Entertainment Expo, or E3, in Los Angeles on June 9, 2011. In 2012, the state charged Schilling, along with Wells Fargo, which helped complete the deal, with misleading officials about 38 Studios' financial health. Lardaro said there was now discussion about whether to continue to make interest payments. The suit has now dragged into its third year.  "There's a lot of people who genuinely believe that if Rhode Island defaulted on its moral obligations, that there would be no consequences ... and that was an eye-opener to me," Lardaro said. "I didn't expect to see that kind of naivete ... They need to be looking to the future and addressing structural deficiencies."  State GDP growth now stands at 1.4%, and even before the financial crisis it had fallen below 2%.  Population is also down 2% from its peak. For all this, Rhode Island may have put its worst troubles behind it. Lafakis observes that food manufacturer Greencore recently signed a 50-year lease at a former military-base-turned business park in Kingstown to build a 400-worker facility that could be expanded later. Electric Boat is also hiring 650 workers to make Virginia-class submarines. And toymaker Hasbro, the state's remaining pillar of manufacturing, continues to see steady growth. Given the debacle involving Schilling, who pitched for the Red Sox, it's ironic that Lafakis says it may take a Boston rally to permanently revive the state's fortunes: The city of Boston's tepid recovery is holding back Rhode Island's growth. Ocean Staters will have to hope Boston finance and tech firms start getting priced out of the city and begin to move south across the border, he says. "Historically, businesses have relocated at a faster pace when office rents are rising strongly in Boston," he writes. "However, job growth in Boston has been sluggish for the past two years, and before rents can take off, office space left vacant during the recession needs to be absorbed. Since Boston’s economy is expected to trail the nation’s until 2016, growth will be lackluster in RI." Until recently, betting on Red Sox Nation was always a bad move. But the state doesn't seem to have much choice these days. Quonset Development Corporation/FacebookThe Quonset Business Park is now home to one of the largest rooftop solar arrays in New England.     FREE AppDownload
The biggest question mark in the economy remains: Is inflation going to accelerate to the point where the Fed feels compelled to pull forward the estimated timeline for hiking interest rates. While there are many ways to measure inflation, and lots of moving parts within any given inflation gauge, the one thing the Fed really has its eyes out for is wage inflation, which is a sign that the labor market is getting tight, and that it may be team for the Fed to slow down a little bit on its easing. The data on this front continues to be quite mixed. The July Jobs Report, for example, showed that wage growth was practically non-existent, and was therefore nothing for the Fed to be concerned about. But other indicators suggest that wage pressures are building. This week we got the latest look at Unit Labor Costs, and it appeared to show that the cost of workers is going up. Here's how Barclays' Dean Maki explained it: ...there were substantial revisions to data for previous quarters due to the incorporation of the recent annual revisions of the National Income and Product Accounts, and the revised data show slower recent growth in productivity and faster growth in unit labor costs. For example, the y/y growth rate of productivity in Q1 2014 was revised to 0.7% from 1.0%, while unit labor cost growth was revised to 2.6% from 1.2%. In Q2 2014, productivity increased 1.2% y/y, while unit labor costs rose 1.9%. This release also includes the broadest measure of compensation per hour growth, and this increased 3.1% y/y in Q2 2014. This suggests that compensation is growing faster than narrower measures such as average hourly earnings or the Employment Cost Index suggest. Overall, we view the rise in compensation and unit labor costs revealed in this report as a modestly positive influence on core inflation in coming months. This chart, from Pantheon Macroeconomics, shows the noisy, upward trend: Pantheon FREE AppDownload
Let's just stop for a moment, and appreciate what's happening in the world of layoffs these days. Here's a chart of the four-week moving average of initial weekly jobless claims divided by the total employment level. FRED There are very few job cuts these days. We're close to the best levels of the last two booms, and far better than even the best spot of the previous few decades. While the pace of job creation could still be better, the pace of job elimination is astounding. FREE AppDownload
This mantra has been beaten into the brains of investors over the last 20 years like no other “fact” in the investment industry: “80% of active managers underperform index funds” And it’s true.  I cite this in my book and regularly cite it here at Pragcap.  But in order to really understand this point you have to also put it in the right perspective.  Here’s my attempt to do so. t’s not surprising that the more “passive” indexing community is beating its chest left and right during the course of a bull market in which there have been virtually no significant market declines.  After all, this is when active managers just about always underperform.  Of course, we always see this sort of behavioral bias AFTER a huge bull market is in place.  So this shouldn’t be remotely surprising. If we look at the history of the stock market we know that stocks rise the vast majority of the time – generally somewhere between 70-80% of the time.  So, any active investor who isn’t 100% fully invested is likely to underperform a highly correlated index after taxes and fees.  The data on this is pretty conclusive and the basic logic behind it confirms it.  The flip side, of course, is that most active managers are holding cash positions or hedging portfolios at times during the cycle so they’re never 100% invested to begin with.  So, when we see studies that claim active mangers underperform the index we should not be ONE BIT surprised. Now, since the market rises most of the time the more active manager will tend to underperform.  But studies also consistently show that active managers OUTPERFORM on the downside.  For instance, this study by Sungarden Investment Research: “During the two bull periods, the index outperformed 80% and 63% of its peers. However, during the down market cycles (bear), the index beat only 34% and 38% of its active management competitors. This is one of the most consistent conclusions we have seen in this and other studies — that active managers, in the aggregate, are effective in curbing some of the losses in the worst of times.” This data is also confirmed broadly by hedge fund performance.  Active managers who are engaging in true hedging strategies underperform in bull markets and outperform in bear markets.  This shouldn’t be remotely surprising.  The thing is, since the market is in a bull market 70-80% of the time then active management tends to look bad over the course of the business cycle because the performance is skewed towards the underperformance of the bull market (because it’s the majority of the cycle). So, does any of this matter?  Does the underperformance of active managers over the course of the cycle mean you should dump any sort of “active” fund and buy low fee index funds?  I prefer to be less dogmatic in my views about this than most others.  And I think that some degree of active management can be useful at times in mitigating the downside risks in a portfolio.  Especially if you can access that active management for a reasonable fee without many of the frictions involved in common active management styles. Don’t get me wrong.  The movement against active management is largely built on good intentions.  We should reduce fees, frictions and tax inefficiencies as best we can.  Managers who charge high fees to mimic an index are a colossal waste of time and money.  But I think we have to also be wary of this sometimes dogmatic movement against any form of active management.  After all, when it comes down to it, we are all active to some degree (evenindexing king Rick Ferri confesses to being somewhat active!) and so this line in the sand really makes no sense to begin with.  The more important point is achieving a portfolio construction process that helps you align your risk tolerance and financial goals with the most efficient portfolio you can maintain.  That might involve more “active” portfolio construction and it might not. *  This analysis excludes any review of “closet index funds” and those funds charging high fees to replicate what an index fund essentially does (which, sadly, is the vast majority of active managers).  Most studies showing the “underperformance” of active managers aren’t really studying active managers, but are studying closet index funds, which will, by definition, almost always underperform a highly correlated index over time).   Shorter version: FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDallas suburbs. While people worry about the greying of the U.S., and how we'll support so many retirees, there's another big story playing out: An increasingly young workforce is poised help the economy and the housing market in a big way. For years, very few people have nailed the big, economic themes like Bill McBride, at the economics blog Calculated Risk. McBride's blog took off, famously, when he nailed the housing crash, while others were still saying that "housing only goes up." But unlike many others who have "called the crash" on their resume, McBride didn't stay reflexively bearish. He also called the housing bottom, and the pickup in the economy. We wrote about his call back in early 2012, and it's proved to be accurate. In addition to getting housing right, McBride has generally been right on the overall economy, as well as other interesting sub-stories, like the comeback of California, and the improvement of the state's finances (remember when everyone thought it was going the way of Greece?). Anyway, lately he's been warming up the next big story: The big demographics tailwind coming to the U.S. economy. Earlier this week he spotted that in 2013, for the first time in several years, more babies were born in the U.S. than in the year before (it's slight, but you gotta start somewhere).  Calculated Risk Back in June he noted that the 20-to-24 demographic is now the largest population cohort in the U.S. Now a crucial thing here is that while the 20-to-24 cohort is the largest now, in a few years, the largest group will be those of prime-age workers: 25-to-29, the age at which people really begin to earn better money and buy homes and cars. Calculated Risk McBride argues that currently, with so many 20-to-24-year-olds, the demographics are very favorable to apartment renting. And so of course these days, the multi-family housing sector has been leading the way. And you hear all these stories about how people aren't into homeownership anymore. But the demographics that are currently favorable to apartments will turn into demographics favorable to homeownership, as the cohort gets older, moves into higher paying jobs, and wants more space for those new babies. McBride pointed out as such on Twitter, how things were aligning favorably for homeownership. This is clearly a big story to watch. And while we're talking about housing, we should also take just a minute to talk about inflation. Matt Busigin wrote a great piece last year, talking about the non-monetary causes of inflation, and how demographics is a much bigger driver of inflation than people realize. Many of the same factors discussed above could contribute to higher inflation, as a younger workforce moves into its first homes and first cars, and has real buying power for the first time. One chart from Busigin's post drives home a lot, and that's spending by age cohort. You can see how consumer expenditure overall really accelerates as people move into their mid-to-late 20s. As you consider the above table, showing how the 25-to-29 aged cohort will be the largest by 2020, you can appreciate the significant economic tailwind to come. Matt Busigin  FREE AppDownload
US credit growth continues to accelerate, reaching the highest year-over-year pace since the Great Recession. FRED In 2012 the growth was primarily driven by corporate debt (chart below) as banks remained cautious on real estate and consumer lending. While corporate loan growth remains strong - at around 11% per year - other sectors are now experiencing faster credit expansion. FRED In a complete contrast to the situation in the Eurozone, both real estate (particularly commercial) and consumer credit growth rates have improved materially this year. Consumer credit is no longer just driven by autos, with credit card debt picking up as well. FRED  FRED The only major headwinds for this trend currently are some of the geopolitical risks (Iraq, Russia, etc.). Consumers, companies, and banks are still fairly jittery and it won't take much to dampen the supply of and/or the demand for credit.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders are pictured at their desks in front of the DAX board at the Frankfurt stock exchangeBy John O'Donnell FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Investors will gauge the strength of the euro zone's fragile economy this week as escalating conflicts in Ukraine and Iraq darken the mood globally. In stark contrast to the United States and Britain, which are growing strongly, economic output in the euro bloc is likely to have all but ground to a halt in the three months to June. Its star economy, Germany, is losing momentum and Italy is sliding back into recession. "The United States and the United Kingdom are going to be among the fastest-growing economies both this year and next," said James Knightley, an economist with ING. "In Europe, the situation seems to be going into reverse." The growing sanctions fight between Russia and the West over Moscow's backing of rebels in Ukraine and U.S. air strikes to block Islamist militants in Iraq are also upsetting the markets. On Thursday, the European Union announces economic output data for the 18 countries in the euro zone for the April-June quarter, and Germany will reveal its own gross domestic product for the same period. By these yardsticks, neither Germany nor the wider euro zone are expected to see much, if any, improvement on the first three months of the year. To compound matters, tit-for-tat sanctions between Moscow and the European Union and fears that Russia could even invade eastern Ukraine are already sapping business confidence and will eat into paltry economic growth later this year. Not only does Moscow supply about a third of the European Union's gas needs, trade ties in other areas between Russia and Europe run deep. German energy giant E.ON, for instance, has invested 6 billion euros ($8 billion) since 2007 in Russia, while chemicals firm BASF has a joint venture with Gazprom. "For a long time, the market has been ignoring the geopolitical risks," said Gregor Eder, an economist with Allianz, one of the globe's largest fund investors. "The escalation in Ukraine and a spiral of sanctions could be a turning point for that. Exports to Russia were already falling even before Ukraine and could fall further. The Iraq crisis increases nervousness further."   PAY CHECK With Europe looking gloomy and the days of mega-growth in China over, the United States has offered some hope for the world economy. Investors will seek to gauge the strength of the U.S. rebound by examining the latest figures for retail sales and producer prices there. Many are looking for reassurance, as they are in Britain, that economic growth is trickling down to workers' pay - important proof that the recovery will stick when central banks make it more expensive to borrow. But the Bank of England is set to acknowledge surprisingly weak pay growth on Wednesday when it publishes economic projections, raising questions about Britain's readiness for its first interest rate hike since the financial crisis. Although unemployment is set to fall, earnings are also forecast to be lower than a year earlier. There is a similar gap in the United States between rising numbers of people in work and lagging pay. "To have confidence in the recovery in the United States and United Kingdom, wages need to rise in line with credit," said ING's Knightley. "The cost of living continues to exceed wage growth. People need to see that they have more cash at the end of the month so that they are not borrowing out of necessity." In China, industrial output readings will give investors a glimpse of the country's performance in the third quarter of the year after government moves to boost lending to business, such as shrinking the amount of cash that banks must hold in reserve. China's economy gathered pace slightly to grow by 7.5 percent in the second quarter as the government stepped up construction of railways and public housing. But a downturn in property prices, despite efforts to make it easier to buy, as well as high local government debts, are holding up the economy. Analysts believe that deeper reforms, such as overhauling giant state companies, will be needed in the long term to keep the economy growing at the pace the authorities want. In the meantime, the euro zone remains the globe's problem child. Last week, the European Central Bank signalled that it stood ready to print money and buy bonds if the euro zone deteriorated, a pledge to act that the Frankfurt-based bank has made many times in the past. ECB President Mario Draghi underscored that he would not be discouraged from taking such action by the fact that the United States was plotting a different course. His words alone, however, may not be sufficient to reassure investors unnerved at the prospect of the U.S. Federal Reserve drawing the purse strings ever tighter. "There has been this fantastic monetary policy experiment where policy has never been looser," said Paul Dales of Capital Economics, which advises companies and others. "You have to get things back to normal. But no-one really knows how it's going to play out because no-one has been through it before." (1 US dollar = 0.7470 euro)   (Additional reporting by Kevin Yao in Beijing, Martin Santa in Brussels, William Schomberg in London and Jason Lange in Washington; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
