*NOTE: The price of brent crude fell to $67.90 on Nov. 30, the lowest level since February 2010. It's down by more than $40 per barrel since this past summer. Oil prices have been tumbling, with brent crude down sharply* from about $115 earlier this summer. A research note from Societe Generale's Michala Marcussen takes a look at the possible effects of a drop in oil prices on the world economy. She plugged a sustained $20/barrel drop in oil prices into Britain's National Institute of Economic and Social Research's NiGEM software, a sophisticated global macroeconomic model, and saw what would happen to global GDP in the following years. Oil-exporting countries would experience an immediate negative shock to GDP growth as a result of the oil price drop. Meanwhile, there might be a strong bump in GDP growth for oil-importing countries, most notably the US, Canada, and some countries in Asia. The researchers include numerous caveats, given that economic simulations and predictions of this nature are always filled with assumptions and uncertainties. Societe Generale's results are summarized in the chart. The blue part of the bars show the effect of the price drop after one year, brown after two years, and gray after three years. "As seen from the chart, a $20/b decline in the oil price adds 0.26pp to World GDP after the first year of the shock," Marcussen wrote. Russia stands out as the big loser in the first year. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Anyone in America who drives a car is probably happy to see crashing oil prices translate to falling gasoline prices. WTI crude oil has gone from above $100/barrel this summer all the way down to around $76/barrel* this week. While the economy is likely to benefit from improved consumer sentiment, low oil prices also come with negative effects. Specifically, if prices get too low, then energy companies won't be able to cover the cost of production in the US. This spending by energy companies, also known as capital expenditures, is responsible for a lot of jobs. "The Energy sector accounts for roughly one-third of S&amp;P 500 capex and nearly 25% of combined capex and R&amp;D spending," Goldman Sachs' Amanda Sneider writes. Wall Street's economists and stock market strategists have argued that the next leg of the recovery and bull market would be fueled by a boom in capex across US businesses. So a slowdown in energy industry spending could mean trouble. "Our commodity strategists estimate that US oil production growth slows at a WTI price of $75/bbl, which they forecast will be reached in 1Q 2015. Even before then, the nearly 30% decline in crude oil prices since June has likely caused many firms to rethink planned capex." Goldman, however, is optimistic that we won't experience a worst-case scenario. "A slowdown in Energy sector investment will weigh on aggregate S&amp;P 500 capex spending in 2015, although growth for the sector, and accordingly for the broad S&amp;P 500, should reaccelerate as oil prices rebound in 2H 2015." *UPDATE: The price of WTI crude fell to $64.10 on Nov. 30, the lowest level since June 2009. FREE AppDownload
Chinese manufacturing disappointed again in November. The country's manufacturing PMI missed expectations, coming in at 50.3; analysts expected 50.5. Any number under 50 indicates a contraction in the country's manufacturing sector. HSBC's Chinese manufacturing PMI held steady at October's number — 50.0, right at the breakeven point. This continues a worrisome trend for the country. In October, manufacturing PMI came in at 50.8 — analysts expected 51.1. Until a few weeks ago, President Xi Jinping's administration seemed ready to watch the economy slow down — it even seemed OK with watching 2014 GDP miss its 7.5% target rate. State media reported that anyone in support of a rate cut by the People's Bank of China was not a patriot. Then the PBOC "cut" rates earlier this month. It wasn't a real cut — basically, it dropped the floor for key interest rates but maintained the ceiling, so banks could still charge the same rate if they wanted to. The move was more an indication that more action may be coming, and the markets loved it. Numbers like this PMI miss, however, could upset markets again. A head fake is not enough to cure what ails the Chinese economy — a corporate sector laden with debt that it passes on to Chinese banks. "China's debt problem lies with the corporate sector," Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao wrote in a note. "The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather than another stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand." FREE AppDownload
Chinese manufacturing disappointed again in November. The country's manufacturing PMI missed expectations, coming in at 50.3; analysts expected 50.5. Any number under 50 indicates a contraction in the country's manufacturing sector. HSBC's Chinese manufacturing PMI held steady at October's number — 50.0, right at the breakeven point. This continues a worrisome trend for the country. In October, manufacturing PMI came in at 50.8 — analysts expected 51.1. Until a few weeks ago, President Xi Jinping's administration seemed ready to watch the economy slow down — it even seemed OK with watching 2014 GDP miss its 7.5% target rate. State media reported that anyone in support of a rate cut by the People's Bank of China was not a patriot. Then the PBOC "cut" rates earlier this month. It wasn't a real cut — basically, it dropped the floor for key interest rates but maintained the ceiling, so banks could still charge the same rate if they wanted to. The move was more an indication that more action may be coming, and the markets loved it. Numbers like this PMI miss, however, could upset markets again. A head fake is not enough to cure what ails the Chinese economy — a corporate sector laden with debt that it passes on to Chinese banks. "China's debt problem lies with the corporate sector," Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao wrote in a note. "The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather than another stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand." FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's fall into recession between July-September could turn out to be less severe than feared, with new capital expenditure figures out on Monday suggesting revisions will put third quarter economic growth in a more positive light. The 5.5 percent year-on-year rise in capital expenditure over the third quarter reported on Monday followed a 3.0 percent annual increase in April-June, which could ease concerns about recovery from a sales tax increase earlier this year. "The revised data will show a smaller contraction in GDP that could be close to zero," said Hiroaki Muto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. "Other data on consumer spending, factory output and business investment show these three factors will drive future growth." Compared with the previous quarter, capital spending excluding software rose a seasonally adjusted 3.1 percent, versus a 1.5 percent decline in April-June in an encouraging sign of vigorous business investment. Preliminary data showed the economy contracted an annualized 1.6 percent in July-September, confirming Japan had entered its third recession in the past four years as a sales tax hike in April hurt consumer spending and business investment. In preliminary GDP data, capital expenditure shrank 0.2 percent, versus the median estimate for 0.9 percent increase. Revised gross domestic product data is due on Dec. 8. The finance ministry data released on Monday is used to re-calculate the capital expenditure component of GDP. The recession set the stage for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to delay a second sales tax hike that was originally scheduled for next year. Pushing back the tax hike has eased concerns about consumer spending, but the recession has also shown that Abe's policies have not been enough to strengthen the underlying economy - even after some two years in office. Economists expect Japan to resume growth in the current quarter as consumer spending, and Monday's strong capital expenditure, show that growth will become more broad-based.   (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Gold is getting smoked this morning and its fall has added to the already bearish Aussie dollar outlook as global investors and traders re-rate the prospects of the economy, interest rates and dollar. BI AustraliaThe outlook for the Aussie remains negative with numerous local and offshore banks having downgraded Aussie dollar forecasts to 80 cents and below. But there is at least one sign that the Aussie dollar might be getting closer to support with this recent fall. Traders will be watching the bottom of the down trend channel in which the Aussie has been in for 3 years now – it comes in at 0.8367 this week. So maybe, just maybe, the Aussie will find some support down here. BI Australia This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Gold is getting smoked. On Sunday night, gold was down more than 4% to as low as $1,143 an ounce after voters in Switzerland on Sunday rejected a measure that would have required the Swiss National Bank to increase its gold reserves to 20% of its holdings from 8%. The vote failed by a margin of 78% to 22%. In addition to the drop in gold, crude oil prices are resuming their tumble, and the price of other precious metals — silver and platinum — were also down sharply.  Silver futures were down 12% early Sunday night, and platinum futures were down more than 3%. Copper prices were also lower by 4% in what is a rough night for the metals markets. Here are the ugly gold and silver charts. FinViz FinViz FREE AppDownload
The weekend is over and West Texas Intermediate crude futures are below $65 for the first time since May 2010. In early Sunday night trading, WTI futures were resuming their tumble that sent crude to $66 for the first time in more than four years. Oil futures were down more than 2%, or $1.40 a barrel, to as low as $64.72. Brent crude prices were also sliding, falling to their lowest level since May 2010.  The decline in oil prices accelerated aggressively on Thursday after the latest OPEC meeting saw the oil cartel decline to curb production in an effort to combat the recent tumble in oil prices. Here's the chart of Sunday night's drop. FinViz FREE AppDownload
 More than 50% lower. That is how far Canadian billionaire Murray Edwards, chairman of Canadian Natural Resource, thinks oil prices can fall from here. Speaking with the Canadian business publication Financial Post, Edwards said: "Prices could spike down to $30, $40. It got down to $35 in 2008, for a very short period of time." Edwards told Financial Post's Claudia Cattaneo: "On a given day you can have market fluctuations where prices fluctuate far more than the underlying economic value of the unit." He added, though, that if oil were to fall to $30 or $40 a barrel, he didn't expect it would stay that low. "The better question is where does it stabilize, and that $70-$75 area is probably not a bad place to stabilize for a period of time until you get more balance in term of growth in demand and some supply response," Edwards said. On Friday, West Texas Intermediate crude prices settled at about $66 a barrel, about $8 a barrel below where they started the week, as Thursday's announcement from OPEC that it would not move to cut production sent prices tumbling. Edwards also told Financial Post that drilling projects that were underway and had a longer-term horizon would most likely continue, but future projects could be shelved because of the recent declines.  Edwards said that Canadian Natural Resource would reduce its capital expenditures next year. Shares of Canadian Natural fell more than 9% Friday amid a massive sell-off in oil stocks following the plunge in crude oil prices.  You can read the full report from Financial Post here »     FREE AppDownload
AKITA CITY, Japan (Reuters) - Mihoko Asaka wants to know how candidates in this month's election in Japan will create jobs and halt the drastic population decline that is bleeding her home region of youth and vitality, but has little hope they will offer real solutions. Like many of his age group, her 25-year-old son left the largely rural prefecture of Akita in northeastern Japan to find work after graduating from college. "I'm interested to see how much they are listening to the voices from this region," said Asaka, 57, waiting for a bus in Akita City, the prefecture's capital. "But I don't think our voices are being heard. They talk about money being thrown around, but we can't see where it goes." Critics say Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's policies to end deflation and generate growth have helped mainly big cities, large companies and the rich by boosting share prices and exporters' profits with a hyper-easy monetary policy that has slashed the value of the yen and sent asset prices higher. All too aware of the criticism, Abe has made spreading the benefits of his "Abenomics" agenda to "every nook and cranny" of Japan a key plank of his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) platform for the Dec. 14 lower house election. The LDP-led ruling coalition is expected to keep its lower house majority, so interest is focused on whether and to what extent its grip on two-thirds of the chamber erodes. Akita prefecture, with the dubious distinction of having Japan's highest suicide rate and fastest-shrinking population, definitely needs a boost. Already, about 30 percent of its population is aged 65 and over compared to 25 percent nationwide, with the ratio predicted to rise to more than 40 percent by 2040, when Akita's total population will have fallen by more than a third to 700,000. The prefecture has had scant success attracting new businesses. Average annual wages ranked 45th out of 47 prefectures in 2013, while Akita's minimum wage of 679 yen ($6) per hour lags far behind Tokyo's 888 yen. "Abenomics isn't helping Akita," said a 65-year-old former banker who declined to give his name. "It just keeps sinking."  Some local executives argue Abenomics is working, at least by beginning to alter the deflationary mindset that has kept Japanese companies in downsizing mode for two decades. Akita's jobs-applicants ratio hit 0.93 in October, still way below Tokyo's 1.59 but a 22-year high for the prefecture. "Before, things were completely dark. Now we can see a little light," Hiroki Miura, chairman of the Akita Chamber of Commerce and Industry, told Reuters, adding that sharp cuts in public works spending by the previous Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) government had hit the local economy hard. Some business leaders had hoped Abe's plan to legalize casinos could be a boost for the region but the outlook is murky after legislation died in parliament due to the election. Florist Masanori Sato, head of a local shopowners association, said he'd felt a gradual improvement in business until a sales tax rise to 8 percent took effect in April. Abe has postponed a second sales tax hike to 10 percent for 18 months from a planned October 2015 start. "So far, Abenomics has mostly helped the center, but I feel as if it will start to spread after a while," he said in his tiny flower shop filled with Christmas decorations. Like elsewhere in Japan, however, Akita wage increases have not kept pace with rising prices, and union officials said many of the new jobs on offer are for lower-paid temporary workers. The LDP is traditionally strong in the region, but Abe's decision to call a snap poll after just two years in office is making it hard for the LDP to generate enthusiasm. Voter turnout could mark another record low, in Akita as well as nationwide.  "Last time, the wind blowing against the DPJ was very strong," said Yoichi Suzuki, vice-chairman of the LDP's Akita urban branch, referring to a voter backlash in 2012 against the then-ruling Democrats sometimes chaotic 2009-2012 reign. "This time ... there is no wind at all." As elsewhere, voter disaffection could help the LDP, since it can still mobilize core supporters, although local politicians said LDP-friendly farmers are upset over falling rice prices and could turn to a rival conservative candidate in one of the prefecture's three election districts. Civil servant Mihoko Iwasawa, 55, doesn't plan to vote. "I'll just keep quiet and hope the LDP wins," she said, chatting with a former classmate in a coffee shop. While anti-Democrat anger may have waned a bit, it has far from evaporated. "It's impossible to suddenly restore our image in this election," DPJ candidate Manabu Terata told Reuters. A 38-year-old former aide to DPJ premier Naoto Kan, Terata is bidding to regain his lower house seat. Housewife Fumiko, 66, voted for the DPJ in 2009 but didn't cast a ballot three years later. This time, she has yet to make up her mind. "There are a lot of people who can't vote for any party with confidence," she said, declining to give her family name. "I'm one of them." (1 U.S. dollar = 118.6100 Japanese yen)   (Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker expects more gains for stocks in 2015. "We head into 2015 bullish for the 3rd straight year," Parker wrote in Morgan Stanley's new 2015 Global Strategy Outlook report. "Our 12-month forward target for year-end 2015 is 2275, offering about 10% upside to today’s price, based on 7% earnings growth in 2015 and 2016 and modest further multiple expansion to near 17x forward earnings." Parker's expectation for more multiple expansion (that is the ratio of stock price-to-earnings) flies in the face of of the bears who warn the already elevated multiples will contract bringing stock prices down with them. Indeed, you could actually argue he's going against his old self: after misforecasting the multiple back in 2012 he wrote, "Only the hubristic deign to project the market multiple." You could say Parker and his colleagues are actively trolling the bears with the title of their note: "Equities: It Ain't A Bubble Yet." Here's more color from his note: Multiple higher? The core of our thesis is that we are in the middle of a long US expansion, one that may last until 2020. Economic factors like consumer confidence, financial obligations, and delinquencies are all improving and the consumer may be more insulated than investors think from a back-up in yields, given 75% of their financial obligations are in the form of a mortgage, close to 90% of all mortgages are 30-year fixed, and the average mortgage is termed out at the lowest rate ever. Corporate behavior may also favor a long expansion. Capital spending remains constrained, inventory levels look under control, hiring remains muted, and M&amp;A is still nascent. Furthermore, credit metrics generally look benign. Financial obligations have been pushed out several years, and the interest-bearing portion of today’s loans looks quite manageable given high interest coverage. Taking these factors into account, we generally think it pays to remain sanguine. That's a pretty encouraging framework, and all of it fits into his ongoing thesis that the S&amp;P 500 could hit 3,000 by 2020 before topping out. For some context, here's a look at the forward  earnings multiple Parker believes could go higher. Via Factset. FactSet With that 2,275 target, Parker becomes the second most bullish Wall Street strategist followed by Business Insider. Below are some of the other calls. It's worth noting that Parker isn't blind to the risks out there. "Besides the appearance of signs of late-cycle behavior, the biggest risk in our view to the US market outlook is a slowdown in the US economy," he writes. "A run of bad data on jobs or ISM surveys would leave us dealing with less liquidity (post tapering) and less growth, likely instilling some incremental fear of an earnings plateau or decline." This is on top of uncertainty regarding how the Federal Reserve plans to execute tighter monetary policy. Parker's bear-case scenario sees the S&amp;P 500 dropping 17% to 1,700. FREE AppDownload
What happened to overtime?  The extra-pay-for-extra-work idea has fallen out of fashion in most salaried, non-unionized workplaces, largely because it's no longer legally required. In Politico Magazine, Nick Hanauer writes of the hallowing out of the middle class: In 1975, more than 65 percent of salaried American workers earned time-and-a-half pay for every hour worked over 40 hours a week. Not because capitalists back then were more generous, but because it was the law. It still is the law, except that the value of the threshold for overtime pay—the salary level at which employers are required to pay overtime—has been allowed to erode to less than the poverty line for a family of four today. Only workers earning an annual income of under $23,660 qualify for mandatory overtime. Overtime, Hanauer says, "is absolutely essential to creating a broad and thriving middle class." This has been true in my own experience. In my former job as a Reuters journalist, I qualified for overtime pay for work I did above 35 hours a week. I frequently put in 40+ — 45+ if you consider I rarely took a lunch "hour". It's hard to account for all of those hours in the age of the web journalist (when I check the notifications for the Reuters twitter account I ran in bed on my phone while also browsing my own personal account, am I working? What about when I eat lunch at my desk but am flipping between Amazon and my work?). So I often billed for about 40 hours, but sometimes a little under. I always noticed when my paycheck was larger, but because I had direct deposit, I never really checked to see exactly how much it added to my pay on my payslip. So I went back to my last paycheck and looked at the year-to-date totals. In the first three quarters of 2014 (I left for BI in late September) overtime added 13.73% to my salary. Without totally revealing my salary, let's say that it came out to be less than the price of a car, but was enough for a new bike, a couple of weekend trips, and a new TV. The thing about overtime (in my experience) is you can't always count on it, so it can be hard to factor into your monthly fixed costs. That means that when it does come, it often goes straight to either savings or consumption. I didn't rely on it, but it allowed me to have a little bit of cushion in my life. And I put a lot of that money back into the economy (let's discuss what it did for Reuters' budget another day). If it can do that for a single person with very few expenses beyond rent, travel, and health insurance, imagine what it could do for the average American family. FREE AppDownload
Shanghai (AFP) - China's housing prices fell on a monthly basis for the seventh straight month in November, a survey showed Sunday, with the market yet to feel the full impact of an interest rate cut. The average price of a new home in China's 100 major cities was 10,589 yuan ($1,736) per square metre in November, down 0.38 percent from October, the independent China Index Academy said in a statement. The fall was a slight improvement from the 0.40 percent month-on-month drop in October, previous figures showed. "We expect the interest rate cut to kick in next year," Bai Yanjun, research director for the China Index Academy, told AFP. "We still believe the market is under downward pressure for the rest of 2014 because the current home inventory levels in first-tier and major second-tier cities are still high," he said. China cut both lending and deposit rates just over a week ago, and analysts said home mortgage buyers would be among the biggest beneficiaries. "The rate cut sends a strong signal that the property market will likely bottom out soon," China economist for Merrill Lynch Hong Kong, Lu Ting, said in a research note. On a year-on-year basis, China's new home prices fell 1.57 percent from the same month last year, far sharper that the annual fall of 0.52 percent in October, the academy said. But for China's ten biggest cities -- which tend to have the most active property markets -- new home prices rose 0.07 percent in November from October, marking the first gain after six months of declines, it said.  The commercial city of Shanghai was the best performing with housing prices rising 1.18 percent in November from October to 32,140 yuan per square metre, making it the second most expensive city behind the capital Beijing. China had previously sought to rein in runaway property prices, a source of discontent among ordinary citizens, by introducing market control measures including limits on buying second and third homes. But cities began rolling back some of the measures this year, as China's economy slowed and the central government relented. The surprise interest rate cut was the first in more than two years, raising expectations the central bank will carry out further monetary easing to keep the world's second largest economy on track. China's central bank cut the benchmark one-year lending rate by 0.40 percentage points to 5.60 percent, and trimmed the one-year deposit rate by 0.25 percentage points to 2.75 percent. FREE AppDownload
Pop quiz! What’s a "zombie bank?" No, it’s not the latest Halloween costume to hit the shelves. It’s actually a term that’s used to describe insolvent banks that are being kept barely alive through government support or bailouts. If that phrase is new to you, you’re not alone. There are all sorts of economic terms that get tossed about in the news that don’t exactly lend themselves to intuitive understanding — making finance feel like an exclusive club with its own secret language. But New York Times best-selling author and journalist John Lanchester argues that everyone can — and should — be a part of the inner circle. In his new book, "How to Speak Money," Lanchester makes the case that everyone is capable of understanding how the economy works … as long as they can demystify all the acronyms and jargon. Since we’re all for helping people feel more confident about their finances, we sat down with Lanchester to learn more about his book — and even which concepts he finds confusing. John Lanchester: I’m an outsider myself to the world of finance and economics, and I found that the first obstacle to following this stuff was the vocabulary. It’s the first thing that gets in the way when you’re trying to learn, and it’s an essential tool to have in order to be engaged in the conversation. Finance can feel exclusive if you’re not following the thread. And that can make you feel powerless. The credit crunch during the recession was a very confusing time for me and for many others. We were all minding our own business, thinking that things were running along just fine — and suddenly there was this systemic convulsion (the recession, that is) that affected everyone. It was as if the global financial institute reached into everyone’s life and started messing with the settings. That was the moment when I felt an urgency to understand the world of finance — since there didn’t seem to be a system in place that I could really trust. RELATED: 6 Rookie Portfolio Mistakes Even Seasoned Investors Make Flickr / -Ben ThompsonFinancial terminology isn't intuitive, but some reading on the subject should help. It’s the fact that the terminology isn’t intuitive. Look at the plumbing industry, for example. It has its own jargon, and while you may not know the exact difference between a J-bend and a U-bend pipe, you can roughly figure out what they mean. But when I say "quantitative easing," well, there’s simply nothing there to help you understand what those terms mean — there’s no way in. It sounds bland, like a medication someone would take for constipation, but it’s actually a huge and slightly scary financial experiment. You have to go and find the explanation on your own. RELATED: 6 Ways Big-Picture Economic Trends Can Impact Your Wallet We could go round and round on that one and not get anywhere. You can’t prove it one way or another. There are some terms that financial professionals know in their bones and outsiders simply don’t. "Compound interest" is one. It’s not a complicated idea, but it’s one that insiders have in their DNA, so they toss it around without ever stopping to explain what it means. That’s an example not of deliberate exclusion but rather hard-wired, baked-in knowledge. But the important thing to consider here is the effect. If someone is talking about "vanilla mezzanine RMBS synthetic CDO," it doesn’t matter if the confusion is deliberate or not. The net effect is that you’re left feeling completely excluded. Editor’s note: Vanilla mezzanine RMBS synthetic CDO is a type of financial product that played a role in the subprime mortgage crisis. RMBS stands for residential mortgage-backed security, while CDO stands for collateralized debt obligation. How’s that for a mouthful? There’s a classic Peanuts Comic Strip cartoon where Charlie Brown and Peppermint Patty are talking about that comfortable, safe feeling you get sleeping in the back of the car while your parents are in the front doing all of the driving and the worrying. And then, one day, all of a sudden it’s you in the front and there’s no going back. When it comes to the world of economics, right now we’re all in the front of the car. As we all learned during the recession, there’s no grown-up in charge. You have to take responsibility for your own economic choices. When people aren’t informed, the texture of our democracy thins. Democracy implies an informed electorate. And if we go into the ballot booth making decisions at random, that’s a problem. RELATED: Financial Power Trip: How to Show Your Money Who’s Boss Flickr/DellFinancial concepts, just like words, can be confusing. For one, there’s the relationship between credit and debt, which is really important and often misunderstood. The thing we call "credit" is really debt. It’s not a credit card, it’s a debt card. That’s not complicated or fancy, but understanding that is really just being honest with yourself. And then there are terms that, oddly enough, turn out to mean the opposite of what they sound like. For example, "securitization" sounds like a process that makes things safe. But what it really means is that you’re taking one big risk and spreading it into smaller risks. Let’s say I lend you money. I have to think really hard about whether you can pay me back. But I don’t need to worry about the risk if I securitize the loan, which means I transfer the loan to others and get paid back immediately. Now the borrower is paying back the people I transferred the loan to. But that breaks down the link between the lender and the borrower. This happened a lot during the recession — and people were given loans that they could never pay back. So, in this case, securitization wasn’t very secure at all. RELATED: Mortgages 101: What You Need to Know There should be increased transparency between experts and consumers. During the financial crisis, the riskiest and least understood product, a subprime mortgage, was sold to the least informed consumers. That sounds crazy, but it’s normal. There isn’t enough consumer protection at the point of sale, so everyone needs to adopt an increased sense that they are responsible for their own education. What I found works is simply following what happens day to day in the news. Every time you don’t understand a term, look it up. Over time you will build up a map of terminology. And pretty soon you’ll be able to look at the paper and understand what you’re reading, and then you can form an opinion about whether you think the information that’s being presented to you is reasonable. That’s the crucial thing: Having the power to form your own opinions. FREE AppDownload
An American Airlines airplane from Barcelona was evacuated early Sunday afternoon at New York City's JFK Airport following a bomb threat.  "We are standing by precautionarily at JFK," an FDNY spokesman told Business Insider shortly before 1 p.m. EST. "We're awaiting information from the Port Authority." The bomb threat was "telephoned in," a spokesman from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey told The New York Times. One passenger told The Times that the plane had landed early but then taxied away from the terminal. Emergency personnel waited for them and ordered them to go to a grassy area by the runway, according to The Times. Robert Wolf — the former President and Chief Operating Officer of UBS Investment Bank, as well as Chairman and CEO of UBS's Group Americas division — was apparently on that flight, American Air Flight 67 from Barcelona. He sent out several tweets along with photos.  Just escorted by police off @AmericanAir flight 67 from Barcelona w rumors of bomb threat pic.twitter.com/J01pOMSEhf . @AmericanAir flight 67 - currently all in a holding area outside surround by police &amp; emergency service units pic.twitter.com/44UCux26i6 Coming off @AmericanAir flight 67 as Bomb Squad directs us pic.twitter.com/8WRGR6rLNZ FREE AppDownload

Jeremy Grantham is not a believer in the shale fracking boom. Earlier this month, we highlighted Grantham's full quarterly letter to GMO clients, in which he said, among other things, that the US shale boom had been "a very large red herring." So while some say the fracking boom has helped keep oil prices low and aided the US on its path to energy independence, Grantham thinks it might have set us on a path to nowhere. "Its development has been remarkable," Grantham writes. "It will surely be seen in the future as a real testimonial to the sheer energy of American engineering at its best, employing rapid trials and errors — with all of the risk-taking that approach involves — that the rest of the world finds so hard to emulate. Similarly, it will always stand out as remarkable proof that, so late in the realization of the risks of climate change and environmental damage, the US could expressly deregulate such a rapidly growing and potentially dangerous activity." The overall thrust of Grantham's letter is that the world will soon be devoid of the resources it is going to need to sustain our current economic model, which over the past 150 or so years has been predicated on cheap energy, namely oil.  A concern Grantham has with fracking is that the boom hasn't been accompanied by any real concern as to the environmental damage it may be inflicting. But Grantham is also hugely skeptical on the potency of the shale boom because it doesn't address the problem of our need for cheap oil.  Grantham writes: Fracking "has not prevented the underlying costs of traditional oil from continuing to rise rapidly or the cash flow available to oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia, Iran, and especially Venezuela from getting squeezed from both ends (rising costs and falling prices)." And as we saw last week, OPEC announced that it would not impose production cuts despite the sharp decline in oil prices seen over the past few months, and it seems unlikely that Grantham would be surprised by this.  Because if your national economy is chiefly predicated on exporting oil, you have made your bed and therefore must lie in it as oil prices drop.  Deutsche BankThe US shale boom, in one chart.But the US boom, which as Grantham notes has accounted for almost all of the increase in global oil production over the past several years, has been undertaken by companies, not countries. And so with an eye toward profit, Grantham writes, these companies "have drilled, as always, the best parts of the best fields first, and because the first two years of flow are basically all we get in fracking, we should have expected considerably better financial results by now. The aggregate financial results allow for the possibility that fracking costs have been underestimated by corporations and understated in the press."  And with a decline in oil prices set off by too much supply, it will be these companies that are forced to pare production, which will reduce supply, which will create — once again — expensive oil.  "The current fall in price does nothing to offset the squeeze on the total economy from rising costs," Grantham writes. "It merely transfers massive amounts of income from one subgroup (oil producers) to another (oil consumers), in a largely zero-sum game. FREDGas prices have plunged, helping consumers in the short-term but potentially hampering producers longer-term."Oil consumers tend to spend more and save less than oil companies so short-term impacts are favorable. But we should not be carried away with enthusiasm because the declining investment from the oil industry will lower future growth. When, as now, oil costs are still rising even as prices fall there is of course a particularly savage effect on the profits of oil companies, squeezed from both ends. "They must and will rapidly adapt by reducing expenditures and therefore oil production with the fairly obvious result that prices will rise again. The only longer-term price relief and net benefit to the economy will come when either we reverse recent history and start to find more oil more cheaply, which will be like waiting for pigs to fly, or when cheaper sources of energy displace oil." And so for Jeremy Grantham, nothing fundamental has changed about our relationship with oil: pigs still don't fly.  FREE AppDownload
Slowing demand and excess supply have caused the price of oil to crash by more than 30% from their highs of the summer. Around the world, the cost of drilling oil varies widely. Ultimately, when the price of oil falls below a particular breakeven level, then a drilling project becomes unprofitable and it makes sense for the driller to just shut down the particular project. However, the world still needs massive amounts of oil. And when prices fall, the world is likely to use more of it. Unfortunately, drilling projects can't just be turned on like the flip of a light switch; it takes time. Because tight capacity is likely to cause demand to outpace supply, the price of oil is likely to pick up. And as prices pick up, those unprofitable drilling projects suddenly become profitable again. So the saying goes in the commodities market: The cure for low prices is low prices. Morgan Stanley's Ole Slorer sums up the whole cycle in this slide: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
The European Space Agency has released some incredible sounds from Philae’s landing. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
pkingDesign/FlickrWhy is it that women so often move for their husbands' jobs, but the reverse is not as frequently true? It's common to assume that this has everything to do with antiquated gender roles. However, a new study suggests it may not be just about the willingness to move; it's also about the professional ability to move. Research from Alan Benson at the University of Minnesota, published recently in the journal Demography (ungated version here), suggests that job choice explains why women are more likely to move for their spouses than vice versa. Men are much more likely to choose jobs that are concentrated in certain geographical areas, while women choose jobs that are needed everywhere. It's not totally clear why women do this (is it in anticipation of potentially needing to move for a future husband's job, or something else?). But it probably does affect earning potential. This table shows which professions are most geographically concentrated, and which are the most dispersed. The former are almost all dominated by men, the latter by women. Note that the occupations on the left-hand side are, on the whole, much higher paid than the ones on the right. Alan Benson A lot of prior research on this subject controlled for education and earnings in trying to explain this phenomenon, but largely considered occupational choice to be random. These are some of the reasons to think this isn't random (and that this non-randomness is bad news for women): This segregation, Benson finds, is particularly pronounced among people with college degrees. There are a lot of things this could mean. One of those is that women happen to like more flexible jobs. Another is that women feel a lot of pressure, from a young age, to sort themselves into flexible jobs.  At the end of the day, this goes back to a common conclusion from research concerning gender and careers: women often trade a lot of earning potential for flexibility, for better or for worse. (via Dina ElBoghdady)  FREE AppDownload
Although OPEC's decision to maintain current crude production quotas was not entirely unexpected (see post), the market reaction was violent. WTI crude fell by 10% over the last two days of the week. At $66 per barrel North American producers have real problems on their hands. While Eagle Ford is still profitable, both Bakken and Permian Basin are in now the red. Scotiabank: - Based upon an analysis of more than 50 oil plays across Canada and the United States, we estimate that ‘mid-cycle breakeven costs’ in the North Dakota Bakken (1.05 mb/d) are roughly US$69 per barrel and in the Permian Basin in Texas (1.63 mb/d) about US$68. While some producers have hedged forward at higher prices, if WTI oil remains around US$70 for more than six months, it appears likely that drilling activity will slow in more marginal areas of these plays as 2015 unfolds. Funding for independent oil producers will also tighten. However, the ‘liquids-rich’ Eagle Ford (1.45 mb/d) will be little impacted, with breakeven costs averaging only US$50. That's why we've had such an extreme sell-off in US oil &amp; gas shares on Friday (see chart) and Canadian shares underperformed (see chart). If prices persist at current levels for months to come, the Saudis will achieve their objective of dealing a blow to North American oil production. Current expectations of the US outpacing Saudi Arabia as the number one oil producer (see chart) will be shelved for some time. And the only thing the US government could do at this point to support the domestic oil industry is to begin increasing the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Of course such a measure would be temporary and if global demand does not improve, prices will begin falling again. Investing.com via Sober Look FREE AppDownload
We downloaded all Social Security name data since 1880 and adjusted the data to show only people still living today. We ended up with age distributions for every name in the database. Using the mode of each distribution we were able to determine the most likely age for anyone based on their name.  Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Swiss voters rejected two closely watched referendums on Sunday that would have forced the central bank to buy up massive amounts of gold and introduced strict new limits on immigration, in a result that could bolster its economic ties to the European Union. Proposed by the right-wing Swiss People's Party out of concern that the Swiss National Bank has already sold too much gold, the measure would have compelled the SNB to boost its gold reserves to 20% from around 8% currently. Switzerland already holds the most gold per capita in the world. An initial analysis of the voting trend from Swiss broadcaster SRF showed voters were likely to have turned down the "Save our Swiss gold" initiative. A report from Bloomberg said the measure was voted down by a margin to 78-22.   If Swiss voters had approved the measures, it would have severely complicated policy at a time when the central bank is trying to defend a 1.20 euro cap on the Swiss franc imposed at the height of the euro crisis. Earlier this month, gold futures went on a wild ride after polling data showed an advantage in favor of votes against measure. Previous polls had shown about an even split among voters. Swiss were also set to reject a separate initiative that aimed to cut annual immigration by three-quarters from current levels in order to reduce the strain on Switzerland's natural environment, and a third referendum aimed at scrapping a tax perk for wealthy foreigners was also set to be defeated. Over the last several months, the price of gold has been declining sharply, with the precious metal currently near mu tli-year lows. On Sunday morning, gold futures weren't trading, but futures settled at around $1,165 an ounce on Friday, their lowest since hitting around $1,150 earlier this month, which was gold's lowest level since 2010.  Rejection of the measure, while not a huge surprise, likely comes as a relief both to Swiss and European monetary policy makers, who are currently facing a lack of inflation, poor economic growth, and record-low bond yields on the continent. This week, the European Central Bank will meet, and many in the market will be focused on any clues about whether or not the central bank will launch a full quantitative easing program similar to those undertaken by Japan and the US to help boost the European economy.  (Reporting from Reuters by Alice Baghdjian; Editing by Caroline Copley.) FREE AppDownload
DUBAI (Reuters) - OPEC's decision to retain its production ceiling is not beneficial to all OPEC member states, but Iran has refrained from protesting to maintain group solidarity, Iranian oil ministry news agency Shana reported the oil minister as saying. "I don't think that this decision is beneficial to all OPEC member countries because some countries in OPEC were against this decision," Shana quoted oil minister Bijan Zanganeh as saying, citing an interview he gave to CNN. "But because of the unity and solidarity of OPEC, we decided not to protest against this decision." Iran has said the steep fall in oil prices this year is the result of deliberate moves by some exporters around the Persian Gulf, which have kept production high to undermine Tehran's sanctions-hit economy. On Thursday, Saudi Arabia's oil minister told fellow OPEC members they must combat the U.S. shale oil boom, arguing against cutting crude output in order to depress prices and undermine the profitability of North American producers. The energy minister of the United Arab Emirates, Iran's neighboring OPEC member, voiced support for the OPEC decision. "We don't support being a swing producer whenever the price falls; the decision benefits the market, the customers and the world economy<U+200E>," Suhail bin Mohammed al-Mazroui said on his twitter feed on Saturday. "OPEC countries will compensate any decline in the world supply as we are the most cost-effective producers compared to unconventional," Mazroui said, echoing Saudi's position. Oil hit a fresh four-year low beneath $70 per barrel on Friday [O/R]. A boom in shale oil production and weaker growth in China and Europe have sent prices down by over a third since June. "The market will dictate the right sustainable and stable price ...<U+200E> We need to allow enough time for market stability," Mazroui added. (Reporting By Michelle Moghtader and Rania El Gamal; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Dental hygienist Jennifer Reynolds was always self-conscious about her looks, never took selfies and felt uncomfortable being tagged in photographs posted on social media. The 34-year-old from Costa Rica who lives in New York opted for plastic surgery on her nose and now feels ready for prime time on social media. "I definitely feel more comfortable right now with my looks," Reynolds explained. "If I need to take a selfie, without a doubt, I would have no problem." Reynolds is one of a growing number of people who have turned to plastic surgeons to enhance their image. Others are hiring specialized make-up artists in what may be an emerging selfie economy. Selfies, or self portraits, rose in popularity along with smartphones and social media sites such as Facebook, MySpace and Instagram as a mostly young adult crowd posted images of themselves. Now everyone from Hollywood stars to prime ministers takes selfies. Comedian Ellen DeGeneres posted a selfie with Hollywood A-listers at the Academy Awards on Twitter that became the most retweeted of all time. When Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt's snapped a selfie with President Barack Obama and British Prime Minister David Cameron at Nelson Mandela's memorial service it caused a media sensation. For mere mortals, going under the scalpel to create a better selfie may not seem so extreme. Plastic surgeons in United States have seen a surge in demand for procedures ranging from eye-lid lifts to rhinoplasty, popularly known as a nose job, from patients seeking to improve their image in selfies and on social media. A poll by the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery (AAFPRS) of 2,700 of its members showed that one in three had seen an increase in requests for procedures due to patients being more aware of their image in social media. They noted a 10 percent rise in rhinoplasty in 2013 over 2012, a 7 percent jump in hair transplants and 6 percent increase in eyelid surgery. "There has been a 25 percent increase over the past year and a half to two years. That is very significant," Dr. Sam Rizk, a plastic surgeon, said about his Manhattan practice. "They come in with their iPhones and show me pictures," Rizk, 47, added. "Selfies are just getting to be so crazy. Thomson ReutersFile photo of Anthony Ramirez taking a picture during the San Francisco Gay Pride Festival in CaliforniaRizk, who specializes in rhinoplasty, said not everyone who requests surgery needs it because a selfie produces a distorted image that does not represent how a person really looks. "We all will have something wrong with us on a selfie image," he explained. "I refuse a significant proportion of patients with selfies because I believe it is not a real image of what they actually look like in person." Some patients get upset when Rizk tells them surgery is not necessary, and he knows they will simply go to another surgeon. "Too many selfies indicate a self obsession and a certain level of insecurity that most teenagers have. It just makes it worse," he said. "Now they can see themselves in 100 images a day on Facebook and Instagram." New York make-up artist Ramy Gafni, who has worked with clients on selfies and online dating profile photos, suggests using clean makeup, well-defined eyebrows and a bit color on the lips to produce the best selfies. "You want to enhance your features, perfect your features but not necessarily change your features into something they are not," he said. Dan Ackerman, senior editor with CNET which tests and reviews products, said the Internet is full of tips and advice on selfies. "There are apps that apply filters to your face that smooth out wrinkles ... or put artificial makeup.... There is a sub economy of tools and advice that have built up around this," he added.  (Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
U.S. Marine Corps photo by Sgt. Sarah FioccoUnfortunately, military activity is good for economic growth too.It's the oldest battle in politics: Whether cutting government spending helps or hurts economic growth. The Financial Times has done everyone a favour by publishing a series of charts on how US government spending contributed, or detracted from, GDP growth. And the conclusion is pretty severe: ... austerity subtracted about 0.76 percentage points off the real growth rate of the economy between the middle of 2010 and the middle of 2011. If real government spending had remained constant at mid-2010 levels and everything else stayed constant, (yes we know these are big assumptions) the US economy would now be about 1.2 per cent larger. There's a secondary conclusion, too: War is good (economically), it turns out. Conservatives say that government needs to get out of the way of the free market because government spending is inherently wasteful — it distorts the market by destroying opportunities for private companies to step in and provide valuable, profitable services based on actual supply and demand. Liberals take the Keynesian line that government spending acts like an economic multiplier: It not only generates immediate economic activity by guaranteeing that money is spent (creating demand), but that spending provides an opportunity for private actors to recycle the money into further investment and further spending. This chart, from the FT's Matthew Klein based on data from the BEA, seems to show that government has a pretty straightforward effect on GDP. When spending goes up, it adds to economic growth. When it goes down, it subtracts from it and hobbles the economy: Financial Times / BEA Klein has another chart isolating the effect of defence spending on growth. Reduced military spending — the withdrawal of troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, basically — also hurts growth. The chart shows that as military spending went negative in 2011, it truncated GDP growth. Only recently, as non-defence government spending has outweighed defence cuts, has total government spending been a net contributor to GDP again. Financial Times / BEA The depressing conclusion to all this is that the only thing both left and right can agree on, based on this data, is that foreign wars are good for the economy.
Athens (AFP) - A taxi-tracking tool, a head-hunting engine and a vertical gardening company -- all business startups that have paradoxically emerged from a Greek economy long in the doldrums. Faced with the worst unemployment wave in living memory, Greece's youth are turning away from the traditional pursuit of civil service or family-centered jobs, and towards innovation and foreign funding.  "If I can make it here, I can make it anywhere," muses Petros Boskos, a 35-year-old architect. Alongside two of his friends, Boskos created Verdical, a company designing "vertical" gardens for the sides of buildings. "It was basically my last chance to stay in Greece," he told AFP on the sidelines of a business innovation fair in Athens earlier this month. Until recently, most Greeks fresh out of university contemplated life-long job security in a civil service post, or guaranteed employment in their family-owned business. But that's no longer an option. The four-year Greek economic crisis killed off thousands of small and middle-sized companies, and staff cuts and hiring freezes imposed by the cash-strapped state has made new public sector hirings all but impossible. One in two youths under 25 is currently out of work. "The public sector and daddy's store have lost their sheen," says Aristos Doxiadis of Openfund, a venture capital fund. Enter the innovation incubator. In the last five years, at least eight such initiatives -- offering advice to budding entrepreneurs with bankable ideas -- have opened in Athens. "We know that the Greek economy in its current form has no future," states Giorgos Vrachnis, manager of Egg, a business startup incubator backed by Eurobank, one of the main Greek lenders. "But it will take time to invent a new, outward-looking model. The domestic market is too small," says Vrachnis. Part of the challenge lies in the established mindset in Greek universities, where corporations and non-state funding are viewed with suspicion. "I grew up learning that businessmen are not good people," says Boskos, the young architect. Egg has a stable of 25 startups receiving one-year mentoring from industry experts in various sectors. Verdical, the garden designers, have won the right to stay for a second year. The campaign is assisted by European Union funds -- some 70 million euros earmarked under the Jeremie programme that helps small and medium-sized companies. A number of nascent Greek funds like Openfund have been assigned to distribute the money. According to Endeavor, a global non-profit organization supporting entrepreneurship that opened a Greek branch in 2012, the sector has grown exponentially in the last four years. The number of startups has grown nearly tenfold between 2010 and 2013 -- from sixteen to 144 -- while investment rose from 500,000 euros to 42 million over the same period, Endeavor said. "The Greek market was ripe for startup growth," says Spyros Trachanis, one of the managers of Greek fund Odyssey, arguing that valuable experience was gained during a first spurt in the telecoms sector a decade ago. "The pitches we see are constantly improving in depth," says George Tziralis, one of the managers of Openfund. Thirty-year-old Antonios Fiorakis has already tasted a measure of success with Incrediblue, a website for yacht and sailboat rentals in Greece, Turkey, Spain, Italy and Croatia. So much so, in fact, that he's planning to open an office in London. "Our clients have multiplied tenfold in a year, and for half of them, it was the first time they had spent on a boat," he said. Two projects assisted by Openfund have also found their calling. Taxibeat, an application that offers real-time cab tracking, was launched in 2011. It has found demand in several countries and its creators are currently raising more funds abroad. And Workable, a hiring aid for companies, has been operational for two years and is being financed by a major Silicon Valley investment fund. FREE AppDownload
PARIS (Reuters) - The ECB's monthly rate meeting will focus minds this week on the debate over quantitative easing in the euro zone, as a series of data releases on both sides of the Atlantic sheds more light on European woes and U.S. strength. Final purchasing manager indices for Europe and the United States, U.S. monthly jobs data and the European Central Bank's updated forecasts will all provide clues to assessing the relative health of both regions. The ECB staff inflation and growth estimates for the 18-nation single currency union are much awaited after data showed on Friday that inflation in the bloc was back to a five-year low, putting more pressure on the bank to take action. Particular attention will be paid to internal debate within the ECB over quantitative easing and to ECB chief Mario Draghi's comments on the data at his monthly news conference on Thursday, after his pledge to act to lift "excessively low" inflation. The ECB is expected to leave key rates unchanged and wait for next year to decide whether to take the leap to government bond-buying. A decision on QE may come as early as the first quarter, Vice President Vitor Constancio said last week. But arch-hawk German ECB policymaker Jens Weidmann responded that there were "legal limits" on printing money to buy government bonds. "The ECB's communication has not always been crystal clear this year, but overall it has moved steadily towards a more dovish stance despite internal tensions within the Governing Council," French bank Credit Agricole wrote in a note. "We expect no sovereign QE announcement at the December 4 meeting but a more formal, albeit conditional commitment to broader asset purchases." REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachMario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank (ECB) waits for the start of the European Banking Congress in the Old Opera house in Frankfurt, November 21, 2014.Friday's monthly U.S. job figures will be the key data in the United States. Non-farm payrolls are expected to show an increase of 228,000 in November, according to a Reuters poll. The unemployment rate fell to a six-year low in October, underscoring the economy's resilience in the face of slowing global demand. Wage growth remained tepid, though, suggesting little need for the Federal Reserve to hurry to start lifting interest rates. On Thursday, the Bank of England looks set to keep interest rates on hold at a record low 0.5 percent - that's the unanimous expectation of analysts polled by Reuters. The day before that, Finance Minister George Osborne will deliver his Autumn budget update to parliament. The first hike in British interest rates is expected to come in the third quarter of 2015, six months later than previously thought, owing to low inflation, sluggish pay growth and a weak euro zone economy, a Reuters poll showed. Final purchasing managers indices are published after flash estimates came in lower than expected for the euro zone. New orders fell for the first time in more than a year. The U.S. flash PMI showed a fifth consecutive monthly slowing in growth in services, although the pace of expansion remained robust by historical standards. In China, the official manufacturing purchasing managers' index is likely to show on Monday that manufacturing slowed slightly in November as demand remained sluggish, a Reuters poll showed. However China's central bank will wait until fourth-quarter economic data is out and monitor U.S. and Japanese monetary policy before considering any more rate cuts or easing, a central bank adviser said on Tuesday. Falling oil prices will be another point of focus, after producer group OPEC decided not to cut crude production last week despite global oversupply. Besides adding to Draghi's headaches as it pushes inflation in Europe even lower, the fall in oil prices is also hurting the economies, currencies and financial markets of many producer countries. (Reporting by Ingrid Melander; Editing by Mark John, Larry King) FREE AppDownload
SIPRIThe current difficulties surrounding France's sale of two Mistral-class helicopter carriers to Russia mark another awkward chapter in the country's history of arms sales. France currently ranks fifth among the world's largest arms exporting nations, according to the independent Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). The country accounted for 4% of global exports between 2009-2013, down from 9% between 2004-2008, placing it behind only the US, Russia, Germany and China. Although France is by no means the only country to have a checkered history with regards to arms exports, it nevertheless has made some significant missteps in recent history. And the memory of these might help explain, at least in part, the French government's hesitation over handing over the first of the Mistral warships to Russia while the crisis in Ukraine rumbles on. Here are a few of France's least-proud moments. The sale of Exocet missiles to Argentina Wiki CommonsAn Exocet anti-ship missile.In the early 1980s the French-built anti-ship Exocet missile, which skims over the water at a height of 1-2 metres, making it hard to detect by radar and difficult to hit with conventional arms, was much in demand. According to reports it had been ordered by 25 nations, including Iraq, Peru, Pakistan and Syria as well as Argentina's military junta that had seized power in a 1976 coup. By 1982 France had supplied five of these missiles to the country. Then on April 2, 1982, Argentine forces invaded the Falkland Islands, which had been held by Britain for 150 years, beginning the Falklands War. France's then President Francois Mitterrand responded to the invasion by declaring an embargo on any further French arms sales and assistance to Argentina (although later reports suggested a French technical team remained in the country to ensure that the weapon system was in working order). But the presence of the Exocet missiles remained a major concern for British military commanders. Their fears proved well-founded. On May 4th one of the Exocets hit the British destroyer HMS Sheffield, killing 20 of her crew and sinking the ship.  The sale of Mirage F-1s and the 'lease' of five Super Étendard jets to Iraq before the Iran-Iraq War The sinking of the Sheffield was a high-profile demonstration of the Exocet system's effectiveness, and may actually have boosted demand for the missiles. One customer in particular took a keen interest in acquiring them — Iraq. As Dr Pierre Razoux, senior research adviser at the NATO Defense College in Rome, writes in his 2013 essay "France's involvement in the Iran-Iraq War": The Iraqi leadership regarded the aircraft as the ideal weapons system to launch an effective attack on the Iranian terminal in Kharg and oil traffic to Iran. The Dassault company...offered to sell the Iraqis twenty-four of the Mirage F-1 fighters that had been upgraded to carry and fire two Exocet missiles each...In the meantime, the French government agreed to 'lease' Iraq five Super Étendard fighters from its own naval inventory. Unfortunately the deal rocked the already delicate relations between Iraq and its neighbour Iran, with the Iranian leadership indicating that it would amount to a casus belli if the planes were delivered. Undeterred, the French government pressed on launching "Operation Sugar", whereby five French fighter pilots employed by the Dassault company equipped with false passports secretly flew the five jets to the Qayarah West base in northern Iraq, according to Razoux. The flight included having to refuel on a French aircraft carrier based off Cyprus and a brief stop-off in Turkey before flying along the Turkey-Syria border at low altitude to avoid Syrian radar. Whether the delivery was spotted or not by Iran remains unknown, but two weeks after their delivery a truck bomb hit a building in the Lebanese capital Beirut where a contingent of French paratroopers were stationed. The French authorities believed the attacks were ordered by Iran. Over the next few years France delivered 29 Mirage F-1s to Baghdad in deals that were worth as much as $500 million, some of which was paid for with crude oil according to the US Library of Congress. While French aircraft were used extensively in the 1984 tanker wars between Iraq and Iran, these same aircraft became a major problem only three years later. Wiki CommonsUSS Stark after it was hit by two Exocet missiles.On the night of May 17, 1987, the USS Stark was hit by two Exocet missiles fired by an Iraqi F-1 Mirage jet. In the words of a US Navy report the attack was "unprovoked and indiscriminate", as the Stark was in international waters at the time. It resulted in the death of 28 crew members, although the ship itself was rescued after its crew fought a blaze that lasted for 24 hours. Arms deals with Libya between 2004 and 2009 In October 2004, the European Union ended 11 years of sanctions against Libya. In particular, the deal included easing an arms embargo in exchange for a commitment from the Gaddafi government to give up the development of weapons of mass destruction. That deal paved the way for European arms dealers to rekindle their relationship with the country. And so they did. Between 2004-2009 the EU granted export licenses for €834.5m worth of arms and ammunition to the former Italian colony. The vast majority of this was provided by Italy, Germany, the UK and, of course, France. Europa/Business InsiderTotal arms sales to Libya between 2004-2009.Perhaps unsurprisingly considering their shared history, Italy was the largest provider of arms to Tripoli in the five years after the end of the embargo, selling around €277 million worth to the country. However, France came a close second with just over €210 million worth of military exports. Once again France's hold on the military jet market was in evidence, with the country securing €126 million worth of contracts with Libya pipping Italy as the largest supplier of planes over the period. Furthermore, it was also the largest supplier of bombs, rockets and missiles to the former pariah state. Indeed in 2008, France sold just shy of €9 million worth of munitions to Gaddafi. Europa Three years later the West, with France among the leading protagonists, was drawn to intervene in Libya as the country descended into a brief but bloody civil war that saw forces loyal to Gaddafi fire into residential neighbourhoods. Although there is no suggestion that any of the countries that supplied arms to the country could reasonably have known what would transpire, it was a stark reminder of the risks inherent in these types of deals with potentially unstable states. As the charts above show, France is far from the only country that has seen arms deals come back to bite it. Yet with all of these awkward historical examples, it is perhaps no surprise that French President François Hollande has proven reluctant to OK the sale of the Mistral ships while the situation in Ukraine remains so unstable. This will be of particular concern since the second of the two ships, the Sevastopol, is due to join up with the Russian Black Sea fleet based in the (recently annexed) Crimean port of the same name. With both sides in the Ukraine conflict seemingly unable or unwilling to stick to a ceasefire deal, Russia may well be waiting a long time yet on its order.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleA painted sign for a public house named "The Banker" is seen in the City of London.A major report out Wednesday from the New City Agenda and Cass Business School offers a pretty brutal exposé of how retail banks behaved ahead of the financial crisis in 2008.  It includes the bizarre cabbage-based torment of employees who weren't making sales. But it also breaks down how British banking ended up in its current state, with very little competition and a handful of enormous financial institutions dominating high-street banking. Three charts explain the phenomenon. First of all, here's how 16 major banks and two building societies just became the five massive institutions that dominate the UK. It's reminiscent of a similar and famous chart made by Mother Jones showing just how many US banks used to exist and how they have been merged and consolidated into a series of behemoths. New City Agenda, Cass Business School, Bankers Magazine, Collins, RBS Archives But that's not actually the full story, because it underestimates the amount of variety in financial institutions that existed 50 years ago and has since disappeared. The building society, a mutual sort of deposit and lending organisation, used to be once of the major parts of British household finance. Building societies still have significant assets, but their numbers have plummeted.  In 1960, there were 720 building societies, down from 2,286 in 1900. Today, there are fewer than 10: Building Society Association, Bank of England, Cass Business School, New City Agenda So the UK was left without building societies. But what about banks? In the US, thousands of small banks exist alongside the giants. Why not in the UK? Well, they did. But they started dying off even longer ago. At the end of the Napoleonic wars, there were more than 700 private banks, for a population of just over 10 million. These institutions were run by partners who were personally liable for their performance. Over time, they were replaced by a dwindling number of joint-stock banks (in which managers were not liable for their performance).  Collins, Presnell, Bank of England, New City Agenda, Cass Business School These banks merged with and acquired one another until there were very few, but the ones that did exist were large and had a lot of branches. This change, combined with the decline of building societies over the 100 years after, goes a long way to explaining why British banking looks so much like a cartel today.
Frankfurt (AFP) - Slowing eurozone inflation is likely to make the European Central Bank increasingly nervous and pave the way for further monetary easing, analysts say.  But the ECB looks unlikely to fire the latest weapon in its anti-deflation armoury as early as this coming week when it holds its last monthly policy meeting of the year.  According to official data last week, inflation in the 18 countries that share the euro slowed to 0.3 percent in November from 0.4 percent the previous month, feeding fears of imminent deflation. Falling prices may sound good for the consumer, but they can trigger a vicious spiral where businesses and households delay purchases, throttling demand and causing companies to lay off workers.  "What pleases consumers makes the ECB increasingly nervous," said Commerzbank economist Christoph Weil. The central bank is scheduled to publish its latest updated inflation and growth forecasts on Thursday and it is worried that medium-term inflation expectations could become permanently de-anchored from the ECB's target of around 2.0 percent.  Given that the ECB has already launched a multi-pronged offensive against deflation, obtaining that objective could require more radical action, according to analysts. The ECB has so far cut its interest rates to new all-time lows, made unprecedented amounts of cheap loans available to banks via its LTRO and TLTRO programmes, and unveiled asset purchase programmes (ABSs and covered bonds) to pump liquidity into the financial system. But it has so far shied away from a controversial policy of quantitative easing (QE) that other central banks around the world have embarked upon in order to stimulate their economies.  QE is the large-scale purchase of government bonds and such a policy has many critics in Europe, not least the German central bank or Bundesbank, because it is felt that it takes the ECB outside its remit and is effectively a licence to print money to get governments out of debt. "Broad-based bond purchases by the ECB now seem to be only a matter of time," said Commerzbank economist Weil. Such expectations appeared to be confirmed last week when the ECB's number two, Vitor Constancio, said the central bank would only be in a position to gauge whether the previous stimulus measures are working in the first quarter of 2015.  "If not, we will have to consider buying other assets, including sovereign bonds in the secondary market," Constancio said. Just days prior to that, ECB chief Mario Draghi had vowed to "step up the pressure and broaden even more the channels through which we intervene... without any undue delay."  But ECB-watchers are sceptical that QE will be announced as soon as Thursday. "The ECB will meaningfully revise downwards its growth and inflation projections on Thursday. Given the already low starting point, this would strengthen the case for further stimulus," said UniCredit economist Marco Valli. "We expect Draghi to signal that a new dose of monetary easing is in the pipeline."   But the exact timing for action is "a close call", Valli said. "On the one hand, the ECB does not have any real incentive to delay a move that appears warranted by economic fundamentals. On the other hand, some governing council members seem to prefer to wait... before considering new stimulus measures."  Jonathan Loynes at Capital Economics agreed.  "It seems clear that the ECB will soon embark on a full-blown quantitative easing programme incorporating sovereign debt purchases," he said. "The key questions now are when and how big? While we think that the contingencies for QE set out by president Draghi have already been met, governing council members may want more time to assess their existing policies." Commerzbank economist Michael Schubert said he did not expect QE to be approved until one of the first three meetings in 2015. "Only then will the ECB be able to assess the impact of the measures taken so far," he said.     FREE AppDownload
