BusinessWeekBarron's latest cover is looking bullish — and for some that's a sign to sell. Traders and investors routinely freak out over bullish headlines, convinced they're signs of bullishness going mainstream. Barron's cover story features a similarly "scary" tale and also the bullish results of the biannual Big Money poll. "It's going to take a lot more than the past month's 5%-plus sell off in the stocks for America's money managers to change their upbeat tune," writes Barron's Jack Willoughby. "Based on their mean forecasts in the Big Money poll, the bulls see the Dow Jones industrials topping 18,360 by the middle of 2015, and the Standard &amp; Poors 500 index hitting 2173," Willoughby added. While this may rattle some nerves, magazine cover risk is total nonsense, as Josh Brown once noted. Magazine covers are just magazine covers — not economic indicators. We decided to comb through the history of the Dow and the S&amp;P from the 1960s to today to see exactly what happened in the markets following bold headlines. Take a look. (Many thanks to Barry Ritholtz, Invictus, and Josh Brown for digging up some of the older headlines. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider writer Rob Wile contributed to the original version of this feature.) FREE AppDownload
EMC on Wednesday announced that it would be buyout out a joint venture with Cisco known as VCE. VCE sells computer systems that combine storage tech from EMC, server software from VMware and computer and networking hardware from Cisco. Bloomberg tech reporter Dina Bass broke the news Tuesday night via a  tweet, "The EMC news is...that they are buying out most of Cisco's stake in their VCE joint venture, which will now become part of EMC, sources say" That's interesting. The rift between Cisco and EMC has gotten wider since EMC subsidiary VMware has been trying to take down Cisco's core business with a new technology called "software-defined networking." EMC has been under pressure to split VMware off from investor Elliott Management. It looks like, instead of splitting up, EMC is doubling down on its "federation" strategy, where it owns controlling interests in multiple companies. By buying out most of Cisco's stake in VCE, for terms undisclosed, the EMC federation now consists of four companies: EMC (one of the world's biggest makers of computer storage systems), Pivotal (a big-data startup run by former VMware CEO Paul Martiz), VMware and now, VCE. EMC says that VCE is on a "$2 billion run-rate" meaning if sales keep up at their current pace, VCE should generate $2 billion in annual revenue. Cisco hasn't completely given up this baby, it will keep a 10% stake. But now that VMware has become a full-on competitor with Cisco, it makes sense that one of them would want to nab control over their joint venture. VCE has intimate knowledge of both company's products and product road maps, which they would prefer not to share with one another at this point. FREE AppDownload
The return of market volatility sent the S&amp;P 500 to a low of 1,820 last Wednesday, down 9.8% from its September 19 all-time high of 2,019. There certainly hasn't been a shortage of concerns. The global economy has been slowing, commodity prices have been plunging, geopolitical tensions have been high, and the Ebola virus has been spreading. And all this came amid expectations that the Federal Reserve would soon tighten monetary policy. But at 1,941 today, the market is now up a remarkable 6.6% in just five trading days. "The question is this: "What changed so much in the macro picture since just four sessions ago when everyone was hitting the panic buttons??" NYSE floor governor Rich Barry asked. "Three things have changed: "1) The Street is expecting the Fed to be slightly more dovish when they meet next week. Last Thursday, (perfect timing, I might add), St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the Fed "should consider delaying the end of its bond purchase program to halt the decline in inflation expectations." As we said in this note, the market, up until that point, did not even think it was possible to delay the end of QE. Although nobody really expects them to keep the QE program going, there is a growing sense that the FOMC will push out the date for interest rate hikes. "2) Oil (finally) has stopped its free-fall, and is now simply languishing in the low 80s. As a result, energy stocks have stabilized and are not weighing heavily on the indices. "3) With a cautioned sigh of relief, we add that the Ebola concerns have eased. It was a huge relief when it was reported that 43 of the 48 people on the original watch list in Dallas had  passed the 21-day incubation period and appear to be in the clear. We believe that the Ebola scare was a HUGE issue for the market. If the news continues to be positive, we believe this relief (short-covering) rally will continue." The S&amp;P is almost as close to its high as it is to its recent low. Which way do we go next? Google Finance FREE AppDownload
BenuThe artful cuisine at Benu. They are Benu, an Asian fusion restaurant, and Saison, which serves French cuisine. Three stars is the highest possible Michelin rating, and is awarded to just a handful of restaurants around the globe. Both the The French Laundry and The Restaurant at Meadowwood retained their three-star designations. Both of those restaurants are in Napa Valley. Benu and Saison, which previously had two Michelin stars, are both located in San Francisco's SoMa district. Benu, helmed by Chef Corey Lee, offers a $195-per-head tasting menu and is famous for serving a faux version of shark fin soup. Saison, has a menu that changes daily and costs $248 per person, excluding wine. Its kitchen is run by Chef Joshua Skenes. Michelin's ratings are determined by anonymous food inspectors. Michelin announced its 2015 New York ratings at the end of September. Six of the seven restaurants that earned three stars in 2014 retained those rankings. They are Le Bernardin, Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare, Eleven Madison Park , Jean Georges, Masa, and Per Se.  Chef Daniel Boulud's Daniel was downgraded to two stars.  Here's the full list out of San Francisco, via EaterSF: Three Stars Two Stars One Star  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Paul SakumaThank you, Daimler.Daimler, parent company of Mercedes, was instrumental in rescuing Tesla from financial collapse back in 2009, taking a 9% stake in the electric carmaker and establishing a partnership. Five years and $29 billion of market cap later, Daimler is now selling off that stake, which for financial reasons has been reduced to 4%. Daimler will make $780 million on the transaction — but not bail out on Tesla's future. "Our partnership with Tesla is very successful and will be continued," said Dr. Dieter Zetsche, Daimler's chief, in a statement. Tesla's tie-up with Daimler was extraordinarily useful for the electric carmaker at a time when many observers of the auto industry thought Musk's company didn't stand a chance. Daimler provided investment and acted as a customer, using Tesla's drivetrain technology when Musk was still selling only a two-seat, high-performance Roadster. Tesla needed support to stay in business and get its next vehicle, the Model S sedan, into production. It also needed to prove to the Department of Energy that the company was viable, in order to obtain a nearly $465-million loan guarantee. Since it's IPO in 2010, a year after Daimler bought in, Tesla has seen its share price skyrocket by over 1,000%. Shares closed on Tuesday at $235. FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  The Financial Planning Industry Needs More Regulation (Financial Advisor Magazine)  A new coalition of Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc., the Financial Planning Association and the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, says "there are insufficient regulations for financial planners and members of the public are the ones being hurt because of it," writes Karen Demasters. The coalition conducted a study of consumers aged 25 and up who have a household income of $50,000 or more. The results show that about 33% of respondents who used a financial advisor did not get the service that they needed, or they wanted a financial plan but did not get one. Additionally, there are people who claim to be financial advisors, but just provide "narrowly focused advice, single-product solutions, or advice that is not in the consumer's best interest," writes Demasters. Keep Calm And Go Global (Alliance Bernstein) Bond investors tend to prefer domestic assets over foreign ones. However, Alliance Bernstein research suggests that "global bonds have offered historical returns comparable to domestic ones — and with considerably lower volatility," writes Douglas J. Peebles. Additionally, foreign bonds offer diversification of interest-rate and economic risk. "That's important today, as business cycles, national growth rates, monetary policies and yield curves around the world diverge," adds Peebles. Active Management Is The Way To Go For Fixed Income (Investment News) "There are many excellent ways to invest in fixed income in the current market environment. Passive strategies are not among them," writes Thomas Hoops.  Instead, investors should look to active strategies for investing in fixed income. Active strategies allow for identifying instrinic value with respect to credit risk, interest rate levels, and currency valuations, according to Hoops. This type of analysis shows the strengths and weaknesses of a given economy, whether its a developed or an emerging market.   Advisors Should Be The Voice Of Reason When Markets Are Volatile (Financial Planning) Volatility is all anyone can talk about right now. There are several ways advisors can help clients handle the anxiety. First, advisors have to educate and prepare their clients. Advisors should stress the importance of realistic risk tolerance and the inevitability of encountering volatile markets.  The second important thing is communication. "You want to be the voice of reason. You don't want to sound panicked, but you do want to acknowledge what's going on and what clients are hearing in the media," says John Anderson. And finally, risk-tolerant clients should look at volatility as an opportunity. Advisors should recommend that client buy managed futures. An Ex-AXA Broker Was Ordered To Return The $2 Million He Stole From Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Dennis Wright, a former AXA Advisor LLC broker, was ordered by a Pennsylvania court to return more than $2 million that he stole from clients over the course of a decade. "From at least 1998 he asked his clients, including a retired US postal worker, to withdraw tens of thousands of dollars from their AXA annuity accounts with the promise to invest those funds in AXA managed accounts that he claimed would generate higher returns," writes Matthias Rieker. Those managed accounts did not exist. Instead, the SEC said that Wright would provide false account statements "showing rising values of the nonexistent investments." FREE AppDownload
Christian Storm/Business InsiderEarlier this year, New York's pancake lovers rejoiced as the first Denny's, the restaurant famous for its delicious, quick, and affordable diner food options, finally opened in Manhattan's Financial District.  But if you go to the restaurant expecting the usual Denny's dining experience — the kind you might get pulling off the road after a long road trip looking to fuel up on eggs and sausage — you're in for a surprise. While the tasty food is certainly still available (and at Denny's signature affordable prices), Manhattan's Denny's is a more upscale version of the franchise, complete with a custom craft cocktail menu, swankier decor, and Dom Perignon champagne.  Since it's quite possibly the most unique Denny's in the world, we had to check it out for ourselves.
The World Series is underway. In the '74 Series there were 15 African-American players. Today there are 3. And the number of African-American baseball players on Major League Baseball teams stands around 8% – that's a huge decline compared to the 1970s. So what happened?  Produced by Alex Kuzoian Follow BI Video: On Twitter
The leaflet, called “Yellow Flyer No. 3,” calls on staff to walk off the job and gather in the building’s foyer every Thursday until concerns over the Bank’s management are addressed. The Bank's current president is increasingly unpopular at the institution, with many staff deeply dissatisfied with his tenure so far. “There's a culture of fear with Kim because the perception is that you get fired if you disagree with him,” one World Bank staff member told Business Insider. “I think the sense is that he wasn't qualified for the job, a bit superficial, narcissistic, and promises a lot but delivers little on implementation.” Staff have been incensed at President Kim’s reform process, which they claim has been needlessly opaque, unfocused, and lacking in substance. They say President Kim has fired several well-respected managers, curtailed employee benefits, and talks of new budget cuts, all while wasting money on external consultants and bonuses for senior staff.  Similar yellow flyers appeared earlier this month, prompting staff to gather in the Bank’s atrium and forcing the president to hold an impromptu “Town Hall” meeting. AP Photo/Koji SasaharaEmbattled World Bank President Jim Yong Kim has failed to bring staff with him on his desired reform path.The Bank, established to combat global poverty, came under new leadership in 2012 when President Barack Obama appointed former Dartmouth President Jim Yong Kim to head the institution.  One former staff member told Business Insider that while Kim initially raised expectations over much needed reform to red tape and aging technology, he has failed to follow through in any substantive way.  “The entire reform effort by President Kim should be taught in business schools as a case study in how to poorly manage institutional reform,” the former employee said. “It has resulted in complete chaos and created a culture of fear, uncertainty, and distrust.” Earlier this month, Kim told reporters, “We’re undergoing the most thorough, the most ambitious reorganization in close to 20 years, so it’s not a surprise to me that there’s anxiety, that there’s concern.” When we reached out to the bank, they told us, “We don’t comment on anonymous flyers posted by lone individuals." "We are implementing fundamental changes to our development delivery model to become fit for purpose to meet today's most pressing challenges. Of course staff unease is natural and understandable in any large organization undergoing such a large-scale realignment," a spokesperson said "We believe we will come out of this process as a stronger, more unified organization, better positioned to achieve our mission." Here's the full flyer:   FREE AppDownload
U.S. Army / Sgt. Gene ArnoldStocks staged a huge rally on Tuesday, with the Nasdaq gaining well over 2%, the S&amp;P 500 gaining nearly 2%, and the Dow rising more than 200 points. Tuesday's gains mark the fourth straight day of gains for the S&amp;P 500, as the Dow once again turned positive for the year. The S&amp;P 500's rally on Tuesday was the biggest single-day gain for the benchmark index since October 10, 2013.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. It was a huge rally for the markets, as the Dow once again turned positive for the year after last week giving up all of its year-to-date gains. In an email this afternoon, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said, "We knew it was just a matter of time before our 'buy-the-dipper' friends came back into the market. At last look, the S&amp;P 500 is up 113 points from its Wednesday 'panic' lows, which equates to a 6.2% up-move in just four trading sessions. Expanding on this point a little further, over the last nine trading sessions, we have seen the S&amp;P 500 index trade from 1966 on October 9th, down to 1820 on October 15th, (minus 146 points, or -7.4% in five sessions); immediately before the ensuing 6.2% rise over the last four days. Does anyone else feel like they just got off a roller-coaster??" 2. In a slow week for economic data, the lone data point on Tuesday was existing home sales, which rose 2.4% in September to an annualized rate of 5.17 million units, topping the 5.1 million expected by economists. Following the report, Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtor said, "Low interest rates and price gains holding steady led to September’s healthy increase, even with investor activity remaining on par with last month’s marked decline." 3. Coca-Cola reported earnings on Tuesday morning and said that it expects it expects to miss its long-term profit targets. In a statement, Coke said that in 2014, it expects to miss its growth target, and doesn't see its 2015 results being different from this year. Coke also announced plans to cut costs that will results in $3 billion in annualized cost savings by 2019. Coke shares fell more than 6% on Tuesday. 4. With the decline in Coke shares, it was yet another bad day for Warren Buffett, adding to yesterday's huge decline in IBM shares. Buffett also had a significant stake in UK grocer Tesco, which has been plagued by a number of accounting an management problems in recent weeks and has seen shares fall 44% this year.  5. McDonald's reported third quarter profit that beat expectations, but sales that disappointed. McDonald's third quarter global comparable store sales fell 3.3%, worse than the 2.9% decline that was expected by economist. "McDonald's third quarter results reflect a significant decline versus a year ago, with our business and financial performance pressured by a variety of factors - from a higher effective tax rate, to unusual events in the operating environments in APMEA and Europe, to under-performance in the U.S., our largest geographic segment," CEO Don Thompson said. 6. Shares of mortgage servicing company Ocwen Financial fell more than 17% on Tuesday after New York financial regulator Benjamin Lawsky sent the company a letter that said his office had uncovered "serious issues" with the company's "systems and controls," among other things. In a statement to Business Insider following the news, an Ocwen spokesperson said that the back-dated letter, a problem singled out in Lawsky's letter, were caused by errors in the company's correspondence systems. 7. Biotech company Amgen gained more than 4% after activist investor Dan Loeb said in his quarterly letter to investors that the company could be worth 80% more if it split into two, comprised of a dividend-paying company with Amgen's mature assets and a growth company made up of Amgen's pipeline assets. In a statement to Business Insider following Loeb's letter, an Amgen spokesperson said, "Amgen maintains an active, engaged dialogue with all shareholders. Amgen has always appreciated the perspectives of all of its shareholders, including Third Point, and welcomes constructive input toward our common goal of enhancing shareholder value." Don't Miss: The Quaint Economy: How A Good Story Makes A Successful Product » FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid TepperBillionaire David Tepper, who runs $20 billion distressed debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, said that he's short the euro during a "best idea" talk at the Robin Hood Investors Conference.  Tepper also recommended very short-term EU debt, like bonds maturing in 2 to 3 years. He believes that the European Central Bank will have to loosen monetary policy further and expand its balance sheet in its effort to stimulate the euro zone. The Robin Hood Conference, which has a stacked line-up of hedge fund heavyweights, is off limits to the media. Business Insider has a source inside the event.  Tepper also said that you have to get rid of the 500 euro note, according to our source.  Tepper, who is one of those closely-followed names, has one of the best long-term performance track records in the hedge fund space. He has also been the highest paid fund manager the last two years. FREE AppDownload
Apple Pay has a chance at changing the mobile payments game completely. And experts in business and marketing are weighing in on Apple's strategy. 
Sofie Amalie Klougart In 2009, Sofie Amalie Klougart traveled to Mombasa, Kenya with the nonprofit ActionAid. Her day job was to document ActionAid’s numerous efforts to alleviate poverty in the country. Fascinated by the country, Klougart spent her nights and weekends traveling the country in search of stories. While visiting the country’s numerous beautiful beaches, Ama was struck by the many older European women she saw carousing with young Kenyans. When she inquired with one of the women, she found that she was witnessing what many call “Romance tourism” — lonely men and women who travel to impoverished countries in search of companionship and locals who willingly oblige, in exchange for gifts, free meals, and, sometimes, cold hard cash. Klougart began documenting the affairs of the many women she met on the beaches of Kenya who introduced her to the sometimes troubling and sometimes empowering world of women who go after exactly what they want and nothing more. Klougart shared a number of the photos with us here, but you can see the rest at her website.
Google, Apple, and Facebook are known for offering attractive perks, great pay, and excellent workplace cultures — so it's no surprise that they're also three of the world's most sought-after places to work right now. That's according to a new ranking of the 100 most in-demand employers by LinkedIn. The third annual list, announced Tuesday at LinkedIn's Talent Connect conference in San Francisco, is based on an analysis of more than 35 billion interactions between companies and members on the professional networking site. LinkedIn specifically looked at member awareness of every company (how many people have viewed their employees' profiles within the past year), and engagement on LinkedIn (how many members have followed the company's Company or Career Page within the past year). Google snags the No. 1 spot for a third consecutive year. Here's the full ranking of 100 companies. Below are some highlights: LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
In my book I go into some detail about the equation of exchange (MV = PQ) and why it can be terribly misleading. In essence, the equation is based on totally unrealistic assumptions such as the idea that “money” is some easily discernible item in an economy where financial assets have varying degrees of moneyness.  The most basic premise of the equation, the idea that more money necessarily = more inflation, has been thoroughly debunked over the last few decades, but unfortunately, I continue to field a constant barrage of questions about it and how high inflation or hyperinflation are lurking around the corner just waiting for the velocity of money to increase.  The problem is, velocity really has no statistically relevant relationship with the rate of inflation. This whole conversation is a bit strange to begin with because Milton Friedman often assumed that V was relatively constant.  Which is bizarre because we know that V wasn’t constant even in the era before Friedman wrote his famous 1969 paper on the “Optimum Quantity of Money”.  He also made all sorts of other unrealistic assumptions in the paper such as a fixed money supply, no lending or borrowing and even assumed that people were immortal.  He called this a “hypothetical simple society”, but we really should have called it a “totally useless and fake society”.  How the paper even left a lasting impression on economists is worthy of debate…. Anyhow, I don’t want to get too deep in the weeds on this, but the idea that higher velocity necessarily leads to higher inflation can be easily debunked by looking at our “realistic complex society”.  Over the last 50 years there has been no, I repeat, no statistically significant relationship between the Consumer Price Index and the velocity of M2.  In fact, the relationship is virtually negative.  If you just eye ball the historical relationship you can see that there is none:Pragmatic CapitalismIf you actually run the regression analysis you can confirm that there is zero relationship between the rate of inflation and the velocity of money: Pragmatic Capitalism So no, there is no reason to believe that higher or lower velocity of money will lead to deflation or inflation.  That’s not to say that the equation of exchange is not true.  Of course it’s true.  But you have to deep dive into the assumptions that its conclusions are based on to actually understand how useful it really is.  And when we deep dive into Uncle Milton’s “hypothetical simple society” you find that many of the conclusions are based on a world that resembles nothing like our actual monetary system.  And that is why so much of his economics has been proven void of value over the course of the last 30 years – it was based on a textbook world that made the math appear more relevant as opposed to the actual world we live in. FREE AppDownload
Hedge fund manager Dan Loeb had a new shareholder letter out Tuesday. In it, he writes that he's optimistic about a spun-out PayPal — even though everyone is going nuts over Apple Pay. Here's what he said: PayPal is a high-growth business with significant opportunities to expand its existing market and margins while pursuing new paths in financial services for consumers and merchants. With significant scale and an attractive funding mix, PayPal generates high incremental margins on payment volume increases which it can use to fund sustained growth.  Apple’s entry into the payments space dampened investors’ enthusiasm for PayPal, creating an interesting entry point. We think the market is missing the fact that ApplePay is primarily an offline mobile solution focused on the Point of Sale (POS) opportunity which represents a small fraction of PayPal’s current business. When we break down the applicability of ApplePay to PayPal’s business mix, we find that ApplyPay will compete directly with only 1.5-2% of PayPal’s total payment volume (TPV). We believe that Apple’s entry into the mobile payments space could ironically be a net positive for PayPal. Mobile payments have been “the next big thing” for almost five year but have failed to ramp. In part, this is because one needs buy-in from financial institutions, merchants, and consumers in order for a payment technology to gain acceptance. With no pressure to catalyze a decision, the different incentives of these groups have not proven to be sufficiently aligned to overcome their inertia and come to an agreement. MCX, Google, and PayPal now need partners to compete with Apple and we think multiple win/win deals exist. PayPal’s current POS business is de minimis, allowing the company to price disruptively while creating substantial value. Finally, PayPal’s value will be better reflected in a smaller, more nimble entity. PayPal has the option to go-it-alone, sell to one of many potentially interested parties, or to open itself up to partnerships with other key online players (e.g. Google, Facebook, Amazon, Alibaba, Apple) and become a neutral, online payments network (essentially becoming “the Visa of the Internet”). The market is currently valuing PayPal at approximately 11.5x-14.5x x 2015 EPS (assuming an 8-9x EBITDA multiple for eBay) which seems too cheap for a company growing sales 20% with significant strategic optionality and a strong chance to shape the future of payments. Loeb's take on PayPal runs counter to a lot of what we've been hearing from payments industry sources. They tell us they expect merchants to begin accepting payments from brands like Google, Amazon, and Apple — and that consumers will fund their accounts with those services directly with their credit cards. That would leave PayPal out of the equation. Meanwhile, the conventional wisdom in the industry is that developers building apps that accept payments prefer using software tools from a payment company called Stripe. (On the other hand, a pair of very big apps, Uber and Airbnb, currently use Braintree, a PayPal company). FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe offices of JP Morgan in the Canary Wharf district of LondonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's inspector general arm found several flaws in the way the New York Fed handled J.P. Morgan's huge credit derivative losses in 2012, including limited resources and competing priorities. J.P. Morgan &lt;jpm.n&gt; incurred around $2 billion in losses due to a complex trading strategy involving credit derivatives in Europe that year, in a case that became known as the London Whale. The Fed's Office of Inspector General said in a report released on Tuesday that among the flaws in the New York Fed's handling of the issue was limited resources and an over-reliance on certain personnel. The report also said that New York Fed examiners identified London Whale risks as early as 2008 but did not conduct planned follow-up examinations.   (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusDaniel Loeb, founder of Third Point LLC.Dan Loeb thinks Amgen could be worth $249 per share, or 80% more than current levels. In afternoon trade on Thursday, shares of Amgen were up as much as 4.5% after Loeb mentioned the company in a presentation at the Robin Hood Investors Conference. Sources confirmed to Business Insider's Julia La Roche that Loeb discussed the company at the conference. In his latest filing with the SEC, Loeb's Third Point was shown to be holding 450,000 shares of the company.  But in his third quarter letter to investors, also released on Tuesday, Loeb discussed his Amgen stake in more detail, and said that he is now one of the company's largest shareholders and has spoken with the company's management. Loeb writes that Amgen, "has all the hallmarks of a hidden value situation, one of our favorite investment themes." Loeb adds that he believes the market, "underappreciates how disruptive some of [Amgen's] new products will be," and says his conviction is bolstered by discussions with Third Point's newly creates Scientific and Medical Advisory Board. Loeb also writes that Amgen should consider separating into two standalone businesses, a mature company comprised of legacy assets that is valued based on its dividend yield, and a growth company valued based on the potential in its drug pipeline. Loeb believes that this structure could create almost $249 in total value over two years, which is 80% upside to current prices.  "[Amgen CEO] Bob Bradway and his team have been open-minded an receptive to our ideas to date and we firmly believes that the company is at an inflection point," Loeb writes. Including Tuesday's spike in shares, Amgen stock is up more than 25% year-to-date. Here's the intraday chart of Amgen shares on Tuesday. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
U.S. Army / Sgt. Gene ArnoldStocks staged a huge rally on Tuesday, with the Nasdaq gaining well over 2%, the S&amp;P 500 gaining nearly 2%, and the Dow rising more than 200 points. Tuesday's gains mark the fourth straight day of gains for the S&amp;P 500, as the Dow once again turned positive for the year. The S&amp;P 500's rally on Tuesday was the biggest single-day gain for the benchmark index since October 10, 2013.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. It was a huge rally for the markets, as the Dow once again turned positive for the year after last week giving up all of its year-to-date gains. In an email this afternoon, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said, "We knew it was just a matter of time before our 'buy-the-dipper' friends came back into the market. At last look, the S&amp;P 500 is up 113 points from its Wednesday 'panic' lows, which equates to a 6.2% up-move in just four trading sessions. Expanding on this point a little further, over the last nine trading sessions, we have seen the S&amp;P 500 index trade from 1966 on October 9th, down to 1820 on October 15th, (minus 146 points, or -7.4% in five sessions); immediately before the ensuing 6.2% rise over the last four days. Does anyone else feel like they just got off a roller-coaster??" 2. In a slow week for economic data, the lone data point on Tuesday was existing home sales, which rose 2.4% in September to an annualized rate of 5.17 million units, topping the 5.1 million expected by economists. Following the report, Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtor said, "Low interest rates and price gains holding steady led to September’s healthy increase, even with investor activity remaining on par with last month’s marked decline." 3. Coca-Cola reported earnings on Tuesday morning and said that it expects it expects to miss its long-term profit targets. In a statement, Coke said that in 2014, it expects to miss its growth target, and doesn't see its 2015 results being different from this year. Coke also announced plans to cut costs that will results in $3 billion in annualized cost savings by 2019. Coke shares fell more than 6% on Tuesday. 4. With the decline in Coke shares, it was yet another bad day for Warren Buffett, adding to yesterday's huge decline in IBM shares. Buffett also had a significant stake in UK grocer Tesco, which has been plagued by a number of accounting an management problems in recent weeks and has seen shares fall 44% this year.  5. McDonald's reported third quarter profit that beat expectations, but sales that disappointed. McDonald's third quarter global comparable store sales fell 3.3%, worse than the 2.9% decline that was expected by economist. "McDonald's third quarter results reflect a significant decline versus a year ago, with our business and financial performance pressured by a variety of factors - from a higher effective tax rate, to unusual events in the operating environments in APMEA and Europe, to under-performance in the U.S., our largest geographic segment," CEO Don Thompson said. 6. Shares of mortgage servicing company Ocwen Financial fell more than 17% on Tuesday after New York financial regulator Benjamin Lawsky sent the company a letter that said his office had uncovered "serious issues" with the company's "systems and controls," among other things. In a statement to Business Insider following the news, an Ocwen spokesperson said that the back-dated letter, a problem singled out in Lawsky's letter, were caused by errors in the company's correspondence systems. 7. Biotech company Amgen gained more than 4% after activist investor Dan Loeb said in his quarterly letter to investors that the company could be worth 80% more if it split into two, comprised of a dividend-paying company with Amgen's mature assets and a growth company made up of Amgen's pipeline assets. In a statement to Business Insider following Loeb's letter, an Amgen spokesperson said, "Amgen maintains an active, engaged dialogue with all shareholders. Amgen has always appreciated the perspectives of all of its shareholders, including Third Point, and welcomes constructive input toward our common goal of enhancing shareholder value." Don't Miss: The Quaint Economy: How A Good Story Makes A Successful Product » FREE AppDownload
Shares of Ocwen Financial are crashing on Tuesday after Benjamin Lawsky, the Superintendent of the New York Department of Financial Services, sent the mortgage company a letter that said his office had uncovered "serious issues" with the company's "systems and controls." In afternoon trade, Ocwen shares were down as much 24% and had been halted at least twice because of volatility.  In his letter, Lawsky wrote that his office uncovered backdating of potentially "hundreds of thousands of letters to borrowers, likely causing them significant harm." Lawsky's letter outlines backdating that created situations in which borrowers facing foreclosure received letters that specified a date to cure their default that had passed months prior to their actual receipt of the letter.  "The existence and pervasiveness of these issues raises critical questions about Ocwen's ability to perform its core function of servicing loans," Lawsky writes. "Even worse, Ocwen did nothing to investigate or address the backdating issue when an employee questioned the accuracy of Ocwen's letter dating processes and alerted the company's Vice President of Compliance ... Ocwen's indifference to such a serious matter demonstrates a troubling corporate culture that disregards the needs to struggling borrowers." (1:40 p.m. ET update) In an emailed statement to Business Insider, an Ocwen spokesman said: We deeply regret the inconvenience to borrowers who received improperly dated letters as a result of errors in our correspondence systems. As always, our goal is to avoid foreclosure. In the case of the 283 borrowers in New York who received letters with incorrect dates, 281 are currently borrowers with us. We are continuing to review the rest of the cases. We believe that we have resolved the letter dating issues that we have identified to date, and we continue our investigation as to whether there are additional letter dating issues that need to be resolved. We are working with the monitor on these issues. We are working with and fully cooperating with DFS and monitors to address their concerns Here's the ugly chart of Ocwen shares on Tuesday. Google Finance And here's the full letter from Ocwen.  More to come ... FREE AppDownload
As soon as temperatures dip below 50 degrees, it’s officially time for a jacket. But instead of reaching for your old faithful again this season, perhaps it’s time to buy something a little more trendy and fashion-forward.  Judging from the Fall/Winter 2014 fashion shows from last Spring, these are the five types of coats every man should rock this season. www.belstaff.com and www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com(LEFT: Belstaff, $2,495; CENTER: MR PORTER, $595; RIGHT: Bloomingdale's, $556) A popular style for this season is shearling-lined coats that look like classic bombardier jackets that were worn by pilots during WWII.  The look is rugged and manly, but also best relegated to your weekend wear or worn on a chilly weekend getaway. Usually made with leather, these will be a nice transitional coat for the season and are also great for date nights when worn with jeans and boots. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's $698; CENTER: MR PORTER, $1,670; RIGHT: Norstrom, $170)  Men’s fashion has brought back the double-button jacket in recent years, whether its a trench, peacoat, or a simple jacket. These might seem a bit more fashion-forward than the average cookie-cutter button down, but they're actually quite flattering. Just make sure to have the coat tailored to accentuate your waist and choose a style with a peak lapel to show off your shoulders. www.brooksbrothers.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and www1.macys.com(LEFT: Brooks Brothers, $698; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $895; RIGHT: Macy's, $230) Nautical toggle coats will be everywhere this fall if the spring runway shows were any indication. The so-called Paddington or Duffel Coats have big pockets, toggles, and are usually knee or hip length. These were another war coat worn by the British Royal Navy in WWI and WWII (the toggles allowed them to be fastened and unfastened while wearing thick gloves). Though a bit more casual than a classic overcoat, duffel coats can be worn in casual settings or at the office. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.mrporter.com and www.jcrew.com(LEFT: Bloomingdale's, $795; CENTER: MR PORTER, $3,875; RIGHT: J.Crew, $450) Every man should own a classic, simple top coat. It's the perfect jacket to wear over a nice suit, or with a sweater and a pair of jeans to dress up your casual outfit. Look for simple lines and a fit that skims your body rather than hugs it. When done correctly, the top coat will be cut to fit cleanly over your favorite suit. www.mrporter.com and www1.bloomingdales.com and  shop.nordstrom.com(LEFT: MR PORTER, $3,925; CENTER: Bloomingdale's, $1,520; RIGHT: Nordstrom, $845) Puffy, quilted coats will officially be back in style this winter. Try and choose a jacket that is as streamlined as possible so you don’t look like a marshmallow (or time traveler from the early aughts), and pair it with slim-fitting jeans and sneakers.  Because it’s a sporty look, avoid wearing this style of jacket with suits or fancier attire. www1.bloomingdales.com and www.brooksbrothers.com and www.mrporter.com(LEFT: Neiman Marcus, $745; CENTER: Brooks Brothers, $298; RIGHT: MR PORTER, $830) The most versatile thing you can wear this fall will be a classic down vest. It will amp up your favorite sweaters and button downs while keeping your look casual yet polished.  Whether it's made with herringbone, wool, or a jacket material, these vests will carry you all the way into spring. FREE AppDownload
Shane FerroThe author was horrified to learn earlier this year that sugar water is sold for $10 in certain upscale bodegas in ManhattanThere’s a hashtag being passed around a certain clique of finance twitter: #TQE. It stands for the the quaint economy, and if you’ve ever overpaid for distressed jeans or thought about forking over $12 for a jar of artisanal pickles, it’s time to acquaint yourself with the idea. The quaint economy is a derivative of a derivative of The Way We Live Now. It’s about the way that upscale brands perceive the aspirations of their target audience, filter it through their corporate marketing department, and reflect it back at us, revealing a nostalgia for a stylized past that never actually existed. The term Quaint Economy originated as a joke by Guillermo Roditi Dominguez, a portfolio manager for New River Investments. He was originally talking about his own neighborhood in Los Angeles. As it gentrified, he told Business Insider, he observed that “businesses that were useful were replaced with businesses whose only job were to look cute and not to make money.” But it grew into a way to describe a certain kind of late capitalist aesthetic that’s often associated with artisanal products made for and by millennials somewhere in Brooklyn. Dominguez’s partner, Conor Sen, described TQE on his blog a few weeks ago: “It’s our desire to drink cocktails out of mason jars rather than mass-produced glasses from Ikea, at a bar covered in reclaimed wood from a barn in Kentucky rather than something you’d find in the interior of a DMV.”   Shane FerroA leather six-pack tote for a steel bike, featured at Interbike 2014 While it started as a joke, it’s become a really helpful way to think about the way that products are marketed in 2014. “More than anything it is the idea that it is no longer just the product that matters. The production has a really huge affect on how people think about products,” says Dominguez. In a world of cheap, readily available, mass-produced goods, “the scarcity factor is the story behind products.” One of the best examples of how this works is Dan Nosowitz’s recent story in Buzzfeed about the J. Crew-owned Madewell brand. The store’s about page on Facebook reads, “Madewell's roots date back to 1937 and we're constantly taking inspiration from the brand's workwear beginnings. You'll find these references in our design's details: Selvedge edges, hand distressing, monograms.” Shane FerroThis truck often parks outside of the BI office in New York's Flatiron District, a block away from the 5th Avenue Madewell storeNosowitz is the great grandson of the creator of the Madewell brand (which J. Crew bought in 2004 and reappropriated) and writes that that’s not at all what the brand was about historically. Here he describes the disconnect: TQE is full of ironies. For one thing, says Dominguez, much of TQE is really about a nostalgia for a modernist culture that was, at the time, “hell bent on destroying the past.” For another, Sen writes, “‘authenticity’ is all about placing barriers on growth, which is interesting now that corporations and firms are trying to scale the authenticity economy.” Can the artisanal economy scale? How does this fit into, or exist alongside, the robot economy? Stay tuned.  This is the first in a series of posts about the quaint economy. FREE AppDownload
 Chipotle is the most successful company in the food industry right now. The burrito chain's same-store sales soared by nearly 20% last quarter. Executives announced plans to keep expanding around the globe.  Chipotle is also taking market share from traditional fast-food companies like McDonald's, which just reported that sales declined 3.3% in the US.  Founder and co-CEO Steve Ells says consumers turning away from fast-food companies enabled Chipotle's success.  "Over the last decade there has been a noticeable shift among consumers away from traditional fast food and casual dining chains, to fast-casual restaurants as customers are looking for better quality food, served in a convenient format," Ells said.  Chipotle is known as a fast-casual restaurant, meaning that it doesn't offer full table service but promises higher-quality food than that offered by fast-food chains.  "The companies that have lost the most customers over the last decade are traditional fast-food chains, while the biggest gains go to fast-casual restaurants," Ells said.  Associated PressChipotle founder Steve Ells. Ells cited a Consumer Reports survey that ranked Chipotle as the best fast-casual restaurant. Many traditional fast-food chains ranked near the bottom, with consumers citing "uninspiring food" as the primary reason.  "Despite offering dollar menus and frequent discounts, many of these chains also scored poorly in terms of value," Ells said. "The bottom-line customer wants delicious food, served quickly and in interactive format, and they are increasingly unwilling to compromise." Ells said that his chain also ranked highly among millennials and teens, which bodes well for the chain's future.  "They are more concerned with how food is raised and prepared than previous generations and are willing to seek out and pay a little more for something they recognize as better, better tasting, better for the environment, and better for their wellbeing," he said.  The success of fast-casual chains like Chipotle has led McDonald's to change its strategy to include more customizable options.  The chain has also started a series of videos to show how its American food is prepared.   FREE AppDownload
Sometimes it just takes a gentle reminder from a key player to get a stock moving. On Tuesday, the stock was athenahealth, the player was Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn, and the reminder was that Einhorn is short the company. And here's what happened: Yahoo Finance David Einhorn started speaking with CNBC's Scott Wapner outside of the annual Robin Hood Investor Conference at about noon, and once he reminded viewers that he was still short athenahealth, the stock started sliding. Einhorn announced that he was shorting the healthcare technology company back in May at the Sohn Investment Conference. "Jonathan Bush likes to compare athenahealth to Amazon because they both have websites," he said during his presentation, following that comment with brutal clip after clip of a giddy Bush ("yes, that Bush family," Einhorn said) talking about the company's wildly optimistic future. Since then the stock is up 1.5%. FREE AppDownload
Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) is furious some former Nazis are still collecting US social security benefits and she intends to introduce a bill to take them away. "It's deeply disturbing and I'm deeply disturbed that these individuals continue to receive Social Security benefits even after the Justice Department identified them as Nazi war criminals," Maloney told Business Insider on Tuesday. The Associated Press reported Sunday that dozens of suspected Nazi war criminals have collected millions in benefits over the years after they were expelled from the US. The AP investigation found US officials had used Social Security payments as a negotiating tool when securing agreements for the Nazis to voluntarily give up their US citizenship and leave the country. "My legislation would close that loophole," the veteran Upper East Side lawmaker vowed. "If you're a Nazi war criminal, you're a Nazi war criminal. You should not be receiving Social Security benefits. Period." Maloney said there are some promising signs for her bill, including support in the Senate from Sen. Bob Casey (D-Pennsylvania). The White House said Monday it agrees that these suspected war criminals should not be receiving the benefits. However, the fact alleged Nazi war criminals are about as unsympathetic a target as one could find, Maloney said the bill's passage is not a foregone conclusion. "You never know. I have a great deal of respect for anything that passes the United States Congress. I think this should be a slam dunk," she said. Maloney has also called for an investigation into the matter at the Justice Department and the Social Security Administration. The Justice Department told Yahoo News it was reviewing the request. As far as cutting off benefits to other people accused of serious crimes, Maloney cited terrorists as another group that should not be collecting taxpayer dollars as they enter their elderly years. "Then I'll look at cutting off benefits to terrorists that are deported," she said. FREE AppDownload
BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Approval of Russia's South Stream pipeline would send a message to Ukraine that the European Union is not ready to support its ambitions to lean toward the West and does not see it as a reliable gas transporter, the head of Slovakia's pipeline operator said. The roughly $40 billion South Stream project is designed to carry over 60 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas each year across the Black Sea into southern Europe, bypassing Ukraine, which now collects fees for transporting gas through massive pipelines from its Russian border to Europe. The European Union has so far blocked the project, citing competition rules. But Russia is working with several EU member states, such as Bulgaria and Austria, to comply with the EU rule that the pipeline provide access to other gas producers. "Potential support of South Stream, especially in its full scale, is not a positive support of ourRussian partner, but in fact a completely hostile action against Ukraine," Eustream ChairmanTomas Marecek told Reuters. "I do not understand how the EU could support this, especially now in the context of the current Ukrainian ambitions, needs and hopes." Gazprom South Stream would deprive Ukraine of revenue from Gazprom &lt;GAZP.MM&gt; that helps it cover its gas bill from Russia's state-controlled gas exporter. "This would first greatly harm Ukraine. It would incur enormous financial losses, destroy the value of their gas assets, which are one of the backbones of their economy, and heavily undermine their ambition to be supplied also from the West," Marecek said. Slovakia's Eustream carries gas from Ukraine to various regional EU pipelines. If South Stream is built, Eustream would lose some gas volume and some revenue after the expiration of a long-term contract with Gazprom in 2028. The new route entering the European Union in Bulgaria and ending in Austria would also sap revenue, but under such a scenario Eustream's underutilized pipelines would probably send large amounts of gas eastward, especially to Ukraine. South Stream would give Russia full control of the three main routes that would feed gas intoEurope, via the northern route of the Nord Stream and Yamal pipelines, the central route viaUkraine and into Slovakia as well as the southern route through South Stream. "It would effectively reduce the energy security of Europe as the huge Ukrainian system, with capacity to transmit to Europe 140 bcm, would be replaced by the much smaller system of South Stream," Marecek said. Marecek said Russia has long been a reliable supplier to Europe and would remain so in coming years. "I stress I am a great defender of supplies of Russian gas to Europe, and I am convinced that Gazprom is and will be a reliable supplier as it has been for last more than 40 years," he said. No objection to South Stream would be needed if the project represented an additional transit route that didn't replace the Ukrainian system and was justified by demand for new gas inEurope, he added. Russia has strengthened its resolve to build South Stream, despite Europe's falling gas demand, after price disputes with Ukraine have sparked three shutdowns since 2006. The latest dispute over pricing and money owed has led it to halt deliveries to Ukraine since mid-June. In this latest shutdown, Eustream has played a major role in helping Ukraine make up for the gas supplies ahead of winter. Slovakia opened an unused pipeline in September with 10 bcm of annual capacity to send gas from the European Union to Ukraine. "We are running this capacity close to 100 percent, and we don't expect reductions this winter like in Poland or Hungary as the volumes of gas in our systems are clearly exceeding the reverse flow capacity," Marecek said. "Also we are analyzing suggestions of (Ukraine pipeline operator) Ukrtransgas to increase the capacity of Vojany reverse to a higher volume," he added. Poland interrupted supplies to Ukraine in September after receiving less than the amount it requested from Russia, while Hungary halted eastward deliveries a day after securing a new deal with Gazprom last month. Meanwhile, Russia's and Ukraine's energy ministers are meeting on Tuesday in Brussels. The two sides have reached a tentative agreement in the gas row, which includes the supply of 5 bcm of Russian gas to Ukraine by end-March. That supply plus Ukraine's other sources including from Eustream should give it enough to get through the winter.  (Editing by Henning Gloystein and Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Stocks are rallying again on Tuesday, rebounding sharply after a couple of shaky weeks to start October.  And while the move in stock indexes grab the most headlines, most of the big action over the last few weeks has happened in the bond and currency markets. And some of the biggest, or at least most active, players in these markets aren't Mom-and-Pop or institutional investors, but hedge funds. In a new report, Societe Generale gives an update and an overview of how hedge funds were positioned during the recent volatility, and overall, they were a little caught out. As SocGen simply puts it: "Hedge fund expectations of rising US bond yields, implemented through short Treasury positions and long dollar trades, left them maximum exposed in the correction last week." Additionally, hedge funds were caught out on their bet that volatility would remain low, with SocGen writing: "In a low volatility environment, hedge funds typically make money on short equity volatility positions. However, the volatility spike last week left them running for cover." This chart from SocGen shows that hedge funds were net sellers of 10-year US Treasury bonds, meaning they were betting that yields would rise, while yields have in fact fallen over the last month. And this move culminated in the panic selling of 10-years that saw yields fall as low as 1.86% last Wednesday morning.  Societe Generale Hedge funds have also been selling volatility, or betting that the VIX and other volatility measures would remain low, through the fall. Last week, the VIX spiked to its highest level since last 2012. Over just the last five trading days, however, the VIX is down more than 25%. Societe Generale Overall, however, SocGen said that beyond short term volatility, it is too early to drastically reduce risk exposure: "As stops have been reached, hedge funds have had to unwind some of their trades, implying that their performance will not benefit when markets turn around. However, beyond short term volatility, we argue that it is still too early to drastically reduce risk exposure." Here's an overview of where hedge funds stand across a variety of asset classes. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaSome of Warren Buffett's favorite stocks are having a rough month, notes @ReformedBroker. The "Oracle of Omaha" is one of the largest shareholders of IBM, which reported disappointing third-quarter earnings results on Monday. Since the beginning of October, shares of IBM have tumbled about 14%. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway last held 70.1 million shares of IBM, according to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg. This suggests the value of Buffett's stake has fallen by $2.1 billion this month. Another big Buffett holding that has been a huge disappointment is U.K.-based supermarket chain Tesco. According to CNBC, which cites a Buffett letter, Berkshire Hathaway held 301,046,076 shares, or a 5% stake, of Tesco shares listed in London. He admitted last week on CNBC that his investment in Tesco was a "mistake." He also significantly cut the stake back to less than 3%, the CNBC report said. Year-to-date, shares of Tesco have fallen about 44%. Before he pared back his stake, he had lost about $788.7 million on the stake.  Then, one of Buffett's most iconic holdings, Coca-Cola, gave a profit warning today. The beverage company also only saw its worldwide volume grow by only 1% in the third quarter. The stock fell more than 6% on the news. Berkshire Hathaway, which has been a long-time investor, owns 400 million shares of Coca-Cola. His Coca-Cola position has lost about $1.1 billion in value today.  Here are some charts:  Here's how IBM has performed since October 1:  Google Finance  Shares of Tesco have fallen more than 44% this year: Google Finance  Here's Coca-Cola's chart after it reported third-quarter results:  Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
 Americans are abandoning McDonald's. The fast-food giant's domestic same-store sales plunged 3.3% in the third quarter, continuing a downward slide that began at the start of the year. "By all measures our performance fell short of our expectations," McDonald's President and CEO Don Thompson said in a statement. "We recognize that we must demonstrate to our customers and the entire McDonald's system that we understand the problems we face and are taking decisive action to fundamentally change the way we approach our business." The US, where the company has more than 14,000 locations, is McDonald's most important market. Here's why it's slipping domestically. 1. McDonald's is facing a growing perception problem in the US. In response, the company launched a massive marketing campaign last week to answer customers' questions about how its food is sourced, processed, and cooked. The campaign might help the brand in the long-term. But so far, it appears to have only ignited a backlash. McDonald's Facebook page has been inundated with thousands of negative comments in the past week regarding its food. Many have accused the company of using "pink slime" and even human DNA in its hamburger meat. Others have criticized McDonald's for marketing unhealthy food to kids. Many of the accusations are untrue, but they provide clues into the gravity of McDonald's public-perception crisis. Justin Sullivan/ Getty Images The wait at McDonald's drive-thrus is the longest in at least 15 years, according to a study by QSR Magazine. At 189.5 seconds, it is also nine seconds longer than the industry average. "Our menu is a disaster for both employees and the customer. It has killed our speed of service," a McDonald's franchisee wrote in response to a survey by the financial services firm Janney Capital Markets. McDonald's chief operating officer Tim Fenton acknowledged in January that the company "overcomplicated" the menu "with too many new products, too fast" and "didn’t give restaurants an opportunity to breathe." But according to franchisees, the company still hasn't simplified the menu. "All talk, no action," one franchisee wrote in response to another survey by Janney Capital Markets. "They continue to add more items (and admittedly will add more) even though they talk about reducing the menu. Top management is clueless as to what goes on in the stores." Flickr/oknidius 3. The company has tried to offset falling sales by slowly raising prices, which is driving away cash-strapped customers. The company said its prices increased 3% through the end of June compared with the previous year, according to a Bloomberg report. Even McDonald's cheapest menu items are getting more expensive. The company expanded its dollar menu last year to include items that cost more than $1, and it changed the name of the menu to the "Dollar Menu and More." A Double Quarter Pounder with cheese, fries, and a drink now totals about $7.50 at some Chicago locations, Bloomberg reports.   FREE AppDownload
The New York Federal Reserve has had it with Wall Street's behavior, and in a closed-door meeting with industry executives on Monday, it handed down an ultimatum. Change your behavior, or we'll have to downsize you. "The inevitable conclusion will be reached that your firms are too big and complex to manage effectively," New York Fed president William Dudley said. "In that case, financial stability concerns would dictate that your firms need to be dramatically downsized and simplified so they can be managed effectively." The problem, Dudley said, is cultural. The $6 billion trading losses, the violations of international money laundering sanctions, the scandals in which traders shave a little off the top, those are not the actions of a few rogue traders — they are the representation of a corrupted whole. So how do you change a culture? One solution is that you start by changing what matters: compensation. Wall Street has already started doing this by deferring more compensation and tying it to long-term performance. But it hasn't been enough. According to The Wall Street Journal, Dudley went on to say that senior management needed to take more responsibility. He suggested creating some kind of performance bond that would further tie executive compensation to performance or legal issues. He also suggested creating a database that tracks any ethical issues lower-level employees have had. Lets see if this has legs. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe Obama administration has taken on its own fight with inversions. Editor's note: This post was originally published Oct. 15. It has been updated Tuesday, as the merger proposal is officially dead. The Obama administration has scored its first major victory in its solo battle against a rising trend of corporate inversions, if the Chicago-based AbbVie follows through and abandons plans to take over drug-maker Shire. AbbVie, the research-based pharmaceutical company, said late Tuesday it was reconsidering an original plan to buy Shire, which makes drugs to combat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). AbbVie had offered to buy Shire for about $55 billion and proposed moving the merged company's base of operations to London, in a move that would allow it to pay fewer taxes under a scheme known as an inversion. The deal could have been the largest inversion in US history. But late last month, the Treasury Department announced executive moves to attempt to curb inversions. The Obama administration said it was acting unilaterally because it could no longer wait for Congress to address the growing trend legislatively. In an SEC filing Tuesday night, AbbVie specifically cited the Treasury's actions as a reason for reconsideration of the merger.  "AbbVie’s Board will consider, among other things, the impact of the US Department of Treasury’s proposed unilateral changes to the tax regulations announced on Sept. 22, 2014, including the impact to the fundamental financial benefits of the transaction," the company said in the filing. The Treasury Department is trying to limit inversions through two main strategies, administration officials said last month. It wants to make inversions less economically attractive and financially rewarding, something at which AbbVie hinted in its statement. It also wants to make it more difficult for the transactions to occur in the first place. "This action will significantly diminish the ability of inverted companies to escape US taxation," Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told reporters on a conference call last month. "For some companies considering deals, today’s action will mean that inversions no longer make economic sense."   AbbVie said its board of directors will meet next week to consider whether to withdraw or modify its recommendation that the company's stockholders vote to adopt the merger. REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays the share price for pharmaceutical maker AbbVie on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange July 18, 2014. The financial benefits of the deal that AbbVie was reconsidering weren't specifically detailed. But the Obama administration moved to make inversions less financially appealing through two main ways last month: • Preventing inverted companies from restructuring a foreign subsidiary to access the subsidiary’s earnings tax-free. This action, under Section 7701 of the tax code, will treat a new foreign parent company as owning stock in the former US parent, rather than the controlled foreign corporation (CFC). It would limit the benefits of the so-called de-controlling strategy, by which a new foreign parent could access the deferred earnings of the CFC without ever paying taxes on them. • Preventing "hopscotch" loans. The administration has moved to reduce the benefits of these loans, by which companies avoid taxes on profits of their CFCs by having the CFC make a loan to the new foreign parent, instead of the US parent. Britain was an attractive option as a potential tax base for AbbVie because the UK government recently introduced new tax breaks for research-and-development companies.  The Obama administration has said halting inversions is necessary to prevent an erosion of the US corporate tax base. But Republicans and Democrats disagree about how to legislatively fix the problem, with Democrats preferring a standalone solution immediately and Republicans preferring to wait to include a fix in a broad reform of the nation's tax code. The Treasury Department spokesperson declined to comment. But senators who have taken up inversions as a pet issue painted the new development as the first major victory for the Obama administration's new rules.  "I’m encouraged by reports that AbbVie will reconsider its decision to move its tax address out of the United States," said Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), the second-ranking Democratic senator. "When corporations choose to invert and don’t pay their fair share of taxes, they leave the rest of us to pick up the tab. That isn’t right, and I hope that more companies will see the light." "The Obama Administration has taken action to help curb this practice," he added. This post has been updated. FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Gleb GaranichShares of IBM are down 4% in early trading on Tuesday. This follows Monday's 7.1% plunge in the wake of a disappointing earnings announcement. The business services giant reported revenue fell 4% year-over-year to $22.4 billion in Q3. "We are disappointed in our performance," CEO Ginni Rometty said. "We saw a marked slowdown in September in client buying behavior, and our results also point to the unprecedented pace of change in our industry. While we did not produce the results we expected to achieve, we again performed well in our strategic growth areas — cloud, data and analytics, security, social, and mobile — where we continue to shift our business." IBM shares are down 14% for the year. Here's a look at IBM world ride since the beginning of the year. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
China reported a bunch of key numbers on Monday night, that showed slowing growth all around. The only real bright spot was industrial production, which was up to 8% from 6.9% at the same time last year, but was boosted by exports, not domestic consumption.  It sounds rough, but these numbers are totally perfect for Beijing. They mean that the economy is slowing — just as analysts and government officials have expected — but not so much that the state has to step in and take dramatic action. Because Beijing wants the Chinese economy to cool down and normalize to one based more on domestic consumption than international investment, it has maintained that it will allow this slowing and not intervene by loosening interest rates and turning on the hot money spigot.  Instead it has been patching up the ship where it leaks, taking "targeted easing measures" and injecting the economy with small amounts of cash here and there. It's a band-aid policy. The government is hoping that domestic consumption will improve enough to heal China's economy before it's time to take the band-aid off. But there are two problems with this. First, as Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao pointed out in a note, we're not seeing that improvement in domestic consumption yet. We'll have to wait until October to see if targeted easing measures — like a relaxation on mortgage requirements — have impacted domestic demand. In the meantime, we're seeing troubling signs from China's corporations. China's producer-price index has deflated 6.7% in the past 36 months. Corporate margins are thin, and companies — already carrying a ton of debt — are taking on even more to ride out this period. And it could be a while.  "...there is no change to our view that the structural growth deceleration will continue in China as debt deleveraging and excess capacity (including that in the housing sector) weigh on investment," Yao wrote in her note. The second is problem is that China needs to address this problem with debt eventually. A bunch of these companies —especially in the property sector — are going to need to be restructured. Some are already showing major weakness.  Now that restructuring could be orderly, or it could be chaotic. But either way the band-aid's got to come off. FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama in the Oval Office.  Obama discussed his financial paperwork during a Democratic National Committee fundraiser Monday evening at the home of his longtime donor Barbara G. Manilow.  "One of the nice things about being home is actually that it's a little bit like a time capsule. Because Michelle and I and the kids, we left so quickly that there’s still junk on my desk, including some unpaid bills," Obama said. "I think eventually they got paid — but they're sort of stacked up. And messages, newspapers and all kinds of stuff."   Obama's comment about the "unpaid bills" was subsequently edited out of a copy of the speech distributed by the White House. However, the full quote was preserved by press pool reporters who covered the event. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Tuesday asking about the discrepancy. This was the second time Obama brought up issues with his personal finances in the past week. Last Friday, Obama said his credit card was rejected when he attempted to eat out with his wife in New York City last month.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA 3-D representation of a 4-D shape called a 24-cell polychoron. And it is a disaster that it isn't taught this way to students. "A Mathematician's Lament" is a classic polemic (later expanded and published as a book) written by math teacher Paul Lockhart. The essay is a devastating and passionate assault on the mechanistic way mathematics is taught in most of our schools. Lockhart begins with a vivid parable in which a musician has a nightmare in which music is taught to children by rote memorization of sheet music and formal rules for manipulating notes. In the nightmare, students never actually listen to music, at least not until advanced college classes or graduate school. The problem is that this abstract memorization and formal-method-based "music" education closely resembles the "math" education that most students receive. Formulas and algorithms are delivered with no context or motivation, with students made to simply memorize and apply them. Part of why many students end up disliking math, or convincing themselves that they are bad at math, comes from this emphasis on formulas and notation and methods at the expense of actually deep understanding of the naturally fascinating things mathematicians explore. It's understandable that many students (and adults) get frustrated at memorizing context-free strings of symbols and methods to manipulate them. This goes against what math is really about. The essence of mathematics is recognizing interesting patterns in interesting abstractions of reality and finding properties of those patterns and abstractions. This is inherently a much more creative field than the dry symbol manipulation taught conventionally. Lockhart uses a geometry problem to illustrate. He draws a triangle inside a rectangle: Paul Lockhart How much of the rectangle does the triangle take up? Lockhart notes that mathematicians are interested in shapes in the abstract: We've come up with this imaginary triangle, and now we want to better understand it. The way to do this is to try different things and see what they tell us about the triangle. Lockhart presents one possibility that turns out to be useful in answering the question: drawing a vertical line from the top of the triangle to the base: Paul Lockhart This answers our question: Drawing a triangle and playing around with it and eventually realizing something about the relationship between the triangle and the rectangle is much closer to the spirit of mathematics than simply being told a formula. In this example, we've actually figured out and proved the triangle area formula written in the front cover of any middle or high school geometry textbook: Area = (1/2) × (length of base) × (height). The length of the base times the height gives us the area of the rectangle, and we just observed that the area of the triangle is half of that. Challenging students to think about shapes, numbers, symmetry, or motion are more fun than the standard practice of memorizing techniques and applying them over and over again. Allowing students to explore these concepts and figure things out for themselves also builds up the critical thinking and reasoning skills that we supposedly want our children to learn rather more effectively than applying a handful of memorized, unmotivated, and unexplained formulas dozens of times. At the heart of mathematics is a need to understand structures, real or imagined. This is a profoundly speculative and creative exercise: a strange type of higher dimensional shape might hint that it has some interesting properties; a data set describing Ebola infection rates could roughly fit the same pattern as uranium atoms undergoing atomic decay. The job of the mathematician is to find and, far more importantly, explain these kinds of properties and relationships. While it is important for students to work through a few basic problems at every level of mathematics they encounter, we live in an era when, once an understanding of the underlying concepts is mastered, one can turn to calculators or computer programs to do the mindless symbolic manipulations needed to get an answer. Pedagogy needs to move away from finding the answer, and toward understanding why this is the answer and why we care about the answer. Mathematics is unique among human endeavors because it combines our most "right brained" creative, abstract, imaginative instincts with our most "left brained" logical, evidence-based, focused instincts. Math is about making a poetry out of pure reason and about abstractions based on seeing patterns in our world, and it is very sad that so few people ever get to experience this. Lockhart's entire essay is a beautifully and passionately written plea for a better way of educating students to truly understand the wonderful world of mathematics. Anyone who has any interest in math and math education should read the whole thing.   FREE AppDownload
Stuart Wilson/Getty ImagesYou could look like this guy. 1. Have Patience"It'll take most guys about a month to grow out a full beard," says Olvera. Resist overshaping it in the early days until you can see what you've got going on. (Do use a trimmer to make sure the hairs are all even in length, though.) 2. Accept the ItchNew beard hairs can feel like "a cactus poking your skin" says Olvera, but the prickly sensation subsides after a week, so stay tough. "It helps to brush the hair so everything grows in the same direction." Try a Baxter of California Beard Comb. 3. Wash That Sh*tIt's hair, so you need to clean it or dirt can get trapped underneath. Olvera washes his beard in the shower every time he washes his hair, about twice a week. Try a gentle shampoo and conditioner, like those from Martial Vivot. 4. Soften It UpHair that's supple lays flat and won't scratch your girlfriend. "I use Dude No. 1 Beard Oil for a little bit of shine and to keep my skin underneath moisturized," says Olvera. 5. Avoid Hard LinesA beard shouldn't end at your chin. Someone tell the NFL. Let the hair grow naturally up to about an inch or two above your Adam's apple, then allow it to fade using a few different settings on a trimmer. (Olvera like's to use a trimmer from Oster.) 6. Shape Your FaceRound face? A more square beard can help define your jawline. "Everyone should aim to trim in tighter on the cheeks and leave hair a little longer where a goatee would be," says Olvera.  More from GQ This article originally appeared at GQ.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow GQ.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNew York Jets owner Woody Johnson speaks during a news conference on the plans for Super Bowl XLVIII, at New York City Hall January 24, 2013. Super Bowl XLVIII will be held on February 2, 2014 at Meadowlands Sports Complex's MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, making it the first Super Bowl to be played outdoors. Manhattan has a new record for most expensive co-op ever sold: $80 million.  Ukrainian billionaire Leonard Blavatnik bought New York Jets owner Woody Johnson’s unit at 834 Fifth Avenue, which was listed for $75 million. Earlier this month, Johnson accepted the offer from Blavatnik. Johnson, heir to the Johnson &amp; Johnson fortune, never lived in the 11th- and 12th-floor duplex, but did use the space for parties and fundraisers. Blavatnik is the world’s 32nd richest man, according to Forbes. He’s made other trophy real estate buys in Manhattan, including 2 East 63rd Street, a townhouse that used to be the New York Academy of Science, which he bought in 2005 for $31.3 million.  A year later, he bought a unit at 998 Fifth Avenue for $27 million and in 2007, he purchased Edgar Bronfman’s 15 East 64th Street townhouse for $51 million, according to the New York Post.  Until now, the record for priciest co-op ever sold was held by hedge fund manager Israel Englander, who bought a duplex at 740 Park Avenue for $71.3 million earlier this year. [NYP] FREE AppDownload
The pace of existing homes sales climbed 2.4% in September to an annualized rate of 5.17 million units. This was higher than the 5.10 million expected by economists. "Low interest rates and price gains holding steady led to September’s healthy increase, even with investor activity remaining on par with last month’s marked decline,” said Lawrence Yun, chief economist a the National Association of Realtors. “Traditional buyers are entering a less competitive market with fewer investors searching for available homes, but may also face a slight decline in choices due to the fact that inventory generally falls heading into the winter.” The median existing-home price was $209,700, up 5.6% year-over-year. Housing supply tightened a bit with inventory falling 1.3% to 2.30 million units. This represents a 5.3-month supply. “Economic instability overseas is leading to volatility in the stock market and is causing investors to seek safer bets, which will likely keep interest rates in upcoming weeks hovering near or below where they are now,” said Yun. “This is welcoming news for consumers looking to buy, although they could temporarily become more cautious by less certain economic conditions.”  FREE AppDownload
Jim Chanos tanked Brazil on Monday afternoon. The founder of short-focused hedge fund Kynikos Associates presented his thesis for Petrobras, the Brazilian quasi-state oil company at the Robin Hood Investors Conference. He called the $91 billion company a "scheme, not a stock." The market's reaction was swift and decisive. Chanos' remarks were made after two and the stock immediately started to slide. At yesterday's close Petrobras fell almost 10% in after hours trading. And because the company is so large it took Brazil's Bovespa stock index with it — down almost 4%. Petrobras is also weighted in the MSCI Brazil ETF, which fell almost 5% in after hours trading. On Tuesday both indexes opened down almost 4%. Petrobras fell down about 6.7% at the open. This isn't a new position for Chanos. He's been public about his short thesis on the company since at least 2013 arguing that it's a wasteful, corrupt piggy bank for the Brazilian state. What makes this worth revisiting now is the timing. Brazil will elect a new President on Sunday. It will be either incumbent Dilma Rousseff or more conservative, market friendly reform Aecio Neves. They have their differences. Rousseff will continue to support the expansive social programs that have brought millions of Brazilians out of poverty, but bloated the state. Neves promises to tighten monetary, bring investment back to the country, and help fatten thinning corporate margins. Both, however, have been associated with corruption, in the form of government kickbacks, at Petrobras.  “I will do all I can to reimburse the country,” admitted Rousseff during a news conference this week. Chanos argues that — despite the fact that Brazilian markets have been a whipsaw based on who is up or down in the polls — it doesn't actually matter for Petrobras. "Every time Dilma's poll numbers go up, Petrobras stock goes down. And every time Neves’s numbers go up, Petrobras stock goes up," Chanos told Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle after his presentation. "The problem is it's tied to Dilma. She was the chairwoman of this company. There’s been a number of investigations and – and scandals swirling the company – around the company. And we’re just not sure that even if Neves wins he’s going to really be feeling all warm and fuzzy toward this creature. Having said all that, the economics are just so poor at Petrobras that we really have called it a scheme, not a stock." The problem is simple, Petrobras prices are so low that the company ends up subsidizing costs for consumers. As a result, the company doesn't have enough cash to fund costs, capital expenditures and the little bit off the top that the government seems to be taking.  But that isn't the way all of Wall Street sees this trade. Big name hedge fund managers, like Mike Novogratz, think this election will be a buying opportunity, and that Neves can turn this around. "...if investors knee jerk run into the Bovespa and buy Petrobras because Neves wins, I think it’s a great entry point on the short side in this story because it doesn’t change the economies of the situation," said Chanos, addressing that argument. "And we pointed out today in our presentation that even – even if you gave this company Exxon’s margins both upstream – and I see your eyebrows – and downstream, it would still be break even cash flow." So don't get caught in the farce. FREE AppDownload
CitiAbout two weeks ago, as stocks started to look as if they were cracking a bit, everyone was talking about one major technical indicator on the S&amp;P 500: the 200-day moving average. Last week, the S&amp;P 500 breached that level for the first time since November 2012, with predictions that once the S&amp;P 500 fell below about 1,905 it would keep dropping. But in the past few days stocks have rebounded, and now we are back at the 200-day moving average, putting the market at a bit of a show-me point. In an email on Tuesday, Tom Fitzpatrick and the technical analysis team at Citi said: "The S&amp;P 500 is testing decent resistance at 1,904-1,907 where the 200 day moving average converges with the August low. A close above here would add weight to the bias that the correction seen over the past month has likely ended." In early trade on Tuesday, the S&amp;P 500 was up about 14 points to 1,918, popping above the resistance level mentioned by Citi. So now we see if it holds. FREE AppDownload
Coca-Cola management just warned that the company would miss its long-term profit targets. Shares are down 5.6% in early trading. "The Company expects to be below its long-term EPS growth target in 2014 and, based on the current outlook, does not expect comparable currency neutral EPS growth in 2015 to be significantly different from 2014," the company said in a statement. With its warning, management announced new plans to boost profits including a new goal to generate $3 billion in annualized cost savings by 2019. “We are taking decisive action to position The Coca-Cola Company to continue delivering long-term value for our shareowners,” CEO Muhtar Kent said. “We have taken a hard look at our progress to date and realize that while the strategies we laid out at the beginning of the year are on the right track, the scope and pace of our actions must increase. "In addition to announcing an expanded productivity program, we are streamlining our operations and further aligning our incentive plans to deliver against our growth objectives. We are also evolving our 2020 Vision to reflect these changes. Within this context, we are maintaining our long-term high-single-digit EPS growth target, while changing our operating income metric to profit before tax and adjusting our net revenue target to mid-single-digit growth." Coca-Cola has been scrambling to address consumers' rapidly evolving tastes, which have been marked by falling demand for sugary sodas. In Q3, Coca-Cola saw worldwide volume grow by just 1%. "Global sparkling beverage volume was even in the quarter and grew 1% year to date as a challenging macroeconomic environment, adverse weather in certain regions, and competitive pressures in certain markets impacted results. "Worldwide still beverage volume grew 2% in the quarter and 5% year to date, with tea contributing 4% volume growth in the quarter and both water and energy drinks volume growing 7%. Volume growth in these beverage categories was partially offset by a decline in juices and juice drinks, due in part to price increases to cover higher input costs in North America, and a decline in sports drinks." FREE AppDownload
60 MinutesPaul Tudor Jones II.Commodity prices have been falling around the world, and Paul Tudor Jones II thinks this trend will play out through 2020. On Monday, the legendary macro trader was interviewed by another legend, Stanley Druckenmiller, at the Robin Hood Investors Conference. The conference, which is stacked with hedge fund heavyweights, is off limits to the press. We have a source inside who was kind enough to share his notes from Monday evening's panel. According to our source's notes, Jones says we are in the downturn for the current commodities cycle. Having reached the peak of the cycle a few years ago, we are still heading down to the bottom. Jones said these commodity cycles run in roughly 30-year cycles between peaks — 1999 was a valley, and April 2011 was the peak. He said this cycle would play out through the downside through 2020 or so but would be net positive for the US economy.   Jones also touched on other macro topics during the discussion.  Jones talked about deleveraging in China and how that would be negative for the financial sector as well as commodities there. He basically said that there was a credit bubble and that the "the piper will be paid and the bubble will burst." He said in about 2029 the US will breach Greek debt levels, according to our source. He also talked about Japan and Japanese Government Bonds, which are up over 30% with extremely low trading volume. He's wondering when the yields will pop.  Later in the panel, Jones said the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan would keep cutting rates. He said the yen needed to depreciate 15% per year to increase inflation 1% to 1.5%. His trade is to get long the dollar versus the yen. According to our source's notes, the dollar rally versus other currencies may have run its course. The panel fell on the anniversary of Black Monday — a market crash event that Jones famously predicted back in 1987 and that netted him millions. According to our source's notes, Druckenmiller asked Jones about the similarities between 1987 and what's going on now. Jones said the 1987 crash was derivative inspired. The S&amp;P futures were down 33% before the open on that Monday. He also said that 1987 was dissimilar to what's going on now. He said we have a bubble now, and he's not sure whether it's in the stock market, according to our source's notes.  As for last week's market activity, Jones said that on Thursday we saw a five standard deviation (that's a volatility measure) kind of movement in one day. He said we would see this kind of volatility in the future. Speaking of the volatility of the past two to three weeks, he said that was due to position clearing and that it was similar to October 1998. (Our source pointed out that's when the Long-Term Capital Management event happened. Jones didn't explicitly say that, though.)  FREE AppDownload
National Bureau of Statistics of China China's property market is under serious pressure with sales falling by 10.8% over the first nine months of 2014, according to the country's National Bureau of Statistics. Although the Wall Street Journal reported that sales in September may actually have risen from the previous month, few analysts will be celebrating. Investment in the sector — a good guide for the market's expectation of its future growth potential — has been falling sharply leading to concerns that a weakening property market could drag down China's growth and pose significant risk to local government balance sheets in the country. Here's the story so far: Since the late 1990s, investment in China's real estate sector has been outpacing the country's impressive GDP growth, rising from around 4% of GDP in 1998 to around 14% of GDP by 2012. IMF The sector benefited in particular from the Chinese government's stimulus spending in 2008-09, driving up the contribution of real estate to economic growth. NBER/Yongheng Deng, Randall Morck, Jing Wu, Bernard Yeung However, lots of this growth was funded by China's local governments through off-balance sheet investment. As local governments were prohibited from borrowing themselves they created separate companies known as Local Government Financing Vehicles (LGFVs) that would then borrow from banks, trust companies, or the bond market. This helps explain a large part of the mysterious gap between announced state funding and actual infrastructure investment in the country: IMF Unfortunately this also poses a headache for Chinese policymakers. By the end of 2010, the debt held by these off-balance sheet companies amounted to RMB 4.97 trillion ($812 billion), according to IMF estimates, while the main source of funds to repay the debt came from land sales — the proceeds from which were rising considerably. IMF But revenue from land sales appear to have turned recently, after several years of gains.  IMF And as the property market weakens it is having spillover effects on consumer spending, slowing growth and weakening the government's attempts to rebalance China's economy away from relying on exports and toward domestic demand. Barclays There are a number of possible explanations behind the recent slowdown. One of the most common is that China has massively over-invested in real estate and is now facing a supply glut with more properties for sale than there is demand to buy them. As Yu Yongding, director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, put it in an article last year: China's economy is being held hostage by real-estate investment. On one hand, China should not try to eliminate overcapacity by maintaining the high growth rate in real-estate investment. While investment in social housing should be welcomed, real-estate investment, currently running at 10-13% of GDP, is already far too high. On the other hand, if real-estate investment growth falls, overcapacity will be difficult to eliminate. As the government weighs up whether to intervene to prop up the country's flagging growth rate this warning should be top of mind. Further intervention in the property market to help local governments overcome their debt burdens might end up exacerbating the problem by increasing the economy's reliance on investment in the sector. FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesThe Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Commission has released the latest report on Traffic Volume Trends, data through August. Travel on all roads and streets changed by 0.4% (1.0 billion vehicle miles) for August 2014 as compared with August 2013 (see report). The less volatile 12-month moving average is up 0.03% month-over-month. If we factor in population growth, the 12-month MA of the civilian population-adjusted data (age 16-and-over) is down 0.05% month-over-month and down 0.3% year-over-year. Here is a chart that illustrates this data series from its inception in 1970. I'm plotting the "Moving 12-Month Total on ALL Roads," as the DOT terms it. See Figure 1 in the PDF report, which charts the data from 1990. My start date is 1971 because I'm incorporating all the available data from earlier DOT spreadsheets. As we can readily see, the post-recession pattern suggests a structural change in our driving habits.  Click for a larger image The rolling 12-month miles traveled contracted from its all-time high for 39 months during the stagflation of the late 1970s to early 1980s, a double-dip recession era. The most recent decline has lasted for 81 months and counting — a new record, but the trough to date was in November 2011, 48 months from the all-time high. The Population-Adjusted Reality Total Miles Traveled, however, is one of those metrics that should be adjusted for population growth to provide the most meaningful analysis, especially if we want to understand the historical context. We can do a quick adjustment of the data using an appropriate population group as the deflator. I use the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Civilian Noninstitutional Population Age 16 and Over (FRED series CNP16OV). The next chart incorporates that adjustment with the growth shown on the vertical axis as the percent change from 1971.  Click for a larger image Clearly, when we adjust for population growth, the Miles-Traveled metric takes on a much darker look. The nominal 39-month dip that began in May 1979 grows to 61 months, slightly more than five years. The trough was a 6% decline from the previous peak. The population-adjusted all-time high dates from June 2005. That's over nine years ago. The latest data is 9.27% below the 2005 peak, fractionally off the -9.40% post-Financial Crisis low in March. Our adjusted miles traveled based on the 16-and-older age cohort is about where we were as a nation in January of 1995. Here is a closer look at the series since 2000. We can see that the decline leveled off in 2010, rolled over in 2011, leveled off in the first half of 2012 and then rolled over again.  Click for a larger image About that Population Adjustment… I've often been asked why I use the CNP16OV data for the population adjustment, often with the suggestion that it would make more sense to limit the population to licensed drivers. For openers, I don't know of a valid source for the driver-licensed population. But more importantly, the correlation between license holders and actual drivers is far from reliable. Many license holders in households do not drive, especially in their older years. According to Census Bureau data on gasoline sales (courtesy of Harry Dent's research on demand curves), dollars spent on gasoline peaks for people in their late 40s and falls off rather quickly after that. In fact, I think there's a good case for using the Census Bureau's mid-month estimates of total population (POPTHM) rather than civilians age 16 and over for the population adjustment. The reason is that a portion of total miles traveled is specifically to support children's needs (day care, schools, children's activities, etc.) and the needs of elders who might have licenses but no longer drive. Ultimately the division of miles traveled by either population group (CNP16OV or POPTHM), while not a perfect match with drivers, is a consistent and relevant metric for evaluating economic growth. Here is the same population-adjusted chart, this time with the total population for the adjustment. In the total-population adjusted version the latest data point of -7.51% just off the -7.72% post-recession low five months earlier.  Click for a larger image What about the impact of volatile gasoline prices? How much of a factor has that been in the trend? I'll close with an overlay of the population-adjusted miles traveled and real (inflation-adjusted) regular gasoline prices (all formulations) since the early 1990s.  Click for a larger image As is readily apparent, the correlation is fairly weak over the entire timeframe. And, despite the volatility in gasoline prices since the onset of the Great Recession, the correlation since December 2007 has been even weaker. There are profound behavioral issues apart from gasoline prices that are influencing miles traveled. These would include the demographics of an aging population in which older people drive less, continuing high unemployment, the ever-growing ability to work remote in the era of the Internet and the use of ever-growing communication technologies as a partial substitute for face-to-face interaction. See the recent study by the Frontier Group, A New Direction: Our Changing Relationship with Driving and the Implications for America's Future (PDF format). See also my report on Driving Declines in America's Cities, which highlights research in a recent report by U.S. PIRG Education Fund. See also the latest U.S. PIRG report on "Millennials in Motion: Changing Travel Habits of Young Americans", which I discuss here. The DOT "miles traveled" metric is also interesting to study in the context of gasoline volume sales, which I also update monthly: FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Yves LoggheMcDonald's is struggling to get back on top.  The fast food giant reported Tuesday that global same-store sales dropped 3.3% in the third quarter.  The company has lost market share to fast-casual brands like Chipotle and better-burger restaurants like Five Guys.  In a recent call with investors and analysts, CEO Don Thompson revealed the four biggest issues facing the brand — and how he planned to fix them.  1. Offering the best value. McDonald's spent several years experimenting with high-end items like Angus beef burgers and Chicken Selects. By focusing on this, McDonald's ignored one of its biggest strengths.  "Value is one of our grand pillars," Thompson said. "So we must continue to fortify our position within this key consumer attribute." The brand is luring back cash-strapped customers with offerings like the low-priced Jalapeno McDouble and Buffalo Ranch McChicken.  2. Customer service. McDonald's drive-thru wait times have gotten worse over the years, in-part because of an increasingly complex menu. Thompson acknowledged this problem and said that the company was sending corporate representatives in for a "service reset." This could include adding more workers and assigning new tasks to existing ones.  The company is also remodeling European kitchens for faster food assembly.    REUTERS/Bobby YipCustomers walk up the stairs to a McDonald's outlet, the first one which opened in China in 1990, at the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen neighbouring Hong Kong, March 18, 2013. 3. Marketing. Thompson is aware that many view McDonald's as unhealthy junk food. This problem has been exacerbated by a food factory scandal in China. To improve public perception of the company, McDonald's is doing a global audit of the marketing department. Thompson said he planned to make new internal hires. "We are also strengthening our creative messages by placing greater emphasis on the quality of our food and again re-establishing the emotional connection that our customers associate with the McDonald’s experience," Thompson said.  4. Simplifying the menu. McDonald's menu has grown 70% since 2007. The new menu items are a burden on employees and have helped contribute to long wait times. Franchisees are also angry about the overloaded menu, saying that the extra ingredients and equipment were costing them money.  Thompson stressed that the restaurant was going back-to-basics.  "We are streamlining our merchandising menu board and product offerings and in addition to making it easier for customer to order their favorite products, this will reduce complexity in our restaurants which in turn should enhance accuracy and speed of service," he said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachMario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank. European markets are reacting to rumors that the European Central Bank (ECB) is planning a much wider set of asset purchases (known as quantitative easing) to boost the bloc's lackluster economy.  Here's the scorecard right now: France's CAC 40 is up 1.34% Spain's IBEX is down 1.39% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 2.161% Germany's DAX is up 1.01% Reuters reported that the ECB was considering a much wider purchase of corporate bonds as soon as December. Currently the bank is buying some asset-backed securities and corporate, but there is a much smaller market for those purchases, as shown by Frederik Ducrozet at Credit Agricole. The euro fell more, by nearly 1 cent against the dollar, before rebounding as the rumor was dismissed by other news organizations: Bloomberg The report lifted equities, too; all of the eurozone's major indices were up by more than 1% so far Tuesday before dipping a little.  The ECB is denying that there is anything like this on the agenda, and the Financial Times is reporting from sources that corporate bond purchases are not on December's agenda — at least not yet.  Here's Italy's FTSE MIB climbing and dropping again: Bloomberg    FREE AppDownload
Associated PressA bicyclist pedals pass Chipotle Mexican Grill Monday, March 13, 2006, in Beverly Hills, Calif. This photo was taken shortly after Chipotle went public.Chipotle Mexican Grill were among the most active names of Tuesday's premarket session, with both stocks falling on heavy volume. Chipotle lost 5.2 percent to $618.80 before the bell a day after the burrito chain reported another acceleration in quarterly restaurant sales growth but signaled that such momentum couldn't last forever. The stock has been a trading favorite this year, up about 23 percent in 2014, based on Monday's closing price. That easily outpaces the S&amp;P 500's rise of about 3 percent. (Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesMcDonald's Q3 earnings beat expectations, but sales whiffed. Global comparable store sales fell 3.3% in Q3, which was worse than the 2.9% decline expected. "McDonald's third quarter results reflect a significant decline versus a year ago, with our business and financial performance pressured by a variety of factors - from a higher effective tax rate, to unusual events in the operating environments in APMEA and Europe, to under-performance in the U.S., our largest geographic segment," CEO Don Thompson said. Among other things, McDonald's has been struggling with some bad PR in China following reports that vendors were supplying some stores with expired meat. Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa (APMEA) sales fell 7.5% during the quarter. Europe sales plunged 4.2% and US sales fell 4.1%. Excluding non-recurring items, McDonald's earned $1.51 per share during the quarter, which was higher than the $1.36 expected by analysts. "We began 2014 mindful of the challenges we faced in driving sales and profitability," Thompson said. "The internal factors and external headwinds have proven more formidable than expected and will continue into the fourth quarter, with global comparable sales for October expected to be negative." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders laugh as they work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange as the market closes in New York October 17, 2014. JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!  US Futures are jumping higher, with the E-Minis rallying 1.6% from overnight lows to get back upside 200dma.   The rally has been propelled by strong US earnings (TXN and AAPL have NDX up 1%), and headlines that the ECB is considering buying corporate bonds.   We are having a strong session in Europe as Energy and Fins rally – The DAX has added 1.6%, but volumes remain light as many are on School Holiday in the Continent.   The FTSE is lagging, held back by Tech as ARM’s shares are off 5% on #s.    Over in Asia, News of Russian-Ukraine progress in Natty talks has MICEX up 70bp – while Shanghai lost 70bp as China’s GDP posts slightly light.   Tokyo gave back ½ of Monday’s 4.4% gain, Autos weak globally as China revises down Auto demand – While Aussie managed a slight pop as the A$ shrugs off China on hawkish RBA minutes.    The Bid is coming out of German and US debt this morning, with US 10YY back upside of 2.2%, rallying 8bp from overnight lows.   The DXY is stronger, catching a bid against Euro and Yen – The $/Y cross nearing another 107 test.   With the Stringer Dollar, commodities have a headwind, but we are seeing Industrial metals like Copper in the green, while precious are holding a bid despite being off best levels of the overnight.  All eyes remain on the energy complex, where Brent and WTI are both bid up as China Implied Oil demand popped – but they have been coming quickly off overnight highs.    The worst performing commodity again is Coffee, as Ebola fears recede and the bean loses 12% over the last week.     Scheduled Catalysts include expiry of the VIX and WTI spot contracts – the Johnson Redbook Retail Sales Index at 8:55, Existing Home Sales at 10 (ITB UP 5% in last 5 days), the week’s biggest POMO at 11, and after the close we get API data for Crude, Gasoline and Distillates.   There was Strong Growth Outperfromance yesterday, bulls would like to see followthrough in the face of light China data, and as Ebola headlines become less Dire – the Travel stocks are jumping again, with AAL, CCL and RCL all up 2%+ early.  Keep an eye on the Builders, with the ITB jumping this last week into Existing Home Sales later this morning.   Energy stocks will remain in focus, with XOP, OIH and XLE all starting to disconnect to the upside from the commodity.    Robin Hood continues today - Best Ideas presentations:  Robbins: 8:10am / Meister: 8:30am / Tilson: 10:30am / Chopra: 11:30am / Loeb: 1:45pm / Tepper: 3:35pm.  Other notable speakers:  Google’s Schmidt: 11:15am / Barry Sternlicht: 2pm / Icahn, Lee Ainslie, Larry Fink at 4:10pm FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Verizon building in New YorkWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Verizon Communications Inc on Tuesday posted lower quarterly earnings, but revenue rose as it added customers to its wireless business. Verizon reported a third-quarter profit of $3.79 billion, or 89 cents per share, compared with $5.6 billion, or 78 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 4 percent to $31.6 billion. Wall Street expected $31.58 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.  (Reporting by Marina Lopes; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Sitting is killing you. Although if you are like most people, you probably don't have access to an alternative workspace option like a treadmill desk. If you are forced to sit, you should maximize your desk's potential for healthy ergonomics and productivity with this perfect setup.   Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional graphics by Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauChristophe De Margerie died in a plane accident in Moscow.Good morning! These are the major stories already making an impact globally Tuesday morning. Oil Giant Total's CEO Has Died In A Plane Crash. Christophe de Margerie died in a plane accident at about midnight Tuesday in Moscow when his plane collided with a snowplow driven by someone who was drunk. UK Public Finances Are Still A Mess. Figures out Tuesday show that the government actually borrowed more in the first six months of the fiscal year than it did during the same period last year, going against its plans. US Home Sales Are Coming. Figures for US existing home sales are out at 10 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting 5.1 million sales last month, up 1% from August.  The US Says A Pacific Trade Pact Is Close. The time is "ripe" for Japan and the United States to reach a breakthrough in talks for a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact, the US commerce secretary said Tuesday, adding that the two were "a lot closer" to a deal than they were in recent months. European Markets Are Up. After a rocky morning, all of Europe's major indices were up by more than 1%, except the UK's FTSE 100, which is still 0.94% higher than Monday's close. The Nikkei ended down 2.03%.  Lufthansa's Pilots Union Is Not Ruling Out Longer Strikes. Industrial action at Lufthansa could continue beyond Tuesday if the German airline fails to resume negotiations with its disgruntled pilots.  China Is Slowing. Data released Tuesday showed that GDP grew by 7.3% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with a year earlier, its slowest pace since the first quarter of 2009.  Hong Kong's Leader Says Poor People Would Ruin A Free Election. CY Leung said open elections would result in the city's many poor dominating politics. Staples Is Investigating A Possible Payment Card Data Breach. The firm said late Monday that it had contacted law enforcement over the possibility that it had been hit by a cyberattack.  Russia Is Hoping For A Gas Deal With Ukraine. Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Tuesday he hoped to finalize a gas agreement during a trilateral meeting later in the day in Brussels, Interfax news agency reports.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn F-35A Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter takes off on a training sortie at Eglin Air Force Base, FloridaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Lockheed Martin Corp, the Pentagon's No. 1 supplier, on Tuesday reported a five percent increase in third quarter profit despite a continuing drop in revenues, but its largest division - aeronautics - saw margins drop by over one percentage point. Lockheed posted third quarter profit of $888 million for the third quarter, or $2.76 per diluted share, as revenues fell two percent to $11.1 billion. This was ahead of the $2.72 per share expected by economists. Operating margins edged lower at each of the company's five divisions in the quarter, with the trend most noticeable in the aeronautics sector, which builds the F-35 fighter jet. The division reported a 12 percent drop in earnings to $362 million, and its operating margin fell to 10.2 percent from 11.3 percent.   (Reporting by Andrea Shalal Editing by W Simon) FREE AppDownload
Have the various hard-landing predictions (many focused on the worrisome credit expansion in China) been too draconian? From a number of recent indicators it seems that China's economic growth is gradually grinding lower - perhaps toward something like a 4% per annum in 2020 (see report). Unless of course China's official economic reports are completely flawed - which is always a possibility. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinThe world price of oil – Brent Crude – fell below $84 per barrel on October 15.  This was 26% less than the $115 it had reached in June, just four months before.  The rise during the spring had many explanations:  global tensions in Ukraine, the South China Sea and especially the Middle East with the emergence of the Islamic State, plus a capital crunch challenging the health of the U.S. shale fracking boom.  Then suddenly in June, prices started dropping, reaching levels unseen since 2010 (though still high by historical standards – twice that of 10 years ago). What is going on?  Why does the price of oil matter to financial advisors?  What might these fluctuations mean to the price and supply of oil for the rest of the decade?  Isn’t oil just another commodity? Oil is unique. There is a tight relationship between energy supplies, especially affordable quantities of oil, and the level of overall economic activity.  Simply put, economies stop growing when their use of energy stops growing. The world moves with oil, and petroleum lubricates the global economy.  It is not simply a natural resource, but the substance that allows all other systems – from food to cities to (unfortunately) war – to exist at the massive scales of today.  For most of the 20th Century, the world’s supply of oil grew steadily, while the price generally declined and remained low1.  This enabled the world’s GDP to expand by a factor of 15, a rate vastly greater than at any time in human history.  The opening years of the 21st century have broken with these trends.  The price of oil is higher (even adjusted for inflation) than it has been since the opening days of the oil age (except for a few brief periods), but global supplies of oil are growing very slowly, if at all, and economic growth is stalling all over the world. The booming story of American shale oil development and the prospect of “energy independence” had been a defining narrative driving optimism about our economy since 2009.  Many advisors have bought into this story, which depended on enjoying both our new oil and high world energy prices.  The current price collapse could be a threat to that part of our prosperity. Oil extractors need high prices.  The cost of getting oil out of the ground has been rising at more than 10% per year for over a decade as the new sources of oil moved to deep water, tar sands and shale deposits.  In addition, many nations, especially Russia and those in OPEC, need the revenue from oil to pay their national bills and support the promises made to their people and their militaries.  The break-even price for those producers is approximately $110 per barrel for Brent, and that was the regular price from 2010 to this summer, bouncing around in a tight range.  Oil demand is pretty inflexible over short periods (less than a few years), except when a sharp economic crisis hits, as in 2008.  Most of the time prices are set by the price sellers are willing to accept, as measured by the cost of the marginal barrel.  Ever since the 1870’s, the challenge facing oil producers has been to control and “coordinate” extraction rates to boost prices, but not higher than the buyers could afford.  As one wag put it, on our way to running out of oil, we keep running into oil. Historically, producers have been pretty successful at this control, from Rockefeller’s Standard Oil monopoly to the global cartel of major companies to the regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission to the emergence of OPEC.  In the first years after 2000, both supply and prices rose sharply to meet global demand, but since about 2005 world crude oil extraction rates have been flat (plus-or-minus 5%) despite even higher prices.  Saudi Arabia has long been considered the “swing producer,” the only potential source of extra supply or reduced production, while everyone else pretty much extracts as much as they can as fast as they can.  When the Saudis raise or lower their output to keep prices stable, others enjoy the benefits of the new prices.  The Saudis have been willing to exercise this responsibility in exchange for security arrangements that go back to FDR, Henry Kissinger, and Jimmy Carter. It appears the Saudis are abandoning this role for now, and are instead engaging in a price war.  News reports, always citing “unnamed sources,” suggest the Saudis are willing to let prices drop to the $75-80 range and keep them there for a couple of years to protect their market share.  It is also possible that this is a short-term dare to encourage the U.S. and OPEC nations to share in price-supporting cuts. We will know soon, but the impacts grow the longer the prices remain low. The best known supply of new oil is the “light tight oil” (LTO) extracted by fracking operations in Texas and North Dakota, which has represented one of the few sources of growth in world oil supplies since 2005.  This oil brings several problems to the markets.  First, a large number of independent companies are involved, and they are not subject to the informal rules of the market that have controlled output for decades.  Instead, the wells are financed with borrowed money, and need rapid production to cover cash flow requirements.  Further, the fracked wells deplete rapidly – on the order of 60% per year – so there is a need for new wells (a “drilling treadmill”) to keep things going.  Finally, the oil is in the wrong place (North Dakota) or of the wrong type (very light) to be economically used by existing refineries on the Gulf coast.  The U.S. has been very proud of this new production for reducing our need for imported oil.  Some LTO may be profitable at prices down to $60, but in June Goldman Sachs estimated a break-even price for this industry at $85 in WTI, which is already higher than the current price (see here and here). FREE AppDownload
As a result of historically low borrowing costs and relaxed regulations on smaller companies going public (thanks to the JOBS Act), publicly traded home builders have been gaining market share. Halfway through 2014, public builders have 35.5% market share, up 6.1% from 2013. This gain was made through: John Burns Real Estate ConsultingWith lots in good locations difficult to find and land prices reaching elevated levels in numerous markets across the country, public builders have been taking advantage of their lower cost of capital to buy private builders with lots in the right locations. Given higher lot prices and loftier valuations for home building operations, and much more expensive capital, private builders are more willing to sell and monetize their business. Whether growth comes organically, through purchasing private builders, or private companies listing on a national exchange, publicly traded home builders have become a much bigger part of the new home market. FREE AppDownload
Barclays There should be no doubt — China is slowing. Data released Tuesday showed GDP grew by 7.3% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with a year earlier, its slowest pace since the first quarter of 2009. The recent slowdown has been driven primarily by a weakening real estate market that has pulled down investment and is starting to weigh on consumer spending. The weakness of the property market is of particular concern because land sales provide nearly 50% of local government revenues. As the IMF reported last year, the risk is that "a correction in real estate prices could hurt the debt servicing ability of local governments ... and impair banks’ asset quality," leading to the threat of a transfer of problems in the financial sector to the Chinese government if left unchecked. Commenting on the Q3 figure, Barclays said: The out-turn was better than our (7.1%) and consensus (7.2%) forecasts, but remains consistent with our view that relatively weaker data in Q3 reflects the government’s shift towards tolerating lower growth ... We continue to expect the government to set a lower growth target of 7.0-7.5% for 2015, from c.7.5% in 2014, and maintain our below-consensus 2015 GDP growth forecast of 6.9%. Slower growth will put pressure on the Chinese government to intervene to prop up the country's growth rate to hit its official target of 7.5% growth in 2014. FREE AppDownload
mariachily / FlickrIt's another rocky morning: Most of the big European stock indexes opened down but have since climbed into positive territory. This follows news that Chinese growth has fallen to a six-year low, which came out overnight. Here's the scorecard, so far:  France's CAC 40 is up 1.91% Spain's IBEX is down 1.95% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 2.45% Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.86% Germany's DAX is up 1.47% The Nikkei ended down 2.03%, with no repeat of Monday's impressive climb. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index is down 0.30%. US stock futures have taken a hit: Both Dow and S&amp;P futures are down by 0.43%.  UK public borrowing figures will be released at 4:30 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting a deficit of £9.2 billion ($14.9 billion). The figures are increasingly important as Britain heads toward its 2015 general election, with public spending a major issue. In the US, home sales figures will be released at 10 a.m. ET, giving some idea of how the housing market performed in September. Analysts are expecting 5.1 million sales.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthUK Chancellor George Osborne visits a construction site in Ebbsfleet in April this year.Figures released a week ago show that the US government deficit is back below 3% of GDP, an amazing turnaround that went without much celebration. That is down to less than a third of the levels it reached during the worst of the recession. In comparison, Britain's deficit-cutting has been awful: At 5.7% of GDP in the most recent fiscal year, the government has not even reduced borrowing by half. When the Coalition came into office, it expected to eliminate the deficit by 2015. Just a few weeks ago, British Chancellor George Osborne said that the UK was the "most deficit reducing of any major advanced economy on earth". It wasn't true at the time, but sounds even more ludicrous today.  Borrowing disappointments have been one of the only constant and reliable things in the past few years in British politics. Crises come and go, but the government has almost constantly missed its own deficit targets.  So far, the UK's public sector has borrowed £58 billion ($94 billion) in the financial year between April and September. Despite the promising economic recovery, that is actually £5.4 billion ($8.7 billion) more than it did during the same period last year.  ONS Even though Britain is now growing at an unexpectedly decent pace, public borrowing figures are still failing to see any significant improvement. Based on the first six months of this financial year, the deficit will actually be higher, not lower, than last year's. Samuel Tombs at Capital Economics spells out the Treasury's problems in a note:  The poor performance relative to last year has largely reflected what should be temporary weakness in income tax receipts, due to lower than expected growth in average earnings ... Nonetheless, borrowing would have to be a whopping 37% lower than last year in the remaining six months of the fiscal year for the annual total to match the OBR’s forecast. Accordingly, the Chancellor will be forced to acknowledge in December’s Autumn Statement that the fiscal consolidation is not going to plan, limiting his scope to announce pre-election sweeteners. Britain was already set for a pretty dismal general election next year, but with an even more dismal outlook for the public finances, it looks like there'll be even less on offer from the major parties.  FREE AppDownload
M. Spencer Green/APProtesters participate in a rally outside a McDonald’s on Chicago's south side as labor organizers escalate their campaign raise the minimum wage for employees to $15 an hour. As Democrats across the country make an election-year push to raise the minimum wage, they are also looking to motivate younger people, minorities and others in their base to go to the polls on Nov. 4th.As Democrats across the country make an election-year push to raise the minimum wage, they often point to fast food workers, baristas and others who are struggling to raise families, pay rent or get through school — some on as little as $7.25 per hour. First, though, they are out to help themselves. Looking to motivate younger people, minorities and others in their base to go to the polls on Nov. 4, the party has put questions on the ballot in five states asking voters whether the minimum wage should be increased. The issue is also a near-constant topic on the campaign trail, as Democrats work to identify themselves as stalwarts for the middle class and to paint Republicans — who typically oppose raising the wage because they say it will lead to job cuts — as uncaring. In one state, Illinois, the campaign to support the minimum wage would not actually raise the wage. The ballot question is non-binding and would only ask voters their opinion. But for getting out the vote, the issue is "a winner with everybody in our state," said Democratic U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, who said he urged party leaders to put it on the ballot. "So encouraging people to vote that issue when it came to the ballot questions, and contrasting Democratic positions with Republican positions, I thought was a worthy issue for this election campaign." M. Spencer Green/APIllinois Gov. Pat Quinn answers questions during a luncheon in Chicago ahead of an election-year to raise the minimum wage.Illinois Democrats are fighting to keep control of one of the party's last strongholds in the Midwest. Gov. Pat Quinn, with backing from labor unions, has hit his wealthy Republican rival repeatedly for earlier statements that he wanted to cut and even eliminate the minimum wage, calling him an "out-of-touch" multimillionaire. Quinn also spent a week trying to live on a minimum wage budget and talking about the experience on the trail. While the Chicago Democrat said he ate Graham Crackers for dinner and had to order water instead of drinks when dining out, he also managed to catch country artist Garth Brooks during the first stop of the musician's tour. The wage measures are found in other states with hard-fought races, including Alaska and Arkansas, where the outcome could determine whether Democrats keep control of the U.S. Senate. The party also is battling to pick up a congressional seat in Nebraska and keep a Senate seat in South Dakota. Durbin said Democrats have been "victimized" in the past when Republicans put their own turnout-stoking measures like gay marriage bans on the ballot in conservative states. Quinn's opponent, Bruce Rauner, is among the Republicans accusing Democrats of playing games with the wage issue. "If he was serious about this, he could have gotten it done" in the Democratic-controlled Legislature, Rauner said. Quinn says he hopes an overwhelming vote in support on the ballot measure will persuade reluctant legislators to approve an increase. The impact of raising the minimum wage has been much debated over the years. A report by the Congressional Budget Office in February estimated that a federal minimum wage of $10.10 an hour, which President Barack Obama supports, could cost 500,000 jobs nationwide. But the 13 states that raised their minimum wages at the beginning of 2014 were adding jobs at a faster pace than those that did not, according to a Labor Department analysis in July of state-by-state hiring data. Minimum wage proposals tend to be popular even in conservative states, said John Matsusaka, a University of Southern California economist who studies public ballot issues. All 10 of the statewide measures considered since 2000 have passed, he said. Although ballot initiatives generally increase turnout by about 1 or 2 percent, Matsusaka said, it's less clear how they affect candidates on the ballot. The popularity of the issue has put some Republican candidates in a difficult spot. In Alaska, Senate candidate Dan Sullivan opposed a federal minimum wage hike during the GOP primary campaign then came out for the state minimum wage measure in his general election race against Democratic Sen. Mark Begich. Democratic Sen. Mark Pryor and his Republican opponent, Tom Cotton, have both endorsed the state-level ballot measure in Arkansas, but Cotton had previously said the issue should be left for voters to decide. Democratic officials in Nebraska hope the wage issue makes a difference in the close race between Democrat Brad Ashford and Republican incumbent Lee Terry in an Omaha-based congressional district. In South Dakota, where Democratic U.S. Sen. Tim Johnson's retirement created an open seat, Democrat Rick Weiland helped carry signed petitions to the Secretary of State's office to get the minimum wage issue on the ballot. His GOP opponent, former Gov. Mike Rounds, opposes it. In Illinois, Rauner admitted he'd made a mistake after video surfaced of him saying he was "adamantly, adamantly against" increasing the minimum wage. Rauner now says he supports an increase to $10 per hour, as long as it's accompanied by pro-business reforms, but the shift hasn't stopped Quinn from airing ads featuring video clips of the Republican's earlier comments. ___ Associated Press writers Grant Schulte in Lincoln, Nebraska and Nicholas Riccardi in Kodiak, Alaska, contributed to this report. ___ Follow Sara Burnett at http://twitter.com/sara_burnett Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua RobertsEuropean Central Bank Governor Mario Draghi.The European Central Bank is considering buying corporate bonds on the secondary market and may decide on the matter as soon as December with a view to begin buying early next year, several sources familiar with the situation told Reuters. The ECB has already carried out work on such purchases, which would widen out the private-sector asset-buying program it began on Monday — stimulus it is deploying to try to foster lending to businesses and thereby support the eurozone economy. "The pressure in this direction is high," said one person familiar with the work inside the ECB, speaking on condition of anonymity. Asked about the possibility of making such purchases, an ECB spokesman said: "The Governing Council has taken no such decision." The ECB's policymaking Governing Council could discuss the possibility of making such purchases at its December meeting, two of the four sources Reuters spoke to said. All four said such plans were being discussed. The policymakers could decide at the December meeting to go ahead with the purchases, but such a step is not certain. Should the Council decide in December to proceed, the purchases on the secondary market could begin in the first quarter of 2015, one of the sources said. The ECB began buying covered bonds on Monday, part of a private-sector asset-purchase program that will also see it buy bundled loans known as asset-backed securities (ABS) later this year. However, there is concern at the ECB that these measures may have an insufficient impact to help support the economy. "In the view of many Governing Council members, the economic picture has recently taken a turn for the worse," one of the sources told Reuters.   (Reporting by Andreas Framke, Eva Taylor and Paul Carrel; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA high-speed train travelling to Guangzhou is seen running on Yongdinghe Bridge in Beijing SHANGHAI (Reuters) - State-backed China CNR Corporation is making a pitch to sell its high-speed trains to California, signaling China's growing export ambitions for such technology after building the world's longest network in just seven years. It marks the first concrete attempt by China to sell high-speed locomotives abroad and establish itself as a credible rival to sector leaders such as Germany's Siemens, Canada's Bombardier and Japan's Kawasaki. CNR, its unit Tangshan Railway and U.S.-based SunGroup USA are submitting an expression of interest to California's $68 billion high-speed rail project for a contract to supply up to 95 trains that can travel as fast as 354 kilometers per hour (221 miles per hour), SunGroup told Reuters. "We believe that high-speed rail is something that China does very well, and it's a product that we can export across the world," SunGroup spokesman Jonathan Sun said in a phone interview, adding that SunGroup, CNR and Tangshan Railway had been working together for four years. Manufacturers are expected to send in expressions of interest by Oct. 22 to the California High Speed Railway Authority, which will later issue formal requests for proposals. About a dozen firms from places such as Japan and Spain are expected to compete, it said. California has been candid about its desire for Chinese investment in the 800-mile-long (1,287 kilometers) line from Los Angeles to San Francisco; U.S. media reports said governor Jerry Brown met Chinese rail officials in April last year, including those from Tangshan Railway, to discuss the project. No estimates for the contract's value have been published, but in its 2014 business plan the California High Speed Railway Authority estimated each trainset would cost $45 million, based on a purchase of 70 vehicles. "We haven't officially gone out to bid yet. This is us saying to the industry that we need trainsets. They have to meet these standards. We're asking, 'Are you interested in learning more, and do you think you could do this for us?'” said Lisa Marie Alley, deputy director of public affairs at the High-Speed Rail Authority. China has made no secret of its desire to export its high-speed technology abroad, having built over 12,000 kilometers of track at home in less than a decade. CNR and CSR Corp are China's largest locomotive makers, while China Railway Construction and China Railway Group build track. The country has helped or indicated its interest to build thousands of kilometers of high-speed track in countries such as Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, though it has yet to sell a high-speed train abroad. Premier Li Keqiang - dubbed by local media as China's high-speed rail salesman - has led a drive to promote its technology in Thailand, Britain, Russia and India. A Chinese consortium was the only competitor to present a bid for a tender to build a 210-km high-speed rail line in Mexico, the Mexican government said last week. "The Chinese market right now is booming, and there's a very high level of investment, but five, 10 years down the road will it still be at this level? We don't know. So it makes sense for these companies to want to diversify their revenue streams," Barclays analyst Yang Song said. The sector's image was, however, marred by a 2011 collision between two high-speed trains near Wenzhou in Zhejiang province that killed 40 people and was later blamed on design flaws. Project details published on SunGroup's website show the consortium is putting forward the CRH380BL train, a model used on the Beijing-Shanghai line, which can travel up to 380 kph. Sun said an initial order would probably be about 18-20 trains and that they would open a factory to make the trains in California if they won the bid, as required by U.S. law. The consortium also intends to bid for the next available contracts to build track sections of the line. A group led by Tutor Perini is building the first segment, while consortiums that include Dragados and Samsung are bidding for the next construction package. "In the future we want to be involved in all aspects of the project," Sun said. "Because by undertaking a package you can showcase the true value of the high-speed technology that China has created and manufactured." (Additional Reporting by Robin Respaut in SAN FRANCISCO; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterChina's Premier Li Keqiang.BEIJING (Reuters) - China needs to accelerate reforms and not rely solely on its central bank or government spending to drive growth, the head of the World Bank said Tuesday. "I would recommend not really relying more on their macro policy, specifically on the monetary and fiscal side, because it's been done before, especially post the global financial crisis," Managing Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati told Reuters in an interview in Beijing. "It is now time for really deepening and doing the reforms in a much faster way." Indrawati made the comments in the run-up to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APAC) conference of finance ministers held in Beijing on Tuesday and Wednesday. Earlier on Tuesday, China posted its weakest economic growth rate since the 2008/09 global financial crisis, and now risks missing its official annual growth target for the first time in 15 years, adding to concerns that it is becoming a drag on global growth. Analysts expect Beijing to roll out further stimulus in coming months in an attempt to boost growth, following a series of measures earlier in the year. (Reporting by Jake Spring; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA car drives past a sign reading "Vnukovo-3 Business Aviation Center," near Moscow's Vnukovo airport on Tuesday. The CEO of the French giant oil giant Total, Christophe de Margerie, died in a plane accident at about midnight Tuesday in Moscow when his plane collided with a snowplow driven by someone who was drunk, Russian investigators said. De Margerie was 63. The driver of the snowplow denies being drunk, and relatives say he never drinks, according to his lawyer and reported by The Moscow Times. "According to his relatives, he was sober in the morning and he doesn't drink at all due to chronic heart disease," lawyer Alexander Karabanov said. "Relatives are afraid that the airport authorities are just trying to make him ultimately responsible to avoid billions in lawsuits which are for sure to follow." The executive was in Russia attending a government meeting on foreign investment and headed back to Paris. Total is a top foreign investor in Russia, where it is part of a joint venture with the Russian company Lukoil over the exploration of shale potential in Siberia. The Falcon 50 plane collided with a snow-removal machine during takeoff at Moscow's Vnukovo airport.  Vladimir Markin, spokesman for Russia's investigative Committee, said the driver was operating the snowplow under the influence of alcohol. The driver was seriously hurt, the Financial Times reports. Reuters//Luke MacGregor Christophe de Margerie. The crash damaged the plane, so the pilot decided to turn around and land, Russia Today reported earlier. With an engine on fire, the plane crashed on the runway in flames, killing everybody on board, including de Margerie and three French crew members. In a statement, Total said: "The thoughts of the management and employees of the Group go out to Christophe de Margerie’s wife, children, and loved ones as well as to the families of the three other victims.  De Margerie had been CEO of Total since 2007, and he was known by the nickname "Big Mustache" because of his curved mustache, Bloomberg reported. He headed up exploration and production before he was CEO. Total is the third-largest oil company in Europe.  Messages of condolences have been sent from French President Francois Hollande and Russian President Vladimir Putin, who called de Margerie “a true friend of Russia.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA family leaves the Staples store in Broomfield(Reuters) - Staples Inc said late Monday evening it is investigating a possible breach of payment card data and has contacted law enforcement about the matter, making it the latest U.S. retailer to become a possible victim of a cyberattack. "Staples is in the process of investigating a potential issue involving credit card data and has contacted law enforcement," company spokesman Mark Cautela said in a statement.  "We take the protection of customer information very seriously, and are working to resolve the situation," he said. "If Staples discovers an issue, it is important to note that customers are not responsible for any fraudulent activity on their credit cards that is reported on a timely basis." The office supply retailer disclosed the investigation after security reporter Brian Krebs reported on his blog Krebsonsecurity.com that several banks have identified a pattern of payment card fraud suggesting that several Staples stores in northeastern United States had succumbed to a data breach. (Reporting by Jim Finkle and; Supriya Kurane; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski An Army nurse during a demonstration of an isolation chamber for the treatment of infectious disease patients, at the Germany army medical centre, Bundeswehr Clinc, in Koblenz, on Thursday. Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday.  1. The CEO of the French oil giant Total, Christophe de Margerie, died in a plane crash in Moscow. He was 63.   2. Legendary fashion designer Oscar de la Renta died at the age of 82 after battling cancer.  3. Turkey said it would facilitate the passage of Iraqi Kurdish forces to the Syrian town of Kobani to help fellow Kurds in the fight against Islamic State militants.  4. The Ukrainian Army allegedly fired cluster munitions, weapons that can scatter hundreds of smaller bombs when fired, in Donetsk city in early October, according to The New York Times. "If confirmed, the use of cluster bombs by the pro-Western government could complicate efforts to reunite the country, as residents of the east have grown increasingly bitter over the Ukrainian Army’s tactics to oust pro-Russian rebels," The Times writes.  5. China's economy grew last quarter at its slowest pace in nearly six years, although the results were slightly better than analysts were expecting.  6. In an interview with foreign media, Hong Kong's leader Leung Chun-ying said that free elections would allow poor people to dominate politics, Reuters reports. The statement comes shortly before talks are due to take place between student pro-democracy protesters and government officials.   7. Oscar Pistorius will find out if he faces a prison term after being convicted of culpable homicide for shooting and killing his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.  8. A new Ebola study predicts the spread of the virus, projecting that up to three infected people fly overseas every month from the three worst-hit African countries, The Wall Street Journal reports.  9. The US Centers for Disease Control issued new guidelines to health workers for treating Ebola victims, calling for more rigorous training and mandating that no skin is exposed when protective equipment is worn and that all workers are supervised. 10. Apple beat expectations revenue, earnings, and iPhone sales but sold fewer iPads than forecast. And finally... Kate Middleton is due to have her second child next April. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alberto LoweOscar de la Renta.  Fashion designer Oscar de la Renta has died at aged 82. De la Renta died at his home on in Connecticut on Monday after battling cancer. "While our hearts are broken by the idea of life without Oscar, he is still very much us. Oscar's hard work, his intelligence and his love of life are at the heart of our company," a statement said. "All that we have done, and all that we will do, is informed by his values and his spirit. Through Oscar's example we know the way forward. We will make Oscar very proud of us by continuing in an even stronger way the work that Oscar loved so much."  REUTERS/Mike Segar Designer Oscar de la Renta and Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue in 2005. The designer, born in the Dominican Republic, defined American style  in the '60s and '70s. The New York Times writes: "Determined to stay relevant, Mr. de la Renta achieved fame in two distinct realms: as a couturier to socialites — the so-called ladies-who-lunch, his bread and butter — and as a red-carpet king. He also dressed four American first ladies, but it was Hollywood glitz, rather than nice uptown clothes, that defined him for a new age and a new customer. Just as astutely he embraced social media." REUTERS/Lucas JacksonDesigner Oscar De La Renta (C) smiles with model Karlie Kloss (L) and another model after presenting his Autumn/Winter 2013 collection during New York Fashion Week. He dressed first ladies Jacqueline Kennedy, Nancy Reagan, and Hillary Clinton as well as a long list of Hollywood royalty including Amy Adams, Sarah Jessica Parker, Penelope Cruz, and Sandra Bullock. De la Renta is survived by his wife Annette, his son, three sisters, as well as three stepchildren and nine step-grandchildren. FREE AppDownload
