Adrees Latif/ReutersWorkers board up businesses in preparation for the grand jury verdict in the shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri November 19, 2014Business owners in the St. Louis, Missouri area have hired private military contractors to transport guns and gold, fearing their shops will be targeted by looters if a grand jury does not indict Darren Wilson, the police officer who shot and killed Michael Brown in the St. Louis County suburb of Ferguson. "There's a lot of people that brought in a lot of money to have people secure their assets," said Stephen King, owner of Metro Shooting Supplies gun shop, a 15-minute drive from Ferguson. "Some of those people spent $10 an hour on security guards and some people have $1,000 a day private contractors." King confirmed that gun shops in the area are hiring private military contractors to escort the transport of their guns to secure locations. A private military contractor who spoke to VICE News on condition of anonymity said that more than 300 private military contractors, or PMCs, have been contracted for work in direct response to Ferguson security concerns. Jared Ogden, director of operations for Asymmetric Solutions, a private military contractor staffed by former special operations forces told VICE News his company was hired by businesses to transport "St. Louis-based company assets." Kate Munsch/ReutersVolunteers board up the "I Love Ferguson" headquarters in preparation for the grand jury verdict in the shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, November 18, 2014.  "We've got our hands in a bunch things" related to security in the Ferguson area, said Ogden, a former Navy SEAL who was featured on the National Geographic reality program, Survival Alaska. "If you are a business owner and you are in the business of selling firearms and you're in an area where shops have been looted, burned down, property stolen, you now have the responsibility to society to ensure to do everything possible to make sure that those firearms do not get into the hands of the wrong people." In August, Assymetric provided security detail to a journalist reporting on Ferguson. The group tweeted: "We've been to Baghdad, Kabul, KL, Manilla, Peshwar, Bogata. Never guessed we would deploy a high threat team in our own city." Missouri Gold Buyers &amp; Jewelry, the largest precious metal buyer in the state, according to the company's website, has four shops in the St. Louis area, two of which are in North St. Louis County communities neighboring Ferguson. It was one of several area businesses looted following protests over Brown's death. In August, masked men shattered one of the back windows of the diminutive shop on Kings highway Boulevard in St. Louis and got inside, but they were unable to break into the safe, according to the shop's owner, Mike Duke. Lucas Jackson/ReutersMasked individuals carry items out of a liquor store, during on-going demonstrations to protest against the shooting of Michael Brown, in Ferguson, Missouri, August 16, 2014.  Duke is not taking any risks this time around. "We got everything out last week, we put it back on Monday," said Duke, who had heard the grand jury decision would be announced on a Sunday. "This weekend it's going out again. A lot of it has already been moved." Moving his product back and forth comes at quite a cost, though exactly how much he wouldn't say. "It's costing a lot of money," he said. "The worst part is the stores that are normally are producing cash in the North County stores, for the last three months, nobody's doing business in North County. Revenue's way down. It's horrible." Duke said he employs Cook Security, a private security and surveillance company, to provide security for his shops and has recently hired 12 additional private security guards to protect his stores, and one to escort the transport of gold, diamonds and coins from the stores to a safe location. He noted that the dollar value of the product being moved to secure offsite locations is in the millions. "I'm not like a pawn shop, I don't buy TVs," he said. "I have precious metals. We have a law here that whatever you buy you have to hold for five days. So all those stores had those five days worth of business there. I'm a very large buyer so that's a large amount of money." Ogden said the business owners' concerns are understandable, especially when it comes to the potential for stolen guns on the streets. "If certain merchandise, like firearms, got into the wrong hands, it would be a catalyst to more violence," he said.  King plans to keep his gun shop open this weekend, and is ready to defend it if need be, though he is keeping quiet about the particulars of the store's security plans. "We're going to have to do whatever we have to do legally to defend ourselves against some type of violent threat. It wouldn't be a brain surgeon that's going to be coming to our store to attack us," he said. "We know what we're going to do but they don't know, and that's the way we want to keep it."  FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderPoker is a fantastic game, particularly alluring to competitive, creative types who love numbers. Business Insider's Eugene Kim has profiled some of Silicon Valley's biggest poker fans, and the game is also huge draw with the Wall Street crowd.  While I'm far from a serious, professional poker player, I do occasionally get a chance to enjoy a game with friends. And I also love math and statistics. So I decided to look at some of the basic mathematics of the game. Here, I go through the probabilities of drawing each five-card poker hand from a deck of cards. These probabilities are handy to have in the back of your head in a poker game, and they are the reason why hands are ranked the way they are: a straight flush is way less likely than a pair, so this is why the straight flush wins.
YouTube / Charlie RoseJeremy GranthamOur potential for economic growth is limited by the world's finite resources. Most forecasting models incorrectly assume endless growth. However, the laws of physics will not be defied by economics. These are the main takeaways from the latest investor letter by GMO's Jeremy Grantham. Over the last few months, the price of oil has tumbled from well north of $100 to below $80. Some would say this is likely to result is cheaper gas prices, serving as a boon for the US consumer and potentially US corporations. However, these forecasts are short-sighted. Grantham looks at oil from a far broader perspective, unpacking the commodity's role in the last 150 or so years of economic development and arguing that the serial mispricing and misallocation of oil has lead us to a place where oil's cost has, and will, continue to hamper potential economic growth. "We assume the oil or coal, our finite and amazing inheritance, is free and price it just at its extraction cost plus a profit margin," Grantham writes. And by treating this finite resource as something infinite, Grantham says we have ignored the second law of thermodynamics: that entropy increases over time as the energy in a system dissipates. And so under this framework, Grantham sees the increasingly globalized economy not as a system that is compounding to become more potent, but that is, rather, converging towards increased impotency.  "We owe almost everything we have had in the way of scientific and economic progress and the growth of the world’s food supplies and population to fossil fuels," Grantham writes. "And not simply to the availability of these fuels, but more precisely to the availability of those fossil resources that could be captured extremely cheaply." Library Of CongressOil has been crucal for the growth in the 20th century.For about 100 years, from 1870 to 1970, the price of oil was roughly pegged at about $16 a barrel in today's currency. Over this period, though, Americans became six times richer and therefore could handle the very substantial increases in energy witnessed over the last 30 or 40 years, driving up the size and complexity of our economic system.  This is what Grantham refers to as the "economic surplus" we enjoyed with respect to oil: since oil costs remained so low as a percentage of our earnings we failed to realize how much we'd come depend on that benefit. As Grantham writes: "If it’s true that oil’s economic surplus has accounted for so much of our growth, then what we should have seen since about 2004 as the price of oil began to break out way over its long-term trend was some grinding of the economy’s gears: a persistent seeming reluctance on the part of the economy to live up to expectations. And this, in my opinion, is precisely what we have seen: a broad and increasing tendency for all countries to disappoint compared to their earlier growth rates."  And Grantham doesn't see these expected productivity rates coming back. When Grantham writes about the amount of oil the American worker can buy with one hour's wages, this is the chart he references. BMO Capital This is a somewhat convoluted chart, and again, the text that accompanies it is only more dense, but the idea that Grantham is driving at here is that the more expensive oil becomes relative to our earnings, the less oil benefits us economically.  And so currently, the average worker's earnings buy about 20% of a barrel of oil, roughly what they did in 1940 before the huge manufacturing boom that made the US the global economic superpower of the 20th century.  For Grantham, this chart shows, "a remarkable round trip and what a lot it says about the preeminence of oil in our economy. When oil was becoming more affordable up to 1972 and oil intensity per person was still increasing, productivity per man hour grew at an unprecedented rate of 3.1% a year.  "From then until now as affordability fell and oil usage per person fell, productivity per man hour fell with it to 1.1%. This is not a small shift! 3.1% will take $1 to $21 in 100 years, where 1.1% will make it to barely $3. But to rub this point in, the productivity from 2000 to now has fallen to 0.8% a year at which rate $1 just about doubles in 100 years." And so the upshot here is that as oil got more expensive not just in nominal but also real terms, this cost ate into our productivity not just in the near-term but over the long-term.  In the last ten years, the US has enjoyed an "energy renaissance" courtesy of the fracking boom that has taken hold in places like Texas and North Dakota. But Grantham isn't sold on this "boom's" robustness.  "First, let us quickly admit that U.S. fracking is a very large herring," Grantham writes. Process Industry Forum via Google ImagesHorizontal drilling and hydraulic fracking have been technological gamechangers."Its development has been remarkable. It will surely be seen in the future as a real testimonial to the sheer energy of American engineering at its best, employing rapid trials and errors – with all of the risk-taking that approach involves – that the rest of the world finds so hard to emulate. Similarly, it will always stand out as remarkable proof that, so late in the realization of the risks of climate change and environmental damage, the U.S. could expressly deregulate such a rapidly growing and potentially dangerous activity." Grantham writes that there are few regulations regarding fracking, which has given the US an advantage over other potential projects, and nearly 100% of the global oil production over the last eight years has been due to fracking.  But for Grantham, the "red herring-ness" of fracking comes it what it hasn't done. "It has not prevented the underlying costs of traditional oil from continuing to rise rapidly or the cash flow available to oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia, Iran, and especially Venezuela from getting squeezed from both ends (rising costs and falling prices)... Yes, they have been drilling more wells that chew up money, but not that many more, and good operations have lowered the costs per well by over a third. On the other hand they have drilled, as always, the best parts of the best fields first, and because the first two years of flow are basically all we get in fracking, we should have expected considerably better financial results by now. The aggregate financial results allow for the possibility that fracking costs have been underestimated by corporations and understated in the press."  This gloomy outlook is not new for Grantham. For years, Grantham has been considered a 'Malthusian,' which is basically the worldview that the number of people will overrun the amount of resources on Earth available to sustain the population.  And his most recent outlook sees him reiterate this view, but this time with a specific eye towards the economics establishment and the logical fallacy underwriting the core assumption of modern economic thought. "[T]he economic mainstream has totally missed the significance of the limits on growth posed by finite resources and again marginalized the work of Kenneth Boulding and Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and the writers of the original 'The Limits to Growth,' who did," Grantham writes. "As with inefficient and corrupt market players in finance, they simply assume such limits away, in disregard of at least one of the laws of physics (that entropy rules and everything runs downhill, becoming less useful). This neglect of resources, like their last failure in finance, is likely to end very badly. Meanwhile, they try to define all of our problems in monetary, debt, and interest rate language, ignoring the real world of people and things. The economic establishment is letting us down again." And so again, all in, Grantham hammers on themes he has discussed at length in the past: dwindling resources, dim prospects for future growth, and the flaws of our economic frameworks.  You can read the whole GMO letter here, and while Grantham's writing is extremely dense, and you may not agree with some (or any) of his ideas, he challenges received wisdoms and is worth spending some time with. FREE AppDownload
Recent posts on Norway’s vibrant, dynamic new banknotes and passport stirred up feelings of design envy among some readers, who questioned the aesthetics of our own staid government-issued currency and documents. American designer Travis Purrington asked himself a similar question when he moved to Switzerland to study design in 2009. Designboom recently featured a look at his master’s thesis, a proposed redesign of U.S. banknotes that swaps historical figures for a focus on America’s technological and environmental achievements and brings the overall design aesthetic firmly into the 21st century. Purrington told me in an email that his project came about when he noticed how Switzerland, like some other European countries, holds competitions to update its currency designs, allowing citizens to participate in the country’s branding. Travis Purrington  “This idea of such a strong visual change every 20 years or so within a relatively conservative culture deeply rooted in banking lead me to ask, ‘Why couldn’t the U.S. do this?’ ” Purrington wrote. “And subsequently, ‘What would it look like if the U.S. held such a competition?’” Travis Purrington Travis Purrington Purrington first researched the historical evolution of the U.S. dollar, concluding that the tradition of experimentation and exploration within U.S. currency history had stagnated in the last 80-plus years.  “I simply wanted to introduce the idea that there is still room to grow and innovate in U.S. culture with currency,” he said. Travis Purrington But is there really a chance that the U.S. would redesign the dollar bill? “I’m not declaring that this proposal is a suitable replacement for the USD as much as I’m suggesting that one could exist,” he said. “But we simply don’t know because those gates are closed pretty tightly.” Purrington said that his proposal is not ultramodern—it’s still traditional paper-based currency. The idea, he said, is “transitional,” and he never considered it realistic. “I’ve taken great liberties with terminology and design elements that wouldn't survive the bureaucracy or banking structure. It is more relevant to say that this is a conceptual system.” Travis Purrington The look of Purrington’s banknotes seems to borrow inspiration from European currencies. But the U.S. dollar design is iconic, so Purrington had to consider a balance between facelift and complete overhaul. To do so, he drew from the modern design and art movements of the early 20th century, much of which is European-influenced; his experiences and education as a native of the Northwestern U.S.; and his observations and interactions from around the world. “I tried to tie the concept of learning, discovery, authorship, and accountability into the notes in a way that was aesthetically conducive to the organisation of information more than I worried if it looked too European or not ‘American’ enough,” Purrington wrote. Travis Purrington Purrington conceded that creating a transitional U.S. currency would be challenging for any modern designer. “History is integral to the development of the nation while tradition can be a slippery slope.  It’s a bit of a cultural mind game based on legacies,” Purrington wrote, also noting that the idea of presidents’ images on U.S. currency was originally shot down by Congress. Travis Purrington Purrington said the goal of his project was to start a discussion rather than propose a definitive solution. “One day we Americans will make a significant move in our currency design that reinforces the evolution of our cultural climate,” he said. “That day was not in 2011 (when I designed this series) or 2014 (the date printed on them), today or anytime soon (based upon the latest unfortunate $100 bill update). But this is where I would start.”
As it turns out, the on-going sanctions against Russia by the US and the eurozone might actually be good for the economy, Russian President Vladimir Putin told the German TV news station ARD. "True, there are pluses because, let's say, those restrictions on the acquisition of certain goods in the West, in Europe, in the States are introduced for some Russian companies — this forces us to produce that good ourselves," Putin told ARD. "This comfortable life where we thought only about producing more oil and gas, and buying everything else, is in the past," he added. In other words, Putin stated that the sanctions will force the Russian economy to evolve past its dependence on the oil and gas industries. Earlier this year, the US and the EU imposed a series of sanctions on finance, energy and defense sectors in Russia. The sanctions were instituted in an effort to further isolate Russia politically and economically, and in particular, to hurt the "areas of importance to President Putin and those close to him," according to President Obama. The Russian economy has taken a serious beating following the sanctions. For starters, the ruble is now in free fall and inflation is way above target. Additionally, falling oil prices have put immense pressure on the economy. Last week, Putin expressed a more pessimistic take regarding these sanctions: "[The sanctions are] harmful, and of course, they cause damage to us, but they're also harmful to them — because they undermine the entire system of economic relations. I really hope, I assume, that this will ultimately be understood and will remain in the past." Despite the economic turmoil, Putin told ARD that the Russian economy is still growing. "Regarding growth. This year we saw a modest growth, but it was still growth — somewhere between 0.5 to 0.6 percent. Next year, we plan to grow by 1.2 percent, and then — 2.3 percent the next year — 3 percent growth. In general, these aren't the numbers we would like to see, but it's still growth, and we're confident that we will achieve these targets," Putin said. You can watch the whole interview in German here or in the original Russian here. FREE AppDownload
Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg doesn't see a bear market in stocks any time soon.  But this doesn't mean he doesn't see worrisome signs. In a note Monday, Rosenberg wrote that these seven things could strain equity markets in the near term: Rosenberg also identified some positives on the flipside. Strong incoming economic data and the possibility of looser monetary policy from the European Central Bank, People's Bank of China and Bank of Japan could be tailwinds. The winter months may also provide a seasonal lift, as they are usually offer the best returns for equities. "One are of the US that may soon get a lift is housing — at least if the Homebuilding stocks are any indication," he added. "Now that capex growth has resumed and the state &amp; local governments are contributing, residential real estate would provide the sole missing link left in this recovery." So, there's good news to offset the bad. FREE AppDownload
CGAP/Hailey TuckerBoatmen in India, brick makers in Peru, and fishermen in the United Arab Emirates — these are just a few of the low-income entrepreneurs who make developing countries run. While their income doesn't always factor into the GDP, they undoubtedly contribute to the world economy. These business owners are also the ones who stand to benefit the most from microfinance, the practice of lending small amounts of money at low interest rates to those in the developing world.  It also encompasses those organizations working to improve business owners access to banks, loans, credit, and insurance. Every year, the Consultative Group To Assist The Poor (CGAP) hosts a photo contest asking entrants to submit photos based around the idea of microfinance. The purpose of the contest is to give amateur and professional photographers a chance to show the different ways that poor households make their lives better through financial inclusion.  Housed at the World Bank, CGAP is an advocacy group that works with development agencies, foundations, and national governments to advance the lives of the poor by improving their access to microfinance. CGAP has just announced the winners to its 2014 photo contest. CGAP shared a selection of the winners with us here, but you can learn more about their organization here.
LimefuelMost of the time, people don't stress too much about charging their devices. They have chargers at the office and at home, and can recharge overnight. But when you use your device a lot during the day or are on the road traveling, you don't want to be stuck without a connection or find yourself ducking into McDonald's to search for an open outlet.  Avoid getting lost and missing meetings with the Limefuel LP200X. The backup battery is thin, powerful, and currently available with a 58% discount. This portable battery pack holds enough juice to refill something like an iPad Air between two and four times over. Smaller devices like a phone will charge more times still, and the Limefuel offers dual USB ports, so you can charge two devices at the same time.  Meanwhile, the front screen provides an idea of how much the Limefuel has left to give, and while there’s still some juice, you can use the built-in flashlight during a power outage. All in all, it’s a pretty useful assistant to have around if you need to stay powered on a flight or when you're on the go. Get 58% off the Limefuel LP200X Dual USB Battery ($34.99 incl. shipping)  For those of you interested in the specs: The deal includes free shipping, but this price applies to the continental US only; the Limefuel is available internationally at a 47% discount. For more details on this handy sidekick, click below. Get 58% off the Limefuel LP200X Dual USB Battery ($34.99 incl. shipping) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
This week, a judge in New York awarded $10.8 million in damages to New York women who filed a lawsuit against the strip club they worked for, Rick's Cabaret in Midtown Manhattan, alleging that they were improperly classified as independent contractors when they were, in fact, employees.  As independent contractors, the dancers were not paid a salary but did receive "performance fees" for private dances. Rick's took a cut of any of the performance fees paid by credit card and allegedly imposed fines and penalties on the dancers for various reasons. The dancers accused Rick's of failing to pay minimum wage under the Fair Labor Standards Act. This is tangentially, but importantly, related to the lawsuit that was just filed by workers of Handy, the Silicon Valley cleaning startup. A wave of similar lawsuits have appeared in several different states, with eight in progress, according to the Independent Contractor Compliance legal blog.  Back in May, the home improvement store Lowe's settled a class-action suit in California for $6.5 million over its alleged misclassification of 4,000 employees as independent contractors. The legal momentum seems to be on the side of the plaintiffs in these cases. This is bad for Silicon Valley, which relies on the "1099 economy" (named after the tax form for independent contractors). Kevin Roose laid out the issue in a New York Magazine article back in September:  For start-ups trying to make it in a competitive tech industry, the benefit of opting for 1099 contractors over W-2 wage-earners is obvious. Doing so lowers your costs dramatically, since you only have to pay contract workers for the time they spend providing services, and not for their lunch breaks, commutes, and vacation time... In other words, the 1099 economy is almost perfectly calibrated to serve the needs of fast-moving start-ups — lower costs, less liability, the ability to grow and shrink the labor pool quickly ..."  In other words, many of Silicon Valley's most novel business models rely on being able to have cheap, nimble workforces by using contract workers. It's going to be a problem for these businesses if the courts start ruling that these models are illegal.  The government seems to be more focused on preventing misclassification in recent years. In 2011, then-Labor Secretary Hilda Solis helped strike an agreement between the Labor Department and the IRS to combat rampant misclassification of workers.  The Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report in 2009 trying to determine how widespread the problem was. At the time, about 7.6% of workers were classified as "independent contractors" by employers (a post by HBR based in a freelancers union report put the total number at about 21.1 million). A 2000 estimate from the Labor Department suggested that between 10% and 30% of employers misclassified employees.  Here's the breakdown of tax responsibilities on a worker and an employer based on classification, from the GAO report:  GAOObviously, it's cheaper and easier to employ independent contractors than full-time employees. But when does work cross the line into full employment?  As far as the courts are concerned, the issue is how much control the companies have over their workers.  In the New York case, Rick's argued "that it exercised minimal control over the dancers, and that, therefore, the dancers were more like independent contractors than they were like employees."  But the club had rules for the dancers, like no gum chewing and no using the public restrooms meant for guests; requirements about shift times and how long the dancers were committed to work; and fines that were allegedly imposed on dancers who broke the rules. The court found that those rules, which were imposed to meet the club's marketing and business ends, rather than to keep the dancers in compliance with employment law, made the dancers employees.  The court's reasoning that workers have to be classified as employees if they must follow rules for marketing and/or business ends is bad news for Silicon Valley. Think of that in the context of this allegation in the Handy lawsuit:  Gawker / ScribdThis is a different court in a different area of the country, but it's reasonable to assume that the legal thinking will be similar in this case. Things are not looking good for Silicon Valley in this regard. If the women suing Handy are successful, get ready for an avalanche of similar lawsuits from other workers in the freelance economy. Here's the full Handy lawsuit via Valleywag:  FREE AppDownload
Winter is coming, but is your footwear up to snuff? You shouldn't be trudging through the impending snow with your canvas sneakers or suede footwear. In fact, suede, leather soles, and desert boots should all be in storage for the long, cold, and wet months ahead. Instead, break out the rubberized boots and Vibram outsoles. Keep reading to see the only boots heavy duty enough for the ice and snow. www.jcrew.com and viberg.comLEFT: Alden 405 Indy ($523); RIGHT: Viberg ($720). These are the boots you'll want to wear when it's iffy outside, but you still want to look nice. Modeled after work boot styles from last century, these will last you miles and miles.  What really separates these from the typical boot is that they don't have a leather sole, which you commonly see with Chelsea boots and some brogue styles. Leather soles are awful for winter because they provide zero traction and soak up water.  Instead, these boots have rubberized Danite soles and neocork rubber hybrids, which provide much more traction. On the expensive end of the spectrum, there's the Viberg's Service Boot — they have a Danite sole and a very unique, slimmer profile. A little lower than that price point are favorites like Alden's classic Indy boot with it's neocork sole and unique toe stitching. The best value (and lowest price) is Chippewa's Original Plain Toe Boots with a Vibram sole and classic work boot good looks. www.danner.com and www.redwingheritage.comLEFT: Danner Mountain Light II ($310); RIGHT: Red Wing Beckman ($340). When the weather gets a little rougher outside, you're going to need a tougher boot. Boots with lugged soles are built to keep you from slipping on the ice and snow.  They often come in work or hiking boot styles, which may not be acceptable for your work place, but are always appropriate for your commute. We recommend the Danner Mountain Light II, which has a hiking boot style, and the Red Wing Beckman, which is a revival of a classic work boot. Both have a long heritage of bulletproof quality boots behind them and are equipped with rubber lugged soles, providing optimal traction in the ice and snow.  www.llbean.com and www.sorel.comLEFT: L.L. Bean Boots ($109); RIGHT: Sorel Cheyenne Lace Up Boots ($129). For trekking in the tundra, there's no boot better suited to the task than the classic duck boot. The rubberized sole and tough, full grain leather uppers provide full protection from the wet and icy wilderness. These are the boots you need to wear when heavy snow is in the forecast. The go-to duck boot choice is the L.L. Bean Bean Boot, which invented the category way back in 1912. L.L. Bean still makes them and they're still handcrafted in the company's Maine facility. Many have attempted to copy the L.L. Bean design, and some have even comes close. The Sorel Cheyenne Lace Up Boots are a good alternative thanks to their soft inner lining (the Bean Boots don't have a lining, but they do offer a lined version $189). FREE AppDownload
Business Insider Rather, it has been about how to say, "Krugman." Specifically, it has been about how to pronounce the name of the Nobel  Prize winning economist Paul Krugman, whose ability to explain complex economic concepts in terms that everyone can understand and whose willingness to stake out and defend positions that enrage those who don't have as strong a command of the facts have made him the most famous economist on earth. The argument about how to pronounce "Krugman" has divided the world into two schools of thought: The first school thinks the first syllable of "Krugman" should be pronounced, "KrUHg," as in "shrug." The second school thinks the first syllable of "Krugman" should be pronounced, "KrOOg," like "food," "dude," or "stool." Well, Professor Krugman was kind enough to drop by Business Insider for an interview the other day. So, in the course of discussing far more important economic concepts (see below), we asked him which school was right. Turns out... Neither. Both the "KROOG" and "KRUHG" schools of thought on how to pronounce "Krugman" are wrong. The right way to pronounce "Krugman," according to Paul Krugman, is... "KrOUg" as in "should" or "book." The right way, in other words, is halfway between the two schools of thought. If only the larger economic arguments could be settled so easily...  SEE ALSO: KRUGMAN: Inequality Isn't Just About Hard Work — Dumb Rich Kids Get All The Breaks  FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Mike Kai Mike Kai and David Aulicino were seniors at Yale in 2004 when they, along with 20 friends dressed as the fictional "Harvard Pep Squad," boldly entered Harvard's football stadium and convinced close to 2,000 unsuspecting Crimson fans to help spell out two words — "WE SUCK." The prank — brilliant in its simplicity — actually took more than a year of planning to properly execute. For the 10th anniversary of the "WE SUCK" gag, Business Insider spoke with Kai and Aulicino, who explained just how they were able to pull off one of the greatest college pranks of all time. Courtesy of Mike KaiYale students and prank masterminds David Aulicino (l) and Mike Kai (r) pose with a stack of red and white construction paper.  Kai and Aulicino first met during their freshman year at Yale, when they were randomly placed into the same residential college, Pierson. According to Kai, the two bonded by "concocting random plans together" — among their earliest endeavors were building a hot tub using an inflatable pool and garden hoses, and a foam machine made with parts from Home Depot. By their junior year, the duo had moved on to bigger projects. While throwing around some prank ideas for the annual Harvard Crimson-Yale Bulldogs football game — a massive event for both universities known simply as "The Game" — one of their friends suggested getting Harvard fans to unknowingly spell out an embarrassing message. "It was one of those things where you're sitting around with some buddies drinking beer and one guy says 'Wouldn't it be cool if....' I woke up the next day and couldn't shake the idea. It haunted me. At first, it was a matter of getting the ball rolling, building the team, coming up with the strategy. But later, once we invested so much time and money into it, there was no turning back," Kai wrote in a Reddit AMA two years ago. So, with the help of some friends, then-Yale juniors Kai and Aulicino attempted to pull off a large scale prank that would truly surprise their Ivy League rivals. As luck would have it, The Game — which switches between New Haven and Cambridge every year — was at the Yale Bowl in 2003, giving them a literal home field advantage. The First Attempt The Yale crew's original plan was to enter the stadium before The Game started, and leave red and white construction paper underneath the seats of Harvard fans. The paper was to be laid out specifically so that when raised, the completed design would spell out "WE SUCK." However, Kai, Aulicino, and the other Yale students had to call off their prank before it even began. Someone had called in a bomb threat before The Game started, and Yale police evacuated the stadium, searching everyone who was inside. "Once the bomb threat came in, they wanted to search everyone in the stadium, and there were very few people there. They saw us with all of the construction paper," Aulicino said. Caught in the act, and without a believable explanation for what they were doing, the would-be Yale pranksters had to abandon their plan. However, what seemed like a missed opportunity at the time may have been a blessing in disguise. When setting up the prank at the Yale Bowl, it became clear that their plan of taping the paper to the seats before the game wouldn't work. "If it weren't for the bomb scare, I actually think the other big risk factor was that we put it underneath the chairs, and from the other side you could sort of read it," Kai said. The Yale students were undeterred, and if anything, now wanted more than ever to pull off an awesome prank. For months after the failed 2003 attempt, Kai drove around with stacks of red and white construction paper in his trunk, unable to give up on their idea. Once senior year started, Kai and Aulicino recommitted to their efforts toward succesfully establishing their superiority over Harvard. Meet The "Harvard Pep Squad" The second time around, the pair didn't take any chances. They came up with a new plan to prank their rivals during the annual football game, and even better, they got Harvard fans to unknowingly help set up their prank. Courtesy of Mike KaiYale students organize the red and white construction paper according to a specific layout. In order to ensure their new plan went off smoothly, the Yale students needed to get to know the layout of Harvard Stadium, where The Game was held in 2004. On October 9, more than a month before The Game, Kai and Aulicino drove up to Cambridge to check out the Harvard-Cornell football game. There, Kai took detailed photographs of the stadium, and counted the rows in each section. Back in New Haven, Kai and Aulicino were able to develop fairly sophisticated schematics of the Harvard Stadium layout, down to the number of bleachers. Because they knew the Harvard-Yale game would be packed, Kai said, they had to "guestimate" how many people would be able to fit in each row and section. "The challenge was that the 'seats' are laid out as one giant cement bench so there could be more or less than the seat numbers specified ... With the estimation, we created a grid that let us 'draw' in red each pixel and the way 'WE SUCK' would be laid out," Kai wrote on Reddit. A good map wouldn't be enough, though. Kai and Aulicino also realized they needed a cover story to explain what they were doing in the Harvard side of the stadium. "We didn't really have a story sussed out [in 2003], so when we did it again the next year, we really looked at what failed the first time around. And one of those gaps was that we needed a really good story," Kai said. Screenshot Via YouTubeA Yale student shows off a fake "Harvard Pep Band" t-shirt. In order to fully sell the group to the Harvard fans, the Yale students went all out on their disguises — designing their own "Harvard Pep Squad" t-shirts, donning red and white face paint, and even manufacturing fake Harvard student IDs complete with pseudonyms, in case anyone questioned them. According to Kai, the Yale students were able to make the fake IDs using a Harvard student ID card that belonged to a friend's ex-girlfriend. Unfortunately, many of their original collaborators from the year before were discouraged by the original plan's untimely demise. According to Kai, a new group of Yale students was recruited for the prank at Harvard Stadium. "Most of the people who helped us our junior year didn't want to help senior year, after seeing the failure," Kai told Business Insider. "So it became a mix of close friends and freshmen, who hadn't seen the failed plan." The new recruits helped fill out a range of positions. "We needed 20 people just to hand out the heavy construction paper, plus we needed people to rile up the crowd and get them excited," Aulicino said. Armed with their "Harvard Pep Squad" outfits — and some practiced cheers — 2004's prank was set to be much more smooth than the year before. Even with all the prep work, Kai described himself on Reddit as "incredibly nervous" the night before The Game. "Dave and I planned every detail we could imagine and went through every possible scenario. It was like preparing for battle, really. Stacking all those papers the night before, double-checking everything, coordinating meetup points," he wrote. As seniors, this would be their last chance to pull off a prank of this magnitude on one of the most anticipated days for students at both schools. By the next morning though, they were ready. In The Stadium "A friend in the Yale Band got a handful of us access before the game started. We carried about 100lbs worth of paper in black trash bags to a corner of the Harvard side of the stadium," Kai wrote on Reddit. Once they had set up, the Harvard Pep Squad made their presence known, pumping up the Crimson fans with cheers and distributing a few extra t-shirts throughout the stands. With the crowd on their side, the Yale students began to hand out their red and white paper during the second quarter. "It was incredibly terrifying to pass out the cards and hope for the best, since we had to rely on the fans to do it for us," Kai wrote on Reddit. He explained how the Harvard Pep Squad was able to distribute their paper throughout the crowd and eventually get the Crimson fans to participate in their prank: Since each row was very long, we made "sub-stacks" to split each row 3x and so that the Pep Squad members could deliver accordingly. That's why we needed so many people, 26 in all I believe. 1800 large pieces of construction paper was about 150-175lbs. It was about a 4ft high stack ... We created approx 48 stacks of paper and stapled instructions on each piece that said clearly "TAKE THE TOP ONE, PASS REST ON" Then each stack was handed by a Pep Squad member to the person at the beginning of each row. Since we did our recon beforehand and knew (generally) how many people could sit in each row, we hoped for the best as the cards streamed across the stadium. Because the cards were so big and unwieldy, we didn't wait long to give the instructions. One of the coolest things was that just a handful of remaining Pep Squad members "lit the fuse" so to speak — once a few fans held up signs, everyone else did the same. "We knew we had to get people's attention, because it was our crew who would give the signal," Kai said. Screenshot Via YouTubeA Harvard student questions the fake "Harvard Pep Squad." After some hesitation, the Yale student answered "ho-fo" — which is not a Harvard house. She then recovered slightly, volunteering "fo-ho," a nickname for Harvard's Pforzheimer House. The other Pep Squad members were quick to cover up her mistake, telling the Harvard student that their forgetful friend was "probably drunk." "There was one person, a student, who got very suspicious. One of the people in our pep squad maybe had a little too much to drink and messed up the name of the house. I had to play it off like, 'I can't believe you're questioning us, we're Harvard students, this is so offensive of you,'" Aulicino said. The real Harvard student left the Pep Squad alone after Aulicino produced one of the fake Harvard IDs. "This Really Worked!" Aside from the brief round of questioning, the Harvard Pep Squad seemed to be fully accepted into the Crimson fanbase. "It was almost sad. There were all these grandfather and grandmother types — and they all had big smiles, saying, 'Oh you're so cute, I'm so glad you're doing this.' I felt bad for about two minutes. Then I got over it," one Yale student/Harvard Pep Band member told The Yale Daily News. Even the Harvard Stadium security let the students move around the crowd freely. As Kai wrote on Reddit, "Security and staff surprisingly didn't seem to care. We made sure to scream and yell a ton to be hidden in plain sight." Screenshot Via YouTubeUnwitting Harvard fans hold up red and white pieces of paper, inadvertently spelling out "We Suck." "It was super anti-climatic! After the first time the signs went up, we all just stared at each other. No one on the Harvard side knew what the signs really said since you were so close to the action," Kai wrote on Reddit. A "hysterical" friend on the other side of the stadium quickly called him, though, saying, "This actually worked! And you need to do it again because people didn't realize what just happened." The Harvard Pep Squad had the fans hold up the sign several more times — on the third time, right before the end of the first half, the game stopped on the field as the players on both sides noticed the message in the stands, as well as a chant coming from the Yale section. "For me, one of the biggest signs that I knew we had actually pulled it off was all of the sudden we heard this loud uniform sound from the other side of the stadium — 'You suck, you suck, you suck,'" Aulicino said. And that was it. They had pulled it off and, for the time, no one at Harvard knew what had happened. The Big Reveal The Game took place right around Yale's Thanksgiving break, "so we definitely celebrated that day ... we had video footage that we just kept replaying," Kai said. As part of the preparation for the prank, the Yale students had filmed their entire process — from organizing the construction paper to their eventual success in the Harvard Stadium stands. "I was really into film, so I had access to all the equipment and had plotted it all out in my head," Kai said. "I knew we needed some shots of us putting it together, because of how absurd it was with the shirts and the paper and everything." 10 years ago, there was no such thing as YouTube or iPhones. If the Yale students wanted people to know about what they did, they had to publish and distribute the video on their own. Right after The Game, Kai and Aulicino created the website "HarvardSucks.org" — hosted on Yale's servers — where their video quickly went viral. Courtesy of Mike KaiTwo Yale students pose with coverage of their "WE SUCK" prank in Maxim Magazine. Perhaps not surprisingly, the Yale administration reached out to the prank masterminds, wanting to meet. However, the dean thought the prank was "hilarious," Kai wrote on Reddit, and was more concerned with what was happening with the school's servers. In order to cover the cost of the pranks — Kai estimates that he spent about $750 total for the construction paper and custom shirts — they began to sell posters of the "WE SUCK" sign for $10. Originally hoping just to break even, the poster sales covered their expenses within the first hour. "Within an hour we made the money back, and after that we donated the extra to relief efforts for the big Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami. Something like $10 grand when it was all over with! We also threw a big raging party of course," Kai wrote on Reddit. Riding high, Kai and Aulicino even upped the stakes of their prank, making up a now-infamous story that Harvard marching band members got them into the stadium before The Game and had helped plan the prank. "Man, we were brazen," Kai wrote on Reddit. "After the prank made the news, a Harvard publication wanted to do an interview. So to toss salt in the wound we trolled them with a story about how their own marching band wanted to help out." One of the strengths of the prank — and likely the reason the fake Harvard Pep Squad members got away with it without punishment — is that it was relatively tame and not particularly malicious. "The prank was on the edge, but it was all good natured. It didn't result in any property damage or anyone getting hurt," Kai said. Even Harvard's director of athletic communications said the prank was "all in good fun." However, the message was almost a little more crude than just "WE SUCK," Kai said. "We had some really vulgar ideas, and I'm so glad we had other people involved, who sat us down and said, that's not going to make people happy." On Reddit, Kai revealed another slogan the Yale team considered, which thankfully didn't make the final product — "I &lt;3 C--k." Where Are They Now? A decade has passed since Mike Kai and David Aulicino snuck more than 20 Yale students into Harvard Stadium and successfully pulled off one of the greatest college pranks ever. After graduating Yale in 2005, the two friends went their separate ways, ending up on opposite ends of the country in very different fields. Courtesy of Mike KaiA group of Yale students pose in their "Harvard Pep Squad" disguises. He is now an "Internet entrepreneur." "I previously founded a digital product consultancy that did work for clients like AT&amp;T, Pioneer, and early-stage startups," Kai said. "I left a few months ago to focus on relaunching a company that offers a DIY website builder application for freelancers and small businesses." Aulicino recieved a math Ph.D. from the University of Maryland, graduating two years ago, and is currently a postdoc at the University of Chicago. According to the UChicago website, he works with "Teichmüller theory and dynamical systems." He says he still can't believe they pulled it off. "I think for me, the farther we get from it, the less I believe it actually happened," Aulicino said. "It was such a confluence of so many things coming together, the timing, everything being right." Kai agreed — "I can't believe we had the guts to do it. I can't believe that with a straight face I convinced people that this would actually happen." Watch the original video of Mike Kai and David Aulicino's "WE SUCK" prank below:  FREE AppDownload
As regular readers know, I am increasingly worried about the level of stock prices. So far, this concern has seemed unwarranted. And I hope it will remain so. (I own stocks, and I'm not selling them.) But my concern has not diminished. On the contrary, it grows by the day. I've discussed the logic behind my concern in detail here. Today, I'll just focus on the primary element of it: Price. Stocks are now more expensive than at any time in history, with the brief (and very temporary) exceptions of 1929 and 2000. Importantly, today's high prices do not mean that stock prices can't go even higher. They can. And they might. What it does mean is that, at some point, unless it is truly "different this time," stock prices are likely to come crashing back down, likely well below today's levels.  Just as they did after those two historic market peaks. (I unfortunately know this especially well. Because I was one of the people hoping it was "different this time" in 1999 and 2000. For many years, it did seem different — and stocks just kept going up. But then they crashed all the way back down, erasing three whole years of gains. This was a searing lesson for me, as it was for many other people. It was also a lesson that cost me and others a boatload of money.) Anyway, here are three charts for you... First, a look at price-earnings ratios over 130 years. The man who created this chart, Professor Robert Shiller of Yale, uses an unusual but historically predictive method to calculate P/Es, one that attempts to mute the impact of the business cycle. Importantly, this method is consistent over the whole 130 years. As you can see, today's P/E, 27X, is higher than any P/E in history except for the ones in 1929 and 2000. And you can also see how quickly and violently those P/Es reverted toward the mean: Robert Shiller, Business Insider   Second, a chart from fund manager John Hussman showing the performance predictions for 7 different historically predictive valuation measures, including the "Shiller P/E" shown above.  Those who want to remain bullish often attack the Shiller P/E measure, pointing out that it is useless as a timing tool (which it is). Those folks may also want to note that the 6 other measures in the chart below, including Warren Buffett's favorite measure, same almost exactly the same thing.  John Hussman, Hussman Funds   Third, a table from the fund management firm GMO showing predictions for the annual returns of various asset classes over the next 7 years. As you can see, the outlook for all stocks, but especially U.S. stocks, is bleak. Specifically, GMO foresees negative real returns for U.S. stocks for the next 7 years. Even after adding back the firm's inflation assumption of 2.2% per year, the returns for most stocks are expected to be flat or negative. The lone bright(er) spot is "high quality" stocks — the stocks of companies that have high cash flow and low debt. Those are expected to return only a couple of percent per year. (Returns for international stocks are expected to be modestly better, but still far below average). GMO The real bummer for investors, as GMO's chart also makes clear, is that no other major class offers compelling returns, either. The outlook for bonds and cash is lousy, too. This puts investors in a real predicament. The only asset class forecasted to provide compelling returns over the next 7 years is... timber. And most of us can't go out and buy trees.  To be crystal clear: There is only one way that stocks will keep rising from this level and stay permanently above this level. That is if it really is "different this time," and all the historically valid valuation measures described above are no longer relevant. It is possible that it is different this time.  It is not likely, however. And one thing to keep in mind as you listen to everyone explain why it's different this time is that one of the things everyone does when stocks get this expensive is attempt to explain the high prices (and justify even higher ones) by looking for reasons why it's different this time. That's what most of us did in 1999 and 2000. For a while, we seemed "right," and we were heroes because of it. But then, suddenly, without much warning, we were drastically, violently wrong. And we — or me, at least — learned that searing lesson that I referred to above: That it's almost never "different this time." SEE ALSO: People Get Mad When I Say Stocks Might "Crash," So I Won't Use That Word, But... FREE AppDownload
FLORENCE Italy (Reuters) - Europe is not at risk of sliding into "full deflation" but the current rate of inflation is dangerously low, European Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio said on Saturday. Many fear the euro zone, where annual inflation fell far short of the ECB's medium-term target in October, could be set for a Japanese-style lost decade of deflation and recession. During a debate in central Italy, Constancio said he did not think "that in Europe there is the risk of falling into full deflation" because nominal salaries would have to fall in all member countries "and this cannot happen". It was not immediately clear what he meant by "full deflation". Constancio echoed a pledge made by ECB President Mario Draghi on Friday to take action to raise inflation, which ran at 0.4 percent in the single currency bloc last month. "This has to be done with monetary policy," Constancio said when asked who should intervene to raise prices. "It is the ECB's responsibility." But living with inflation so close to zero is dangerous in itself, Constancio said, because it makes it harder to repay public and private debt, and impedes economic growth. He added that inflation measurement is often inaccurate and that if the reading is "close to zero, in reality it is already at minus one".   (Reporting by Silvia Ognibene Writing by Isla Binnie; Editing by Alison Williams) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the People's Bank of China is pictured behind an iron chain in Beijing SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's latest interest rate cut is set to dent the profitability of domestic lenders, especially mid-sized banks, which are already suffering from higher bad loans and a slowdown in profit growth. The central bank unexpectedly cut rates late on Friday, stepping up efforts to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) which are struggling to repay loans and access credit, as the economy slides to its slowest growth in nearly a quarter of a century. It slashed the one-year benchmark lending rate by 40 basis points to 5.6 percent while lowering the one-year benchmark deposit rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 percent. The narrowing of interest rate margins will eat into lenders' profitability, with Cinda Securities' chief strategist, Jiahe Chen, predicting it will cut profits by up to 5 percent. Interest margins generated from lending have already been shrinking for second-tier lenders, which have been squeezed by competition from online financiers and a rise in funding costs stemming from an industry tussle for deposits. Fitch Ratings downgraded its credit rating of China Guangfa Bank, a medium-sized lender, two days before the rate-cut announcement, and said the level of off-balance-sheet lending among second-tier banks was a concern. The squeeze on profits will make it tougher for lenders to raise capital to meet new international rules designed to protect depositors from banking collapses. Retained profits are one way in which banks can build up regulatory capital. "In the past when Chinese banks disburse loans, they mainly relied on profits from their own capital to replenish their capital," Jiang Jianqing, chairman of China's biggest commercial bank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Co Ltd, told a conference in Beijing on Saturday.   'WE WON'T START LENDING NOW' The People's Bank of China said in announcing the rate cut that it wanted to help smaller firms gain access to credit. While the measures may ease the financing costs of these firms' existing loans, it is unlikely to encourage banks to write new loans to lower-rung borrowers, bankers said. Smaller companies are considered high risk and banks do not want to increase their exposure to weaker borrowers, they said. "At the moment banks have a lot of problems with them, they have higher rates of default ... we're suspicious of their creditworthiness, so we're very careful about lending to them," said a senior loan officer at a top-10 bank. He declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media. Among China's five largest banks, lending will continue to favor China's state-controlled companies, state-invested enterprises and those involved with large projects overseen by the government, bankers added. In the third-quarter, China's banks reported rising bad loans and slowing profit growth, amid fears that a credit crunch could spread further. "We've been moving away from SME lending over the last two years in my department. We won't start lending now,” said another senior loan officer at one of the country's top five banks.   (Additional reporting by Koh Guiqing in Beijing, Lawrence White and Lisa Jucca in Hong Kong; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Mark Bendeich) FREE AppDownload
Stack CommerceThe Panther Drone Drones have been one of the most popular topics this year, and the Panther Spy Drone is a great way to start flying. It comes with a camera for photos and video, so you can take a family portrait, or film that backyard football game before Thanksgiving dinner.  Stack CommerceThe Panther Drone Camera The drone is lightweight and the blades are encased so you don't have to worry about inflicting damage as you learn to fly.  It's powered by 4 AA batteries and it comes with a 1GB micro SD. Get 55% off The Panther Drone ($110). Full specs below: Get 55% off The Panther Drone ($110). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
JP MorganA country's stock market and its economy are far from being the same thing (Read LPL Financial's write-up on the matter.) One big reason for the discrepancy is that many of the companies that make up a stock market engage in business overseas. This chart from JP Morgan highlights just how much of a country's stock market's revenues are generated locally. "Across major developed markets, the domestic share of revenues ranges from an estimated 75% in Japan to 28% in the UK," JP Morgan analysts note. "Generally, for DM equities investing in fast-growing developing economies, the effect is to boost revenues by as much as 75 bps; the reverse is true for emerging markets." Keep this in mind before you bet on a country by betting on its stock market. FREE AppDownload
The name "Citibank" calls up a lot of bad memories in the financial world.  One that stands out is Chuck Prince, Citi's former head, telling the Financial Times in the summer of 2007 that the emerging financial crisis wasn't going to upset his bank's business.  "As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance," he said. "We're still dancing." Citi promptly faced $45 billion in writedowns and a long saga of bailouts, prompting a spin out of a holdings company with especially terrible assets.  Fast forward to today.  Though Citi is cutting jobs and pulling out of markets, the name still earns respect. We pay attention to its recommendations of stocks to pick and technologies that will change the world.  Landing a job there could change your life — since, like with Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, or Morgan Stanley, the ceiling for compensation is sky high.  According to the self-reported salaries and bonuses listed on Glassdoor, the job reviewing site, you can pull in over $750,000 if you make it up to executive director.  As is the case with other financial institutions, investment banking positions at Citi see their compensation numbers swell with bonuses. The base salary for an investment banking associate, for example, stands at an average of $116,984. It nearly doubles after bonuses, vaulting to $210,869.  Here's the combined compensation — annual salary and bonus — for 15 positions at Citi, according to Glassdoor:  FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyWho wouldn't want their bathroom to look this nice?When moving into a new place, the bathroom is likely the last room you focus on. But it's probably the most important when it comes to making a bachelor pad feel like home. To help guys out, we've rounded up 15 accessories and essentials that every gentleman should have in his bathroom. From luxe items to a few absolute necessities, this is what you'll need to take your bathroom to the next level.  FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan, BEA, Federal Reserve, S&amp;P Credit was seizing, business stopped producing, people were losing jobs, and the Dow was dropping by 700 points a day. But six years later, not only has the darkness passed, but the economy has actually flourished. In a new research note, JPMorgan Research analysts chart six economic indicators from before the financial crisis to today — and things are looking good. Five out of the six indicators (corporate profits, stock prices, household net worth, GDP, and business investment) have not only reached their pre-crisis highs, but they have actually surpassed them. "Since the bottom of the economic cycle in June 2009, the US economy has expanded by 20.7% with new highs in economic output and corporate profit margins," according to the report. "US equities since the beginning of economic expansion have risen 19.3% annualized, while earnings have risen 61.2%," and credit fixed income "has risen 13.8% annualized over the same time frame, bringing yields down to new low and spread versus Treasuries back to around their tightest ever levels." And on top of all that, M&amp;A activity is back to 2007 peaks, and capital expenditures have grown by 58% over the past five years. The only indicator that has yet to fully rebound is employment (as measured by the employment-to-population ratio). We still haven't reached the January 2007 high.   FREE AppDownload
Hong Kong and Shanghai launched a trading link this week, allowing traders in each city's stock market to buy and sell shares listed on the other city's market, possibly foreshadowing a greater opening of China's capital markets. While this is a very exciting development, it's worth noting that these markets are still tiny relative to the US exchanges. The New York Stock Exchange is still by far the most important equity market in the world. With a market cap of about $21 trillion, the NYSE about three times larger than the NASDAQ, and the two US exchanges together have a larger market cap than the next ten exchanges combined. Some of the stock exchanges that fell below the top 15 are somewhat surprising. Singapore Exchange came in at 21st place, with a market cap of about $769 billion. Behind Singapore was the Moscow Exchange, coming in with $554 billion in market cap. Based on data from the World Federation of Exchanges' monthly reports*, we made this chart showing the market capitalzations of the 15 largest stock exchanges in the world as of the end of October. World Federation of Exchanges* The London Stock Exchange was not included in the World Federation of Exchanges' monthly report, but the WFE has market cap data available for London from their monthly query tool dataset. FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesThe recovery will be around for a while.Morgan Stanley believes that the current economic recovery could be the longest ever, probably lasting through 2020. In September, strategist Adam Parker said the S&amp;P 500 could peak near 3,000 during this cycle.  In a recent note to clients, Morgan Stanley analysts identified 45 stocks that could work with the long-term recovery in mind. "Given the extremely long time horizon, we were agnostic about current valuation, focusing instead on fundamental business models," they wrote. "Starting from a list of over 100 equities highlighted by our analysts, we focused on stocks rated Overweight or Equal-weight in the context of the 12-month time horizon contemplated by Morgan Stanley’s stock-rating system," the analysts wrote. "We also examined each stock through the prism of our US Equity Strategy team’s quantitative stock-selection model, BEST, which ranks over 1,000 US stocks by their expected market-relative performance on a 24-month horizon." Most of the stocks are in financials, industrials and energy, which Morgan Stanley said typically perform in tandem with the economic cycle. FREE AppDownload
Kansas City Fed That's the conclusion from Steven Davis and John Haltiwanger, two National Bureau of Economic Research economists (Davis is at U Chicago and Haltiwanger at the University of Maryland). The two presented at the Fed's Jackson Hole conference over the summer and an updated version of the paper was published at the end of October. Declines in labor market fluidity — the ease with which workers can move between jobs — have continued since the 1980s. According to the authors, there's been an unusually "large secular decline in the pace of job reallocation" during this period in the US. Reallocation is defined as which is the total jobs created plus total jobs destroyed, divided by total jobs in the economy. "A decline in these rates [job creation and destruction] could indicate less innovation or less labor market flexibility, both of which are likely to retard economic growth," explains economist Mark Curtis at the Atlanta Fed's macroblog regarding this paper. Patrick Hoesly / Flickr, CC But you can really see in the above chart that there's been a decline across sectors. And there is a school of thought that bigger companies mean less competition, which in turn pushes down wages (most recently floated by Justin Lahart in the WSJ). Regardless of firm size, declining fluidity in the labor market matters for a few reasons. If you believe that creative destruction is good for the economy, the declining number of small, young companies is a bad thing. But perhaps more pressingly, the researchers find that job reallocation rates have an impact on employment rates, particularly for the young and even more strongly for young men. Not only is it associated with lower employment rates, but it potentially negatively affects the length of time that the unemployed have to look for work, as fewer job changes likely means fewer job openings, and therefore fewer chances for those out of work to jump back in. "Employment today begets employment in the future," write the authors. And fewer job openings mean fewer people moving between jobs in the same industry. Here's how job churn over the last 15 years breaks down by gender. Kansas City Fed There are a number of reasons listed by the authors for this lack of labor market fluidity: There are two notable things about the second half of this list: first, the authors point out that it's impossible to know how much the policy-related factors "contributed to secular declines in fluidity." While all of these are possible factors for the trend, no one is quite sure how much each factors in. Further, it's important to note that some of these are policy protections meant to protect workers, and while they may reduce churn, they also protect people from getting fired because of discriminatory employers. Even though there are some reasons why regulating fluidity could be good for workers, the long-term decline in reallocation is bad for the economy. That much you can tell from this paper. What you can't tell is what are the main drivers of this problem, and how to fix it. That's the challenge for economists and policy makers if they want to build a healthier economy.  FREE AppDownload
Did you miss something on the internet this week? No matter who you are, the answer is probably yes. We’re here to help you catch up. Here’s a smattering of excellent posts, both short and long, from the last few days that make for a good weekend read. How climate change will end wine as we know it — Sandra Allen The hardest part about making a viral video of grandmas smoking weed for the first time is finding grandmas who have never smoked weed — Jack Marshall Millennials are not good at saving, but their parents were even worse — Allison Schrager Economics is a terrible profession for women — Noah Smith 'Frozen' might be everything that's wrong with the US economy — Jim Tankersley and Binyamin Appelbaum Does demography explain secular stagnation? — The Economist There's a glut in the cranberry market — Tom Moroney You can grow bananas in Iceland — Betty Wood If you enjoy Twitter, you might want to buy this print — Michelle Vaughan Cultural Interlude: In defense of the thought police — Hallie Bateman   Self promotion: How patience pays off for investors — Sam Ro Jeremy Grantham: The world doesn't have enough stuff to make it as great as we want it to be — Myles Udland Putin: There's a plus side to the economic sanctions making Russians miserable — Elena Holodny Bill Ackman just perfectly executed the "heads I win, tails you lose" trick that makes Wall Street famous — Linette Lopez The era of $100 a barrel oil is over — Tomas Hirst Why QE is the most important thing on the planet right now — Mike Bird A legal victory for strippers is bad news for the "1099 economy" — Me FREE AppDownload
