REUTERS/Ilya Naymushin Gold was an outstanding loser in 2013, falling by 30%. However, the yellow metal has rallied by around 10% since the beginning of the year. Nevertheless, most Wall Street commodities analysts remain firmly bearish. In a new note to clients, Goldman Sachs analysts reiterate their prediction that gold will fall to $1,050/oz within 12 months. Here's their one-paragraph take (emphasis added): The 2014 gold rally brought prices to their highest level since September before a more hawkish-than-expected March FOMC pushed prices sharply lower. Three distinct and in our view transient catalysts have driven this rally: (1) a sharp slowdown in US economic activity which we believe was weather driven, (2) high Chinese credit concerns, although ultimately bearish for gold demand through lower financing deals if realized, and (3) escalating tensions over Ukraine. While further escalation in tensions could support gold prices, we expect a sequential acceleration in both US and Chinese activity, and hence for gold prices to decline, although it may take several weeks to lift uncertainty around this acceleration. Importantly, it would require a significant sustained slowdown in US growth for us to revisit our expectation for lower US gold prices over the next two years. Beyond the acceleration in US activity, signs of sequentially weaker Chinese gold imports could pressure prices in coming months. Gold futures settled at $1,327 Monday. Prices would have to fall 20.8% to get to Goldman's target. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche BankDuring the fall of 2012, some experts warned that raising taxes on capital gains and dividends would be bad news for the markets. Here's Deutsche Bank's David Bianco on some of the history: Higher taxes undoubtedly contributed to very poor S&amp;P 500 performanceThe long-term capital gains rate climbed from 25% in 1967 (since 1942) to 39.9% in 1977. The 1976 Act also eliminated inherited property basis step ups. Although postponed and ultimately repealed in 1980, seemingly lost inheritance step ups and higher capital gains rates amidst double-digit inflation represented a huge tax hike. This undoubtedly contributed to PE compression and very poor S&amp;P 500 performance from 1968 to 1978. Well, the U.S. government eventually passed the "American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012" (ATRA), which raised the tax rate on dividends and capital gains by 5% for the folks in the top tax bracket. But in 2013, we saw the stock market book a whopping 30% return. So, did the market clear that hurdle? Not necessarily. It's quite possible that the rich folks affected by the tax hike largely ignored the tax hike because it didn't affect them ... yet. Perhaps now that they're filling out their tax returns, they're finally realizing how much more they owe Uncle Sam. Perhaps some of those folks are now dumping some of their stocks to pay for these taxes. Perhaps that's why we're seeing all of this out-of-the-blue volatility in the markets in the last month. This is a theory that had been floated by New River Investments' Guillermo Roditi Dominguez. And it's something that Bianco delved into in his latest note to clients. "Additional taxes in 2013 income are likely to be larger as equity markets hit new highs in 2013 and dividends are up 30% from 2011," said Bianco. "Assuming wages are up 3%; all investment income is up 10%, personal exemption amount is up 5.4% ($3900 in 2013 from $3700 in 2011) and qualified dividends and capital gains are up 30%, we estimate that taxes are ~$50bn higher for full 2013 of which ~$35bn are due in April. Over the last 10 years 60% of individual income taxes not withheld were paid in April. This year we estimate that it will be closer to 70% as most of increase in taxes involves dividends and capital gains." It might not be the primary factor driving the sell-off. But it's hard to see how any of this would be a positive. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Prominent bitcoin entrepreneur Charlie Shrem has been indicted by a federal grand jury in New York on charges of funneling cash to the illicit online marketplace Silk Road. Shrem, known as one of the digital currency's most visible promoters, is accused of conspiring with a Florida man, Robert Faiella, to sell more than $1 million in bitcoins to the users of Silk Road despite knowing that it would be spent on illegal uses like drug trafficking. Both Shrem and Faiella face charges of money laundering, conspiracy and failing to file suspicious activity reports with government banking authorities, according to the indictment filed by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Shrem's lawyer, Marc Agnifilo, and Faiella's lawyer, David Braun, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday. Federal authorities shut down Silk Road last year, and prosecutors from Bharara's office have charged Ross William Ulbricht with operating the site under the name "Dread Pirate Roberts." Shrem, 24, was arrested in January and stepped down as vice president of the Bitcoin Foundation, a well-known trade group, soon after. He was previously CEO of BitInstant, a bitcoin exchange company that enjoyed financial backing from the twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss but closed last year. Bitcoin is a digital currency, not backed by any government or central bank, that fluctuates in value according to its users' demand. Users can transfer bitcoins to each other online and store the currency in digital "wallets." Authorities have vowed to pursue those who use bitcoin to complete illegal transactions, while regulators are still grappling with their approach to the nascent currency. The recent failure of Japan's Mt. Gox, which filed for bankruptcy after apparently losing hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bitcoins, has underscored concerns about the currency's long-term viability. Shrem will be arraigned on the indictment on April 29, according to Bharara's office. He faces a maximum prison term of 20 years if convicted on the most serious charge. (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Edgar SuIn recent years, economists have had a thing about easily pronounceable acronyms for groups of countries in similar situations. It started with the fast-growing emerging market BRICs—Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa—and continued with the heavily indebted euro-area group known as PIIGS—Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain. Last year, when investors began worrying about Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, and South Africa, an apt acronym didn’t jump to mind. So they got a more prosaic appellation: “the Fragile Five.” The five share an overreliance on foreign capital, a tendency that emerged as a potential problem when news of the U.S. Fed’s plan to reduce asset purchases began fueling capital outflows from emerging markets last May.  Concerns grew in January and February of this year, when a combination of Fed tapering and slower growth in China sparked a selloff of emerging market currencies and stocks that had investors drawing parallels to the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Fast-forward two months, however, and those countries’ currencies are looking anything but fragile. Bloomberg’s index of 20 developing-country currencies has fully regained its losses from earlier this year. By April 10, the Turkish lira had surged 10.2 percent from its 2014 low on January 24, the Brazilian real 9.8 percent from February 3, and the Indonesian Rupiah 7.2 percent from January 27. And the South Korean won is at its strongest level against the dollar in more than five years. This reversal has helped fuel a comeback in the carry trade. According to Credit Suisse, the Fragile Five countries now boast five of the six most attractive emerging market carry-to-volatility ratios, an indicator that measures the attractiveness of a carry trade given its underlying risk. “The fragile five could transition into the formidable five,” analysts Ray Farris and Trang Thuy Le wrote in a recent report entitled “Carry Back in Fashion, But For How Long?” Why the quick turnaround? Most importantly, the fundamentals look good. At the height of the emerging markets rout in February, we wrote that a full-blown crisis was unlikely because developing economies were stronger than in previous panics. This is still the case. Emerging markets have lower levels of external debt (25 percent of GDP compared to 40 percent in the 1990s), healthier trade balances, and higher levels of foreign exchange reserves (30 percent of GDP compared to 10 percent in the 1990s). Another factor is that long-term U.S. yields have been more stable than markets appear to have been anticipating. Yields increased last month after Fed Chair Janet Yellen suggested policymakers could raise interest rates as early as the spring of 2015. But subsequent assurances by Yellen that the central bank intends to keep rates low for quite some time have eased concerns of a sooner-than-expected rate hike. At the same time, some emerging market central banks, such as South Africa and Turkey, have raised interest rates this year, making their currencies more attractive relative to near-zero U.S. rates. Finally, global business activity, as measured the Purchasing Managers’ Index, grew in the first quarter, helping emerging market sentiment. If U.S. yields stay steady, Credit Suisse sees potential outperformance by the Russian ruble and Turkish lira among emerging market currencies in Europe and the Middle East. Russia’s fourth-quarter current account surplus was revised upwards while Turkey’s foreign trade deficit was narrower than the market expected, and both of their central banks have tightened significantly. Any signs of easing by policymakers would jeopardize that outlook, although that looks unlikely to occur in the coming weeks, according to Credit Suisse. Turkey’s trade deficit was narrower than expected in February In Latin America, Credit Suisse is bullish on the currencies of both Mexico and Colombia. The Colombian peso is attractive in part because JPMorgan increased the country’s weight in two of its local-currency bond indices, a move that should fuel more demand for its bonds and thereby increase currency inflows. As for Mexico, the country’s strong credit standing makes its peso attractive. In Asia, the South Korean won seems likely to continue to shine. The Indian rupee, while currently attractive, is also more vulnerable to an eventual increase in U.S. yields. Credit Suisse does offer a note of caution: there may not be much life left in the carry trade, as U.S. rates are still expected to start heading upward at some point in the coming months. The bank expects yields on 2-year notes to rise to 0.5 percent by summer (up from 0.36 percent on April 9), and 10-year yields to increase to 3.1 percent from 2.7 percent. “That suggests the need for caution in chasing the carry trade,” say Farris and Le. But not to eschew it entirely. FREE AppDownload
Here is a chart from GMO Asset Forecasts that expresses how I feel as well. 7-Year Global Real Return Equity Forecasts Mish ShedlockValue and growth within large and small stocks, and REITs, as of March 31, 2014 Estimated returns are negative for US large caps, US small caps, and REITs for every period shorter than seven years. If accurate (and I believe it is), what will that do to pension plans? For further discussion, please see LA Commission Studies Pension Crisis, Recommends New Commission; Bankruptcy Inevitable. For a followup, also see Reader Question on the Inevitable Los Angeles Bankruptcy; What About Chicago? FREE AppDownload
The International Panel on Climate Change released their third and final report this weekend, warning that population growth and industrialization in the developing world could drive global warming past the point of no return. Even if it doesn't fall into that particular category, the U.S. could always be doing more toward mitigating its own emissions. But for what it's worth, it was not among the countries singled out by Oswaldo Lucon, a Brazilian scientist involved in the report, as having been responsible for watering down the panel's latest findings. (He fingered the Chinese, Indian, Saudi Arabian and even his own Brazilian delegation for doing so). And the following chart from AEI's Mark Perry shows the U.S. has been making significant gains in carbon dioxide reduction: At about 17 tons per capita, we are at a level not seen in half a century. Perry writes:  CO2 emissions per capita in the US increased slightly last year, but were back to the same level as in 1963 (50 years ago), and 23% below the peak in the early 1970s, thanks to the boom in shale gas, which has displaced coal for electricity generation. Check it out: Mark Perry/AEI FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthLarry Summers has been a key proponent of the secular stagnation thesis.Joachim Fels, Morgan Stanley's co-head of global economics, wonders whether last week's market moves — which saw growth stocks get slammed and U.S. Treasuries stage a swift rally, pushing interest rates lower — were indicative of market participants buying into the idea of permanently-impaired growth potential in the United States, a concept commonly known as "secular stagnation." The answer, he says, is no, based on conversations with investors over the weekend at a conference. In his weekly "Sunday Start" note to the firm's clients, he writes: Judged by the polling results and the views expressed by the clients attending our 14th Annual Global Macro Forum in Washington, DC, where Larry Summers presented his latest thoughts on secular stagnation and other issues this past week, investors are still far away from fully embracing the Summers thesis. Otherwise, the consensus in the room wouldn’t have been looking for a first Fed rate hike next year, higher US bond yields and rising stock markets. According to our polling, close to 40% of the participants expect the Fed to hike rates already in 1H15, and another close to 40% in 2H15. And so 90% expect 2-year UST yields (which sank to 0.36% on Friday) to trade above 0.5% and two-thirds expect 10-year yields to stand above 3.0% a year from now. With close to 40% of the room expecting the S&amp;P 500 to be down rather than up on a 12-month horizon, the sentiment on stocks was by far not as bullish as at other conferences we held earlier this year, but this probably reflects both recent market performance and the fact that most of the DC participants are focused on fixed income markets. Still, close to 40% said equities are their preferred asset class over the next 12 months, and another 40% prefer real estate. These are not exactly secular stagnation trades. By contrast, the tone among DC participants about emerging markets was quite cautious overall, despite the decent recent rally in EM currencies, bonds and equities. Only 7% thought the necessary economic adjustment in EM was complete, against two-thirds who thought EM was more than halfway through and one-quarter who believe we’re not even halfway done. Three-quarters of the room expected China’s adjustment path to be either very volatile or even crisis-prone (though the room was exactly 50% bullish and 50% bearish on Chinese equities). The score on EM local debt bears versus bulls was 85% to 15%. So overall, there was little pushback to the still cautious view on EM presented by my colleagues Manoj Pradhan and Rashique Rahman. David Zervos, chief market strategist at Jefferies, recently raised the possibility that the Fed was making a policy mistake based on the drop in long-term inflation expectations since the Fed began winding down its quantitative easing program in December. Still, according to Fels, the consensus isn't ready to let go of the sunnier outlook. As for the recent sell-off, it can likely be explained by extreme positioning in hot momentum stocks that fueled the decline when things started to turn. FREE AppDownload
Air BnBNew York State Senator Liz Krueger issued a statement saying a New York Post report published Monday that described escort services using AirBnB shows how the startup dedicated to letting people rent their homes and apartments to guests could fuel illicit activities. In addition to prostitution, Krueger claimed Air BnB could also lead to gambling and drugs. "The outcome of this, predictably, has been constant streams of tourists disrupting residential buildings, and other inappropriate, even illegal activity floating from building to building," said Krueger of the company's services. "Today it's a prostitution ring, tomorrow it could be an illegal gambling ring, and maybe next week it could be a drug operation. There's really no way to know." The Post report included an interview with a prostitute who said her escort service generally uses Air BnB rooms rather than hotels to "save $200 to $300 a night." The Post also told the story of a woman who said she rented her apartment via Air BnB only to receive a call from police when an alleged prostitute got slashed there after getting into an argument over the price of their services. According to the woman, when she returned to the apartment, she found "baby wipes and 'at least 10 condoms'" inside. Air BnB subsequently paid for the woman to temporarily stay in a hotel, cleaned her apartment, and replaced some of her belongings. Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat who has sponsored legislation in 2010 aimed at helping New York City take action against illegal short term renters, said prostitution was an "obvious" consequence of Air BnB's business. "When residential housing ceases to be residential—via online businesses, like Airbnb, turning residential apartments into illegal, unregulated hotel rooms—all kinds of undesirable and illegal activity can be brought into a residential building," said Krueger. "Prostitution wasn't really at the top of our minds when we passed the 2010 law helping NYC enforce against illegal short-term rentals, but in hindsight it seems kind of obvious." She also argued Air BnB needs to do more than "textbook PR" to help people avoid "disasters" like finding escort services in their home.  "What we do know is that Airbnb continues to demand we legalize its illegal conversion of apartments into short-term hotel rooms," Krueger said. "And while it's nice that Airbnb spares no expense in compensating hosts who experience disasters like the use of their apartment as a headquarters for a floating brothel, that's a textbook PR tactic and shouldn't be mistaken for actual responsibility. Because if Airbnb were truly responsible, they would stop openly violating our local laws, or at least stop enthusiastically encouraging New Yorkers to rent out their apartments without giving them fair warning that it's probably illegal, almost certainly violates their rental lease or coop/condo rules, and could get them evicted." Kruger also said Air BnB doesn't isn't concerned about the consequences of its actions because its executives don't live in the buildings where it rents rooms. "There's a reason that we zone certain areas, buildings, and neighborhoods to be residential -- both because we need to protect the limited housing stock we have from being arbitraged into other uses, and because residents living side-by-side and on top of one another in apartment buildings deserve some ground rules and guarantees about what they have to put up with," said Krueger. "Companies like Airbnb have decided to ignore all that, so they can pull in revenue from the estimated two thirds of their New York City business that's illegal. What do they care? They don't live in these buildings." Last year, a New York City man said his department was severely damaged after Air BnB renters used it for an event marketed as an "XXX Freak Fest." Air BnB customers have also reportedly used rentals for prostitution in Washington D.C. The company responded to the Post story by noting it is cooperating with the police.  "The entire hospitality industry deals with issues like this, and we have zero tolerance for this activity," the company said.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Return Chasing Behavior Is Harmful For Investors (St. Louis Fed) Past experience often dictates investment behavior. "An average equity mutual fund investor tends to buy when past returns are high and sell otherwise.  This is called return-chasing behavior," writes YiLi Chien, senior economist at the St. Louis Fed.  Chien compared the realized return of return-chasing behavior to a buy-and-hold strategy for a period of five years. "The result shows that return-chasing behavior had a significant impact on the performance of return.  The buy-and-hold strategy earned an average annual return of 5.6 percent in the sample period, while return-chasing behavior only realized 3.6 percent.  In other words, chasing returns caused the average U.S. mutual fund investor to miss around 2 percent return per year, which is very significant." TIAA-CREF To Acquire Nuveen For $6.25 Billion (TIAA-CREF)  Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association – College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA–CREF) is acquiring Nuveen Investments for $6.25 billion including outstanding debt. Investment management company Nuveen has about $221 billion in assets under management (AUM). "We are pleased to bring our clients around the globe access to new investments and strategies through our partnership with an experienced, market-tested investment firm like Nuveen," Robert Leary, executive vice president, TIAA-CREF said in a press release.  "In addition, Nuveen's strong distribution network will give us growth and scaled presence in several important channels through relationships built around experienced investment managers with strong track records." TIAA-CREF is a financial services provider. Meb Faber: Don't Chase The Dividends (Business Insider)  Mebane Faber at Cambria Investment Management, thinks investors in the U.S. should stop chasing high dividend yield in favor of shareholder yield. "We mentioned this back in August where the premium that dividend yield stocks are trading at, relative to the market, is near the highest ever," Faber told Business Insider. "Historically, when you invest in high yield, you are getting a value tilt, but now, as money has rushed into all things high yield, you are actually getting the opposite — not something you want! Valuations are also cheaper abroad." OSAM Why Structured Notes Don't Deserve The Bad Rap They've Got (The Wall Street Journal)  Structured notes are hybrid securities in which certain conditions are tied to an asset that changes its risk/return profile. These notes have been getting a bad rap writes Jerry Verseput, owner of Veripax Financial Management in a new WSJ column. Critics complain that structured notes are complex, the principal isn't protected, and that it is "vulnerable to adviser abuse," Verseput writes.  But Verseput argues that in terms of complexity, there are many risky investment products, and that most assets put your principal at risk. As for advisor abuse he writes that "this criticism tends to focus on the product itself, rather than saying there are some advisers who market it badly. An adviser worth his salt is going to explain the risk to clients." Verseput argues that structured notes "are one of the few investment vehicles that allow you to control not only the amount of risk, but the type of risk, so specifically," and therefore advisors should not ignore these products entirely. MAP: The Most Uncertain Spots In The World (Deutsche Bank)  Deutsche Bank is out with its latest House View report summarizing five key points of uncertainty around the world. In the U.S. it stems from uncertainty about the strength of the economy and Q1 earnings season. In Europe, there are questions about the ECB's next moves. Of course there's the geo-political crisis in Russia and Ukraine. In China concerns about slowing growth are mounting and in Japan the impact of the consumption tax hike is unclear. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
The problem with watches is that they evolve into an obsession. You get one, feel the magic, and want another. You get that other one, and while you're buying it you see this other one ... and you want it. Like most worthy addictions this is very expensive, but no one is alone in it. In fact this monkey has climbed on so many backs that someone created a solution: It's a company called Eleven James. Basically its a Rent-the-Runway for men's luxury watches with some very sexy added perks. Founder Randy Brandoff launched the company at the end of last  year, and already it has a couple hundred members perusing the watch selection, borrowing pieces for three- to six-month periods, and attending events. Brandoff cut his teeth in the luxury sector as the first employee for Marquis Jet. He eventually became Chief Marketing Officer and stayed in that position when the company merged with Net Jets. In other words he saw the whole luxury-share thing unfold before his eyes. "It got to the point where I was like 'wow this is a trend, and I'm in the front row,'" Brandoff told Business Insider.  High-end watches, he thought, would be a perfect item for this kind of sharing. "For the six months you love it, after another six months you like it, after about a year you want to replace it," he said. So here's how Eleven James works: Go to Eleven James and fill out an application — basically they want to make sure you're not a 15-year-old with impeccable taste and no cash. Once you're accepted you'll get access to their member website. It looks like this: Eleven James From there you'll have a meeting or phone call to welcome you to the club, and then answer a series of questions (as you can see on the bottom left) to "Build Your Watch Profile." That's how Eleven James can send you recommendations for watches as they add to their collection. You can rate watches too, and that gives the company an even better idea of your style. If you have trouble deciding what you like, or you have questions about watch maintenance, Eleven James also has a concierge service. The more you borrow, the more points you accrue. You can use those points to borrow more watches or buy ones you really love. And there are levels to this stuff; think of them as collections. An Eleven James 'Aficionado' selects watches in the $7,000 to $15,000 range. Then there's the 'Connoisseur' — $15,000 to $30,000 range — and the 'Virtuoso' — $30,000 to $50,000 range. This is what part of the Connoisseur page looks like: Eleven James Eleven James members will also have access to special events: Super Bowl parties, collection changeover parties, Final Four parties ... lots of parties. And people love parties (and watches) so Brandoff is already seeing that Eleven James is having an impact. "One guy called us up," said Brandoff, "he's an old friend of mine and he told me: 'First and foremost I was really doing this for you, and now I really love it and I'm addicted because it's like opening a gift for myself six times a year, and I never give myself anything.'" So give yourself something. Below are two examples of what's on Eleven James. You're welcome. Eleven JamesFrom the Connoisseur Collection, an AP Royal Oak Offshore Chronograph Eleven JamesFrom the Eleven James Aficionado Collection, a Rolex GMT Pepsi FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Anton FerreiraMarkets headed higher to kick off this four-day week. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks are in the red this afternoon after spending the entire morning in positive territory. Futures got a lift before the opening bell from stronger-than-expected quarterly earnings results from Citi and a March retail sales report that also bested estimates, but the market hasn't been able to hold its previous gains. The S&amp;P 500 index is flat and the Nasdaq is 0.3% below Friday's closing levels. The iShares Nasdaq Biotechnology ETF, which has lost more than 20% of its value since late February, is down about 2% today. A major focus for global markets to begin the week is the escalation of tensions between Ukraine and Russia. Over the weekend, armed pro-Russian separatist forces occupied some government buildings and police stations in eastern Ukrainian cities, prompting an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Sunday night and threats of an anti-terrorism response from Ukrainian authorities. The separatists were given a deadline of 9 a.m. local time on Monday to surrender which expired this morning without a resolution to the standoff. Russia's MICEX stock index closed 1.3% below Friday's closing levels, and the Russian ruble is the worst-performing major currency against the U.S. dollar. The dollar is also up sharply against many other emerging-market currencies as the asset class seems to have fallen out of favor, at least for today. "It is very clear that Europe and the U.S. agree that Russia is fueling the current unrest, and in that sense at the very least a further wave of sanctions are very likely this week," says Derek Halpenny, European head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. "German Finance Minister Schaeuble stated that there were 'many signs' that Russia was fanning the trouble. This in our mind remains by far the most likely source for turning financial market sentiment firmly into risk-off mode. The markets have been incredibly ambivalent to a situation that could turn suddenly." The euro is trading near $1.38, down 0.5% against the U.S. dollar, following comments over the weekend from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who warned that a further rise in the euro could prompt additional monetary easing measures at IMF meetings in Washington, D.C. "The strengthening of the exchange rate requires further monetary stimulus," he said. "That’s an important dimension for our price stability." European equity indices mostly closed higher, with the exception of Spain's IBEX 35, which finished about 0.2% lower. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top, from left to right, are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, five-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPredicting sales of new medicines is highly inaccurate and subject to error on both the low- and high-end. A recent McKinsey study found that this inaccuracy holds regardless of whether the drug is first in its class or a follow-on/improvement to an established drug class. For example, Lipitor, developed by Warner-Lambert and launched in 1996 with partner Pfizer (which soon acquired Warner) was the fifth and, at the time, the most potent statin drug approved to reduce LDL cholesterol. Consensus forecasts in 1995 were for sales five years out of $500 million. By 2000, however, sales had reached $5 billion on their way to the 2006 peak of nearly $13 billion. Conversely, at its launch in 1999, sales of GSK’s Agenerase for HIV were forecast to reach $1.5 billion by 2002; in fact, 2002 Agenerase sales were $70 million, an expensive disappointment. A study by Citi Research concluded that over two-thirds of recent novel drug launches have failed to meet analysts’ first-year launch estimates and that there is a strong correlation between first-year and subsequent launch performance. Citi found that of launches exceeding first-year sales forecasts, 65% and 53% exceeded them in years 2 and 3, respectively. Of launches that missed first-year forecasts, 78% and 70% missed them in years 2 and 3, respectively. Work by the brokerage firm Cowen &amp; Co. over many years confirms the regularity of drug companies’ and analysts’ significant and often costly forecast errors. For example, from years ago: Cowen And CompanySource: Cowen and Company Much is at stake in predicting market size and product sales. Drug companies create forecasts in order to guide huge R&amp;D investments both inside their companies and with external collaborators and to build large marketing and sales infrastructure to support the product as it nears approval. Potential competitors make similar forecasts to guide their responses. Investment analysts forecast sales of drugs in development and newly launched products for their own obvious reasons. Forecasters are often highly educated and have broad backgrounds across the pharmaceutical and investment industries. Furthermore, they don’t operate in a vacuum. A drug’s therapeutic and product profile takes shape over a number of years as data emerge from clinical trials and are published and discussed at a wide variety of medical meetings. So, leaving aside the many predictive biases inherent in human behavior, why are these important forecasts rarely correct and can their quality improve? One answer is found in therapeutic categories in which existing drugs are not very effective, the market is small, and a new drug’s potential is underestimated. Prior to the introduction of the “blockbuster” histamine H-2 antagonists, first Tagamet and then Zantac, for gastrointestinal (GI) reflux and ulcers, the GI market was seen as limited. Patients were treated with antacids, which had only modest efficacy, and anti-cholinergics, which were poorly tolerated. The H-2s, in turn, were later dwarfed by the more powerful acid anti-secretory drugs, called proton pump inhibitors, led by Prilosec and then Nexium. These drugs worked better, had fewer side effects, and won expanded indications like esophageal repair. Nexium sales peaked at $5 billion. Conversely, Pfizer’s Viagra was the first PDE-5 inhibitor for erectile dysfunction (ED), a breakthrough in efficacy with few safety concerns. In the early 1990s, Pfizer forecast Viagra’s peak annual sales to be $500 million. By 1997, however, one year before the drug’s launch, the average brokerage forecast was for sales of $5 billion by 2002. In fact, Viagra’s sales peaked in 2012 at just over $2 billion, above Pfizer’s modest initial estimate, but well below Wall Street’s exuberance. Viagra was limited by high initial pricing, impediments to insurance coverage, extensive counterfeiting and the launch of two competing drugs. Drugs that treat orphan (rare) diseases were initially thought of as limited commercial opportunities because of small patient population. However, with competition limited by the FDA to encourage innovation, some orphan drugs have been priced in multiple hundreds of thousands of dollars, leading to bonanzas for their developers. Sometimes drug companies simply fail to support product launches, fail to seek expanded indications or shy away from the risk of comparative clinical trials that could differentiate their drugs. Increasingly, large payers – governments, managed care insurers and pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) – are negotiating directly with, or attempting to dictate prices to drug manufacturers with the return promise of higher volume through better formulary positioning. Representative Henry Waxman recently called on a hepatitis C innovator to justify its price, which directly caused industry analysts to question their revenue assumptions. Even doctors have become more sensitive to drug prices, having heard from their patients and their insurers; they are increasingly pushing back on higher prices and seeking less expensive alternative therapies. Patent challenges have become increasingly unpredictable, and patent settlements against generic challengers are subject to more regulatory oversight. Emerging market sales have become more important to the pharmaceutical industry. Developing economies fluctuate more often and with higher variability than developed economies, and their level of regulatory oversight is lower. Several major manufacturers recently learned the hard consequences of rapid growth in China. One of the key reasons behind global, specialty and generic pharmaceutical industry consolidation may be the companies’ strategic desire to diversify product portfolios in order to hedge commercialization risk in a difficult and less predictable new drug launch environment. Can the quality of commercial sales predictions improve? Despite analysts’ research tools and experience, history suggests new drug forecasting will remain more art than science. At Columbia Management, our healthcare team’s analysis involves using probability-adjusted therapeutic category and drug class forecasts and responding more quickly than in the past to initial launch data. Our “art” lies in our mix of science and business, with a clear eye both on the past and future. We dig deeply into therapeutic categories to attempt to identify products under development or at or near launch that are marked improvements over existing therapies or that have potential to fill unmet patient needs, what are commonly called “first-in-class” or “best-in class.” How far behind are the second and third drugs in the new class, and are they material improvements in efficacy or safety, or both, for which the market is willing to wait? Is the drug in clinical trials across a range of indications beyond its initial one, and can the product win regulatory approval across geographies? We interact regularly with both doctors/scientists and payers; the former on drug mechanisms, side effects, patient need and alternatives, and the ease of administration relative to other therapies; the latter on their interpretation of novelty (whether the drug fills an unmet need or represents a significant improvement, and at what perceived cost-benefit to the patient and payer), existing or imminent alternatives, pricing and the product’s likely position within increasingly restrictive prescription drug formularies. For drugs that are promoted similarly to other consumer products, that is, more to patients than doctors through direct-to-consumer (DTC, or “ask your doctor”) advertising, we seek the insight of our colleagues who analyze consumer and media stocks. Ultimately, analysts must bear in mind the high level of uncertainty and variability not only in drugmakers’ forecasts, but in their own, and the extent to which the analyst may have an “edge” on consensus forecasts. The good news is that the innovative medicine industry has survived, and often thrived, despite frequently inaccurate forecasts, and that there are, far more often than not, rewards to innovation. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA 1,000 córdoba banknote, which was re-printed with a value of 200,000 córdobas during the inflationary period of the late 1980s.Hyperinflationary episodes have appeared several times over the past century — 55, to be exact — as the world's nations have experimented with fiat currencies backed by the full faith and credit of the governments that issue them. At times, that full faith and credit has been misplaced — and holders of unstable currencies have been caught empty-handed in countries all over the world. Often, this is can be a recurring theme among developing nations like those in Latin America during the debt crisis that struck the region in the 1980s. Even some of the largest economies in the world today, though — like China, Germany, and France — have suffered devastating hyperinflationary episodes. A major historical precursor of hyperinflation is war that destroys the capital stock of an economy and dramatically reduces output — but the misplaced monetary and fiscal policies that ensue are almost always part of the story. Economists Steve Hanke and Nicholas Krus compiled data on all 56 recorded hyperinflations in a 2012 study. We summarize 9 of the worst episodes here. FREE AppDownload
The face of online stock trading company E*Trade is now a little bit older and a lot more suave. E*Trade announced in March that it would no longer employ the talking baby mascot that appeared in ads at six consecutive Super Bowls beginning in 2008.  On Sunday, the company posted an ad to its YouTube page revealing that it has instead turned to "House of Cards" actor Kevin Spacey to attract a more sophisticated clientele.  In the ad, Spacey plays a "talent scout" who spots a prospective E*Trade customer filling his plate at a fancy buffet. Spacey then compliments the man on both his trading and culinary savvy. "Who would have thought three-cheese lasagna would go with chocolate cake and ceviche? The same guy who thought that small caps and bond funds would go with emerging markets. It's a masterpiece," Spacey gushes, before handing the man a business card anointing him a member of the "Type E*" club. Adweek reports that the ad is the first in a series of Spacey spots from Ogilvy &amp; Mather, which E*Trade tapped to replace Grey this past July.  The E*Trade baby made Super Bowl audiences laugh with his deep voice and surprising stock-trading knowhow, but the company has since decided to pivot toward a marketing strategy that caters to existing customers and others already comfortable with the stock market rather than the average American. By using Spacey to communicate the company's brand as a sort of exclusive club for people who understand the market, E*Trade is narrowing its focus on this core consumer, rather than one who might laugh at a funny ad but remain hesitant about making a potentially risky investment. For old time's sake, here's the E*Trade baby's first Super Bowl ad, from 2008:  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citibank sign on bank branch in midtown Manhattan in New YorkMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Citigroup and Mexico's bank regulator on Monday said they uncovered a second fraud at Citi's local unit Banamex, as part of a wider investigation following the discovery in February of fraudulent loans to oil services company Oceanografia. Mexico's National Bank and Securities Commission (CNBV) said the investigation found another company with under $30 million in fraudulent loans. Citigroup &lt;C.N&gt; in February said it found $400 million in bad loans at Banamex, Mexico's No.2 bank by assets, made to Oceanografia and backed by apparently fraudulent invoices to state-owned oil company Pemex. Citi, in the course of reviewing over $14 billion in financing, found a second company that had also received loans backed by Pemex receivables that had "similar issues" to Oceanografia, Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach said on a call discussing the bank's first-quarter results. Mexico's CNBV is investigating whether the second company has similar loans with other banks, the regulator's statement said. The CNBV said it is close to completing an investigation of Banamex's controls and processes. FREE AppDownload
So far, 2014 has been a bumpy year in the financial markets. The S&amp;P 500, which climbed 30% last year, actually set a new all-time high of 1,897 on April 4 before turning red for the year. But on the more extreme ends of the market, we are seeing the winners lose and the losers win. "Japan is the worst performing major equity market this year after being the best last year," noted Deutsche Bank analysts in their new House View report. The Nikkei climbed by 57% in 2013. "Gold has performed this year after falling nearly 30% last year," they added. While off of its high, gold is up by around 9%, making it one of the best-performing commodities "Everything that was in vogue in 2013 has been sold thus far in 2014," observed Pension Partners' Charlie Bilello. "That group includes U.S. stocks (SPY, IWM) and Bitcoin. The sectors and industries that were most loved, including the Biotechs (XBI), Consumer Stocks (XLY), and Social Media Stocks (SOCL), have sold off the hardest." So the last shall be first, and the first last. Here's a chart of year-to-date returns from the report. Deutsche Bank
Tim Boyle/Getty ImagesOver the last year, a rabbi, a state NAACP official, a small town mayor and other community leaders wrote op-eds and letters to Congress with remarkably similar language on a remarkably obscure topic. Each railed against a long-standing proposal that would give taxpayers the option to use pre-filled tax returns. They warned that the program would be a conflict of interest for the IRS and would especially hurt low-income people, who wouldn't have the resources to fight inaccurate returns. Rabbi Elliot Dorff wrote in a Jewish Journal op-ed that he "shudder[s] at the impact this program will have on the most vulnerable people in American society." "It's alarming and offensive" that the IRS would target the "the most vulnerable Americans," two other letters said. The concept, known as return-free filing, is a government "experiment" that would mean higher taxes for the poor, two op-eds argued. The letters and op-eds don't mention that, as ProPublica laid out last year, return-free filing might allow tens of millions of Americans to file their taxes for free and in minutes. Or that, under proposals authored by several federal lawmakers, it would be voluntary, using information the government already receives from banks and employers and that taxpayers could adjust. Or that the concept has been endorsed by Presidents Obama and Reagan and is already a reality in some parts of Europe. So, where did the letters and op-eds come from? Here's one clue: Rabbi Dorff says he was approached by a former student, Emily Pflaster, who sent him details and asked him to write an op-ed alerting the Jewish community to the threat. What Pflaster did not tell him is that she works for a PR and lobbying firm with connections to Intuit, the maker of best-selling tax software TurboTax. "I wish she would have told me that," Dorff told ProPublica. The website of Pflaster's firm, JCI Worldwide, had listed Intuit among its clients, but removed it after ProPublica contacted them. Pflaster said Intuit had been listed by mistake, but added that the firm does work for the Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association (CCIA), a trade group of which Intuit is a member. Pflaster also said her firm has reached out to multiple groups and encouraged them to share information about the "flaws" of return-free filing. The only CCIA member that's involved with tax preparation software is Intuit, and it's also the only member of the group that has taken a public position on return-free tax filing. Intuit has long worked against return-free filing. The company has said in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it views free government tax preparation as a risk to its business. Last year, the company spent more than $2.6 million on lobbying, some of it to lobby on four bills related to the issue, federal lobbying records show. Both Intuit and CCIA declined to answer questions about their connections to the letters and op-eds. An Intuit spokeswoman, Julie Miller, said in an emailed statement that Intuit works with many types of groups to support "taxpayer empowerment," and "we feel all points of view deserve to be heard." "Return Free minimizes the taxpayers' voice and instead maximizes revenue collection for government," Miller wrote. "That kind of anti-consumer policy does not advance taxpayer rights." CCIA President Ed Black said in a statement, "We think it's important to help policymakers and the public understand what many already know: ReturnFree is unfair, unworkable and unwise." The letters and op-eds 2014 there have been at least eight of them 2014 also appear on a new website, www.FairTaxRefunds.com, which Pflaster said her company created for CCIA. It resembles a similar previous site, www.StopIRSTakeover.org, which was also sponsored by the CCIA. Op-Eds and Letters Opposing Return-Free Tax Filing Another instance in which CCIA solicited a letter wasn't successful. Angela Martin, director of an Oregon nonprofit, said a PR professional gave her a sample anti-return-free filing letter last year for her organization to send to Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore. Martin knew the caller, Colin Cochran, who works for the firm Hilltop Public Solutions. Cochran used "a lot of words that advocates would be sympathetic to, like 'oh, it'll hurt people with English as a second language,'" Martin said. Martin was skeptical. So she asked Cochran who he was representing. He said he was working for the CCIA and, when asked, said yes, that Intuit is a member. Cochran confirmed the details of his discussion with Martin, including that he was working for the CCIA. His firm boasts on its website of a "winning grasstops approach" 2014 "grasstops" is industry lingo for recruiting the support of community leaders. Two other letter-writers told ProPublica they were approached by lobbyists, though it's not clear who the lobbyists were representing. One letter-writer, Richard Smith, the president of the NAACP Delaware State Conference, was approached by a longtime acquaintance with information about how return-free filing would take dollars out of poor people's pockets. Smith felt so strongly he fired off a letter to Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., and encouraged other local NAACP leaders to do the same. Smith said the acquaintance, Anne Farley, told him that if return-free filing was adopted, the government would stop offering free tax filing help to low-income communities. (In fact, none of the bills on return-free filing propose that.) When ProPublica told Smith that Farley is also a registered lobbyist, he said he was now questioning the information she gave him. "We may have to retract so far based on my research," Smith said. "I didn't question her." Lobbying records for Farley's firm, First State Strategies, do not list Intuit or the CCIA among its clients. The firm's website does advertise "grass tops advocacy campaigns." Farley and First State Strategies did not respond to requests for comment. Dennis Huang, executive director of the L.A.-based Asian Business Association, also told ProPublica he was solicited by a lobbyist to write about return-free filing. When the lobbyist sent him a suggested op-ed last summer and told him the proposal would hurt small businesses, Huang wrote an op-ed in the Asian Journal that claimed Asian-owned businesses would not only spend more time paying taxes, but they'd also get less of a refund each year. Huang declined to disclose the lobbyist's name, but acknowledged he didn't really do his own research. "There's some homework needed," he said. Oregon's Martin did some research on return-free filing and now supports it. She also co-published a post about the issue and the PR efforts related to it because, she says, she was alarmed that other nonprofits could easily agree to endorse a position they did not fully understand. "You get one or two prominent nonprofits to use their name, and busy advocates will extend trust and say sure, us too," Martin said. FREE AppDownload
We put countries and continents in a unique geographical perspective. Produced by Sam Rega. Research by Christina Sterbenz and illustrations by Mike Nudelman. Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
REUTERS/Yevgeny VolokinA man looks at a graffiti produced to support the territorial integrity of Ukraine and to protest Russia's annexation of the Black Sea peninsula of Crimea in Odessa April 7, 2014.Ukraine's central bank raised discount rate to 9.5% from 6.5%. The Ukrainian hryvnia (UAH) is down 3.3% against the U.S. dollar today. It's down 32% against the greenback year-to-date. Rising geo-political tensions between Ukraine and Russia, which annexed Crimea, have weighed on the hryvnia. The UAH is heavily dependent on Russian financing and these tensions have weighed on the currency, and the slide in currency is also expected to make its debt burden more expensive. Here's a look at how the UAH has been trading against the greenback today: Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas JacksonThis month, Michael Lewis retook Wall Street by storm with "Flash Boys," his new book about a group of traders who banded together to understand the damage that high-frequency trading (HFT) was doing to markets. Whether or not you agree with the premise that HFT is harmful, there's no question that it's sparked some serious debate on Wall Street. It's the kind of thing only a writer with Lewis' amazing track record — which started with the modern classic "Liar's Poker" — could do. The bond salesman turned literary sensation has changed careers three (or maybe it was four) times before settling into his current niche as one of the most prolific journalist-authors of the past two decades.  What's driving this success? Well, most have attributed it to Lewis' obsession with the "arena of success," the competitive spirit that drives the athletic, entrepreneurial, and financial minds. It's no doubt that Lewis has built his own arena of success, and it's only getting bigger.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Mary Altaffer/APWall Street analysts have advanced a variety of theories to explain what's behind the recent decline in the stock market. David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank, poses the question in his latest research report: "Are April tax payments exacerbating the sell-off?" A combination of recent changes to the tax code and last year's outsized stock market gains have likely made investors' tax bill substantially larger this year than in years past. Bianco walks clients through the finer details (emphasis added): The tax act of 2012 (ATRA) raised the tax rates only for the top bracket (incomes over $400,000; $450,000 for couples); still, many with income over $200,000 ($250,000 for couples) are facing a substantial tax bill this April. This is because: (1) additional medicare tax of 0.9% on wages and 3.8% on investment income for households with income over $200,000 ($250,000 for couples) was applicable for the first time in 2013; (2) ATRA resumed the exemption phase-out and deductions limitation for income over $250,000 ($300,000 for couples) after a three-year hiatus; and (3) ATRA raised the rate on qualified dividends and capital gains by 5% for the top tax bracket. It is unlikely that these taxes were fully paid during 2013. We estimate an April tax bill of around $35 billion higher than March from these three provisions. Based on 2011 detailed tax returns data, we estimate that if the above three provisions were applicable in 2011, it would have impacted 3 million households with incomes over $250,000. Their full 2011 taxes would have been around $45 billion higher, or 2.2% of income. For 2.1 million households with $250,000-500,000 in income, additional taxes would have been around $3 billion (around $1500 per return on average income of $335). For 900,000 households with incomes over $500,000, additional taxes would have been around $42 billion (around $50,000 per return on average income of $1.5 million). Additional taxes on 2013 income are likely to be larger as equity markets hit new highs in 2013 and dividends are up 30% from 2011. Assuming wages are up 3%, all investment income is up 10%, personal exemption amount is up 5.4% ($3900 in 2013 from $3700 in 2011), and qualified dividends and capital gains are up 30%, we estimate that taxes are around $50 billion higher for all of 2013, of which around $35 billion are due in April. Over the last 10 years, 60% of individual income taxes not withheld were paid in April. This year, we estimate that it will be closer to 70%, as most of the increase in taxes involves dividends and capital gains. Guillermo Roditi Dominguez, a portfolio manager at New River Investments, has raised the possibility numerous times on Twitter that tax selling would emerge as a theme in the markets this month. Below are a few of his tweets on the subject. Realized cap gains: 2011 $377B; 2010 $363B; 2009 $231B; 2008 $466B; 2007 $895B; 2006 $771B (from IRS Pub 1304, Table A)   don't write off the effects.. in 2007, realized cap gains were 6.6% of GDP.. at a 15% tax rate that is 1% of GDP in tax receipts   love them or hate them, cap gains taxes are one of the few truly autonomously counter-cyclical fiscal measures in place   useless data due to the huge lag, but cap gains as % of GDP &gt; 5% are generally a red flag for asset prices over next 5y (2011 was 2.4)   @TheStalwart capital gains tax receipts are going to be spectacular this year. unfort not great news for asset prices at tax time :/   You don't have a 30% up year in stock market and a lot of cross-asset churn in retail (charts this PM) without massive cap gain tax receipts   to repeat myself again: expect liq demand to accelerate between now &amp; tax day. years with +11% HPA and +30% stocks = cap gains tax receipts   2014 will be a big year for income &amp; cap gain receipts. I'm expecting the sticker shock to cause investors to reconsider tax-exempt income.   FREE AppDownload
Want to start a fight on Wall Street? Don't insult someone's stock tip, insult their steakhouse. It's basically a banker's second office, and the best ones inspire a fierce, unparalleled loyalty. A month ago we asked our readers to vote for their favorite steakhouses in New York City across ten categories including cut of steak, martini, sides, service, and atmosphere. Roughly 650 Business Insider readers took the survey. One restaurant destroyed them all: a decades-old, family-owned-and-operated, no-frills steakhouse in Williamsburg of all places. Do you agree? Let us know in the comments. 228 W 52nd St. Facebook/GallaghersNYC 56 Beaver St. Facebook/Delmonicosnyc 210 E 46th St. Facebook/SparksSteakHouse 230 Park Ave., 131 East 54th St., 135 West 50th St., 25 Broad St., 120 West 45th St. Facebook/Bobby-Vans-Steakhouse-and-Grill 56 9th Ave. Daniel Goodman/Business Insider 72 W 36th St. Flickr/Edsel Little 4 Park Ave., 409 Greenwich St., 200 East 54th St., 250 West 41st St. foursquare, Naochin 111 East 22 St. Facebook/bltprime 1221 Ave. of the Americas Robert Libetti/ Business Insider 178 Broadway (Brooklyn) Daniel Goodman / Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Here's a cool GIF from Pew that shows how America's population has been evolving since 1950, and will continue to evolve until 2060. It highlights baby-boomers in dark brown. It turns out they're going to serve as a giant senescent crown on top of the rest of American demography. "[F]rom 1960 to 2060, our pyramid will turn into a rectangle," writes Paul Taylor, the executive vice president of special projects at the Pew Research Center. "We'll have almost as many Americans over age 85 as under age 5. This is the result of longer life spans and lower birthrates. It’s uncharted territory, not just for us, but for all of humanity. And while it’s certainly good news over the long haul for the sustainability of the earth’s resources, it will create political and economic stress in the shorter term, as smaller cohorts of working age adults will be hard-pressed to finance the retirements of larger cohorts of older ones." Check it out:    FREE AppDownload
New York FedThe New York Fed just released the results of its monthly Survey of Consumer Expectations. One of the notable developments this month was a rise in expectations for earnings growth a year ahead in March to 2.4%, the highest level in the history of the survey, which began last year. The survey breaks down responses based on demographic groups, so we can get an idea of who exactly is expecting higher wage growth over the next year than they were last month. The charts below show earnings expectations based on age group, educational achievement, income level, and region. In short, those between the ages of 40 and 60, with some college experience, making over $50,000, living in the Northeast United States drove most of the rise in wage growth expectations from February to March. New York Fed New York Fed New York Fed New York Fed FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGeorge's Tavern in Oak Park, Illinois.The United States is a big, diverse place, with each of the 50 states differing from each other in significant ways. We wanted to take a big-picture perspective, and try to see how much the states vary from each other and from the country at large. We were also curious about which states were the most "average" — the most similar to America overall. We considered 31 indicators from the Census Bureau's 2012 American Community Survey, along with 2012 unemployment rates from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The indicators cover different social, economic, housing-related, and demographic characteristics of each state's population and of the population of the U.S. as a whole. For each of those indicators, we figured out how far each state's level was away from the national level. These were then rescaled and averaged to get a sense of how far each state is from the overall national baseline. The states were then ranked on "normalness" based on how large that average distance was. Below are the 32 population indicators from the 2012 American Community Survey and Bureau of Labor Statistics we used to compare the states, along with the corresponding national baseline values. All values (except unemployment) were taken from the 2012 ACS 1 year estimates, downloaded using the Census Bureau's American Factfinder tool.  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from U.S. Census and Bureau of Labor Statistics FREE AppDownload
BIIIn Sept. 2013, PayPal announced an agreement to acquire Braintree — a specialist in powering mobile-based commerce transactions — for about $800 million. In the short term, the deal gives PayPal a pretty significant boost in mobile transaction volume. But the strategy behind this acquisition goes far beyond an instant lift in mobile transaction volume. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we find that for PayPal, the acquisition is about Braintree's network of clients — including Airbnb, Uber, and Fab — and its mobile transactions platform. Braintree leans heavily on subsidiary Venmo for its Venmo Touch software, which stores users' payment information across a network of Braintree clients and creates a one-touch transaction. Braintree acquired Venmo last year. PayPal's deal for Braintree will largely kick off a new wave of consolidation in mobile payments. The large credit card companies, which handle massive transaction volume each year and have a wealth of cash on hand, will likely lead the next round of acquisitions. Visa, American Express, and MasterCard have already played and made investments in this space (e.g., Visa has invested in Square), but they may look to bolster their commitments to mobile. Other legacy players will also seek to forge or strengthen partnerships with PayPal, Square, Stripe, or Dwolla.  In the report, BI Intelligence puts numbers to the trends and explains why mobile transaction volume is growing so explosively. A significant portion of card-powered e-commerce transactions take place on tablet or smartphone devices. Tablets and smartphones are also powering card-based transactions at physical stores through apps, scannable QR codes, and attachable card readers that transform devices into cash registers. Access The Full Report And Data By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; The report answers the main questions surrounding this rapidly growing industry:  The report is full of charts and data that can be easily downloaded and put to use. In full, the report: For full access to the report on Mobile Payments And Transactions sign up for a free trial subscription today. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Taco Bell's breakfast menu is off to a solid start.  The Waffle Taco, A.M. Crunchwrap, and other menu items  have boosted sales and traffic significantly at stores nationwide since launching on March 27, according to a recent Citi Research survey.   The survey also found that more consumers prefer Taco Bell's breakfast over McDonald's —which has the largest share of the breakfast market.  Citi Research "The initial indications are positive for Taco Bell," Citi Research analysts wrote. "While this development is clearly not a positive for McDonald's, it is still early and it may be possible for both McDonald's and Taco Bell to continue to grow at breakfast at the expense of other competitors." Of the Taco Bell breakfast consumers that Citi surveyed, 61% said they plan on visiting Taco Bell at least once a week for breakfast going forward — including 17% who said they would visit at least twice a week. Consumers' favorite item on the menu is the Breakfast Burrito, followed by the Waffle Taco and the A.M. Crunchwrap. Citi Research FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWilliam Campbell, executive vice president of Citicorp (L) picks up a large credit card presented to International pop star Elton John (R) at a news conference Jan. 22, 1998.Before Citigroup bulls bust out the champagne after the bank's earnings beat this morning, it's important to remember two thorny issues that will certainly come up at Citi's annual shareholder meeting later this month.  One issue forces the bank to hemorrhage cash, the other prevents it from returning money to shareholders. First — analysts say the bank still has to get rid of dead weight on its balance sheet. That weight takes the form of underperforming, low-return businesses and Citi Holdings, the bank's cluster of bad assets and businesses put together after the financial crisis. David Hilder, banking analyst at Drexel Hamilton told CNBC's Squawk Box that Citi "is dragging around a certain amount of capital and assets that are not terribly productive, not really producing earnings." Citi Holdings is worse than "unproductive." It lost the bank $284 million in Q1 2013. That's down a lot from the same time last year ($798 million), but analysts like Mike Mayo say the bank needs to sell assets even faster. Mayo also recommended the bank consider "selling off parts of the U.S. retail business (mortgage banking, private label cards) and more aggressively retreat from low-return markets." Those are the sluggish businesses that Hilder is referring to. The second issue with Citi that analysts want to see cleaned up is the bank's legal mess in Mexico. Last month regulators accused Citi's subsidiary, Banamex, of defrauding clients.  It's one of the reasons the Federal Reserve didn't give Citi the go-ahead to return money to shareholders as the bank had planned. Yes, the bank has a lot of capital (a quantitative measure of their health) but the Fed is also looking at qualitative measures like risk management and fraud detection processes. Now the government's probe into Citi in Mexico is getting deeper and has extended to a "failure to report" issue regarding suspicious transactions at a California Citi unit. Investigators think those transactions may have been an attempt by Mexican drug cartels to launder money. Citi needs to "more seriously consider spinning off Banamex or at a minimum make Citibank Mexico more similar to other markets," according to Mayo. Meanwhile, the issue of CEO pay is also getting a lot of attention at the bank once again. Back when Vikram Pandit was in charge, shareholders voted against his $14.9 million pay package. This year, two proxy firms are urging shareholders to vote against the company's executive pay package. They'll slug that out at Citi's annual meeting in St. Louis April 22. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongChina's Ministry of Finance had its a bond auction failure on Friday, selling 20.7 billion yuan ($3.3 billion) of one-year debt, according to Bloomberg. This was less than the 28 billion yuan in debt the ministry had planned to auction. The average yield was also higher than expected. This bond failure comes as concerns about a Chinese economic slowdown mount. China has set a growth target of 7.5% and economists think the government has a floor of 7%.  China's Labor Ministry says 7.5% growth generates 10 million jobs and that growth below 7% could cause high unemployment. Meanwhile, premier Li Keqiang has dismissed chatter about further speculation because of "temporary" volatility. The last time China had a failed bond auction was ahead of the liquidity crunch of June 2013. The auction was also said to have failed among concerns about rising money market rates. The People's Bank of China injected money last week for the first time since January, which some thought was a sign that the central bank was acting to ward of any chance of tightening liquidity. For now, all eyes are on China's Q1 GDP growth which is out at 10 p.m.  ET on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
    When you're looking for a job sometimes the resume is the most important piece of it all. But many people just have no idea how to pull it off. Here's what you definitely want to avoid on that all-important resume. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank regularly summarizes its analysts' big calls in its "House View" report. The latest report includes this map highlighting anecdotes from around the world illustrating the states of the local economies.  The takeaway: Everyone's back in wait-and-see mode. Check it out: Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Census.govRetail sales jumped by 1.1% in March, beating expectations for a 0.9% gain. Excluding autos and gas, sale increased by 1.0%, which was much better than the 0.4% expected. All of this is "partly due to households making up for lost time after the unusually bad weather kept them away from the malls in previous months," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "Nonetheless, it means that real consumption growth in the first quarter could be a little stronger than the 2.0% we have been expecting." As expected, autos were particularly strong with auto dealers seeing a 3.1% jump in sales of vehicles and parts. Furniture sales climbed 1.0% and clothing store sales increased by 1.0%. Nonstore retailers, which include internet shopping activity, rose by 1.7%. Here's a table breaking down which business saw growth and which ones saw contraction. Census.gov   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Citi beat earnings expectations with a non-adjusted earnings per share of  $1.30 and revenues of $20.1 billion. In Q1, analyst expect earnings per share to come in at $1.14 with a quarterly revenue of $19.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank also reporter a profit of $3.94 billion, up slightly from $3.81 billionat the same time last year. The stock is up 2.85% in premarket trading.  It's safe to say that Citi has had the roughest 2014 of all the largest Wall Street banks. Two events have been most damaging. First Citi's Mexican subsidiary was accused of defrauding clients and suspicious money laundering activity. And second the Fed deemed the bank unfit to return capital to shareholders due to a poor risk management strategy. Needless to say, analysts across Wall Street have not been happy about that. "I'm adamant that Citi cannot afford to have business as usual," CLSA's Mike Mayo told Business Insider. "Investors will be more furious if Citi treats the value of the stress test as simply a delay in the strategy that they had already planned." Many still see a lot of upside in the bank's strategy over the next two years, though. It's just that without the Fed's approval, it's going to be hard to make shareholders happy. CEO Michael Corbat addressed that in his statement Monday morning.  "Despite a quarter that was difficult for our company, we delivered strong results," said Corbat..."Very cognizant of our shareholders desire to see a sustainable return of capital, we are engaged with the Fed to better understand their expectations regarding the CCAR process. We are committed to bringing our capital planning process to the highest possible standards, befitting an institution of our global reach. I will dedicate whatever resources and make whatever changes necessary to achieve this critical goal," Mr. Corbat concluded. Meanwhile, the issue of CEO pay is also getting a lot of attention at the bank once again. Back when Vikram Pandit was in charge, shareholders voted against his $14.9 million pay package. This year two proxy firms are urging shareholders to vote against the company's executive pay package. They'll slug that out at Citi's annual meeting in St. Louis on April 22nd. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuPassive investing, or investing in a benchmark index and letting the money ride, is probably the most time-tested and most prescribed investment strategy in the world. However, the recent sell-off in the momentum stocks might have exposed a flaw in strategies that take passive investing too literally. Some Background The current sell-off has been led by the high-growth momentum stocks such as social-media and biotechnology stocks. Some of these companies are down by more than 20%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq is down 8% from its March 5 high, while the S&amp;P 500 is down a more modest 3%. It's certainly worth noting that the Nasdaq and its momentum stocks had been smoking the S&amp;P 500 since the bull market began in 2009. Rebalancing And The Flaw In Passive Investing A good, thoughtful investment strategy typically doesn't just have a generic allocation to stocks. For example, if your strategy is to have 75% of your assets in stocks, it's probably not just 75% in the S&amp;P 500. That 75% would be a bit more refined. You could set strategic targets like 25% growth stocks and 50% value stocks; or xx% in tech stocks, yy% in consumer staples, etc. Your targets could mirror the mix in the S&amp;P 500 today. Most important, you would periodically rebalance your portfolio so that it continues to fit your strategic targets. Rebalancing is crucial for managing the risk profile of your portfolio. If you didn't rebalance during the dotcom bubble, then you would've found yourself extremely overweight dot-com stocks even if that was never your intention. More recently, if you didn't rebalance, you would've been too exposed to the high-flying momentum stocks. "There’s an important lesson from the recent rout in momentum stocks," noted Joseph Paul of AllianceBernstein. "Investors who have bought into an index have also been buying into dream stocks, often unintentionally." "As these stocks rose to excessive valuations, they automatically became a bigger part of the benchmark." On the way up, you can benefit from the rally in these momentum stocks. But by rebalancing you book some profits and limit your exposure to these high-flyers. "In the aftermath of the correction, we think investors should reconsider the merits of buying the entire market without any scrutiny," said Paul. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople check flight times ona schedule board at LaGuardia Airport in New York(Reuters) - Visitors to New York who land at LaGuardia Airport could be forgiven for not realizing they've arrived in one of the world's swankiest cities. The airport's leaky ceilings, threadbare atmosphere and meager food and public transit options put it at or near the top of lists of the worst airports in the United States. But with constraints on its resources and no appetite for further debt, the agency decided to tap private investors and developers to rebuild the 50-year-old central terminal for $3.6 billion, instead of using traditional public finance methods. It's not alone. Short on funding but big on need, U.S. states and cities are increasingly turning to such deals, known as public-private partnerships, or P3s, hoping to leverage assets that can bring a quick infusion of private dollars to rebuild crumbling infrastructure. The last 12 to 15 months have seen more deals and more opportunities to invest in the sector, said Jim Barry, head of BlackRock's infrastructure investment group. U.S. insurance companies and public pensions are all eager to invest. "After let's call it a decade of promise, I think we are actually beginning to see that movement," he said. "Over the next five years, you could have a lot of deal flow." The pacts have been common for decades in the U.K., Australia and Canada but have been slow to catch on in the United States. Now, analysts say, a shift is under way. The 2007-2009 recession was a motivating force. States and cities had no choice but to reduce spending on maintenance and construction, and the federal economic stimulus program enacted in President Barack Obama's first term offered only a temporary boost. At the same time, the other main source of transportation funding -- grants from the federal government -- also dwindled. The federal highway trust fund, which uses gas taxes to pay for highways and mass transit projects, is nearly broke. Now, there are more projects in development and more investor interest than ever in the U.S. P3 market, analysts say. Public agencies are also looking more closely at the pacts because they're able to add less debt to their books while shifting construction risk to the private sector. "You're actually seeing ... a real pipeline of projects" building up since 2012 and continuing through at least this year and possibly next, said John Medina, a global project analyst at Moody's Investors Service. The projects include everything from a light rail system in suburban Washington, D.C., to the replacement of hundreds of bridges in Pennsylvania. In the past, the United States has had an average of one or two public-private partnership deals valued at more than $500 million in the works annually, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch's municipal banking group. This year, the bank said, there are 8 to 10 such projects. Thirty-three states allow varying levels of public-private partnerships for transportation projects, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, up from 23 in 2006. Kentucky lawmakers passed such legislation in late March, but the governor vetoed it on Friday. Investors clearly have an appetite for infrastructure. Unlisted infrastructure funds raised $17.1 billion of capital for projects in North America - targeting private and P3 infrastructure projects in the United States - in the last quarter of 2013, according to Preqin, which provides data on alternative assets. That's the highest quarterly total on record, Preqin's data showed. The needs are huge. The nation should spend $3.6 trillion on infrastructure by 2020 to recover from decades of neglect, the American Society of Civil Engineers said last year. Wall Street and public officials have also expanded their definition of what a public-private partnership is - and thus expanded the number of deals that some people consider P3s - no longer applying it only to big, new transportation infrastructure. Student housing, courthouses, jails, parking garages and community centers are all trying out versions of such pacts. DALEY'S DEBACLE A previous generation of U.S. public deals with the private sector was plagued with glitches, in some cases shortchanging taxpayers. The case of Chicago's 36,000 parking meters stands out, not as a perfect comparison to the current generation of deals but as the most-often-told cautionary tale. Facing a budget crisis in late 2008, then-Mayor Richard M. Daley leased the city's meters for 75 years to a private company for about $1.2 billion. Parking rates and citizen complaints soared. Months later the city's inspector general found that the city undersold the lease by, conservatively, about $1 billion. "Chicago is the worst-case scenario, and every mayor in the country knows about it," said David Cohen, executive director of the nonprofit In the Public Interest, which focuses on privatization and contract. "The city got hosed." Kent Rowey - an attorney at Allen &amp; Overy in New York who represented Chicago Parking Meters LLC, majority-owned by Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Partners, in its acquisition of the Chicago concession - defended the deal, saying it was "actually a very good deal for the city of Chicago." Service delivery, billing, collections and facilities have "improved drastically," he said. Although public officials have become more savvy about public-private pacts, the deals are still "incredibly challenging" and controversial, said Toby Rittner, president of the Council of Development Finance Agencies. "It has to be done with a significant amount of due diligence." Private operators have also been on the losing end. American Roads, which owns and operates toll roads in the U.S. and Canada, filed for bankruptcy in July 2013, in part because traffic volumes fell during the recession despite projections in 2006 that they would rise. "Who can project 75 years of anything? It is not possible, not by anybody," said Cohen. "We're not against . It's a question of how you do them." Still, interest is growing as more projects close successfully, experts said. In November, for example, New York and New Jersey's Port Authority closed on a $1.5 billion deal to replace the 85-year-old Goethals Bridge, which links Staten Island to New Jersey. The deal was financed with about $460 million of tax-exempt municipal bonds, issued by a New Jersey public authority on behalf of the developer, which is responsible for repaying investors. The project also got a nearly $480 million federal loan and about $100 million of equity contributions from the developer. "That's the one that got a lot of people over the hump of being nervous about it," said the CDFA's Rittner. (Editing by Dan Burns and Douglas Royalty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichAn armed man stands next to a barricade in front of the police headquarters in Slaviansk April 13, 2014. Ukraine's Interior Minister on Sunday told residents in the eastern city of Slaviansk to stay indoors, in anticipation of clashes between pro-Russian militants who have seized official buildings and Ukrainian security forces. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Ukraine escalates. Over the weekend, armed pro-Russian separatist forces occupied some government buildings and police stations in eastern Ukrainian cities, prompting an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Sunday night and threats of an anti-terrorism response from Ukrainian authorities. The separatists were given a deadline of 9 a.m. local time to surrender which expired this morning without a resolution to the standoff. Russia's MICEX stock index is trading about 1.4% below Friday's closing levels, and the Russian ruble is sliding against the U.S. dollar as well. "It is very clear that Europe and the U.S. agree that Russia is fueling the current unrest, and in that sense at the very least a further wave of sanctions are very likely this week," says Derek Halpenny, European head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. "German Finance Minister Schaeuble stated that there were 'many signs' that Russia was fanning the trouble. This in our mind remains by far the most likely source for turning financial market sentiment firmly into risk-off mode. The markets have been incredibly ambivalent to a situation that could turn suddenly." Retail sales. The main focus today will be monthly U.S. retail sales data, due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict total sales advanced 0.8% in March after rising only 0.3% in February. Excluding autos, sales are expected to have risen 0.5%. Excluding autos and gas, sales are expected to have risen 0.6%. "It looks like some of the improvement in the March auto sales data was related to the weather becoming more seasonal during the month after an extended period of unusually harsh winter weather, and we believe other categories of retail sales will benefit from the return to more normal weather in March," say economists at JPMorgan. "Retail sales at gasoline stations will likely be a soft spot of the March report because a decline in gasoline prices during the month (seasonally adjusted) should weigh on the nominal sales data." Draghi warns the euro. The euro is trading near $1.38, down 0.4% against the U.S. dollar to begin the week, following comments over the weekend from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who warned that a further rise in the euro could prompt additional monetary easing measures at IMF meetings in Washington, D.C. "The strengthening of the exchange rate requires further monetary stimulus," he said. "That’s an important dimension for our price stability." Still, additional measures aren't imminent. "Whatever the ECB is going to do is at least a month and a half away," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Although officials play down the significance of any one CPI report, the preliminary April reading, due out at the end of the month, is understood to be critical. The ECB is counting on the Easter effect being unwound in April, which will boost CPI from 0.5%, the lowest level in more than four years. This was thought to be necessary to give Draghi and others time to build a consensus for action in June, when the staff unveils new inflation forecasts (it has consistently erred in seeing more inflation that actually has materialized)." Citi earnings. Citi reports earnings results for the quarter ended March 31 this morning before the opening bell. Analysts expect the bank to report earnings of $1.14 per share on revenues of $19.37 billion. "The banks kicked off their own earnings season with JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo reporting last Friday," says Leigh Drogen, CEO and founder of Estimize, a platform that crowdsources earnings estimates. "Wells Fargo posted better earnings than expected but JPMorgan disappointed investors, missing targets on both EPS and revenue. A few weeks ago, Citigroup failed a Federal Reserve stress test and had its capital plan to increase dividends and buy back more shares of company stock rejected. Since failing the stress test ,the earnings expectations on the Estimize.com platform have plummeted." Markets are quiet. S&amp;P 500 and U.S. Treasury note futures are little changed from Friday's levels this morning. The U.S. dollar is up slightly against the Japanese yen. "Global monetary policy settings could hardly be friendlier for risk assets, and yet here we are, yet again, with a nervy feel to start the week," says Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale. "With 10-year Treasury yields testing 2014 lows, and while expectations of further easing in Japan and Europe are intact, investors 'should be' looking for value in local-currency EM debt, in higher-yielding equities, or in higher-yielding currencies. But a combination of the Ukrainian crisis and a broad equity market correction led by tech stocks is souring the mood." Coming up this week. Market participants will have plenty to digest. In addition to today's retail sales release, we get U.S. consumer price index and industrial production data on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. Federal Reserve chairman Janet Yellen speaks twice this week — on Tuesday and on Wednesday — and the Fed releases its regular "Beige Book" publication on Wednesday as well. China reports first-quarter GDP figures on Wednesday, and the final reading of March euro zone consumer price index data will be released on Thursday. And all week, first-quarter earnings reporting season will be hitting full swing in the U.S. China buys copper mine. Commodity behemoth Glencore Xstrata is selling its Las Bambas Peruvian copper mine to a consortium led by MMG Ltd., a unit of state-controlled China Minmetals Corp, in an all-cash deal worth at least $5.8 billion. The deal marks one of China's biggest mining acquisitions in recent years. Italian prices. Italy's consumer price index rose 0.3% year over year in March, in line with estimates but down from February's 0.4% pace. The number is one of many inflation readings that have decelerated or surprised to the downside recently in the euro zone, like those in France and Spain.  Euro zone industrial production. Euro zone industrial output growth unexpectedly stalled in March, falling short of the consensus forecast for a 0.2% expansion. Year over year, output was up 1.7%. Business inventories. The U.S. Census Bureau releases monthly business inventories data at 10 AM ET. Economists predict inventories rose 0.5% in February after expanding by 0.4% in January. "It’s unclear whether the build in manufacturing stockpiles in February was desired," say economists at UBS. "The acceleration may have partly reflected inclement weather, which could have disrupted goods from being sold." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders watch their screens on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, September 19, 2008. U.S. stocks soared on Friday, led by a surge in financial shares, as a series of sweeping steps to contain fallout from the credit crisis eased investor worries. Dave Lutz of Stifle, Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which traders are discussing today: Good Morning!  US futures are unchanged, with the S&amp;P resting at a 2M low after losing 4% in 6 sessions as stress remains the global backdrop - Russia’s Micex is off 1.5% as they mass troops on the Ukrainian border, and the UN Security Council hosts an “emergency meeting” – VIX futures are climbing towards a 1M high, but the 3month curve rests in “backwardation” showing oversold conditions - Europe is under pressure in heavy volumes, with the DAX off 60bp in volumes 30% heavier than 20day averages.   The EU fins are getting hit for 2%, led by 10% drop in Italy’s Banca Pop Milano.   Over in Asia, the Nikkei lost 30bp, but rests on 6M lows, losing over 7% in the last week – Tokyo’s “Mothers” index of momentum stocks lost 1%, and closed on the lows of the session.    Chinese markets were mixed, but Aussie lost over 1% led by a sharp drop in Consumer names.    We have over 10% of the S&amp;P reporting this week, with BAC, C, INTC, GOOG, GE and HON slated to report, among othersThe 10YY remains near 6week lows, and higher quality sovereigns remain in demand as Wolfgang Schaeuble, the German finance minister, warned that the crisis in Ukraine is the biggest geopolitical risk to the economy.  The € is sharply weaker to the $ on Draghi’s dovish comments over the weekend – while the Yen Is breaking down further on reports Abe is to meet Kuroda as economic momentum seems to be waning in Japan.   The DXY is higher, causing a headwind for commodities – but we are seeing strong upwicks in Platinum and Gold on the Ukrainian situation, while WTI and Brent remain bid on geopolitical stress and headlines Enbridge’s Northern Gateway Pipeline was voted down as OPEC’s production drops.   We have strong upshot in Wheat and Corn, as Ukraine’s exports are beginning to come into question.   Ahead of us today, we have Citi earnings any minute – watch the retailers, as we get Advance Retail Sales for March at 8:30, and Business Inventories at 10.   We have a small POMO at 11, and the CBO will release its updated 10-year baseline projections of federal spending, revenues, and budget deficits.  At 2pm today, ECB's Noyer, Fed's Tarullo, IMF's Vinals speak in New York. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWASHINGTON (AP) — As millions of Americans race to meet Tuesday's tax deadline, their chances of getting audited are lower than they have been in years. Budget cuts and new responsibilities are straining the Internal Revenue Service's ability to police tax returns. This year, the IRS will have fewer agents auditing returns than at any time since at least the 1980s. Taxpayer services are suffering, too, with millions of phone calls to the IRS going unanswered. "We keep going after the people who look like the worst of the bad guys," IRS Commissioner John Koskinen said in an interview. "But there are going to be some people that we should catch, either in terms of collecting the revenue from them or prosecuting them, that we're not going to catch." Better technology is helping to offset some budget cuts. If you report making $40,000 in wages and your employer tells the IRS you made $50,000, the agency's computers probably will catch that. The same is true for investment income and many common deductions that are reported to the IRS by financial institutions. But if you operate a business that deals in cash, with income or expenses that are not independently reported to the IRS, your chances of getting caught are lower than they have been in years. Last year, the IRS audited less than 1 percent of all returns from individuals, the lowest rate since 2005. This year, Koskinen said, "The numbers will go down." Koskinen was confirmed as IRS commissioner in December. He took over an agency under siege on several fronts. Last year, the IRS acknowledged agents improperly singled out conservative groups for extra scrutiny when they applied for tax-exempt status from 2010 to 2012. The revelation has led to five ongoing investigations, including three by congressional committees, and outraged lawmakers who control the agency's budget. The IRS also is implementing large parts of President Barack Obama's health law, including enforcing the mandate that most people get health insurance. Republicans in Congress abhor the law, putting another bull's-eye on the agency's back. The animosity is reflected in the IRS budget, which has declined from $12.1 billion in 2010 to $11.3 billion in the current budget year. Obama has proposed a 10 percent increase for next year; Republicans are balking. Rep. Ander Crenshaw, R-Fla., chairman of the House subcommittee that oversees the IRS budget, called the request "both meaningless and pointless" because it exceeds spending caps already set by Congress. Koskinen said he suspects some people think that if they cut funds to the IRS, the agency won't be able to implement the health law. They're wrong, he said. The IRS is legally obligated to enforce the health law, Koskinen said. That means budget savings will have to be found elsewhere. Koskinen said he can cut spending in three areas: enforcement, taxpayer services and technology. Technology upgrades can only be put off for so long, he said, so enforcement and taxpayer services are suffering. Last year, only 61 percent of taxpayers calling the IRS for help got it. This year, Koskinen said he expects the numbers to be similar. To help free up operators, callers with complicated tax questions are directed to the agency's website. "The problem with complicated questions is they take longer," Koskinen said. Your chances of getting audited vary greatly, based on your income. The more you make, the more likely you are to get a letter from the IRS. Only 0.9 percent of people making less than $200,000 were audited last year. That's the lowest rate since the IRS began publishing the statistic in 2006. By contrast, 10.9 percent of people making $1 million or more were audited. That's the lowest rate since 2010. Only 0.6 percent of business returns were audited, but the rate varied greatly depending on the size of the business. About 16 percent of corporations with more than $10 million in assets were audited. Most people don't have much of an opportunity to cheat on their taxes, said Elizabeth Maresca, a former IRS lawyer who now teaches law at Fordham University. Your employer probably reports your wages to the IRS, your bank reports interest income, your broker reports investment income and your lender reports the amount of interest you paid on your mortgage. "Anybody who's an employee, who gets paid by an employer, has a limited ability to take risks on their tax returns," Maresca said. "I think people who own their own business or are self-employed have a much greater opportunity (to cheat), and I think the IRS knows that, too." One flag for the IRS is when your deductions or expenses don't match your income, said Joseph Perry, the partner in charge of tax and business services at Marcum LLP, an accounting firm. For example, if you deduct $70,000 in real estate taxes and mortgage interest, but only report $100,000 in income. "That would at least beg the question, how are you living?" Perry said. Koskinen said the IRS could scrutinize more returns — and collect billions more in revenue — with more resources. The president's budget proposal says the IRS would collect an additional $6 for every $1 increase in the agency's enforcement budget. Koskinen said he makes that argument all the time, but for some reason, it's not playing well in Congress. "I say that and everybody shrugs and goes on about their business," Koskinen said. "I have not figured out either philosophically or psychologically why nobody seems to care whether we collect the revenue or not." ___ Follow Stephen Ohlemacher on Twitter: http://twitter.com/stephenatap Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
OiMax/FlickrMUMBAI, India (AP) — Riding on its startup success and flush with fresh capital, taxi-hailing smartphone app Uber is making a big push into Asia. There's a twist, though: Instead of being the game-changing phenomena it was in the U.S., Uber faces a slew of competitors using similar technology. The concept Uber helped pioneer just four years ago has transformed some markets before it even had a chance to enter them. Homegrown taxi apps are already slogging it out for dominance in numerous Asian countries. China has a taxi-hailing app called Kuadi that says it logs more than 6 million transactions per day. Malaysia-based GrabTaxi operates in five Southeast Asian countries and recently announced more than $10 million in new investment. India has two competing taxi-app companies, Meru Cabs and Ola Cabs. The proliferation of taxi apps means that Uber, which raised $258 million in venture capital last year, much of it from Google Ventures, must distinguish itself from local companies as well as international challengers including Easy Taxi and Lyft. This month, Lyft got a $250 million cash infusion from investors including Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. "We have to build our brand up from scratch in a lot of these places," said Sam Gellman, who is heading Uber's Asian expansion. To compete against local lookalikes, Uber said it is taking a two-prong strategy. First, partner with local players who can tailor their business to demand, whether for fast no-frills rides or luxury cars on call. Second, target Asia's upwardly mobile business travelers who will appreciate having one service they can use in dozens of cities worldwide. The company has in the last year started operating in 18 cities in Asia, Australia and New Zealand including Seoul, Shanghai, Bangkok, Hong Kong and five Indian cities. Uber uses a free GPS-enabled app for customers to use their phones to summon rides, usually from a private car company instead of an ordinary licensed cab and promising a quicker response time that is often within 10 minutes. Drivers respond using their own Uber-provided smartphones mounted on the dashboard and follow the map to an exact location. In the U.S. and Europe, Uber has variously drawn acclaim by urban customers tired of difficulty finding cabs and protests by taxi companies accusing it of running unlicensed taxi services. Just last month, an organization representing Seattle-area taxi drivers sued Uber, alleging it is involved in "unlawful and deceptive business practices."Legal woes, though, are less of a problem in Asia than lookalike local competitors. The business models of Asian rivals vary: some run their own fleets, others depend on advertising, while Uber makes commissions on fares, but all employ distinctly Uber-like smartphone apps. China's Kuaidi says its app is used 6.2 million times a day and makes 10 million yuan ($1.6 million) in revenue each month through advertising by linking customers to regular taxis. Cai Jing, 29, a Shanghai-based purchaser for a food company, uses Chinese taxi apps a few times a week. "They're way more effective at getting me a taxi than just waiting on the street," said Cai, who hadn't heard of Uber. One market Uber sees huge potential in particular is India, with its vast population of 1.2 billion. In the last year, Uber has launched in Mumbai, Bangalore, New Delhi, Chennai and Hyderabad. That's more cities than in any other country except the United States. Uber India's Jambu Palaniappan said the market is one of the fastest-growing he has seen. The company declined to give specific figures. One reason for rapid growth in India is pent-up demand. In Mumbai, for instance, its distinctive black-and-yellow licensed cabs number just 42,000, inadequate for a city of 22 million. Plus, most licensed taxis are banned from having air conditioning under an archaic municipal rule, leaving passengers suffering with rolled-down windows in suffocating heat and noxious pollution. The city does allow air-conditioned "radio taxis," but getting one can take an hour or more. Newly minted Uber driver Dinish Karamsesula, whose employer partnered with the company in Mumbai, said he's busier since getting the smartphone mounted on his black SUV, usually only rented out by the day. He now makes several short trips a day. "I'm on salary so I don't get the profits," he said. "But sometimes the customers are so happy with the car being cool and clean, they give me tips," he said, driving past weaving motorbikes, ancient Premier Padmini cabs, the occasional wandering cow and a bicycle loaded with sacks of rice. Still, Uber's Indian taxi-app rivals, both of which operate their own fleets, say they have little fear of the competition. "We have a very strong understanding of what the Indian customer wants and needs," Ola Cabs spokesman Anand Subramanian said. He said Ola operates on a cash basis while Uber only works with credit cards, which only a miniscule percentage of Indians have. Other regional competitors focus on price. Anthony Tan, who founded GrabTaxi in 2012, said the company's rides are often half of what Uber costs. "We are very much focused on the mass market. People going to work and school, visiting their grandmothers in the hospital," Tan said. Uber, however, is undeterred "Once you are successful, you are going to have clones and copycats," said Palaniappan. "The more options the customer has, the better. It forces us to be better and more relevant, too." ___ Associated Press researcher Fu Ting in Shanghai, AP Business Writer Kelvin Chan in Hong Kong and AP writer Thanyarat Doksone contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz RatnerAn officer points as he stands on a tanker carrying liquefied natural gas in the Mediterranean, some 10 km (6 miles) from the coastal Israeli city of Hadera January 22, 2014. MILAN/LONDON (Reuters) - Israel's drive to export its new-found natural gas could help to rebuild strained ties with old regional allies Egypt and Turkey, but could deprive Europe of a precious alternative to Russian gas. Israel has in recent months already signed energy deals with Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, though relations with the Palestinians are at a low ebb, and now needs to expand its export horizons to cash in on its huge energy discoveries. If all goes well, the latest developments could see first pipelines being laid between Israel and Turkey as soon as 2015, and gas cooperation between Israel and Egypt is also emerging, which would allow export access to Asia's major markets. A growing population and soaring demand have left Egypt's own liquefied natural gas export (LNG) plants in need of new supply, as domestic shortages eat into seaborne exports through the Suez Canal to the world's most lucrative market in Asia. This has put Israel's previous plans to pump its gas reserves into a future export plant in Cyprus on the back burner, dealing a major blow to the indebted Mediterranean island's ambitions to become a global player in the gas market. A Cypriot LNG export plant was due to deliver at least 5 million metric tons ( 1 metric ton = 1.1023 tons) a year to Europe and Asia, allowing Europe to reduce its growing dependency on Russia, which has become of particular concern since the crisis in Ukraine cast a Cold War chill over East-West relations. Israel's new plans throw Cypriot developments into doubt as investors would require more gas than Cyprus has on offer to make returns on multibillion-dollar investments. "If Israel has really ditched Cyprus as a partner to develop the region's gas resources, then we (Cyprus) really do have to find quite a lot more gas if we want to become a viable exporter, and that would inevitably throw our plans back by several years," said one source involved in developing Cyprus's gas reserves. The possibility of sanctions on Russia's energy sector in response to Moscow's annexation of Crimea and troop build-up along Ukraine's eastern border have underscored Europe's acute need to diversify its oil and gas sources. Israel plans to export gas by pipeline and through several floating LNG production plants, which cool gas to liquid form, so they can ship it to the world's largest markets. At stake for Israel is a $150 billion tax take should export deals be agreed by a consortium operating its gasfields. Its strategic re-alignment effectively places a tantalizingly close new gas province out of Europe's reach. "Ultimately Egypt and Turkey need energy, and the fact that we have it is creating a regional convergence of interests," an Israeli diplomatic source told Reuters. Egypt offers a way for the U.S.-Israeli group of companies developing Israel's giant Leviathan gas field to reach the Asian market, where LNG fetches about twice the price Europeans pay. "If the companies operating the fields in Israel could reach an agreement with the companies that are operating those facilities, it seems it would benefit Egypt, Israel and all the companies," said Eugen Kandel, head of the national economic council at the Israeli Prime Minister's office. Egypt and Israel have had only limited economic cooperation since signing a landmark peace accord in 1979. Political turmoil in Egypt in recent years has further limited cooperation between the neighboring countries. Talks between the Leviathan consortium - Israel's Delek Drilling, Ratio, and Avner Oil, and U.S.-headquartered Noble Energy - and Egyptian authorities are focusing on feeding Israeli gas into the country's idled LNG export facilities. Britain's BG Group, which runs one of Egypt's under-utilized LNG plants and is among the world's top LNG trading firms, is in talks with the Leviathan partners. The favored option is to build a sub-sea pipeline from Leviathan to link up with BG Group's offshore pipeline network in Egyptian waters, allowing Israeli gas to feed directly into its LNG plant at Idku, according to industry sources. If realized, this would not only revive output at Idku but also mean that Israel's first LNG exports would take place from an Egyptian plant. Previous land-based pipelines between Egypt and Israel were repeatedly bombed by groups opposed to links with Israel, but a subsea pipeline would be much harder to target. Egypt is struggling to meet rising domestic demand for energy, and a fall in domestic output and power blackouts have stirred dissent in the Arab world's most populous state. Israeli gas could help ease domestic shortages, take the sting out of the energy-related unrest that contributed to the overthrow of former president Mohamed Mursi, and lighten Egypt's $6 billion debt burden to energy majors like BG Group. As part of a twin-track export policy, Israel also aims to ship LNG to distant Asian and South American markets through a floating plant to be moored above the Leviathan field. "We definitely want to strengthen the economic ties with our neighbors, but we also don't want to be too exposed to possible upheavals in the region, so Israel has to have outlets that do not limit us to the region," Kandel said. Once close allies, ties between Israel and Turkey were severely damaged following a deadly raid by Israeli commandos on a Turkish yacht carrying pro-Palestinian activists trying to defy an Israeli blockade on the Gaza Strip in 2010. Poor relations remain a barrier to a deal on gas, though the sides are talking. "High-level negotiations on resolving political issues, and lower-level negotiations aimed at making progress on energy have always been held," said a senior Turkish energy official. "Normalization on the relations will pave the way for investment and cooperation on energy." U.S-led reconciliation efforts in recent months could be boosted by the promise of gas. "There is clearly significant potential for turning East Mediterranean's new gas wealth from a potential source of conflict to a catalyst for regional cooperation," said Oxford Research Group analyst Sara Hassan. "Turkey will want at least to be seen as trying to leverage better conditions for Palestinians alongside any potential deal." Peace talks to resolve the generations-old conflict between Israel and the Palestinians are close to collapse, with the Israeli government beginning to impose new economic sanctions on president Mahmoud Abbas's West Bank Palestinian Authority amid mutual recriminations about the deadlock. Talks between the Leviathan consortium and Turkish counterparts are focusing on building a 10 billion cubic meter (bcm) sub-sea pipeline at an expected cost of $2.2 billion, giving Israel access to a major emerging market and one of Europe's biggest power markets by 2023. "We think construction phase for a pipeline to transport Israeli gas to Turkey could begin in the second half of 2015," a Turkish energy official said. A separate yet-to-be-built pipeline linking Europe with the Caspian through Turkey in 2019 could eventually also open up a new market for Israeli gas in western Europe. An envisaged 25-year supply deal would steady Turkey-Israel ties and boost economic links, while Turkish sanctions against Israel would be lifted and ambassadors reinstated, he said. "The Turkish market for natural gas is the only growing one (in the region), and the drive to diversify away from Russia will justify Israeli gas to join Azeri, Iranian and Kurdish gas," said Mehmet Ogutcu, chairman of London-based Global Resources Corporation consultancy. "The Turks realize that if this gas project is implemented without their involvement, they will not be a game-player in East Med. Hence, the Turkish private sector could be encouraged to take the lead and politicians follow them at a later stage," according to Ogutcu. Already, the gas finds are spurring progress in talks to resolve an even longer-standing dispute over territory between Turkey and Cyprus, across whose maritime boundary any Israeli gas pipeline would have to travel to reach Turkey. Cyprus has been divided since the north of the island was occupied by Turkish troops in 1974. "It does look as if natural gas could help to bring the two sides closer to a settlement since Turkey's primary aim is securing the resources to meet skyrocketing demand," said Nicolo Sartori, energy and defense analyst at the Institute for International Affairs in Rome. "Efforts to get the Eastern Mediterranean gas pipeline have stepped up over the past few months, with the U.S. playing a very hands-on role," said Ogotcu. "The Cyprus settlement is on top of the agenda as it will allow Cyprus to use this pipeline and add its surplus Aphrodite gas." That could persuade Cyprus to give its consent to a pipeline that went through waters claimed by both the Greek-speaking and Turkish halves of the island. Since last year's downgrade of gas reserves at Cyprus's flagship Aphrodite field, it does not have enough gas to underpin its planned LNG export plant at Vassilikos. Cypriot officials had counted on additional supplies from Israel to make the export project feasible, encouraged by the fact that Noble and Delek, two of Leviathan's main developers, also own Aphrodite. Deepening Israeli reluctance to share its gas with a rival Cypriot project has stalled those talks. (Additional reporting by Orhan Coskun in Ankara and Henning Gloystein in London; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
There's a lot of debate about whether the recent selloff in momentum stocks (tech, biotech, healthcare, the NASDAQ, etc.) will soon come to an end, or whether it's the start of something bigger that will extend to other parts of the market. So far, most analysts aren't expecting a broader market tumble. But as David Kostin notes, the momentum stocks themselves could fall a lot further. In his latest Weekly Kickstart note, he points to this chart, which averages together 46 times the momentum stocks experienced a drawdown since 1980. David Kostin, Goldman Sachs As you can see from the blue line, this current drawdown is still less painful than average. And several have been much worse. So if you think this has to be the bottom for the stocks, then think again. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Researchers at Deutsche Bank have published a new presentation exploring the possibility that the European Central Bank will launch a program of quantitative easing (QE) later this year in a bid to provide further monetary stimulus to the beleaguered euro zone economy. They expect ECB President Mario Draghi to signal "private QE" — purchases of securitized loans to small and medium enterprises — at the conclusion of the ECB Governing Council's June meeting, and launch the program at the conclusion of the September meeting. "The ECB could also engage in full scale 'public QE' (i.e., purchases of sovereign debt as in the U.S.)," write the researchers in the presentation. "However, this would be far less effective in Europe than in the U.S. while the political hurdles remain high. We would only expect 'public QE' to materialise if the inflation and growth outlook worsen considerably." The slide below highlights the differences between a likely ECB QE program for Europe and the one that the Federal Reserve has been running in the U.S. since the financial crisis, illustrating why the former would probably not work as well. Among the problems of doing QE in Europe: The impact from the "wealth effect" would be less significant, due to lower market participation, there would be greater public opposition to the purchases, and the form of QE wouldn't hit the credit channel at the sweet spot. Deutsche Bank The next slide shows Deutsche Bank's prediction for how it will play out in Europe. "In September, we expect that the ECB will commit to 'private QE', targeted at SME credit," the researchers write. "These purchases could focus solely on securitised assets. However, because of the limited scale of this market and regulatory constraints to its future development, the ECB may also target corporate loans held directly by banks. Irrespective of the choice of asset, it is crucial that the ECB signals it will remain in the market for some time, in order to incentivise banks to underwrite new loans thus underpinning credit origination and growth." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Citibank branch is seen in Washington(Reuters) - Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt; has cut 200 to 300 jobs, or about 2 percent of its global markets workforce, the Wall Street Journal reported citing a person familiar with the matter. The bank is tightly managing expenses and "making targeted head count reductions in light of current market conditions," the Journal quoted a company spokeswoman. (http://r.reuters.com/vyb58v) Steve Prince, the younger brother of former Citigroup Chief Executive Charles Prince, was among those who lost their job, the report said. Current CEO Mike Corbat will talk to investors on Monday after the bank reports its first-quarter earnings. The U.S. Federal Reserve said on March 26 that it had rejected Citigroup's request to boost its dividend and buy back more shares. The news was a stinging blow to Corbat, who was charged with improving the bank's relationship with regulators in October 2012, when he was named CEO. (Reporting by Arnab Sen in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan looks at the Pudong financial district of ShanghaiHONG KONG (Reuters) - China has issued stricter guidelines governing trust companies, two sources with direct knowledge of the rules told Reuters on Monday, in a bid to counter systemic risks posed by the biggest players in the country's shadow-banking sector. Trust companies are non-bank lenders that raise funds by selling high-yielding investments known as wealth management products (WMPs) and use the proceeds to fund loans to risky borrowers such as property developers, local governments and others to whom banks are reluctant to lend. The new rules from the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) aim to reduce liquidity risks associated with off-balance-sheet WMPs by forbidding trusts from operating so-called "fund pools" that enable them to fund cash payouts on maturing products with the proceeds from new WMP sales. The latest guidelines appear consistent with regulators' overall approach to shadow banking, which has become an important funding source for weak borrowers. Policymakers have encouraged the rise of non-bank lending as a means to diversify China's bank-dominated financial system, while issuing targeted rules to curb the riskiest practices. The guidelines also require trust companies to develop clear mechanisms for shareholders to provide emergency support to the trust firm during periods of liquidity stress. Regulators are concerned that liquidity problems with a single trust product has the potential to ignite systemic risk, said a trust industry executive who has seen the document. He said the document signals that liquidity risk will be a key focus for regulators this year. "Fund pools" refer to pools of cash and credit assets from various different WMPs that banks and their trust company partners maintain. Regulators have increasingly focused on such structures over the last year, targeting the liquidity risk posed by the practice of using proceeds from the sale of new WMPs to finance cash payouts on maturing products. China's securities regulator has compared such practice to a "Ponzi scheme". Regulators want trusts to strictly match each WMP with a specific set of underlying assets, rather than pooling cash and assets from different products together into common pools. Trusts face pressure to use fund pools because doing so allows them to offer more attractive yields on the WMPs they sell. Such products typically carry a maturity of a year or less, even as the assets underlying such products are often longer-term loans that can't be easily sold when the WMP matures and cash is due to investors. Such risks came to the fore last June, when a nasty liquidity squeeze roiled China's interbank money market, sending short-term borrowing rates as high as 30 percent. Money-market traders at the time cited the concentration of maturing WMPs as one factor contributing to excess cash demand. Trust companies and banks often rely on borrowing from money markets to fund payouts on maturing WMPs for a few days until they complete fundraising on new products. Several high-profile defaults on trust products earlier this year based on loans to struggling coal producers raised concern over systemic risks. Assets under management at Chinese trust firms rose to 10.9 trillion yuan ($1.8 trillion) at end-December. Trusts surpassed insurance companies last year to become the largest sector of China's financial system behind commercial banks. In addition to the focus on fund pools, the CBRC guidelines also require trusts to reduce lending when their capital levels fall due to losses. The regulator also pledged to tighten the approval process for trusts to expand into new business lines. (Additional reporting and writing by Gabriel Wildau; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) FREE AppDownload
Arden/FlickrGood morning! After intense selling last week, markets begin this week lower. However the selling is not intense yet. US futures are just down a hair. The Nikkei lost 0.36%. Germany is down 0.5%.  The UK is off 0.26%. So it's nothing to freak out over just yet. But people are definitely concerned. A slew of analysts notes talked about how clients are worried that this might be it. A Goldman analyst said several of his clients are worried that the action we're seeing in tech stocks is like March, 2000 again. Outside the market, the big story over the weekend is the deteriorating situation in Ukraine, where pro-Russian forces seem to be attempting the Crimea playbook in other Eastern Ukrainian cities. This week we get both a slew of US earnings and economic data from China, which will be a big story. FREE AppDownload
