Magic Leap Website Specifically, they're reporting that the tech company and other investors are planning to put in $500 million in a company called Magic Leap.They also say that Andreessen Horowitz may be one of the other investors involved. In February, Magic Leap said that it had raised more than $50 million to develop its proprietary technology platform. Re/Code also notes "They say they can deliver a more realistic 3-D experience than the kind offered by current technologies, including Oculus Rift, the 3-D headset..." The company's founder, Rony Abovitz, explained this idea of "cinematic reality" best in an interview with the South Florida Business Journal in February. He said: "Those are old terms – virtual reality, augmented reality. They have legacy behind them. They are associated with things that didn’t necessarily deliver on a promise or live up to expectations. We have the term cinematic reality because we are disassociated with those things. … When you see this, you will see that this is computing for the next 30 or 40 years. To go farther and deeper than we’re going, you would be changing what it means to be human." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman holding a parasol stands as passers-by walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - A selloff in global equities sent Japanese stocks skidding to two-month lows on Tuesday as heightened concerns about the health of the world economy unnerved investors, triggering a shift in funds to safe-havens such as U.S. bonds. Japan's Nikkei share average  fell 1.9 percent to levels last seen in mid-August. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  managed to nudge up  0.2 percent but was still within sight of its 6 1/2-month low hit on Monday. "There are downside risks to the global economy on the whole. And the G20 meeting last weekend showed there is no panacea to lift the economy," said Hirokazu Kabeya, senior strategist at Daiwa Securities. The specter of a possible recession in Europe, a slowdown in China and sluggish growth in Japan have prompted investors to pull some of their money out of equities ahead of the earnings seasons in the U.S. and elsewhere. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to wind up its bond buying scheme later this month -- another reason for investors to be cautious on stocks as the completion of the Fed's two previous quantitative easing programs triggered a major correction in Wall Street shares. U.S. S&amp;P 500  fell 1.7 percent on Monday to five-month low, posting its worst three-day slide since November 2011 while European shares  hit a seven-month intraday low. The volatility index  rose to 24.6 percent, highest level since June 2012, when the world's financial markets were rattled by the European sovereign debt crisis. Investors are flocking to the safety of government debt,  with the 10-year U.S. bond yield slipping to 2.240 percent , its lowest level since June last year. The U.S. dollar stumbled after a months-long rally as concerns over the global growth outlook undermined the case for  an earlier start to the Fed's rate-tightening cycle. Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said on Saturday that the global outlook might hamper the effort to normalize U.S. monetary policy after years of extraordinary stimulus. The dollar index stood at 85.347  , off a four-year high of 86.746 hit earlier this month. The euro traded at $1.2716  while the yen stood at 107.10 per dollar . Oil prices flirted with four-year lows, weighed by global demand concerns and by signals from key producers that they plan to keep output high despite the latest shakeout in prices. Kuwait said OPEC was unlikely to cut production to support prices, while Saudi Arabia has privately told oil market participants it could be comfortable with $80 per barrel. Brent oil futures traded at $88.23 per barrel , not far from a four-year low $87.74 hit on Monday.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA computer user poses in front of a Google search page in this photo illustration taken in Brussels(Reuters) - Google Inc and other investors are planning to invest about $500 million in hardware and software developer Magic Leap Inc to deliver "cinematic reality", technology website Re/Code said, citing sources. Google is leading the funding round for the company, the website cited sources as saying. (http://on.recode.net/1tXLKnb) Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz may be one of the other investors in the consortium, Re/Code said. Google, Andreessen Horowitz and Magic Leap could not be reached for a comment outside of business hours. Magic Leap said in February it had raised more than $50 million to develop its proprietary technology platform.  (Reporting by Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bangalore; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Khurais oilfieldBy Rania El Gamal DUBAI (Reuters) - Still haunted by its failed attempt to prevent a steep drop in oil prices by slashing production by almost three quarters in the 1980s, the world's top oil exporter Saudi Arabia is determined not to make the same mistake again. The oil glut of the 1980s, the early days of the modern crude market and a distant memory for most traders, has resurfaced recently in conversations with Saudi officials and veteran analysts who see it as the defining moment behind the kingdom's new strategy to protect medium-term market share. While the latest 25 percent slide in oil prices to below $90 a barrel is so far modest compared with the 1980s slump that took crude from $35 to below $10, many observers see similarities in a global market that is on the brink of a pivotal turn from an era of scarcity to one of abundance. Three decades ago, the spike in prices caused by the 1973 Arab oil embargo and Iran's 1979 revolution sapped global oil demand, while the discovery of oil offshore in the North Sea spurred a new influx of non-OPEC crude. With world markets awash in oil, Saudi Arabia embarked on a strategy of defending prices, which at the time were largely set by exporters rather than the nascent futures market. The kingdom slashed its own output from more than 10 million barrels per day in 1980 to less than 2.5 million bpd in 1985-86. Other producers failed to follow suit, however, both within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and among new petroleum powers such as Britain and Norway. Prices fell into a years-long slump, leading to 16 years of Saudi budget deficits that left the country deeply in debt. Finally, in 1985, Riyadh shifted gears, revving up output and cutting prices in a move that triggered a final slump in markets but ultimately paved the way for a gradual recovery. "The big mistake was that they continued to cut production to try to prop the prices and the price fell anyway," said analyst Yasser Elguindi of Medley Global Advisors. Instead they should have fought for market share, allowing "higher cost producers to shut in as the price fell - which is what they are doing now.” Last week, Saudi officials briefed oil market participants in New York on the kingdom's shift in policy, making clear for the first time that Saudi is prepared to tolerate a period of lower prices - perhaps as low as $80 a barrel - in order to retain market share, Reuters reported on Monday. Saudi Arabia is not trying to push oil prices down, an oil source said, but is prepared to let the market find its floor and tolerate lower prices until others in OPEC commit to action. It has already cut selling prices to retain Asian customers. Their message is "don't expect us to somehow shoulder the responsibility for managing the whole oil market," said Sadad al-Husseini, a former top executive at state-run Saudi Aramco. Brent crude oil  traded below $88 a barrel on Monday, its lowest in almost four years, as traders realize that Saudi Arabia is in no hurry to curb the emerging oil glut. [O/R]  1980s GHOSTS The grim circumstances of the 1980s dominated the formative years of King Abdullah's rule, when as de facto regent during the long illness of his predecessor King Fahd, he embarked on painful economic reforms that paved the way for years of growth. Riyadh this time wants to preempt a price collapse without sacrificing production levels or market share. In the 1980s, it was a drop in U.S. and European consumption coupled with the rise of the North Sea; now it is fears of easing demand from Asia and the unexpected growth of U.S. shale oil. The net effect is the same: An oil market potentially facing years worth of oversupply, a scenario the Saudis and OPEC have not been forced to grapple with since the early 2000s, before the rise of China triggered a decade-long price boom. Fellow Gulf Arab ally and OPEC exporter Kuwait has already said that OPEC is unlikely to cut oil production in an effort to prop up prices because such a move would not necessarily be effective. Venezuela became the first member to call for an emergency meeting to defend $100 oil.  OPEC DISUNITY Another similarity: OPEC disunity. During the 1980s, Riyadh learned the hard way that it could not count on fellow OPEC producers, many of whom continued to pump at higher rates than their agreed-upon quotas, leaving Saudi Arabia to bear the brunt of output cuts. Much of the disharmony was on public display. Iran and Iraq were engaged in an eight-year all-out war. Accusations by Iraq that Kuwait had been pumping above its OPEC quota led ultimately to the first Gulf War in the early 1990s. It was not until late 1985 that the issue came to a head. The kingdom and OPEC finally agreed to reclaim market share, driving prices down to $10 a barrel but reestablishing themselves in the market. It took 16 years for prices to fully recover. "They decided they had enough – they were the swing producer and they increased production and drove prices down dramatically," said Dr. Gary Ross, chief executive of PIRA Energy Group, who has followed oil markets since the 1970s. This time around, Riyadh appears to be taking that stance from the start, with a focus on preserving the medium-term revenue of its 266 billion barrels of crude oil reserves rather than chase falling prices and sacrifice their market. "From an economics point of view, it’s much better to let prices go way down," according to Philip K. Verleger, president of consultancy PKVerleger LLC and a former advisor to President Carter. The emerging price war is "a war of necessity."  (Writing by Rania El Gamal, additional reporting by Jonathan Leff in New York; Editing by Angus McDowall and Marguerita Choy) FREE AppDownload
Chris Breeze/FlickrThe Waldorf Astoria Hotel in Midtown Manhattan.The $1.95 billion sale of New York's Waldorf Astoria hotel to a Chinese insurance company has the U.S. government examining the deal as a potential security risk. Beijing-based Anbang Insurance Group's terms of the sale allow for "a major renovation" that has officials in Washington concerned about potential threats of eavesdropping and tech espionage, given the government's relationship with the property.  The Waldorf is where the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations lives, and the hotel regularly plays host to the president and various U.S. diplomats during the annual General Assembly. What better way to cover up the installation of surveillance devices than with a major renovation? "We are currently in the process of reviewing the details of the sale and the company's long-term plans for the facility," said Kurtis Cooper, a spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. "The State Department takes seriously the security of its personnel, their work spaces and official residences. We are constantly evaluating our security protocols and standard operating procedures to ensure the safety and security of our information and personnel." Why not just cancel the government's relationship with the hotel entirely? While it'd be a super-safe strategy, it's too fraught with problems. Housing for U.N. ambassadors has to meet a number of requirements surrounding housing, reception space, security and proximity to the U.N. According to studies conducted during both Republican and Democratic administrations, both sides of the aisle agree the Waldorf makes the most effective and convenient place to stay while meeting all these requirements. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of England Governor Carney participates in a panel discussion during the IMF-World Bank annual meetings in WashingtonBy Huw Jones LONDON (Reuters) - Global regulators are making it more expensive for hedge funds and insurance companies to raise money from loaning shares in a bid to curb hitherto unregulated risks in "shadow banking". Securities financing are typically short-term money-raising transactions between banks and other financial institutions, involving the lending and borrowing of shares or the use of repurchase agreements or repos. The market is worth an estimated $3.9 trillion globally. Regulators worry that as banks become tightly controlled by the authorities following the 2007-09 financial crisis, risky financing will shift to the hitherto less regulated "shadow banking" sector made up of hedge funds, insurance companies and other non-banks. The Financial Stability Board (FSB), which coordinates regulation for the Group of Twenty (G20) economies, published on Monday its new rule for the first global minimum "haircut" or discount on collateral used to back securities financing transactions, toughening up its original draft proposal. "The regulatory framework for haircuts on securities financing transactions issued by the FSB today addresses important sources of leverage and the level of risk-taking in the core funding markets," FSB Chairman Mark Carney said in a statement. From the end of 2017, banks must impose a haircut of at least 6 percent on the collateral they receive from non-banks as "insurance" on the value of securities being loaned. The FSB had originally proposed a minimum haircut of 4 percent. This means that for every $100 a hedge fund, for example, gets from a securities transaction, the bank must collect collateral worth at least $106.  "EXCESSIVE LEVERAGE" It is the first hard rule from the FSB on regulating shadow banking as up until now it has only published principles. It also marks a departure from the past year or more when draft rules from global regulators tended to be watered down as policymakers become more mindful of not wanting to approve rules that risk choking funding to the economy. Currently, there are no haircuts on many securities financing transactions, meaning there is no safety buffer to cover any drop in the value of the securities loaned. Some FSB members like the U.S. Federal Reserve, pushed for a tougher version of the draft rule. "The implementation of the numerical haircut floors on securities financing transactions will reduce the build-up of excessive leverage and liquidity risk by non-banks during peaks in the credit and economic cycle," said Daniel Tarullo, who chairs one of the FSB's standing committees. "It will be important for the FSB to monitor the impact of the framework following the implementation to help ensure that it achieves these objectives," added Tarullo, who is also a Fed governor. The new rule covers transactions between banks and non-banks. To stop a large chunk of the market shifting to transactions between only non-banks, the FSB launched a consultation on Monday on imposing the same minimum haircut on that part of the market as well. Regulators will also carry out further work on how the minimum haircut could be temporarily raised above 6 percent when there is a need to cool markets, known as macro prudential regulation.  (Reporting by Huw Jones; Editing by Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
 Reuters You don’t need a weatherman To know which way the wind blows. – Bob Dylan, “Subterranean Homesick Blues,” 1965 Full fathom five thy father lies. Of his bones are coral made. Those are pearls that were his eyes. Nothing of him that doth fade, But doth suffer a sea-change Into something rich and strange. – William Shakespeare, The Tempest Did you feel the economic weather change this week? The shift was subtle, like fall tippy-toeing in after a pleasant summer to surprise us, but I think we’ll look back and say this was the moment when that last grain of sand fell onto the sandpile, triggering many profound fingers of instability in a pile that has long been close to collapse. This is the grain of sand that sets off those long chains of volatility that have been gathering for the last five years, waiting to surprise us with the suddenness and violence of the avalanche they unleash. I suppose the analogy sprang to mind as I stepped out onto my balcony this morning. Texas has been experiencing one of the most pleasant summers and incredibly wonderful falls in my memory. One of the conversations that seem to occur regularly among locals who have a few decades under their belts here, is just how truly remarkable the weather has been. So it was a bit of a surprise to step out and realize the air had turned brisk. In retrospect it shouldn’t have fazed me. The air has been turning brisk in Texas at some point in October for the six decades that my memory covers, and for quite a few additional millennia, I suspect. But this week, as I worked through my ever-growing mountain of reading, I felt a similar awareness of a change in the economic climate. Like fall, I knew it was coming. In fact, I’ve been writing about it for years! But just as fall tells us that it’s time to get ready for winter, at least in more northerly climes, the portents of the moment suggest to me that it’s time to make sure our portfolios are ready for the change in season. Sea Change Shakespeare coined the marvelous term sea change in his play The Tempest. Modern-day pundits are liable to apply the word to the relatively minor ebb and flow of events, but Shakespeare meant sea change as a truly transformative event, a metamorphosis of the very nature and substance of a man, by the sea. In this week’s letter we’ll talk about the imminent arrival of a true financial sea change, the harbinger of which was some minor commentary this week about the economic climate. This letter is arriving to you a little later this week, as I had quite some difficulty writing it, because, while the signal event is rather easy to discuss, the follow-on consequences are myriad and require more in-depth analysis than I’ve been able to bring to them on short notice. As I wrestled with what to write, I finally came to realize that this sea change is going to take multiple letters to properly describe. In fact, it might eventually take a book. So, in a departure from my normal writing style, I am going to offer you a chapter-by-chapter outline for a book. As with all book outlines, it will be simply full of bones but without much meat on them, let alone dressed up with skin and clothing. I will probably even connect the bones in the wrong order and have to go back later and replace a leg bone with a rib, but that is what outlines are for. There is clearly enough content suggested by this outline to carry us through the next several months; and given the importance of the subject, I expect to explore it fully with you. Whether it actually becomes a book, I cannot yet say. I should note that much of what follows has grown out of in-depth conversations with my associate Worth Wray and our mutual friends. We’ve become convinced that the imbalances in the global economic system are such that the risks are high that another period of economic volatility like the Great Recession is not only likely but is now in the process of developing. While this time will be different in terms of its causes and symptoms (as all such stressful periods differ from each other in many ways), there will be a rhyme and a rhythm that feels all too familiar. That should actually be good news to most readers, as the last 14 years have taught us a little bit about living through periods of economic volatility. You will get to use those skills you learned the hard way. This will not be the end of the world if you prepare properly. In fact, there will be plenty of opportunities to take advantage of the coming volatility. If the weatherman tells you winter is coming, is he a prophet of doom? Or is it reasonable counsel that maybe we should get our winter clothes out? Three caveats before we get started. One, I am often wrong but seldom in doubt. And while I will marshal facts and graphs aplenty to reinforce my arguments, I would encourage you to think through the counterfactuals presented by those who will aggressively disagree. Two, while it goes without saying, you are responsible for your own decisions. It is easy for me to say that I think the bond market is going to go in a particular direction. I can even bet my personal portfolio on my beliefs. I can’t know your circumstances, but if you are similar to most investors, this is the time to make sure you have a truly balanced portfolio with serious risk management in the event of a sudden crisis. Three, give me (and Worth, whom I am going to draft to write some letters) some time to develop the full range of our ideas. To follow on with my weather analogy, the air is just starting to get crisp, and winter is still a couple months away. Absent something extraordinary, we are not going to get snow and a blizzard in Dallas, Texas, tomorrow. We may still have some time to prepare, but at a minimum it is time to start your preparations. So with those caveats, let’s look at an outline for a potential book called Sea Change. Prologue I turned publicly bearish on gold in 1986. At the time (a former life in a galaxy far, far away), I was actually writing a newsletter on gold stocks and came to the conclusion that gold was going nowhere – and sold the letter. I was still bearish some 16 years later. Then, on March 1, 2002, I wrote in Thoughts from the Frontline that it was time to turn bullish on gold. Gold at that time was languishing around $300 an ounce, near its all-time bottom. What drove that call? I thought that the future directions of gold and the dollar were joined at the hip. A bit over a year later I laid out the case for a much weaker dollar in a letter entitled “King Dollar Meets the Guillotine,” which later became the basis for a chapter in Bull’s Eye Investing. As the chart below shows, the dollar had risen relentlessly through the early Reagan years, doubling in value against the currencies of America’s global neighbors, causing exporters to grumble about US dollar policy. Then the bottom fell out, as the dollar made new lows in 1992. From 1992 through 2002 the dollar recovered about half of its value, getting back to roughly where it was in 1967. Elsewhere about that time, I predicted that the euro, which was then at $0.88, would rise to $1.50 before falling back to parity over a very long period of time. I believe we are still on that journey.  One of the biggest drivers of economic fortunes in the global economy is the currency markets. The value of your trading currency affects every aspect of your business and investments. It is fundamental in nature. While most Americans never even see a piece of foreign currency, every time we walk into Walmart, we are subject to the ebb and flow of global currency valuations, as are Europeans and indeed every person who participates in the movement of goods and services around the globe. In fact, globalization means that currency values are more important than ever. The world is more tightly interconnected now than it has ever been, which means that events which previously had no effect upon global affairs can trigger cascades of events that affect everyone. I believe we are in the early stages of a profound currency-valuation sea change. I have lived through five major changes in the value of the dollar in the 45 years since Nixon closed the gold window. And while we are used to 40% to 50% moves in the stock market and other commodity prices happening in just a few years (or less), large movements in major trading currencies typically take many years, if not decades, to develop. I believe we are in the opening act of a multi-year US dollar bull market. Chapter 1 – The Boys Who Cry Wolf We all know the story of the boy who cried “Wolf!” once too often. I have been pounding the table about a dollar bull market for about three years now. I see eyes roll when I speak at conferences around the world and boldly forecast that the dollar is going to get stronger than anyone in the room can possibly fathom. All the signs have been pointing to it, and indeed we’ve seen the dollar move upward in a rather herky-jerky fashion off the lows of 2010, but not in a way that has been all that dramatic (except, arguably, against the Japanese yen). Indeed, the relative trading range of the dollar has been relatively constrained over the past six to seven years, pivoting around 80 on the DXY (symbol for the US dollar spot index). This is in contrast to the true doom-and-gloomers, who are forecasting “the Demise of the Dollar.” At the same time, they are calling for an unseemly rise in interest rates, and many of them believe the Federal Reserve will push us over the brink into hyperinflation. Needless to say, then, you should buy massive amounts of gold and get your money out of the country. I have had long conversations with many who believe in such a scenario. I call some of them close friends, even if we disagree on something as fundamental as the future of the dollar. I’ve come to the conclusion that their conviction is a lot like a religious belief.  I’m not going to change them, and so I make very little effort to try. So, fair and friendly warning: if you think the US dollar is headed to oblivion, you are not going to like this book outline or the next few months of my letter. (Sidebar to those of you who, like me, own gold. You do not have to be a dollar bear to be constructive on gold and believe that it belongs in a diversified portfolio. But more on that front if we do a chapter on gold.) Getting back to portents of winter, this week saw two side comments by Federal Reserve members that put a distinct chill in the air. The first is from William Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and a permanent voting member on the FOMC. In a speech at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, he pushed back on the idea that it is time to raise rates. While acknowledging the relatively positive stance of the Federal Reserve in its forecast, he said: While I believe that the risks around this consensus forecast are reasonably well balanced, I also believe that the likelihood that growth will be substantially stronger than the point forecast is probably relatively low. [my emphasis] He went on to cite weaker than expected consumer spending and the expectation that consumer durable purchases will be weaker in the future (by which I assume he means automobiles, which have been on a blistering, back-to-the-all-time-high pace due to supereasy credit, much of it subprime and with durations beyond five years.) He faults mortgage lenders for the substandard housing recovery, as if the last massacre of lenders was not enough to scar their collective psyche for decades. (Sadly, he might have a point. Somewhat humorously, Ben Bernanke tells us he was turned down for a mortgage because his income is somewhat unsteady. He did not fit the “check-the-box” protocol of his local mortgage lender. I sympathize. I was turned down multiple times earlier this year before finding willing lenders who actually competed for my business. My business life does not accord with a standard check-the-box mortgage. I read about another business owner who noted that any of his 300 employees could get a mortgage, but he could not because his income was not stable enough. Go figure.) Each of Dudley’s points was covered in long paragraphs. And then he delivered a short, throwaway line that caught my attention. He cited the growth in the exchange value of the dollar over the last few months as a reason for downside risk. Really? Go back and look at the chart above and see the relatively minor dollar moves of the past few months. Why should dollar strength show up in a list of reasons for upcoming weakness in the US economy? The next day saw the release of the minutes of the previous month’s FOMC meeting. In the part labeled “Staff Review of the Financial Situation,” the staff mentioned “… responding in part to disappointing economic data abroad, the US dollar appreciated against most currencies over the inter-meeting period, including large appreciations against the euro, the yen, and the pound sterling.” While there are precedents for the staff review to mention the dollar, it doesn’t happen often. (In January 2002 the staff notes included concern about the strength of the dollar. That concern went away rather quickly. Coincidence? Hat tip, Joan McCullough.) The strengthening dollar is clearly on the minds of the members and staff of the Federal Reserve. Hmmm… The key here is to note that the strength of the dollar (or lack of it) is not traditionally a Federal Reserve concern. The relative value of the dollar is the purview of the US Treasury, while the Federal Reserve is responsible for maintaining stable purchasing power (interest rates and money supply, etc.). Both organizations are careful not to tread on the other’s territory. What if we are at the beginning of another 10-year bull market in the dollar? Is it unthinkable that the value of the dollar could rise back to 120 on the index over that time? Let’s look at that chart again:  From a very long-term perspective, 100 on that index is certainly a possibility, and 120 is not without precedent. But if the dollar rises to those levels, even in the very short-term, volatile patterns of the past, it changes everything it touches. And the value of the dollar touches everything. So let’s think about some of the consequences over the long term of a rising dollar. Chapter 2 – A Monkey Wrench for the Fed A rising dollar is almighty inconvenient for a Federal Reserve that would like to eventually raise interest rates. Multiple regional Fed presidents and Fed governors would really like to see inflation in the 2% range prior to raising rates. A dollar that is rising against the currencies of our major trading partners is inherently disinflationary, if not outright deflationary. (Pay attention to how often that word deflation occurs in this outline.) The current inflation rate is 1.7%. The Dallas trimmed-mean PCE inflation rate was actually negative in August and has been falling for the last five months, more or less coinciding with the rising dollar. The makeup of the Federal Reserve FOMC voting membership next year is going to be decidedly “dovish.” Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher will retire, and his voice will no longer be present. Yellen and the entire team (with two notable exceptions) have been out and about using the words data-dependent, with Minneapolis Fed President Kocherlakota arguing that raising rates anytime in 2015 would be a mistake. Look at what Federal Reserve unemployment and inflation-rate predictions are as of September 17:  Fourteen of the 17 members of the Fed (including the 12 regional presidents) anticipate that rates will be raised in 2015.  Most observers think the first rate increase will happen at the June meeting. What happens if unemployment continues to fall toward 5.5% and inflation drops below 1.5%? Can this Fed – not you or I, but the aggressively Keynesian members sitting on that board – justify raising rates if inflation is only 1.5% and falling? Which is the more important data number, unemployment or inflation? Or do they both need to click into place? If the dollar were to continue to rise and thus allow Europe and Japan to export their deflation to the US, it is not clear that the Fed would raise rates in June. A rise in the dollar from its current 85 on the DXY to 120 over the next six or seven years will throw a monkey wrench into the plans of the Federal Reserve. Chapter 3 – Every Central Bank for Itself A rising dollar presents all sorts of problems and opportunities for the central banks of the world. Japan has chosen the most aggressive monetary policy in the history of the world and will, I believe, work to see the value of the yen cut in half over time. Notice in the chart below that it was only 20 years ago that the yen was at 250. It touched 150 less than eight years ago. Forty years ago it was at 357. Is it so unthinkable that the yen could retrace half that move? Not to the Japanese. That would take it into the range of 200 to the dollar. I made the case for such a move in Endgame and doubled down on the prospects for Japan in Code Red. Japan is a bug in search of a windshield. The yen is embarked on a multi-year decline.  Europe would clearly like to see a weaker euro against the dollar and other major trading currencies. Ditto for almost every central bank in the world. But a rising dollar creates special problems for China and some emerging markets, problems we will look at in later chapters. In an important speech on Saturday, October 11, Fed Vice-Chairman Stan Fischer outlined the mechanisms for the international transmission of monetary policy. Fischer says the international effects of monetary policy “spill back” onto the US, and the central bank cannot make “sensible” choices without taking them into account. [T]he U.S. economy and the economies of the rest of the world have important feedback effects on each other. To make coherent policy choices, we have to take these feedback effects into account. He ended with an assurance to all that the Federal Reserve would provide liquidity to the world in the event of another crisis. Because it is in our interest, he says. This will be the ultimate test of game theory, where it might take years to find the Nash equilibrium. The bottom line? It’s every central bank for itself. No matter how much pleading there is from peripheral central banks, there will be no true coordination among the major central banks. (Hat tip to David Kotok for alerting me to Fischer’s speech as I was writing. He also pointed out that the unintended consequences of the feedback effect means that policymaking can be dangerous.) Chapter 4 – The Man Behind the Euro Curtain Was it only a few years ago that Mario Draghi uttered his famous line, “We will do whatever it takes”? Interest rates in Europe have collapsed since then, as the European bond markets believed that Mario had their back. He has not had to do anything of true significance to back up those words, and what he has done has been lackluster. This week Mario was up on the stage in Washington DC, where he essentially said that the problems in Europe cannot be fixed by monetary policy but are fiscal and regulatory and require actions from governments, not from central banks. The Bundesbank has clearly held sway, at least so far as the prospects for European quantitative easing go. While Draghi hinted that he would like to do €1 trillion worth of QE, it is not clear exactly how he would go about that. Mario is like the Wizard of Oz. He talks a good game and puts on a good show, but it is soon going to become apparent that he really doesn’t have any magic, at least not until the Germans allow him to open up his trunk of tricks. Right now they’re keeping it safely stowed away in Berlin. German intransigence is going to precipitate a crisis in Europe. Italy has been in a recession. France is crossing into one. Spain is barely holding on. Even German exports are slowing. France and Italy are balking at meeting the 3% deficit targets mandated by the EU treaty. Germany has drawn a line in the sand; France and Italy fully intend to cross it. This should be interesting; but however it turns out, I don’t think it will be good for the euro. How long can interest rates in Europe stay at the irrationally low levels where they are today? We touched on that question in past letters, so I won’t cover that ground again, other than to say negative interest rates in Ireland and France are as indicative of dysfunctional markets as anything one might postulate. When Draghi loses the narrative, or his ability to simply jawbone the market to where he would like it to be, all hell is going to break loose in the European bond market. Exactly what will the safe-haven currency be? The Swiss can’t print enough francs. Even Norway doesn’t have that many kroner. It will be the US dollar. Implications in a later chapter. Chapter 5 – The Wrong Side of the Trade Close to 50% of sales and profits for the S&amp;P 500 come from outside the US. A strong dollar will put a strain on those dollar-denominated profits. Not an insurmountable problem, as Japanese businesses have figured out how to thrive in a rising-yen environment for decades. But old US business dogs are going to have to learn new tricks in a rising-dollar world. But a strong dollar is not just a problem for US exporters. It is particularly a problem for countries that are financed by the dollar carry trade. Multiple trillions of dollars have left the US courtesy of quantitative easing and have ended up financing all manner of trades and investments around the world. As long as the dollar is neutral or falling, that’s a good thing for dollar carry-trade investors. If you are a Chinese businessman and you can borrow dollars (which you certainly can) and you believe that your government is going to make the yuan stronger over time, you will be able to pay back cheaper dollars and make the difference on the carry (the difference between what US bonds pay and returns that can be earned in China). But what happens if the yuan begins to fall? That trade unwinds swiftly and negatively. And it unwinds at a time that is particularly inconvenient for China. Flood the market with too much money, and inflation becomes a problem. (The Chinese are in a different phase of the monetary cycle than the US is, so the problems are not the same.) It is not just China. Those dollars have filtered into every nook and cranny of the world; and now, if those trades are unwound, investors and most specifically hedge funds are going to have to buy dollars to unwind their trades. That will force the dollar ever higher against various currencies; and while any one currency is not significant enough to create a structural difference that can impact global trade, together they will have a significant effect. There is a crisis brewing in emerging markets. Most of the world’s hedge funds and investors are on the wrong side of the dollar trade. Unwinding that trade is going to be a bitch (that is a technical economics term). Worth Wray will be writing about that very topic in a few weeks. You do not want to miss that letter. Chapter 6 – The Texas Carry Trade A rising dollar is going to put pressure on oil prices in particular and on energy prices in general. And falling oil prices have a strong secondary effect on Federal Reserve interest-rate policy. Pay attention, there will be a quiz. Over at The National Interest, Sam Rines of Chilton Capital writes that Texas has been the engine of growth for the US for the past five years: Job creation might be a good place to start. Texas has created jobs – there is little arguing that point. For instance, we know the U.S. economy only recently gained back the jobs lost in the Great Recession. This is not true of Texas. While the United States dropped about 6 percent of employment, Texas lost 4 percent and recovered them all by August 2011 – nearly three years before the United States as a whole. Here is where the numbers get interesting. From its peak in January 2008 through today, the United States has created only 750,000 jobs. Texas created over a million jobs during that same period – meaning that the rest of the country (RotC) is still short 300,000 jobs. During the recovery, job creation has been all Texas or – at the very least – disproportionately Texas. Choosing a different starting point – for example, in the trough of job losses – changes the extremity of the story. And there are all sorts of reasons for this disparity between Texas and the rest of the country, most of which miss the main point. In a conversation with Worth, Rines called the disparity the Texas Carry Trade. I like that. The Texas story is by and large an oil story. We are far more diversified that we were in the ’80s, but oil is clearly the driver. Texas has been at the forefront of job creation because our borders happen to contain the mostly inhospitable scrubland known as the Permian Basin in West Texas, not to mention the coastal plays and those in East Texas. Much (not all) of the growth in oil has come from horizontal drilling and fracking. And while there are enormous amounts of energy in Texas, it is not necessarily cheap energy – not like it was in the “good old days.” Seventy-dollar oil considerably restrains the enthusiasm of Texas oil companies, let alone the banks and individuals that finance them. And it is not just Texas companies. The Marcellus play in the Northeast is responsible for hundreds of thousands of jobs. And it’s much the same story all over the US. Oil has been a significant portion of the growth of US GDP for the past five years. If you take the massive oil boom away, the US looks a lot like Europe in terms of growth and job creation. Which is to say, anemic. Seventy-dollar oil starts to show up in the unemployment rate, which makes it more difficult for the Federal Reserve to raise rates. I was talking with Joe Goyne, president of Pegasus Bank in Dallas. He is one of those entrepreneurial bankers who actually analyzes a loan personally rather than letting some computer determine whether it fits the criteria. (The country would be better off with a lot more Joes running the banking industry, but that’s another story.) Joe’s customers are a who’s who of Dallas. We were discussing my convictions about a strong dollar and what that would do to the price of oil. Joe offered, “You won’t believe the pain in Dallas if oil falls to $60.” We went on to discuss some details. Does $60 oil sound far-fetched? Joe and I both remember $15 oil. Texas has been through numerous oil busts. The running joke in the late ’80s was “Would the last person leaving Houston please turn out the lights?” The late ’80s was an ugly time for Texas. Will the Saudis ever allow oil to dip below $60 again? Can they afford to cut their production that much? What will happen to Russia if Brent drops to $80, let alone $60? It’s not just Texas. And while the world might benefit from lower energy prices, they would create havoc in a few key regions. And throw another monkey wrench in Federal Reserve policy. And in terms of the oil price, gods forbid that peace breaks out in the Middle East. But, sadly, given current circumstances, it doesn’t look like we have to worry about that. Chapter 7 – The Bond Bull Comes Stampeding Back Many of us in the US look at Europe and wonder how interest rates can fall to such insane levels. And the answer is that bond markets have rationales all their own. The unwinding of carry trades means the demand for dollars will rise just as the Federal Reserve cuts off the spigot. Some people look at Japan’s flooding the market with yen as an antidote and hope that the ECB, too, will soon start printing; but that is not going to reduce the demand for dollars to unwind the carry trade. Whatever Japan and Europe do, the growth of global liquidity is still likely to fall over the next few years; and that is an inherently deflationary event, especially in dollar terms. In addition, when – not if – there is a renewed crisis in Europe, the flight to safety is going to put pressure on the dollar and further downward pressure on US interest rates. While it is not altogether certain that China will have a major crisis – although reasonable economic historians would suggest that is the probable case – if it happens it will put further upward pressure on the dollar as a safe-haven currency. God forbid those two events – crises in Europe and China – happen at the same time. Our necks would snap at the severity of the acceleration in the value of the dollar. The convergent crises would also trigger a global recession. We’re going to see a return of the bond bull market with a vengeance. Almost the entire world has hedged its bets for a rising interest-rate environment and assumes a benign dollar market. Almost no one expects a falling interest-rate environment, yet that is precisely what we will get if the dollar continues to rise and we have a crisis or two. Chapter 8 – The Third Leg of the Secular Bear Market I was writing about secular bear markets in 1999. I was early to the party, as usual (although my friends will note that I’m often late to real-time, real-life parties). I noted in Bull’s Eye Investing that it typically takes three events to completely wash out a trend. We have had two significant corrections since April 2000, accompanied by two recessions. I think the next recession will give us that final third leg of the secular bear market, hard on the heels of another correction that tests (but maybe doesn’t quite touch) the lows of 2009. At that point I will trade my secular bear beret for a snappy new secular bull Panama. And while we may see a significant correction out of the current volatility, I don’t think the final dénouement of the secular bear will come without a global recession. Since most of you have been through this before, you can probably figure out what strategy you should choose; but I would suggest at least thinking about having some type of hedge/moving average/risk-dispersion strategy in your toolkit. The point is to get through this next crucial phase with as much of your capital intact as possible, in order to be able to take advantage of the coming secular bull market, when it will be anchors aweigh. Remember, we always get through these things. It is almost never the end of the world, and betting on the end of the world is a losing proposition anyway. Specifics to come later (maddening, I know, but there are space limits). Chapter 9 – Commodities in a Dollar Bull Market This book outline is running a little long, but a quick word on commodities. In general, commodity prices are going to face downward pressure, at least in dollar terms. That includes copper, most of the base metals, oil, etc. Silver has clearly been in a very ugly bear market. I would continue to accumulate insurance gold, but I would invest in gold only in terms of yen or another depreciating currency. Bear in mind that precious metals – along with other commodities – can and will fall precipitously in the event of a deflationary shock… although the inflationary effects of an aggressive central bank response may ultimately drive the yellow metal far above its current price.  Chapter 10 – The Return of Volatility The final chapter and conclusion pretty much end as you would expect: the demise of monetary policy’s ability to soothe the soul of the markets and the return of volatility. We hopefully get a full-fledged restructuring of the sovereign debt markets. The Fed and sister central banks will try the same tired tools they have been using. Except they have already been to the zero rate boundary and have wasted the opportunity they had to increase rates so that they could lower them later. Another round of quantitative easing? Quite possible if we get a true deflation scare or a global recession. But I don’t think it will have the same results. The unintended consequences and the unknown spillovers will only increase eventual volatility. For new readers, I invite you to read my books (co-authored with Jonathan Tepper) Endgame and Code Red. They pretty much lay out the background you need in order to understand what will be happening in the future. We are seeing the end of the debt supercycle and the beginning of currency wars. We’ll experience the throes of hyper-indebted nation-states trying to survive what they will see as irrational attacks by a bond market. “How can you not have faith in the government? We are doing our best to try to make everything work out just fine. As long as you cooperate.” Which bond markets have a nasty habit of not doing. Oh, you can placate them in the short term, but ultimately they want to be paid back in risk-adjusted buying power. And that is the one currency that many nation-states will no longer have. Now without major reforms and a significant restructuring of the social order. A final thought. Businesses will keep on doing what they do, in spite of the machinations of governments and monetary authorities. Entrepreneurs will adjust. New inventions will be made. Over the medium term, life on earth will get better. I honestly do see a return of the secular bull market and a pretty cool third decade, an updated version of the Roaring Twenties. Only this time there will be no need for speakeasies. I fully intend to be around to enjoy it and am looking forward to being relatively optimistic about the future. I really don’t get much personal pleasure from writing these Debbie Downer letters. But my role is to not think about the world as it should be or as I want it to be, but to be as right as I can about the direction we are going. The ride could just be a little bumpier in the short term of the next few years. Fasten your seatbelts. And for those of you looking for specific advice, let me point you to Jared Dillian, the new editor of my own Bull’s Eye Investor service. He has been finding ways to trade and invest in this market. Last Friday he wrote: Guys, the price action has been bad for a while. And it is getting worse. The market is demonstrating repeatedly that it can’t hold its gains. In my 15 years of doing this, I’ve only seen worse price action twice: 2000, and 2007. You can read about Jared and appreciate his baleful glare of a photo right here. Want to sit on a trading desk across from him? I want him on MY side of the table. See if you might want him in your corner as well. Chicago, Athens (Texas), Boston, Geneva, and Atlanta I have one more week to enjoy Dallas, and then I’m back on the road. I will go to Chicago for a speech, fly back to a meeting with Kyle Bass and his friends at the Barefoot Ranch in Athens, Texas, and then fly out to Boston to spend the weekend with Niall Ferguson and some of his friends at his annual briefing. I am sure I will be happily surfing mental stimulus overload that week. I fly from Boston to Geneva for a few days and then more or less directly to Atlanta for a day (board meeting), before heading back to Dallas. Next Saturday is wedding day. It has been years since I’ve been to a wedding, and next Saturday I will go to two. I fly to Houston to watch my young associate, Mr. Worth Wray, tie the knot with his lovely fiancée, Adrienne. You have to admire a young man for playing above his weight class. He gets married in the morning, and that afternoon we fly back to Dallas to attend the wedding of David Tice’s daughter Abigail. Next Monday evening I get to spend some time with Woody Brock here in Dallas before I launch my travels. I’ll be back in time for Halloween. It’s time to hit the send button. I smell stir-fry chicken and vegetables simmering on the stove and need to find a piece of mindless entertainment with which to relax with family and friends. Have a great week, Your ready to find his sweaters analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren Staples That's up from 98,700 a year ago. "The number of HNW and UHNW individuals has grown rapidly in recent years, reinforcing the perception that the very wealthy have benefitted most in the favorable economic climate," Credit Suisse analysts write. "Between 2008 and mid-2014, mean wealth per adult grew by 26%; but the same period saw a 54% rise in the number of millionaires, a 106% increase in the number with wealth above $100 million, and more than double the number of billionaires." So, where can we find the world's 0.0017994134%?* Most of them can be found in the US. Here's Credit Suisse: "Among individual countries, the United States leads by a huge margin with 62,800 UHNW adults, equivalent to 49% of the group total. This represents an increase of 9,500 compared to mid-2013, an astonishing rise for a single year – more than the total number of UHNW residents in China, which occupies second place with 7,600 residents (6% of the global total). the United Kingdom gained the second largest number of UHNW individuals (up 1,300 to 4,700) consolidating fourth place, behind Germany (5,500), but ahead of France (4,100). Taiwan (2,000) and Korea (1,900) each added about 550, while Brazil (1,900), Canada (2600) and Hong Kong (1,500) gained 200 apiece. the numbers for Russia (2,800) and India (1,800) were almost unchanged." "[L]ittle can be deduced about inequality trends from the fact that the number of millionaires and billionaires is growing faster than average wealth," the analysts argue. "[T]his is almost certain to hap pen when wealth is growing, regardless of whether inequality is rising or falling." Credit Suisse  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Wall St. sign is seen outside the door to the New York Stock Exchange in New York's financial districtWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Wall Street donors are opening their wallets to back the Republican fight for control of the U.S. Senate in November's election, and financial services has emerged again as the highest spending sector, according to campaign finance reports. But widespread skepticism about accomplishing various financial sector policy priorities, such as scaling back the 2010 Dodd-Frank law or enacting business-friendly tax reforms, amid Washington's paralysis has dampened the excitement of some traditional financial industry donors, such as big banks. Instead, the upswing in donations reflects an ideological shift, as right-leaning hedge fund managers and private equity executives increasingly throw big money into key national races rather than focusing on specific issues, industry insiders and campaign finance experts said. Nearly 62 percent of disclosed financial sector donations in congressional races have gone to Republicans or Republican-aligned groups in this election cycle, compared with 53 percent in 2010, the last midterm election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington research group. The numbers are based on Federal Election Commission filings through early September, and spending is likely to increase in the final weeks before Election Day. Overall, the sector has given more than $318 million so far this cycle, compared with $328 million over the entire 2010 election cycle. The next highest-spending industry sector is lobbyists and lawyers, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Robert Wolf, a confidant of President Barack Obama who now runs a financial advisory firm after having served as an executive at UBS, said donors are more focused on helping their preferred party succeed than on individual issues. The roster of major contributors includes big hedge fund donors, such as Paul Singer of Elliott Management, who have backed groups that explicitly aim to help Republicans regain control of the Senate. Finance industry experts said some of the shift was due to disillusionment with Obama, who they felt had demonized them in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Others became frustrated over tax proposals championed by Democrats that they thought unfairly punished hedge funds and other financial firms. Top conservative fundraisers picked up on the discontent and began engaging hedge funds and other nonbank financial institutions more in recent years, said one Washington-based hedge fund industry insider. "I think the Republican machine did a very good job of saying, look, we sort of know most of the bank Republicans, we know sort of a lot of the insurance Republicans. We don't spend a lot of time with these hedge fund guys," the insider said. In fact, the shift comes as many of the traditional financial services donors express apathy toward Washington. Most experts believe lawmakers will not significantly revamp the Dodd-Frank Wall Street oversight law under this president, who championed the reforms. The only changes they anticipate are tweaks to benefit smaller banks. Immigration reform, supported by high-profile bankers including Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, appears unlikely to move forward in Congress for now, and tax reform was unable to gain traction in 2014. And financiers have clashed with conservatives over business-friendly programs such as temporary tax breaks, as well as Tea Party-aligned lawmakers' willingness to shut down the government in 2013 and flirt with debt default several times in recent years. That dynamic has prevented big banks from leaping whole-heartedly into the midterms. In some neck-and-neck races, Democrats even hold the advantage among financial sector donors. Senator Kay Hagan, a Democrat of North Carolina who is a former bank vice president, has outpaced her Republican opponent in fundraising from the sector.   (Reporting by Gabriel Debenedetti and Emily Stephenson; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayAustralia's conservative leader Tony AbbottGood morning and welcome. Here’s your rolling start. 1. Tony Abbott versus Vladimir Putin. The Russian President should sterilise his hand after shaking the Australian leader’s at the G20 Summit in Brisbane next month, a scathing editorial in the Russian newspaper Pravda has warned. That follows Abbott’s comment yesterday that he was “going to shirtfront Mr Putin” over Russia’s alleged involvement in the downing of Flight MH17. The Pravda op ed author doesn’t hold back in blasting both the PM and Australia’s political system. It’s completely hysterical – and not in the humorous sense – but entertaining, at the very least. 2. Bill Evans has a lot of fans. Westpac’s chief economist yesterday made the dual call of a rally in the Aussie dollar and a 15% surge in iron ore finding traction. And hey presto – the Aussie rallied from a low of 0.8649 yesterday to hit a high of 0.8787 and December iron ore rallied another $3.25 to $83.25 a tonne in futures. And news from the CFTC via the ANZ economic team showed that for the first time in months, all the bulls have been washed out of their Aussie dollar positions and traders on Aussie dollar futures markets are now short. 3. In Asia, it was a mixed day’s trade with the Chinese trade data rescuing Shanghai from its lows at 2,341. But the close of 2,366 was still 9 points or 0.36% lower on the day. The Hang Seng had no such worries, rising 0.24%, while in Tokyo, a weaker lead from the US and a yen threatening 107 (now broken) has Japanese stocks under pressure. The Nikkei dropped 1.15% to 15,301. 4. On the data front today, the most important single release each month for the economy is released – the NAB Business Survey. This is an excellent snapshot of so much of the economy. Also out is the ANZ-Roy Morgan weekly consumer confidence at 9.30am. New Loans are out in China and tonight we get a raft of CPI releases across Europe and the ZEW survey in Germany. In the US, it’s Redbook night. 5. It’s been a tough few weeks for the stock market. Each of the major averages has lost ground, and as of Friday’s close, the Dow turned negative for the year. Additionally, the US Federal Reserve is set to wind down its quantitative easing program at end of the month, after which investors will prepare for the Fed’s first interest rate increase since 2006. Throw in continued indications that Europe’s economy is slowing down, as well as unrest in the Middle East and Ukraine, and it’s all a bit overwhelming. JPMorgan is here to help with its excellent quarterly market guide, which they generously shared with us. 6. Carbon dioxode level may not be rising as fast as we thought. Research released today suggests current computer models may have overestimated expected future levels of CO2 in the atmosphere by failing to account for the way plant leaves diffuse the greenhouse gas. The study is an attempt to explain why CO2 in the atmosphere isn’t rising even faster and also highlights that current models don’t account for any increased plant growth that comes with rising CO2 levels. 7. Speaking of increased plant growth… Tony Abbott’s government has thrown its support behind a clinical trial of medical cannabis, with NSW Premier Mike Baird revealing overnight that a deal was struck at last Friday’s Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. NSW will lead the collaborative trial, with the support of the Commonwealth and other states and territories. It’s been a massive financial success in the US, but as always with this debate, the health effects are permanently under scrutiny. Health ministers at the meeting reinforced their opposition to the recreational use of cannabis due to links to mental illness. 8. Space elevators. It’s one of those ideas that always raises an eyebrow, like invisibility cloaks and hoverboards, but research on the space elevator front just keeps gaining credibility. It’s essentially a cable anchored to the Earth’s equator and attached to a counterweight somewhere way above Earth’s atmosphere — much higher than satellites in orbit. It seems more and more like a genuine option for humans to escape the costly tyranny of gravity and accelerate space exploration. Now scientists say they may have solved the hardest part of building one – finding a material strong enough. Obayashi, a construction company based in Tokyo, has said that it wants to build one like this by 2050: 9. GamerGate just won’t end. If you haven’t heard of it, there’s been an incredibly tense debate raging in the video game world for nearly a year now. Dubbed “GamerGate”, it’s origins aren’t exactly clear, but one ignition point came last year when video game critic Carolyn Petit wrote a review of “Grand Theft Auto V” that noted the game glorified “male sexuality while demeaning women”. Since then, there’s been a huge backlash against gaming journalists, but particularly women who criticise games mostly enjoyed by men. It is a patently ridiculous reminder of an industry that demands to be seen as mature, yet refuses to grow up. Here’s the latest update which sees the debate has now spiralled down into death threats against women. 10. Sheeds returns to Windy Hill? James Hird needs all the friends he can get at Essendon, and coaching legend Kevin Sheedy could be just the ticket. The Herald Sun reports key people at Essendon have asked Sheedy to consider an ambassadorial and football role as part of the club rebuilding its standing. He would arrive as part of a package that also sees Mark Harvey replace Simon Goodwin as senior assistant coach. Pity poor Mark Thompson, who could become arguably the league’s best coach without a contract after the Suns failed to list him as a candidate to replace Guy McKenna. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Chris Breeze/FlickrThe Waldorf Astoria Hotel in Midtown Manhattan.WASHINGTON (AP) — Concerned about potential security risks, the U.S. government is taking a close look at last week's sale of New York's iconic Waldorf Astoria hotel to a Chinese insurance company. U.S. officials said Monday they are reviewing the Oct. 6 purchase of the Waldorf by the Beijing-based Anbang Insurance Group, which bought the hotel from Hilton Worldwide for $1.95 billion. Terms of the sale allow Hilton to run the hotel for the next 100 years and call for "a major renovation" that officials say has raised eyebrows in Washington, where fears of Chinese eavesdropping and cyber espionage run high. The officials also said the sale could have implications for the government's longstanding relationship with the hotel, which serves as home to the American ambassador to the United Nations and hosts the president and hundreds of U.S. diplomats during the annual U.N. General Assembly. "We are currently in the process of reviewing the details of the sale and the company's long-term plans for the facility," said Kurtis Cooper, a spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. He and other officials said decisions about the future of the U.S. relationship with the Waldorf would be made based on cost, Anbang's long-term plans for the hotel, and the government's needs and security concerns. The officials said specifics of the renovation plan would be a key issue of the review. "The State Department takes seriously the security of its personnel, their work spaces and official residences," Cooper said. "We are constantly evaluating our security protocols and standard operating procedures to ensure the safety and security of our information and personnel." The department routinely warns U.S. diplomats in China about physical and electronic surveillance and tells American citizens in the country to be aware of similar risks, notably in hotels. "Hotel rooms (including meeting rooms), offices, cars, taxis, telephones, Internet usage and fax machines may be monitored onsite or remotely, and personal possessions in hotel rooms, including computers, may be searched without your consent or knowledge," according to the department's latest travel advice for China. "Business travelers should be particularly mindful that trade secrets, negotiating positions and other business-sensitive information may be taken and shared with local interests." For more than 50 years, the State Department has leased a residence for the U.S. ambassador to the U.N. on the 42nd floor of the hotel's Waldorf Towers. And, every September, the department takes over two floors of the Waldorf to serve as headquarters for the horde of U.S. diplomats that decamp from Washington for the U.N. General Assembly. During the session, the president spends several nights at the Waldorf. U.S. law allows the department to rent the ambassador's residence for a term of 10 years or less. The current lease expires next year with an option to renew it for one or two years. It was not immediately clear if the review would affect decisions about the possible renewal of the existing lease. Ending the government's relationship with the Waldorf could be problematic and expensive, according to officials who note that numerous studies conducted during both Republican and Democratic administrations have concluded that it is cost effective and convenient. Cooper noted that the U.N. ambassador's residence must meet a long list of requirements, including appropriate housing, reception space, security, proximity to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations and the U.N. headquarters. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Monaco may be the world's second smallest country in area, but it hosts the world's largest annual yacht trade show. Take a look at some of the most amazing boats you've ever seen.
Reuters "Jesse Livermore," who pseudonymously blogs at Philosophical Economics, predicted on the eve of the Alibaba IPO that the market would put in its yearly high in the first hour of trading on that day. He nailed that trade to the hour, and since then the S&amp;P 500 is down more than 6%.  (Jesse Livermore is a famed stock market trader who made and lost millions of dollars shorting the stock market in the early 20th century — the modern day Twitter user operates under this cover.)  Now, Livermore is warning that we might be at the cusp of something worse.  "I don't mean to be alarming, but this is 1987-esque," he tweeted. Monday was the third straight day of losses for the major stock indexes, and the second time in three days that the Dow fell more than 200 points while the S&amp;P 500 just had its worst three-day plunge since November 2011.  Read his ominous tweets below. Just plain spooky price action.  We need to start talking about 1987 type price action here. That swoosh was ridiculous.  Some good economic data to focus on, to remind everyone that the US economy is purring, would be very helpful here. May do the trick.  Reflexivity at its finest. We're worried, deep in the back of our minds, of another late day selloff--so we get one, on nothing.  The selloff, at first feared, now real, confirms the sense that something is wrong, "all stop", de-risk--provokes further cascade of selling  This is like a panic attack. Person afraid of having one, which creates the fear of having one, which is, itself, a fear--therefore, panic.  The problem is that we all know the Fed can't do anything. There's nothing they can credibly do. Market is not used to that.  This selling gives everyone a glimpse into what is going on in everyone else's mind. And it's not comforting.  As in, you know what, everyone else has their finger on the trigger too, on the verge of pulling it, just like you. Who will be first?  Now, people thinking, what if this really was all about QE? What if QE really was the magic potion that made it all happen? What next?  In truth, tho, this was not about QE. This was about strong eps and a strong US econ. I believe that if eps &amp; guidance hold up, will b OK.  I don't mean to be alarming, but this is 1987-esque. But, doesn't mean it will end that way. Could have already ended, for all we know. Just something to keep in mind. FREE AppDownload
newsweeklied.comScreenshot of newsweeklied.comDorian Nakamoto is trying to strike back at Newsweek. The California man is attempting to sue the magazine after it published a cover story by Leah McGrath Goodman alleging that Nakamoto was actually the Satoshi Nakamoto, creator of bitcoin. After the article appeared, Dorian denied being Satoshi (although that is his middle name), as well as any involvement in the creation of the online currency. Now he has created a legal defense fund to help his case. The URL is newsweeklied.com Nakamoto is not trying to legally defend himself — contributions go toward his attempt to sue Newsweek for its article. According to the website, “Dorian's Legal Defense Fund is a separate effort, authorized and endorsed by Dorian, to raise money to hold Newsweek accountable for their article. A lawsuit against Newsweek will be very expensive.” Donations to the fund can be made by credit or debit card, or in bitcoin. Both Newsweek and Nakamoto (through his attorney) declined to comment to Business Insider. Nakamoto's attorney, Ethan Kirschner, confirmed in an email that his law office is "responsible for the website and the fund." FREE AppDownload
Bill Pugliano/Getty ImagesSay hello to FCA. In a limited first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the newly merged Fiat Chrysler Automobiles didn't exactly blow Wall Street away. According to AP, "The newly merged company's stock, traded under the symbol FCAU, opened at $9 and rose quickly to $9.55 before falling much of the day. But then recovered, rising 2 cents from the opening to $9.02 shortly before the market closed." Yahoo FinanceNot exactly a barn-burner. No one really expected the first day to be all that lively. The goal of FCA was mainly to absorb Fiat stock from shareholders who wanted to sell their stakes. Despite the low-key nature of the merger and the NYSE debut, FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne said in TV interviews on Monday that "auto stocks in general are under-valued by investors," AP reported. Ford and General Motors have both struggled in the markets this year. Tesla, meanwhile, surged to new heights in early September before dropping over 20% of its value. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA safe box is pictured at the vault of Swiss UBS bank in Zurich-ZollikonBERNE (Reuters) - A former banker at Switzerland's biggest bank, UBS &lt;ubsn.vx&gt;, has been found guilty of handing over protected Swiss bank account data to the United States, according to a penalty order issued by the Swiss prosecutors' office. According to the order the banker was found to have breached Swiss data privacy laws but not its banking secrecy laws which the U.S. authorities have long tried to penetrate in their pursuit of suspected tax evaders. A lawyer for Renzo Gadola declined to comment on the matter. Gadola, who worked at UBS from 1995 to 2009, pleaded guilty in the United States in 2010 to conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and in 2011 was sentenced to five years' probation and fined $100. But Gadola started cooperating with U.S. officials almost immediately after his arrest in 2010, providing insight into other bankers and Swiss financial institutions offering offshore banking services, according to prosecutors at the time of his sentencing in 2011. As a result Switzerland's prosecutor said in November last year it was investigating Gadola. According to the penalty order dated July 21, 2014 and seen by Reuters, Gadola was subsequently found guilty under protected data laws of handing over two sets of bank account information to the U.S. authorities. Gadola was fined 6,000 Swiss francs ($6,288), suspended pending two years probation, and ordered to cover the legal fees of the trial, which are put at 7,117 francs for breaching the Swiss law of economic espionage, according to the penalty order. But he escaped harsher penalties as prosecutors failed to prove a second charge of violating the Swiss banking secrecy laws, an offense which is punishable by up to three years in prison and a fine of up to 250,000 francs. Gadola was spared under the banking secrecy laws because he was not employed by the bank from which the clients' data stemmed, according to the penalty order. The penalty was first reported on Sunday by Swiss newspaper Schweiz am Sonntag. In the document prosecutors said Gadola's crime did "not weigh heavily," since he handed over only two sets of data. The U.S. obtained other information from Gadola through forceful means -- by confiscating his laptop, his smartphone, and work documents in 2010, according to the penalty order. Prosecutors also cited several extenuating factors in Gadola's favor, including the fact that he must make himself available to the U.S. authorities before every trip to the United States, where two of his three children live. A Department of Justice document from 2011 states that Gadola must return to the United States at least once a year to assist the DOJ in its continuing investigations of cross-border banking. Meanwhile a U.S. trial against another former UBS banker, Raoul Weil, is set to begin in a Fort Lauderdale, Florida court on Tuesday. If convicted at trial Weil faces up to five years in prison for conspiracy to commit tax fraud. A source familiar with the matter said Gadola is expected to be a witness in that trial.   (Additional reporting by Alice Baghdjian and Oliver Hirt in Zurich and Karen Freifeld in New York; Writing by Joshua Franklin; Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan Asset ManagementIt's been a tough few weeks for the stock market.  Over the last three months, each of the major averages has lost ground, and as of Friday's close, the Dow turned negative for the year. Additionally, the Federal Reserve is set to wind down its quantitative easing program at end of the month, after which investors will prepare for the Fed's first interest rate increase since 2006.  Also in the background are continued indications that Europe's economy is slowing down, as well as unrest in the Middle East and Ukraine.  Here to help investors navigate these market factors is JPMorgan's quarterly market guide, compiled by David Kelly and the Global Market Insights Strategy Team.  This 67-slide presentation gives investors an overview of what to watch out for in stocks, bonds, real estate, and the rest of the investable universe.  Thanks to JPMorgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Via Sotheby's HomesHedge-fund manager Scott Bommer (who is known for flipping homes in the Hamptons) has finally sold his historic oceanfront estate in Southampton for $16 million, according to Curbed Hamptons.  Bommer originally put the house on the market in September of 2013 for $25 million, but has since had to lower the price multiple times. According to Southampton Village Real Estate, the final price was $16 million — a staggering $9 million and 20% below Bommer's asking price. The historic beach house, known as the Halcyon Lodge, was once a part of the Henry Ford estate. In 1946, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford II commissioned the famous architect Phillip Johnson — known for building The Glass House — to build a one story glass wing addition to the estate. The home sits on 1.5 acres of land with 142 feet of oceanfront. Inside there are eight bedrooms, six baths, a heated pool, and even has a three-bedroom carriage house for guests. 
REUTERS/Jaime R. CarreroA member of the CG Environmental HazMat team disinfects the entrance to the residence of a health worker at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital who has contracted Ebola in Dallas, Texas, October 12, 2014. Protective gear is the hottest trade in the stock market.  On Monday, shares of Alpha Pro Tech and Lakeland Industries were in rally mode after the second case of Ebola was confirmed in Dallas over the weekend. On Monday, Lakeland shares closed up 47% while shares of Alpha Pro Tech gained 33%. Alpha Pro Tech, which now has a market cap of about $180 million, makes protective face masks and other protective gear, while Lakeland Industries, which has a market cap of about $160 million, makes hazmat suits. Shares of both companies have been rallying of late as cases of Ebola have been confirmed in Dallas and Madrid, and on Monday the stocks extended gains after a second confirmed case in Dallas.  Early Sunday, news broke that a healthcare worker in Dallas who treated Thomas Eric Duncan, the first patient treated for Ebola in Dallas who passed away last week, had contracted the virus. Over the last month, shares of both Lakeland and Alpha Pro Tech have gone completely parabolic, gaining more than 180% each over that period as Ebola cases have spread outside of West Africa.  Back in the summer, the first companies that were part of the "Ebola trade" were drug makers including Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which is still up more than 100% over the last three months. Here's the insane one month chart of both Alpha Pro Tech and Lakeland. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dado RuvicStocks plunged again on Monday for the third straight day. Stocks bounced around for most of the day before nosediving into the close, just as they did on Friday, with all of the major indexes falling more than 1.3% as the Dow lost more than 210 points. Over the past three days the S&amp;P 500 has lost 4.8%, the largest three-day decline since November 2011.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. With banks and the bond market closed, there were no economic-data releases on the US calendar. Overnight, however, trade data out of China came in better than expected, as exports rose 15.3% in September compared to a year ago.  2. The 2014 Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to French economist Jean Tirole for his analysis of market power and regulation. Business Insider's Shane Ferro has a breakdown of some of Tirole's most recent work, which helps to explain how CEOs come to command outsize compensation. 3. Shares of GoPro fell more than 9% on Monday amid both broad market weakness and new reports that indicate a GoPro could have been responsible for the seriousness of the skiing accident involving Formula One driver Michael Schumacher. GoPro did not respond to Business Insider's request for comment on Monday. Shares of GoPro, however, have been notably weak over the past few days as the Nasdaq has been the biggest loser among the major indexes. GoPro shares are now down more than 15% over the past five days. 4. Airline stocks were among the biggest losers on Monday, with shares of United, Delta, and American Airlines all falling more than 6%. Traders were attributing the decline to the recent Ebola outbreak; over the weekend, the second case of Ebola in the US was confirmed in Dallas. On Monday, reports said the second patient was a nurse at the Dallas hospital who treated Thomas Eric Duncan, the first US Ebola patient who died last week. 5. Amid continued fears about the Ebola virus, shares of Lakeland Industries and Alpha Pro Tech continued their huge rally, with both stocks gaining more than 30% on Monday. Lakeland makes hazmat suits, while Alpha Pro Tech makes protective face masks and other gear, and the two companies have seen shares more than double over the past couple of weeks as Ebola fears spread through the market. 6. Russian Central Bank head Elvira Nabiullina admitted that if the currency market continues to turn against the Ruble, the bank "won't be able to restrain them." On Monday, the ruble continued to slide against the dollar, and as Business Insider's Tomas Hirst reported, the admission from Nabiullina demonstrates the extent of the country's problems as it battles falling oil prices and a softening economy.  7. Fiat Chrysler shares made their debut in New York, beginning trading under the ticker FCAU, and marking the return of Chrysler to the US market after Fiat took control of the bankrupt company in 2009. Also in auto news, shares of Tesla on Monday officially entered a bear market after falling 20% from their peak made on Sept. 4.  8. Shares of eyewear company Luxottica fell more than 9% after its co-CEO Enrico Cavatorta quit after just six weeks on the job. 9. T-Mobile US shares fell more than 2% after French telecom company Iliad said it would not pursue a deal for the mobile carrier.  10. J.C. Penney named Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison as president and said Ellison will take over as the retailer's CEO in August 2015. Ellison most recently served as executive VP of Home Depot's stores and is largely credited with turning around Home Depot's business after the housing crisis.     FREE AppDownload
Gerald Angeles/Flickr The chain could experience "adverse consumer reaction to new portion sizing," a recent note said.  Buffalo Wild Wings began charging by volume rather than quantity last year.  In other words, the restaurant would sell five larger wings for the same price as six smaller wings had been.  "People would see a five, 10, 15 [or] 20 count as compared to the 6, 12, 18, 24" plan that was previously in place, the company told Restaurant Business magazine last year. Morgan Stanley warns that traffic could suffer if chicken wing prices fall but Buffalo Wild Wings keeps the current pricing strategy in place.  Morgan StanleyPrices for the snack have been volatile in recent years. CEO Sally Smith said that although the chain was selling platters with fewer wings, the individual pieces were bigger, so customers were getting the same value.  Prices for the gameday snack have been volatile for two years because demand for wings is greater than it is for other chicken parts.  The cost of wings has declined since 2013, but remains unstable, according to Morgan Stanley.  The sports bar chain has enjoyed explosive sales growth this year.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Southwest AirlinesAirline stocks are getting crushed on Monday as the sector appears to be bearing the brunt of fears about Ebola and a global economic slowdown. In afternoon trade on Monday, shares of United were down 8%, Delta was down 7%, American Airlines was down 6%, Southwest was down 5%, and JetBlue was down 5%.  It's been a terrible couple of days for the airlines, with each of these stocks losing more than 13% over the past five trading days, with American Airlines' 19% decline over that period outpacing peers.  A report from Bloomberg on Monday said that officials at the CDC rejected calls from some lawmakers to impose travel bans as the Ebola outbreak has spread from West Africa to the US and Europe. On Monday, the identity of the second Ebola patient in Dallas was made public. Nina Pham, 26, is reportedly a nurse in Dallas who was caring from Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital.  Monday's decline in airline stocks came after last week a number of travel companies focused on Europe, including International Consolidated Airlines, which owns British Airways, and Carnival Cruises, saw shares fall after the first case of Ebola was confirmed in Spain. The drop in airline and travel stocks also comes amid concerns over slowing global economic growth, particularly from the eurozone. Here's the brutal five-day chart of some major US airlines, including Delta, American, United, Southwest, and JetBlue. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
GettyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Midterm Elections Have Investors Rattled, But There's Good News Right Around The Corner (Charles Schwab) Investors are a bit unsettled by the uncertainty surrounding midterm elections, but there's good news coming up, writes Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders, Brad Sorensen, Michelle Gibley, and Jeff Kleintop. The election will be over in one month, "meaning that political ads will stop; and attention can be turned to the coming year of potential action on such things as corporate tax rate reform."  Generally, the year after midterm elections tends to be positive, and S&amp;P500 typically have posted positive returns for 12 months following. This has been the case every single time since 1950. There Are Several Ways To Get Your Potential Clients To Trust You (Financial Planning) The most important factor in building trust is consistency. "You don't have to be the Ritz-Carlton, but your service has to be consistent," says Rothberg, a senior VP for advisor education. She recommends "instituting a 24-hour callback policy for client requests, and 48-hour follow-through — progress reports every two days until any request is completed." Additionally, it's important to be personally involved and know the client's connections. Research shows that advisors who could name the clients' family dogs had twice as many assets under management. And there's one small trick that advisors need to know for when they host events for clients and prospects. Advisors should seat their prospects next to the clients who are their "biggest fans." Investors Should Avoid Certain Times Of Day When Trading In ETFs (Vanguard) Investors should avoid certain times of the day when trading ETFs, according to Vanguard's Rowley. Market makers price the ETFs off of the value of the underlying securities, and typically at the open or the close of the market the bid-ask prices are "a little unsettled," he says. "For example, you could have market news before the market opens. And as those stocks start their trading for the day, market makers are unsure how the market might react to that news. So the underlying securities might have a bit wider, more volatile bid-ask spreads. Well, as the market starts to digest that news and those bid-ask spreads start to tighten, ETF market makers will see that as an ability to tighten their spreads as well," he says. Investors Should Broaden Their Horizons With A Multi-Sector Mind-Set To Stay Out Of The Bond Liquidity Trap (AllianceBernstein) Investors should broaden their horizons with a multi-sector mind-set because liquidity "is episodic and can affect different sectors in different ways," writes Douglas Peebles. "...segregating one's allocations into single-sector funds — high yield, emerging markets and so on — can be dangerous; if liquidity dries up in one sector, investors can quickly find themselves trapped," he says. According to Peebles, "a holistic and dynamic multi-sector approach that lets investors tap into a broad universe of fixed-income assets offers better protection should liquidity in a specific sector dry out." Waiting To Claim Social Security Is The Smartest Decision (Investment News) People should wait to claim their social security benefits. The earliest age at which a person can claim benefits is 62, but those who wait until 70 "can raise lifetime monthly benefits by 76%," writes Franklin. Nevertheless, only 5% of retirees wait until 67 or later to claim benefits. "Following a good Social Security strategy for one year is 10 times more valuable than investing a $200,000 portfolio with a manager who generates 100 basis points in alpha (extra return)," according to David Laster and Anil Suri at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. "Since the life expectancy for a 62-year-old male is 81 years, the break-even approach suggests it pays for a man with average life expectancy to delay claiming until at least age 66... And since the average life expectancy of a 62-year-old female is 84 years, it makes even more sense for a woman to wait before claiming," they add. FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesDon't drop it. You really couldn't have asked for a better show than the one Elon Musk put on last week when he unveiled the new Tesla Model D, an all-wheel-drive version of the Model S sedan. There was a giant robot arm, joyrides that showed attendees at the Los Angeles shindig of speed what 0-60 mph in 3.2 seconds feels like, and a lot of chatter about Tesla's new Autopilot features, which can among others things enable a Model S to park itself. But Wall Street continues to be unimpressed. Tesla has now declined over 20% from its trading peak of $291 per share, reached on Sept. 4.  Yahoo FinanceDown over 20% from the Sept. 4 peak. Tesla bulls and bears are so far apart that a fully charged Model SD wouldn't be able to cover the distance between them.  Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas has a target price of $320 per share. Dan Galves at Credit Suisse is at $325. John Lavallo of Merrill Lynch/Bank of America, meanwhile, is at $75. Splitting the different is Goldman Sach's Patrick Archambault, at $210. You could argue that the biggest Tesla bear of all is Elon Musk himself, who stately publicly around the time the stock slide began that his company's valuation was a bit frothy.  A main skeptical theme that's developed around Tesla is that we're dealing with a car company — and a car company that's trying to remake the auto industry in Musk's image of technology joined with electric propulsion.  Car companies love capital like children love ice cream. There's no way for Musk to run a lean-and-mean "conventional" Silicon Valley startup whose capital costs consist of salaries for half a dozen software engineers, six IKEA desks, some MacBook Airs, and a fridge stocked with Red Bull. For example, that aforementioned robot arm, the one that looked so cool flipping a Model SD chassis around — well, they're used to build cars in Tesla's factory, and each of them costs about $3 million.  On the bull side, Jonas in particular is making the argument that Tesla has the capacity to go well beyond the limitations of being a traditional carmaker. (For perspective, traditional carmakers like General Motors and Ford has seen their stock stuck in the doldrums all year long.) He considers Elon Musk to be on the leading edge of what he calls the end of "human driving." However, even though Tesla has a lead, Jonas isn't sure it will last! But he does seem to think that Tesla will at least reap some of the benefits of the impending massive transformation in how we get around. Anyway, if you buy Tesla now at about $230 — which, it bears noting, is 1200% above the 2010 IPO price of $17 — with an expectation that it will head back north toward $300, you're banking on the company being able to execute on its plan over the next 3-5 years. Yahoo FinanceWhat a 1200% gain looks like. A plan that entails: An SUV (the Model X), a mass-market car (the Model 3), and the construction of a $5-billion battery factory in Nevada — as well as increased Model S/D production. If you think Tesla is going to tank, you probably have two negative ideas in mind. First, you don't think Tesla can manage the capital requirements needed to achieve the sort of growth that will justify a $300-plus-per-share price. Second, you don't think the electric-car market is going to amount to anything near what people though it might several years back, when GM and Nissan brought electric cars to market and when a number of startups were also jumping in.  GM and Nissan have seen tepid performance of from their EVs — not depressing, exactly, but hardly inspiring.  The startups, unfortunately, have mostly disappeared, victims to bankruptcy or limp demand.  To top it all off, there are rumblings about the overall economy weakening, which could undermine aspects of Tesla growth story. Musk is selling cars that, for the most part, are priced around $100,000. Lower gas prices are also a factor — as are the presence of much more fuel-efficient conventional cars and trucks in the market, a consequence of government regulations and the automakers own efforts to deliver higher MPGs. Tesla still has a great story. But whereas over the past year, that story has been about the company and its stock, the narrative now needs to be recast somewhat to provide a convincing business case for Musk &amp; Co. going forward. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCharles Evans, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Twist and Shout: The Limits of U.S. Monetary Policy" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, CaliforniaINDIANAPOLIS (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve should err on the side of caution in its coming decision about when to raise interest rates for fear of upending the recovery in a weak world economy, Chicago Federal Reserve President Charles Evans said on Monday. "The biggest and costliest downside risk is that in our haste to get back to 'business as usual' monetary policy, we could stall progress and backtrack to the economic circumstances of recent years," with subpar growth, low inflation, and near-zero interest rates, Evans said in a speech to a teacher's investment conference in Indiana. "We should be exceptionally patient," in raising rates, even to the point of letting inflation rise above the Fed's target, he said. As it stands, Evans projects the economy won't hit the Fed's full-employment and two percent inflation goals for up to three years, during which the Fed could leave interest rates at stimulative levels while cautiously inching them higher. His comments and others over the weekend emphasized how rising concern about the global economy is complicating the Fed's internal debate about an initial interest rate increase expected next year. With the euro zone weak and China slowing, there is little inflationary push from abroad. Meanwhile the rising value of the dollar, Evans and other Fed officials have noted, may weigh down inflation by making imported goods cheaper, while slowing U.S. exports and output. In remarks that cautioned about European and Japanese difficulties in raising inflation, Evans said he sees little price pressure, weak wage growth, and no change in public expectations of price levels. Inflation expectations are considered one gauge of future prices, with rising expectations, for example, causing households and businesses to behave in a way that pulls prices higher. "I am concerned about the possibility that inflation will not return to our 2 percent target within a reasonable period of time," Evans said. Evans does not currently have a vote on the Fed's rate-setting committee, but will join it in January. His comments, a summary of what might be considered the dovish end of the Fed's policy spectrum, said that weak wage growth and several measures of labor market slack mean the U.S. economy still has ground to make up from the sharp 2007 to 2009 financial crisis and recession. There remains "a significant gap between our goal and current conditions," he said.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Roosevelt Cassio/ReutersLONDON (Reuters) - Investors are rethinking their exposure to emerging markets, focusing on countries likely to weather lean times with manufacturing exports to the United States while avoiding those that have thrived on sending commodities to a now slowing China. After the financial crisis erupted in 2008, emerging markets drew in huge amounts of capital as investors fled ultra-low interest rates brought in to fend off recession in the United States, while commodity and energy exporters prospered from booming demand from China. Now, Chinese economic growth is weakening and oil prices are falling, whereas the dollar is riding high on expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise interest rates from next year. The euro zone economy, meanwhile, is flirting with recession for the third time in recent years. That leaves the United States as the only buoyant major market for emerging market export economies, especially those based on manufacturing and services. "Simply increasing broad exposure to emerging markets is no longer enough and it is necessary to discriminate between countries and regions," Richard Titherington, head of emerging market equities, at JP Morgan Asset Management, told a briefing last week. JP Morgan Asset Management tips Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand as examples of manufacturing nations likely to benefit from a growing U.S. economy. Commodity exporters such as Russia, Chile, South Africa and Brazil are likely to fare less well because their growth of recent years was driven largely by demand from China, Titherington said. "Manufacturers have historically benefited from developed market demand faster than commodity exporters," he added.  Those emerging markets that have had to compete with China in importing commodities should benefit from the falling cost of oil. That should help to improve their balance sheets and drive down the cost of production for manufacturing industries. In India for instance, the cost of importing oil has dropped 12.6 percent in local currency terms since Brent crude hit a $147 per barrel peak in July 2008, the following graphic, based on Thomson Reuters data shows: http://link.reuters.com/nam23w Similarly, for Indonesia, the cost of buying oil is down 18 percent and for South Korea, crude is 37 percent cheaper. Avinash Vazirani, a fund manager at Jupiter Asset Management, said India will benefit particularly as it subsidises energy prices on the domestic market. High global oil prices strain the public budget, but these pressures ease as the cost of imports falls. It is no wonder then that India-focused equity funds have enjoyed the best returns in emerging markets so far in 2014 while commodity exporting Russia brings up the rear. State revenues in oil-based economies such as Russia are dwindling, leading to wider budget deficits that put pressure on their currencies as well as depressing economic growth. With Brent crude now at around $89 per barrel, it is below the $92 level Saudi Arabia needs to fund its budget. Other oil exporters such as Algeria, Ecuador and Nigeria all need a price well over $100 per barrel for their budgets, the following graphic shows: http://link.reuters.com/jep82w "You do have to take oil into account (while allocating). The oil price fall is a relatively positive development for countries such as India, or Turkey which are importers while others such as Brazil and Russia will be penalised," said Jeremy Lawson, chief economist at Standard Life Investments. However, Lawson and others cautioned that the United States, which is projected to post robust growth by the International Monetary Fund, is a weak engine for global growth on its own. "There has been a tendency to overstate the strength of the global economic recovery ... There has been too much faith in the ability of U.S. growth to lift all boats," Lawson said. Simply focusing on manufacturers rather than commodity exporters may not be enough to weather more volatile global markets, however. Investors may need to discriminate further still, to filter out emerging markets that depend on exporting to weaker developed markets in Europe or Japan. "From a trade perspective, a stronger U.S. should benefit manufacturers, but more Mexico and Asia than emerging Europe, for whom the primary driver is Germany and the European Union," said Craig Botham, an emerging markets economist at UK fund manager Schroders. Also, as investors have piled into east Asian markets that rely on manufacturing, many such as Thailand are also looking expensive, with stock markets trading well above the emerging markets average on a price-forward earnings basis. "It's difficult to see how expensive markets that are probably seeing the tail end of an earnings upgrade cycle are going to remain as expensive," said Sam Vecht, an emerging markets fund manager at BlackRock. Saker Nusseibeh, London-based Chief Executive of Hermes Fund Managers, believes the scenario projected by the IMF of a strong United States contrasting to sluggish Germany and Japan marks a significant shift. "We used to talk about the global economic cycle. It looks like we have gone back to regional economic cycles," he said.   (Additional reporting by Sujata Rao, Graphics by Vincent Flasseur; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park towers over neighboring buildings. On Friday, construction topped out at 432 Park, a luxury condominium that's now arguably the tallest building in New York City. It even has the new One World Trade Center beat, not counting that building's spire. At 1,396 feet, 432 Park towers above a row of super-tall buildings rising on the southern end of Central Park, an area that's already earned its "Billionaires' Belt" nickname. These skyscrapers are so tall they needed approval from the Federal Aviation Administration before construction could start.   “It’s almost like the Mona Lisa,” developer Harry B. Macklowe said Friday, The New York Times reported. “Except instead of it looking at you, you’re looking at it wherever you are. You can’t escape it.”  The building, which cost $1.3 billion to construct, has two penthouses, one on the 96th floor that sold for $95 million and another on the 95th, currently priced at $85 million.  The building's architect Rafael Viñoly made news back in September 2013 when his Walkie Talkie building wreaked havoc on London's streets, emitting a reflection so hot it melted cars and literally fried eggs on the sidewalk. But if these renderings are any indication, this building should be more of a success.  We recently saw renderings of the apartment building's interiors, and the designs are magnificent. Designer Deborah Berke says her focus was to make the most of the apartments' perch above the city. Double-height ceilings and beautiful oak flooring are highlights, while huge square windows provide an unparalleled view.   432 Park contains 104 apartments, which start at $7 million. From the outside, rows of six 100-square-foot windows give the building the square look of a waffle iron.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesInside, Berke's design is just as geometric. The huge windows are in a straight line from the front door, making the most of the apartment's perch above the city.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAccording to Berke, the oak herringbone floors are a take on Park Avenue's more traditional apartment buildings. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe kitchens will be outfitted with sleek marble countertops and stainless steel appliances.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesBut the kitchen's best feature has to be this 10-foot-long marble breakfast bar framed against the window. Just imagine enjoying your morning coffee here, with all of Manhattan sprawled out below you.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite's floor plan was designed so that the bed would be perfectly aligned with the window, offering the best views possible first thing in the morning.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite has separated his and hers bathrooms. Looking north from the marble-covered shower, you'll get a peek of Central Park and the Upper East Side. DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesAnd to the south, views of the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building, and the Freedom Tower can all be enjoyed from this free-standing tub.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe Properties432 Park will dramatically change the skyline around Central Park once it's completed in 2015.  DBOX for CIM Group/Macklowe PropertiesListen to designer Deborah Berke discuss her renderings and concept below.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersT-Mobile CEO John Legere. This is the second major missed opportunity for T-Mobile to sell itself. Sprint, with the backing of its majority owner Softbank, planned to buy T-Mobile this summer, but the deal fell through because Softbank was concerned the deal wouldn't be approved by U.S. regulators. T-Mobile's stock was down about 3% following Iliad's announcement. Deutsche Telekom, the German telecommunications company, owns most of T-Mobile and has been looking for a buyer for a long time now. T-Mobile might be an attractive acquisition for some because it's been adding subscribers at a faster pace than larger rivals like Verizon and AT&amp;T. However, it's not clear how sustainable that growth will be. Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile's boards both rejected Iliad's offer. Iliad offered to buy 67% of T-Mobile at $36 per share, the company said in a statement. Iliad initially offered to buy 56.6% of T-Mobile. It seems like Deutsche Telekom and T-Mobile want to sell the whole thing. FREE AppDownload
Facebook courtesy of Tyrel Oates Oates, 30, told Business Insider that he's not worried about losing his job. The positive has far outweighed the negative. So far, he's received only two negative responses.  Oates also told us why he sent the letter and why he CC'd 200,000 Wells Fargo employees. Here's our Q&amp;A: BI: What responsibility do you think the CEO of Wells Fargo has to address inequality? TO: As the leader of a multibillion-dollar company, he is in a position to create major change in the practices of how income is distributed. BI: Why do you think you're underpaid? Can you explain why you think you deserve more money? TO: Companies try to say they offer competitive salaries, but this is only because they understand that since Company A pays this much for a job that Companies B and C only need to pay as much as well. The vast majority of Americans are underpaid in relation to the income their companies bring in, profits skyrocket, while wages and salaries remain stagnant. BI: Can you explain your job? What do you do in a typical day? How many hours do you work? TO: I work Monday to Friday, 40 hours a week, and overtime as needed, processing cease-and-desist requests. Without the role the company would be at risk for FDCPA violations, opening themselves up to thousands of dollars lawsuits each day, if we were to continue to attempt direct collections communications with our customer. BI: What do your colleagues think of the letter? Have you received a lot of support?  TO: Out of the hundreds of replies I've received from colleagues supporting my actions and ideas, I've only received two negative replies. BI: What are your thoughts on Wall Street and the banking industry?  TO: Wall Street and the banking industry have both the power and influence to create a lot progressive action in fighting income inequality. BI: Are you worried about losing your job?  TO: I'm not worried about losing my job. BI: How did you CC 200,000 people?  TO: I spent my break and lunch times over the course of two weeks, composing 11 separate emails to CC everyone. I CC'd as many group distribution lists as I could find, and then started CC'ing individual people starting with the A's and worked my way down the list. BI: What do you want to do in the long-term for you career? TO: I'm going to college to obtain a degree in computer science and hope to start my own IT company someday. Here's the full letter Oates sent to Stumpf: Mr. Stumpf, With the increasing focus on income inequality in the United States. Wells Fargo has an opportunity to be at the forefront of helping to reduce this by setting the bar, leading by example, and showing the other large corporations that it is very possible to maintain a profitable company that not only looks out for its consumers and shareholders, but its employees as well. This year Wells Fargo in its second quarter alone had a net income of $5.7 billion, and total revenue of $21.1 billion. These are very impressive numbers, and is obvious evidence that Wells Fargo is one of, if not the most profitable company in the nation right now. So, why not take some of this and distribute it to the rest of the employees. Sure, the company provides while not great, some pretty good benefits, as well as discretionary profit sharing for those who partake in our 401k program. While the benefits are nice, the profit sharing through the 401k only goes to make the company itself and its shareholders more profitable, and not really boost the income of the thousands of us here every day making this company the prestigious power house that it is. Last year, you had pulled in over $19 million, more than most of the employees will see in our lifetimes. It is understood that your position carries a lot of weight and responsibility; however, with a base salary of $2.8 million and bonuses equating to $4 million, is alone one of the main arguments of income inequality. Where the vast majority, the undeniable profit drivers, with the exception of upper management positions barely make enough to live comfortably on their own, the distribution of income in this company is no better than that of the other big players in the corporate world. My estimate is that Wells Fargo has roughly around 300,000 employees. My proposal is take $3 billion dollars, just a small fraction of what Wells Fargo pulls in annually, and raise every employees annual salary by $10,000 dollars. This equates to an hourly raise about $4.71 per hour. Think, as well, of the positive publicity in a time of extreme consumer skepticism towards banks. By doing this, Wells Fargo will not only help to make its people, its family, more happy, productive, and financially stable, it will also show the rest of the United States, if not the world that, yes big corporations can have a heart other than philanthropic endeavors. P.S. – To all of my fellow team members who receive a copy of this email. Though Wells Fargo does not allow the formation of unions, this does not mean we cannot stand united. Each and every one of us plays an integral part in the success of this company. It is time that we ask, no, it is time that we demand to be rightfully compensated for the hard work that we accomplish, and for the great part we all have played in the success of this company. There are many of us out there who come to work every day and give it our all, yet, we struggle to make ends meet while our peers in upper management and company executives reap the majority of the rewards. One of our lowest scored TMCS questions is that our opinions matter. Well they do! This email has been sent to hundreds of thousands Wells Fargo employees, (as many as I could cc from the outlook global address book). And while the voice of one person in a world as large as ours may seem only like a whisper, the combined voices of each and all of us can move mountains! With the warmest of regards  FREE AppDownload
StreetEasyRoy Furman, chairman of private equity firm Jefferies Capital Partners is selling his nine-room condominium on top of the south tower of Time Warner Center for $35 million, according to The Real Deal. He bought the unit for $9.7 million back in 2005. The condo includes three bedrooms and three bathrooms. And if that's not enough, the views from the apartment are killer: you can see the Hudson River, and Central Park's pond and reservoir to the north. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Dean Purcell In part, because they constantly have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts, which are often heavy on the stock-based bonuses. The work of Jean Tirole, the newest Nobel Prize winner in economics, helps explain why this is the case. A lot of theories of negotiation before Tirole assumed that a contract was immutable once it was signed. But in reality, a contract often can be renegotiated. When both parties know that, it changes the way they approach the original contract. Take, for example, an executive compensation agreement. Tirole’s research with Drew Fudenberg explains that moral hazard is affected in a long-term contractual agreement when there’s an option for renegotiation. Specifically, it helps explain why so much of what a CEO gets paid is tied to performance and tied up in things like stock options. The CEO gets what seems like a lot, but knowing that he can ask for more next year makes it important that that compensation is tied to how well the company is doing.   The paper notes that the Tirole-Fundenberg model has two implications for executive compensation. First, "an executive who has made important long-run decisions (project or product choices, investments), will be offered the discretion to choose from a menu of compensation schemes, some offering a fairly certain payment and some offering riskier, performance-related payment." In reality, there's a broad range in what and how executives get paid, but a lot of them choose the high risk, high reward plan.  The second implication is that executive compensation usually doesn't have a lot to do with how the company does when she's gone from the company, although some CEOs do continue to get bonuses after they retire. For example, giving an executive $10 million per year in stock options that don’t vest until next year may seem ludicrous on its face, but it’s better than promising him $5 million in cash and watching him walk away after the company crumbles six months in. Tyler Cowen writes about the implications Tirole's work has for government deals with monopolistic industries (like defense contractors). Say the government signs a five year contract with a defense contractor. Previous research focused on how the two parties should negotiate the contract assuming that what they agreed to would never been renegotiated. In reality, three years into the project, the company can (and probably would) come back to the government and say, “The project is harder than expected. We won’t be able to finish unless you give us X more money.” Given the costs of losing the contract, it might actually be better for the government to just give in to these demands. Tirole’s paper finds that when you factor in this potential issue, it might be better for the government to give in to certain demands in the original contract that it otherwise wouldn’t if the contract could never been renegotiated — which helps explain why a lot of government contractors seem to get really sweet deals. Tirole is an economist at the Toulouse School of Economics. He won the prize, according to the Nobel committee’s reasoning, for his work on the overall theory of industrial organization (IO) and regulation. For a more comprehensive overview of Tirole’s work, see Tyler Cowen’s excellent roundup and the Nobel committee's summary.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dado RuvicStocks plunged again on Monday for the third straight day. Stocks bounced around for most of the day before nosediving into the close, just as they did on Friday, with all of the major indexes falling more than 1.3% as the Dow lost more than 210 points. Over the past three days the S&amp;P 500 has lost 4.8%, the largest three-day decline since November 2011.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. With banks and the bond market closed, there were no economic-data releases on the US calendar. Overnight, however, trade data out of China came in better than expected, as exports rose 15.3% in September compared to a year ago.  2. The 2014 Nobel Prize in Economics was awarded to French economist Jean Tirole for his analysis of market power and regulation. Business Insider's Shane Ferro has a breakdown of some of Tirole's most recent work, which helps to explain how CEOs come to command outsize compensation. 3. Shares of GoPro fell more than 9% on Monday amid both broad market weakness and new reports that indicate a GoPro could have been responsible for the seriousness of the skiing accident involving Formula One driver Michael Schumacher. GoPro did not respond to Business Insider's request for comment on Monday. Shares of GoPro, however, have been notably weak over the past few days as the Nasdaq has been the biggest loser among the major indexes. GoPro shares are now down more than 15% over the past five days. 4. Airline stocks were among the biggest losers on Monday, with shares of United, Delta, and American Airlines all falling more than 6%. Traders were attributing the decline to the recent Ebola outbreak; over the weekend, the second case of Ebola in the US was confirmed in Dallas. On Monday, reports said the second patient was a nurse at the Dallas hospital who treated Thomas Eric Duncan, the first US Ebola patient who died last week. 5. Amid continued fears about the Ebola virus, shares of Lakeland Industries and Alpha Pro Tech continued their huge rally, with both stocks gaining more than 30% on Monday. Lakeland makes hazmat suits, while Alpha Pro Tech makes protective face masks and other gear, and the two companies have seen shares more than double over the past couple of weeks as Ebola fears spread through the market. 6. Russian Central Bank head Elvira Nabiullina admitted that if the currency market continues to turn against the Ruble, the bank "won't be able to restrain them." On Monday, the ruble continued to slide against the dollar, and as Business Insider's Tomas Hirst reported, the admission from Nabiullina demonstrates the extent of the country's problems as it battles falling oil prices and a softening economy.  7. Fiat Chrysler shares made their debut in New York, beginning trading under the ticker FCAU, and marking the return of Chrysler to the US market after Fiat took control of the bankrupt company in 2009. Also in auto news, shares of Tesla on Monday officially entered a bear market after falling 20% from their peak made on Sept. 4.  8. Shares of eyewear company Luxottica fell more than 9% after its co-CEO Enrico Cavatorta quit after just six weeks on the job. 9. T-Mobile US shares fell more than 2% after French telecom company Iliad said it would not pursue a deal for the mobile carrier.  10. J.C. Penney named Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison as president and said Ellison will take over as the retailer's CEO in August 2015. Ellison most recently served as executive VP of Home Depot's stores and is largely credited with turning around Home Depot's business after the housing crisis.     FREE AppDownload
AP Images T. Boone Pickens Billionaire energy tycoon T. Boone Pickens had harsh words for President Barack Obama's policies in an interview with Business Insider last Friday, but he also criticized the president's fitness regimen. Pickens said he thinks Obama's workout routine is "pitiful."  This summer, leaked footage showed Obama using 10 lb. weights in a hotel gym in Poland. At the time, Pickens, who is 86-years-old, tried to challenge the President on Twitter to a 1-hour workout where they could also hammer out an energy plan. Obama never accepted Pickens' challenge.  "I tried to get the President involved in that deal after I saw on TV he had 10-pound weights and he was working out.  I mean it's pitiful," he told Business Insider. New York PostPickens went on to say he can lift far more weight than the president.  "And hell, I can curl 30s and he's got tens." Pickens has been working out every morning at 6:30 with his personal trainer for the last twenty-six years.  He Tweeted earlier this month that his trainer's job description is "Keep Boone alive." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNew York Jets owner Woody Johnson speaks during a news conference on the plans for Super Bowl XLVIII, at New York City Hall January 24, 2013. Super Bowl XLVIII will be held on February 2, 2014 at Meadowlands Sports Complex's MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, making it the first Super Bowl to be played outdoors. New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, who has been quietly shopping around his 834 Fifth Avenue co-op, has reportedly accepted a record-breaking $80 million offer.  Should the deal for the 14-room duplex close for that amount, it would set a new record for the most expensive co-op ever sold in New York City.  Currently, that title is held by Israel Englander’s $71.3 million purchase of the French ambassador to the United Nations’ 18-room duplex at 740 Park Avenue in June. Prior to that deal, Egyptian billionaire Nassef Sawiris briefly held the record following his $70 million purchase of the Bronfman penthouse at 960 Fifth Avenue, as The Real Deal reported at the time. The billionaire, who is also heir to the Johnson &amp; Johnson fortune, listed the 11th- and 12th-floor unit for $75 million earlier this month. The pad boasts five-and-a-half bathrooms and three maids’ rooms, and is located in a 16-story Art Deco building designed by Rosario Candela. Johnson reportedly never actually lived in the apartment, and now resides at One Central Park West. [NYP] and [Curbed] FREE AppDownload
Associated Press Customers arrive at a J.C. Penney store in New York.Former Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison will be the new CEO at JCPenney.  The brand has had an interim chief executive since Ron Johnson left the chain in April 2013 following a disastrous 16 months on the job.  JCPenney's shares are rising on the news that Ellison, formerly of Home Depot, will join the company in November.  Ellison's track record at Home Depot indicates that he could turn the brand's business around, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, said in a note to clients.  JCPenney has struggled to rebound since sales tumbled 32% last year. Despite interim CEO Mike Ullman's attempts to bring back customers with promotions, the brand has been hurt by declining mall traffic and poor consumer perception.  JCPenney Media RelationsMarvin Ellison Ellison spent eight years at Home Depot, most recently serving as executive vice president of stores.  Despite not having an apparel background, Ellison is "very strong operationally," making it likely that he will trim expenses and maximize profits, Sozzi writes.  He is largely credited with turning around Home Depot's business after the housing crisis several years ago.  finance.yahoo.comJCPenney's shares have struggled to recover since Ron Johnson's disastrous tenure. Ellison also improved customer service and improved e-commerce during his time at Home Depot, giving him experience that JCPenney could benefit from, Sozzi said. As more shoppers turn online, a renewed focus on e-commerce is necessary for JCPenney's future.  "Ellison’s operational background is needed," Sozzi writes. "Let the veteran merchants around him do the apparel and sneaker buys.  The market is right in sending the stock higher pre-market on the news." FREE AppDownload
AP Images "Lack of leadership," he said.  "We have the worst president we ever had," Pickens said. "I mean, he's going to be determined the worst before he ever gets out of office. He accomplished a lot less in eight years. Nobody else has ever done that. You know, Jimmy Carter loves him because he was the worst until he showed up, Obama. The Democrats ought to scratch their head on the deal. They ought to screen their prospects or candidates better." Pickens, 86, also ripped into Obama for his workout routine calling it "pitiful."  New York Post Editor's note: An earlier version of this story misquoted Mr. Pickens as saying, "He accomplished a lot in less than eight years." The article has been updated to say, "He accomplished a lot less in eight years."    FREE AppDownload
REUTERSMyron ScholesI sat down with Nobel Laureate Myron Scholes in Shanghai in August, and we had a great chat. This is the first part of a two-part series. In this installment, Scholes shares his perspectives on the Black–Scholes option pricing model, from the motivation and intuition of the original formula to the myriad of extensions. Speaking with Scholes is an intellectual treat thanks to his firm grasp of the subject matter and his deep insights on fundamental issues in research. It is a challenge at the same time. He is famously difficult to keep up with, given his rapid-fire communication style and the free-flowing information. I hope you enjoy reading this as much as I enjoyed the conversation. CFA Institute: Let’s start from the beginning: the motivation behind the development of the Black–Scholes model. How did the idea come about? What prompted you to tackle the problem?  Myron Scholes: In my courses at the University of Chicago, we studied risk but not insurance. The first dimension was reserves, bonds (or cash) versus stocks. To reduce risk, we hold risky bonds. For less risk, we hold cash. But, in listening to these discussions, I did not understand how much reserve to hold or what were the dynamics underlying the holding of reserves. If reserves are a cushion, I did not understand when and how to use the cushion. Every discussion was one period. Then the second dimension of risk was diversification. It was the Markowitz model, or the Sharpe model, trade-offs between risk and return, the power of diversification, in that residual risk could be eliminated. So that was the way we thought about risk. The dimension that seemed missing to me was insuring the downside. What was the value of protection? And that cushion was always a puzzle to me. That’s how I got interested in options. Also maintaining a cushion and never using it seemed like an expensive option. I was thinking about insuring the downside. If I own a portfolio of stocks and buy a put option against that portfolio, I am protected [at the strike price] and below. There is a price for that, and after looking through the finance literature one had a good answer as to what the cost of that protection should be. So that’s how I got started thinking about options. Over the past couple of days, you mentioned a few times that many CFA Institute members and CFA Program candidates complained that it is very hard to memorize the Black–Scholes formula. I agree with you; it’s not about memorizing the formula but understanding it. So, for someone who does not have a PhD in stochastic processes, how would you describe that formula? What is the idea captured in that formula?  The formula has two components. The first component: Is it possible to set up an alternative portfolio that would replicate the dynamics of the option? To do that, it’s necessary to determine what position to hold in stocks and what position to hold in bonds each short period to replicate the change in the price of the option over the short time frame. Interestingly, the position is hedged perfectly against small movements in the price of the stock and makes money on large changes in the price of the stock (or more generally, the changes in the price of the underlying asset.) These changes can’t be too large in the short run and we showed that they were uncorrelated with the changes in the market. With continuous hedging or replication there is perfect correlation with the between the option and the replicating portfolio. The no-arbitrage condition. That’s correct. And once you do that for a period of time, you will have to do it for the next period of time, and then you have to do it again for the next period of time. We showed that to replicate each period of time, it was only necessary to know the volatility of the stock and the interest rate that apply for that period. This is the technology for which we were awarded the Nobel Prize, a technology to value all derivatives. So the second part is to figure out how to integrate these pieces to obtain a valuation model. This is the Black–Scholes options pricing model. The integration problem. Yes. Fischer and I make the assumption (for illustrative purposes) that the interest rate is constant and that volatility is constant. Then it’s easy to do the integration (add up each of these period pieces) and produce the Black–Scholes have a valuation model. Our formula systematically incorporates the volatility component, the fact that you can make a lot of money for big movements in stocks, and it incorporates the time decay component, the fact that you will lose a little money each period over time and when nothing happens. In other words, the valuation model incorporates the “as if condition,” as if a person undertook the mimicking portfolio strategy each period, essentially neither making nor losing money most of the time no matter if the market goes up or the market goes down. We show that since the position has a zero systematic exposure to the market (or was riskless), it is possible to discount the cash flows generated by the position at the riskless rate. You mentioned the two assumptions, constant interest rate and constant volatility. Are these made to simplify the math?  Yes, to simplify the integration. This produces the Black–Scholes model. It is not necessary in the underlying formulation because in each period we can set up a mimicking portfolio, and each period the stock can have a different volatility and interest rate. To be entirely general, the models would need to estimate the time paths of volatility and interest rates. It is possible to provide an easy numerical valuation model if volatility is a function of price or changes as a function of time, or that interest rates have a known forward curve. It becomes very hard, however, with stochastic volatility and interest rates and changing correlations between them. How did the model evolve over time? What are some of the interesting elaborations that people have applied to the original model? In the initial formulation, we did not handle stochastic dividend payments? Or other cash flows that go to one of the securities but not to the other. The mimicking portfolio might have to pay dividends while the option doesn’t receive it. So there various extensions of the model formulated how to incorporate dividend payments. Then we had the advent of the binomial pricing model that allowed model builders an opportunity to use each of the nodes of the binomial tree and make decisions about cash flows at the nodes and whether to exercise the option prior to maturity. Although not exact, the binomial pricing model allowed for valuation that handled discrete cash flows (such as dividend payments) and decision points (such as early exercise). There has also been work and papers on how to handle How important actually is adding skewness? Well, we don’t know. I mean, I have always had doubts on distribution assumptions, in particular, the log normal distribution. We do observe that the distributions of returns have fat tails. I don’t know whether they result from mixing distributions together or from an underlying generating process. Using mixtures of distributions and what we gain from doing so depends on the empirical applications of the technology. I would say that over a longer horizon, the more the dimensionalities improve, the better pricing will be. How about other “extended” extensions? There’s been a huge extension of the option technology to non-traded options securities, such as trying to understand the prepayment option of mortgages. You cannot use the dynamic programming structure. You have to use combinations of forward and backward induction because we don’t know the optimal time to exercise the prepayment options. Additionally, you have other contracts that have different features, such as knocked-out options, or you have executive stock options; you have options that involve terms of annuity contracts with minimum payments; all those embedded options. Fascinating. The framework that you and Dr. Black started is indeed a really rich framework that allows all these extensions. It is also a framework with profound implications in the real world for the practitioner. If you liked this post, consider subscribing to the Enterprising Investor. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Francisco OsorioJust because you aren't an expert investor doesn't mean you can't learn.Do you have a large amount of cash savings, but not much put into invested accounts for retirement? If so, you’re not alone. A majority of Millennials prefer to keep their assets in cash and don’t trust the idea of putting money into the market. That’s not too surprising, since many members of Gen Y started life “in the real world” right before or during the Great Recession. We saw our parents retirement accounts crash and burn and we know people who lost it all. But here’s the thing: investing is still important. One of the biggest risks to investing for millennials is inflation risk, which means that if your rate of return doesn’t outpace inflation, you’re actually losing money. Leaving everything in cash over the period of your working life — just like you should leave your contributions in your invested retirement accounts over your career — will leave you with cash that’s less valuable in the future than it was when you put it in savings. That’s due to inflation, and investing wisely can help you avoid losing a chunk of your nest egg to it. If you’re in Gen Y and aren’t so sure about investing or the stock market, start with educating yourself. That’s the first step to feeling empowered with your finances and your investments. To get you going, review and learn these 17 investing terms all Millennials should understand: 1. ROI. Short for “return on investment.” Is a measurement that refers to the gain or loss experienced relative to the amount invested and is often expressed as a percent. ROI is calculated by dividing the gain (or loss) by the cost of the investment. Example: An investment of $1,000 grows to $1,100 would generate an ROI of 10% ($100/$1,000 x 100). 2. Compound interest. Compounding means that when interest is initially calculated on the principal amount invested, the added interest can then also earn interest. 3. 401(k). A retirement savings account that takes advantage of a specific tax code to allow deductions (i.e. deposits) to be made from your paycheck on a before tax basis.  Example: If your gross pay is $900 and your 401k deduction is $100, your taxes for that paycheck are calculated on $800 instead of $900. Some employers will also make contributions on behalf of employees (called “matching contributions”). There is a limit set each year to how much can be deposited. Earnings and deposits grow on a tax-free basis until withdrawn. 4. Roth IRA. A Roth Individual Retirement Account is a type of retirement savings vehicle. Unlike a traditional IRA, contributions  to a Roth IRA do not receive an upfront tax deduction. Therefore, you can withdraw your funds tax-free in retirement since you already paid taxes when you put the money in. Another important thing to note is that you can withdraw your contributions at any time (just not the gain). Note: If you’re wondering if you should contribute to a Roth IRA or a 401(k), this post might help you! Flickr / lilie MéloYou should know the difference between a 401(k) and Roth IRA. 5. Certificate of deposit (CD). No, I’m not talking about those compact discs I bought in high school (yes, this ages me). A CD is a type of savings account offered by a financial institution. In exchange for keeping savings in the account for a specified period of time (i.e. 1 year, 5 years, etc.) often times a higher interest rate is given than you would earn on your savings account. 6. Money market account. A type of savings account offered through many banks and credit unions that pays higher interest, but also may require higher account balances or other restrictions, like the number of withdrawals you can make each month. However, two of my favorite money market accounts are at online banks: Ally Bank and CapitalOne 360. 7. Liquidity. The ability to cash out of an investment easily. Cash in your checking or savings account is the easiest to access. Money in investments needs to be sold before it can be accessed and it takes a few days for trades to settle and the cash to become available. 8. Stocks. When you own a stock, you own a piece of that company. A stock offers ‘shares’ of a public corporation, so you can take partial ownership and profit off of the company’s earnings. 9. Bonds. This is a debt security, where the investor loans money to government or corporate entities. In exchange, companies provide interest payments at predetermined intervals and pay back the loan in full. Flickr / Hiii FiiiBears and bulls aren't only animals. 10. Bear or bull market. A metaphor used to describe the investor environment primarily related to the stock market. A bear swiping its paws downward indicates a downward market; lowering of stock prices, investor pessimism, and lack of confidence. A bull with its horns pointing upward indicates investor optimism and confidence as well as a rise in stock prices. 11. Diversification. An investment strategy that in effect avoids “putting all of your eggs in one basket.” Using this strategy, investors have a variety of investments such as stocks, bonds, money market funds to minimize risk. 12. Buy and hold. A type of investment strategy where investors buy stocks and hold onto them, using the philosophy that long-term gains provide a nice return, regardless of short-term volatility or declines in the market. 13. Mutual fund. Mutual funds pool funds together from several investors which are then used to buy stocks, bonds or other securities which are managed by a professional fund manager. Flickr/Christopher MichelOnce a company holds an IPO, outside investors can buy shares. 14. Initial public offering. Also referred to as an IPO. An IPO occurs when a private company transforms into a public company and starts to sell shares of stocks to outside investors. 15. Dividend. A payment of profits, typically quarterly, to shareholders who invest in a company. 16. Inflation. An increase in the price and value of goods and services, often represented as an annual percentage. 17. Expense ratio. Expressed as a percent, the expense ratio is the annual operating expenses for a fund for such things as administrative, operating and management fees divided by the value of assets under management. There are a lot of terms related to investing, but starting to learn the basics will help you have a better grasp on your financial life and give you confidence to invest in your future. If  you want to keep reading and learning, be sure to check out Investopedia. It’s a virtual content library and a great resource for anyone eager to find the answers to their questions. Do you have specific questions about investing terms, or getting started with investing? You can schedule a call with me and we can chat more about your specific financial situation and questions. FREE AppDownload
Most parents-to-be assume that the sex of their child comes down to a flip of the chromosomal coin with an equal chance of having a boy or a girl.  But in reality — the odds are not even.  Created by Henry Reich Production team: Alex Reich, Henry Reich, Emily Elert, Kate Yoshida, Ever Salazar, Peter Reich Music by Nathaniel Schroeder: soundcloud.com/drschroeder Follow MinuteEarth: On YouTube This article originally appeared at MinuteEarth. Science and stories about our awesome planet! Copyright 2014. Follow MinuteEarth on Twitter.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren Buffett, the third-wealthiest person in the world, according to Forbes.When Warren Buffett started his investing career, he would read 600, 750, or 1,000 pages a day. Even now, he still spends about 80% of his day reading.  "Look, my job is essentially just corralling more and more and more facts and information, and occasionally seeing whether that leads to some action," he once said in an interview.  "We don't read other people's opinions," he says. "We want to get the facts, and then think." To help you get into the mind of the billionaire investor, we've rounded up his book recommendations over 20 years of interviews and shareholder letters.  It was the one of the luckiest moments of his life, he said, because it gave him the intellectual framework for investing.&nbsp; "To invest successfully over a lifetime does not require a stratospheric IQ, unusual business insights, or inside information," Buffett said. "What's needed is a sound intellectual framework for making decisions and the ability to keep emotions from corroding that framework. This book precisely and clearly prescribes the proper framework. You must provide the emotional discipline." The book's core insight: If your analysis is thorough enough, you can figure out the value of a company &mdash; and if the market knows the same.&nbsp; Buffett has said that Graham was the second-most influential figure in his life, after only his father.&nbsp; "Ben was this incredible teacher; I mean he was a natural," he said.&nbsp; "I am an eager reader of whatever Phil has to say, and I recommend him to you," Buffett said.&nbsp; In "Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits," Fisher emphasizes that fixating on financial statements isn't enough &mdash; you also need to evaluate a company's management. Lots of books have been written about how to manage an organization through tough times. Almost none are firsthand accounts of steering a wing of government through economic catastrophe.&nbsp; "This wasn't just a little problem on the fringes of the U.S. mortgage market," Geithner writes. "I had a sick feeling in my stomach. I knew what financial crises felt like, and they felt like this."&nbsp; &nbsp; In this collection, he keeps it very real &mdash; in his signature folksy-intellectual fashion.&nbsp; "What could be more advantageous in an intellectual contest &mdash; whether it be chess, bridge, or stock selection &mdash;than to have opponents who have been taught that thinking is a waste of energy?" he asks.&nbsp; &nbsp; In commenting on the book, Bloomberg Businessweek wrote that "Welch has had such an impact on modern business that a tour of his personal history offers all managers valuable lessons." Buffett's advice: "Get a copy!"&nbsp; Berkshire Hathaway plays a major role in the book. One chapter is on director Tom Murphy, who Buffett says is "overall the best business manager I&rsquo;ve ever&nbsp;met."&nbsp; The book &mdash; which finds patterns of success from execs at The Washington Post,&nbsp;Ralston Purina, and others &mdash; has been praised as "one of the most important business books in America" by Forbes.&nbsp;&nbsp; In it, Bogle &mdash; creator of the index fund and founder of the Vanguard Group, now managing&nbsp;$2 trillion in assets &mdash; argues that long-term investing has been crowded out by short-term speculation.&nbsp; But the book isn't all argument. It finishes with practical tips, like:&nbsp; 1. Remember reversion to the mean.&nbsp;What's hot today isn't likely to be hot tomorrow. The stock market reverts to fundamental returns over the long run. Don't follow the herd. 2. Time is your friend, impulse is your enemy.&nbsp;Take advantage of compound interest and don't be captivated by the siren song of the market. That only seduces you into buying after stocks have soared and selling after they plunge. To reply, Buffett sent the Microsoft founder his personal copy of "Business Adventures," a collection of New Yorker stories by John Brooks.&nbsp; Gates says that the book serves as a reminder that the principles for building a winning business stay constant. He writes:&nbsp; For one thing, there's an essential human factor in every business endeavor. It doesn't matter if you have a perfect product, production plan and marketing pitch; you'll still need the right people to lead and implement those plans. The book has become a media darling as of late; Slate wrote that it's "catnip for billionaires."&nbsp;&nbsp; FREE AppDownload
"Shark Tank"/ABCMark Cuban.Mark Cuban says the student loan bubble is "no different" than the housing bubble that we saw burst in the last decade. Speaking in an interview on CNBC, Cuban said that the increase in student loan debt is holding back the economy, as the purchasing power of college graduates becomes increasingly held back by high debt burdens. Cuban said that the "easy money" the government funnels to college students is "no different" than the policies that encouraged people to buy houses in the mid-2000s. Cuban's solution is to put a limit on the amount of money that any individual can borrow in a single year that is guaranteed by the government. Cuban said the government's backing of student loans has allowed universities to increase their tuition and increase administrative excesses. "When you have more administrators making $200,000 a year than professors, you have something wrong," Cuban said. Cuban added that the worst thing a wealthy person can do is donate a building to a university, because this encourages the excess that have become so rampant and problematic in the higher education system. The main downside to Cuban's position, he said, is that right now, he's not taking the initiative to make something happen. These comments on CNBC follow similar comments from Cuban made recently at Inc.'s GrowCo conference. You can watch the video of those comments here. Cuban also talked to CNBC about the stock market, which he says isn't representative of the economy anymore.  "We're not really sure what drives the stock market anymore," Cuban said. "There used to be correlations we could understand. But the problem is that nobody really understands what drives our market, and so when things happen, they happen fast."  In morning trade on Friday, stocks were lower across the board. FREE AppDownload
ChinaFotoPress/Stringer/Getty ImagesBond investors are used to managing interest-rate risk and credit risk. But the financial crisis should have taught us that there are times when liquidity risk can be just as important to manage. Now is one of those times. Why has liquidity become such a prevalent risk in today’s fixed-income markets? Simply put: there’s a lot less of it. Stricter regulations that require banks to hold more capital against losses have prodded them into slashing inventories of assets such as corporate bonds. This leaves the banks unable to play the part of willing buyer when investors want to sell. These liquidity dynamics likely magnified recent sell-offs in high-yield bonds and bank loans. It’s unclear how quickly interest rates will rise in anticipation of tighter Federal Reserve policy next year. But rise they probably will, and any drift upward could intensify selling pressure. In a worst case scenario, today’s trot to the exit could turn into a mad dash — and we doubt that everyone would fit through the door. The good news is that liquidity risk is manageable — and can even offer attractive opportunities, given the right time horizon. When liquidity dries up in one sector, it can be plentiful in another. If managed properly, it can be an additional source of returns. Here are five things investors can do to stay afloat: Liquidity is episodic and can affect different sectors in different ways. Consequently, segregating one’s allocations into single-sector funds — high yield, emerging markets and so on — can be dangerous; if liquidity dries up in one sector, investors can quickly find themselves trapped. In our view, a holistic and dynamic multi-sector approach that lets investors tap into a broad universe of fixed-income assets offers better protection should liquidity in a specific sector dry up. The AllianceBernstein Blog Holding too much cash has been a losing proposition for investment returns these past six years, thanks to the Federal Reserve’s successful campaign to drive down the risk-free interest rate. But cash can come in awfully handy when it comes to meeting redemptions in low-liquidity environments. That’s why US mutual funds were allocating 9% of their portfolios to cash on average through August, according to Morningstar. Investors were much less prepared when the global financial crisis hit: the average cash allocation in December of 2008 was just 1.6%. To offset the potential performance drag of cash, investors can potentially improve returns by tapping the derivatives market to get exposure to “synthetic” securities. The liquid derivatives market also gives investors access to additional pools of liquidity. Historically, traders at asset management firms mostly executed orders. But as banks have retreated from the bond-trading business, the responsibilities of buy-side traders have grown. The best traders are adept at finding sources of liquidity and making the most of opportunities caused by its ebb and flow. Investment managers who have embraced a more active role for traders stand a better chance, in our view, of managing liquidity risk effectively. This is especially important when low liquidity makes the trading environment so inflexible. When liquidity is plentiful, it’s easy to exit trades that have achieved their objectives. But in today’s fixed-income markets, investors shouldn’t assume liquidity will be there when needed. That’s why we think it pays to dig deeply into every possible investment. Multiple time horizons, including “holding to maturity,” should be considered when analyzing bonds. And if holding a particular bond to maturity doesn’t look attractive in today’s environment, investors might want to reconsider the security altogether. File this one under the “silver lining” tab: the forces that have been reducing liquidity — increased regulation and stricter capital requirements — are also unlocking attractive opportunities in private credit. As banks originate fewer residential and commercial mortgages and lend less to mid-size companies, asset managers are filling the void. Yields on many private credit assets are on average considerably higher than those on more traditional bonds.  The reason, of course, is simple: these investments are not as liquid. But as we’ve seen, liquidity isn’t what it used to be throughout the fixed-income market. In our view, investors with long time horizons may want to consider taking advantage of these “illiquidity premiums.” We believe that these prudent steps can help investors navigate a less liquid market. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Emmanuel Foudrot In early trade on Monday, shares of GoPro were down as much as 10% amid another day of broad market weakness, with the Nasdaq losing the most ground among the major averages.  According to Eurosport, French F1 commentator Jean-Louis Moncet told radio station Europe 1 that the problem for Schumacher was not his fall but the GoPro camera he had mounted to his helmet.  Per Yahoo's report: "'The problem for Michael was not the hit, but the mounting of the Go-Pro camera that he had on his helmet that injured his brain,' Moncet explained to the radio station." This is not the first time that a mounted camera has been pegged as possibly increasing the severity of Schumacher's injury, but it appears to be the first time GoPro was mentioned by name. A report in The Telegraph from back in February, shortly after Schumacher's accident, said that Schumacher's helmet smashed after his fall, but that the camera mounted to his helmet did not. That report said experts were exploring whether "a solid object between a helmet colliding with a rock would weaken the structure." From The Telegraph: Experts from ENSA, the world-renowned ski and climbing academy in the French ski resort of Chamonix, have conducted tests to determine whether the presence of a solid object between a helmet colliding with a rock would weaken the structure. The helmet smashed – but the camera he had attached to it, in order to record him and his son skiing, was undamaged. The footage, audio and visual, has provided police with crucial information about the crash. "The helmet completely broke. It was in at least two parts. ENSA analyzed the piece of the helmet to check the material, and all was OK," said a source close to the investigation. "But why did it explode on impact? Here the camera comes into question. The laboratory has been testing to see if the camera weakened the structure." Schumacher, a seven-time world champion, is still recovering from his injuries, sustained in December. Schumacher emerged from a medically induced coma in June.   FREE AppDownload
APMarissa Mayer is under siege from an activist investor Eventually, the letters forced Yahoo's board to get rid of Yahoo's CEO and allow the Wall Street investor to handpick a new CEO. That new CEO was Marissa Mayer, hired because of her experience developing products at Google. She's been on the job for two years. Now, history is repeating itself. Once again, a big Wall Street investor has acquired a large stake in Yahoo. Once again, the investor is writing letters telling Yahoo what to do. This time, the investor is Jeff Smith, who runs Starboard Value, a company that specializes in activist-shareholder campaigns. Starboard is the firm that forced AOL to sell off Patch and just took over the board of directors at Olive Garden's parent company, Darden. So far, Smith isn't calling for Yahoo's chairman to resign — the way Loeb did immediately out of the gate three years ago. Neither is Smith lobbying for Yahoo's board to fire its CEO, Mayer.  He's implied that he's willing to make those kinds of demands if Yahoo doesn't follow his plan for the company. Smith's plan, basically, is to break Yahoo into two companies. Reuters/ Rick WilkingJeff Smith wants to break Yahoo into two companies. One company, the spun-out one, would consist of Yahoo's core business — the Yahoo.com you know. The second company — technically the same company as the one trading under the symbol YHOO — would consist of Yahoo's stock holdings in two major Asian Internet companies, Alibaba and Yahoo Japan.  According to reporting and analysis from John Jannarone at CNBC, the reason Smith wants Yahoo to do this is that he believes Yahoo's holdings in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan are worth more than Yahoo's ~$40 billion market cap. He believes that Yahoo's market cap is being held artificially low for two reasons. One, he says shareholders worry that when Yahoo finally sells its stakes Alibaba and Yahoo Japan that it will pay full taxes on the sale Two, shareholders worry that Yahoo management will keep some of the proceeds from such a sale and use them on wasteful acquisitions. Smith's view is that if Yahoo were to spin out its core business, it would not have to pay any taxes on its Alibaba and Yahoo Japan stakes because it would not be selling them. Also, shareholders would know the that the Alibaba and Yahoo Japan stock could not be sold to fund anymore failed acquisitions for Yahoo. Smith's plan for Yahoo is a fascinating one, and a few calls have confirmed that major shareholders are interested in hearing more about it. One potential problem is that Smith's plan has been tried before. According to a source familiar with the situation, Yahoo considered spinning out its core business a couple of years ago — sometime around 2010. The reason the spin-out halted back then was that neither Alibaba nor Yahoo Japan would agree to provide YHOO, the investment company, with the detailed financial information the SEC requires. Our source says the SEC is particularly demanding of "investment companies," which is how the SEC would classify the Alibaba/YJ holding company. Getting financials from Alibaba should no longer be an issue. Since September, Alibaba has been a public company, required to disclose everything the SEC asks. Getting Yahoo Japan to disclose financials to the SEC might be a bigger problem. Yahoo Japan is co-owned by Japanese conglomerate Softbank. Our source says that Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son was "extremely adamant" that Yahoo Japan only trade on one exchange.  The reason: "I think he feared losing [Yahoo Japan's] high multiple on the Tokyo Stock Exchange if an exchange in the US valued the company on a lower multiple." What's this all mean for Mayer and Yahoo?  Mostly that Mayer, hired because of her reputation as a software engineer and her product-development skills, is going to have to become an expert financial engineer if she wants to keep shareholders happy.  Nicholas Carlson is the author of Marissa Mayer and the Fight To Save Yahoo! on sale Jan. 6.    FREE AppDownload
A mortgage is considered "good debt," meaning it's a debt that could be considered an investment in yourself. By paying this debt, you're securing a place to live. That's not to say that a mortgage isn't serious. According to credit bureau Experian, the average amount of money owed on a mortgage in the US is over $157,000, ranging from an average of about $93,000 in West Virginia to an intimidating $275,000 in Washington, D.C. Using data provided to Business Insider by Experian's Decision Analytics group, we made a map showing the average mortgage balance — how much is still owed on existing mortgages — per account in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Experian Decision Analytics Here's a table showing the average balance for each state, along with the average for the US as a whole: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Experian Decision Analytics
Volatility has picked up in the global financial markets. The S&amp;P 500 is down by 5% from its September 19 all-time high of 2019. Investors and traders are understandably nervous. But sell-offs happen. "Investors now worry that the current decline in the S&amp;P 500 is the beginning of a larger correction triggered by signs of a global economic slowdown," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin writes. "We recognize the S&amp;P 500 has not experienced a 10% sell-off since June 2012, a span of more than two years, which is an unusually long time based on historical trading patterns." Sneider included a chart of annual maximum drawdowns in the S&amp;P 500. These are the declines from the high to the low. As you can see, every year of the current bull market has seen some violent sell-offs. In fact, we actually experienced a 6% pullback from January 14 to February 3 of this year. Goldman Sachs"[T]o put the recent dip in perspective, the S&amp;P 500 has still returned 5% YTD even after the current sell-off," Sneider continued. "A 10% correction from the peak would involve the S&amp;P 500 falling to 1810." Sneider, however, doesn't expect the current sell-off to get that ugly. From her note: "First, while investors are justifiably concerned about a slowing world economy, US GDP is expanding at an above-trend pace. Second, we expect a resumption of corporate buyback activity once earnings season ends for most firms at the end of October. Third, the prospect of another year of low US interest rates should insulate the domestic equity market from a large correction. Fourth, our sentiment indicator points to extremely low net positioning which suggests S&amp;P 500 will rally during the next 4- 6 weeks. Fifth, historical trading patterns suggest a near-term S&amp;P 500 trough 6% to 8% below the recent all-time high which implies an index level between 1850 and 1890." FREE AppDownload
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles makes its Wall Street debut to great fanfare on Monday, listing on New York Stock Exchange. The move shifts the carmaker's center of gravity away from Italy and caps a decade of canny dealmaking and tough restructuring by CEO Sergio Marchionne. This isn't an IPO but rather a stock-exchange listing to accompany an official merger of Fiat and Chrysler — a merger that set in motion in 2009, when Fiat took over Chrysler after the smallest of the Big Three automaker was bailed out by the federal government and fell into bankruptcy. The world's seventh-largest auto group has sought the U.S. listing to help to establish itself as a leading global player through access to the world's biggest equity market and the cheaper, more reliable source of funding it ultimately offers. Marchionne has also told news outlets that the company chose Columbus Day to commence trading on the NYSE due to the historic connection between the U.S. and Italy represented by the famous explorer. Marchionne has picked a difficult moment to woo U.S. investors. Analysts think the U.S. auto industry is nearing a peak, while Europe is struggling to recover from years of decline and growth in China and Latin America has slowed. "Only those willing to accept the risks of a highly leveraged turnaround situation in a competitive, capital-intensive, highly cyclical industry should consider investing," said Richard Hilgert, an analyst at Morningstar, in a note. Marchionne will ring the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Monday to mark the milestone for the 62-year-old chief executive who revived one of Italy's top companies and helped rescue Chrysler along the way. "We're predominately a U.S. automaker with operations in foreign countries. I want this to be a U.S.-listed company," Marchionne has said. Half of FCA's sales are in North America. Fiat took management control of bankrupt Chrysler in 2009 and completed its buyout this year. It is now combining all of its businesses under Dutch-registered FCA, which will have a UK financial domicile and small London headquarters, with operations centers in Turin and Detroit. Wall Street is the first item on an ambitious agenda for the next five years as Marchionne gears up for the launch of dozens of new models, from funky Fiat 500s to sporty Maseratis. The target is a 60 percent boost in sales to seven million vehicles and a fivefold increase in net profit to as much as 5.5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) by 2018 — the year Marchionne has said he would step down as CEO after seeing through his plan. FCA's growth plans won't come cheap, though, and Marchionne will need to be at his persuasive best if analysts are right with predictions that the group will need to raise more capital to pay for his 48-billion euro investment plan. DETROIT POWER STRUGGLE In comparison with GM and Ford, FCA is seen as less attractive because of its aging model line-up, high debt, weaker margins in North America and its small presence in China. "Ford and GM also offer much stronger cash generation and balance sheets, and are thus in a position to return cash to shareholders, while FCA still needs to raise capital," Exane BNP Paribas analyst Stuart Pearson said in a note. FCA will decide on future financing options this month, though Marchionne insists it does not need a capital increase. But some analysts think FCA is a good long-term bet because of its potential in the fast-growing premium segment of the market with brands such as Alfa Romeo, Ferrari and Jeep. "Jeep's re-entry into China will provide Fiat with a turbo boost to its share of the market," Morningstar's Hilgert said. One U.S. investment banker said the true test for FCA would come once it seeks to access U.S. capital markets. "Now would be the worst possible time to ask investors for money," he said. John Casesa, senior managing partner at Guggenheim Securities, said investors would need to weigh the prospects of huge cost savings from integrating Fiat and Chrysler, with the risk that the autos market peaks in the next few years. Marchionne hopes to see more than half of FCA stock changing hands in New York instead of Milan, but appetite will take time to build, especially as FCA has yet to switch to U.S. accounting principles and to reporting results in dollars. Marchionne will hit the road next month to spread the word. FCA may also sell treasury shares and other stock after the listing in an attempt to boost trading volumes. He believes that FCA's cause will be aided by Chrysler's brand strength in the United States, now the main profit center for the combined group. FCA sold more cars in North America last month than Toyota, the world's largest automaker. The stock opens at 1330 GMT (0930 EDT) in New York and shortly afterwards in Milan, where the group will keep a secondary listing. Monday's opening price will be benchmarked against Fiat's previous close of 6.94 euros ($8.76). Marchionne is scheduled to ring the closing bell at the NYSE on Monday.  In a related move, longtime Ferrari Chairman Luca di Montezemolo will step down as the parent company of the luxury supercar maker officially joins with Chrysler. FREE AppDownload
This video is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.   Investors focused on long-term growth know that the types of companies you invest in today will most likely be different from the companies you invest in, say, a decade from now. As part of our investment series with OppenheimerFunds, we polled Business Insider readers to see what kinds of companies they think they should be adding to their investment portfolios. 33% of readers think they should include healthcare and pharmaceutical companies in their portfolio, while 25% said technology.  OppenheimerFunds Senior Economist Brian Levitt believes investors are going to need to take a more active approach in the future by investing in companies that don’t need robust, economic activity to thrive. Levitt says there are three types of companies that will flourish in the long-term bull market. Watch the video above to find out what they are.   OppenheimerFunds More about OppenheimerFunds.  Mutual funds are subject to market and risk volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL-OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. OFDI engaged Business Insider to prepare this material. © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedSen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Massachusetts) criticized President Barack Obama and her fellow Democrats for being too soft on the financial industry in an interview with Salon published Sunday where she said they "protected Wall Street" and "not families" in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis. Even though Warren said Democrats have "not done all that they should," she argued voters still need to support her party rather than the GOP.  "We’re the only ones fighting back. Right now, on financial reform, the Republicans are trying to roll back the financial reforms of Dodd-Frank," Warren said. "In fact, Mitch McConnell has announced that if he gets the majority in the Senate, his first objective is to repeal healthcare and his second is to roll back the financial reforms, and in particular to target the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau — the one agency that’s out there for American families, the one that has returned more than four billion dollars to families who got cheated by big financial institutions." Warren, who served as an assistant to Obama and helped him establish the CFPB before entering the Senate, has earned a reputation as a fierce populist and critic of the financial industry. In the interview with Salon, Warren said she understood why voters might be upset Democrats aren't "tougher" on Wall Street, but she argued they are still better than the alternative. "So, Democrats have not done all that they should, but at least we’re out there fighting for the right things. We’re fighting and I think trying to pull in the right direction. So if the question is, hold us to a higher standard, man, I’m there. You’re right," said Warren. "You want to criticize and say, “you should do more!,” the answer is: Yes, we should! You bet! We should be stronger. We should be tougher. But understand the difference between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party right now. It’s pulling as hard and fast as it can in the opposite direction." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVBill AckmanBill Ackman's Pershing Square Holdings began trading in Amsterdam today. Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, compared his investment strategy to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.  "We do not even called them trades. No, I mean, they're investments," Ackman told Bloomberg News Hans Nichols in an interview this morning. "Pershing Square Holdings, we think of it like an investment holding company.  We are not Berkshire Hathaway, but I think that's not a bad business model.  You think about a long duration investment strategy.  We will only invest in the public markets but we will buy large stakes in public companies like we did in the past.  This will enable us to have a capital base that matches the duration of our investments." Ackman uses an activist investing strategy where he takes large stakes in companies and advocates for change from management in an effort to unlock shareholder value. He sees himself more as a Buffett than an Icahn, though.  "I think — I think that's a better choice.  I mean, I'm friendly with Mr. Icahn and he's done a fabulous job but in terms of investment strategy, we're much more like Berkshire Hathaway than Icahn." That's not really a swipe at Icahn, though. Ackman and Icahn were rivals for many years. They engaged in a nasty public fight live on CNBC with Icahn hurling insults at Ackman. They made up this summer and hugged it out on stage at a conference.  It's well-known that Ackman has been a fan of Buffett for years. He's compared his investment strategy to the "Oracle of Omaha" before.  He has also recommended that people in the hedge fund space read all of Buffett's shareholder letters. He also has his analysts at Pershing Square read books on Buffett. Ackman said that he plans to use that capital to take a stake in a U.S. publicly traded company. He said that investment will be unveiled in the next 45 to 60 days.  Watch the Bloomberg TV clip below:   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA mainstay of stock market appreciation over the last several years has been the ability of corporations to manage costs and maintain pricing discipline to deliver high profit margins, even amid tepid growth. While nobody is saying it explicitly, the overall state of things indicates that investors are comfortable with share count reduction supporting earnings per share (EPS) growth, and that the high profit margins that make it all work are sustainable. So it is worthwhile to ask: How is the margin story holding up? On average, pretty well. But it’s interesting to look at where the cracks have come in, and where they have not. It is generally not as simple as excess supply touching off a cycle of price reductions. While such reductions have happened, companies have managed though them more often than not. They are often temporary phenomena, such as a retailer picking up promotional activity to work down a spike in inventory. The common ingredient for more pronounced margin pressure is some form of disruption. Technological disruption comes to mind, but we’ve also seen customer preference for a different version of the product, or a different form of delivery, or even disruption through legislative fiat. In retail, e-commerce is turning out to be a profit margin headwind. Customers want free shipping and the ability to return items anywhere for any reason. Firms need to invest in technology and distribution systems to support this, but it is more about staying competitive than capturing incremental sales. And in the supermarket, there is a demand for more healthy foods and a shift from processed foods. So traditional packaged food companies either need to invest in new products or buy smaller, upstart competitors that are positioned for these trends. Regulatory fiat: Both the financial sector and the healthcare sector saw disruption in the form of legislation around pricing and offerings. Healthcare has absorbed much of the Affordable Care Act pretty well. Managed care companies have held onto profitability, and some of the providers are benefiting from the growth in utilization. The financial sector was hit with a variety of restrictions—from limits on overdraft fees on small checking accounts to the amount of capital that must be held by the largest capital markets institutions. These were and are drags to profitability, but firms are finding solutions to some of the changes. In the technology sector, disruption and shifting requirements are part of the landscape, if not the landscape itself. Investment in corporate IT infrastructure has seen only limited growth as customers delay investment spending while they take time to consider their strategy toward the cloud and software as a service. It is interesting that almost all of the old tech giants that were once seen as the engines of innovation are presumed to be the victims of innovation. The good news for equities is that it is hard to find many examples of excess investment and aggressive pricing just breaking out, even amid slack demand. As one CEO explained; “we’d just be lowering our revenues. You’ll see us get aggressive if things get moving and there is actually some incremental business.” The bad news is that some form of disruption eventually comes to every industry, and discipline won’t cut it when the market wants something different than what you are selling. So, investors protect themselves by investing in the disruptors, right? Yes, but an investment diet consisting solely of prospective disruptors can have its own issues. And not every industry is disrupted by an outsider. So the key question is whether a company has adequately invested in next generation products, distribution or true advances in productivity. They can do this internally, through investment spending and R&amp;D or externally through smart acquisitions. Either approach is ok, as is a combination of both. The important thing for analysts and investors is to asses which path a company is on, and appraise the financial statements accordingly. FREE AppDownload
 Hulton Archive/Getty ImagesToday's stock prices are so extreme that a drop of 40%-50% would not be a surprise. Indeed, it would take a drop of this magnitude just to get back to average long-term valuation levels, let alone cheap. Meanwhile, after 5 years of frantically pumping money into the financial system, the Fed is not only still going full bore (interest rates are zero) but facing ever-increasing pressure to ease off the gas. So if stock prices do drop sharply, it doesn't seem likely that the Fed will be able to do much to help. Meanwhile, corporate profit margins are still at all-time highs, wages are still at all-time lows, and average American consumers still have debt coming out of their ears. So it seems likely that, at some point, profit margins will decline, wages will rise (we can only hope), and average American consumers will continue to rein in spending — none of which will boost further profit growth. Meanwhile, interest rates are still at all-time lows. So if and when the economy does finally gather a sustainable head of steam, interest rates will likely rise. And rising interest rates don't tend to be helpful to stock prices. So that's one scenario for stock prices over the next several years: If any of those things happen, stock performance will likely be poor for many years. But that's not the disaster scenario. That actually seems like a perfectly reasonable scenario. The disaster scenario is that some or all of these measures do not just revert toward their long-term averages but instead revert beyond their long-term averages — the way they almost always have before. If we go from an era with spectacularly high stock prices, spectacularly low interest rates, spectacularly high profit margins, and spectacularly stimulative Fed policy to an era characterized by the opposite (like the 1970s), the sharp crashes and relatively quick recoveries of 2000 and 2008 will seem like brief, happy corrections. It took about 25 years for the economy and market to correct the extremes of the 1920s. It took another 25 years to fully work off the (much lesser) extremes of the 1960s.  The extremes of the late 1990s, which have extended into the 2000s and, now, the 2010s, are, by some measures, the most extreme in history (including the 1920s). It should not come as a surprise, therefore, if it takes us as long, if not longer, to work them off. (Pictures are worth a thousand words, so please see the charts below...) Stock prices are extraordinarily expensive. Today's cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio is the highest price-earnings ratio in 135 years, with the brief and temporary exceptions of 1929 and 2000. Interest rates, meanwhile (red line), are basically as low as they can go.  Robert Shiller Corporate profit margins are at all-time highs, helping to support today's stock prices. Note how profit margins generally revert to (and beyond) the mean: Business Insider, St. Louis FedAfter-tax profits as a percent of GDP. The extremes of the 1920s and 1960s took decades to work off. The black line below shows the inflation-adjusted S&amp;P 500 price for the past 130 years. Note the 25 years between the 1929 peak and the next sustained rise, as well as the 25 years after the 1960s peak. We're about 14 years into our current work-out period — from valuation extremes that were much higher than in the 1920s and 1960s. It wouldn't be surprising if we had another decade or more of work-out to go.  Robert Shiller   SEE ALSO: People Get Mad When I Say Stocks Might "Crash," So I Won't Use That Word, But... FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesJCPenney's next CEO will be Home Depot executive Marvin Ellison, the company announced Monday. Ellison, currently Home Depot's executive vice president of stores, will join JCPenney's board of directors and take over as president and CEO-designee on Nov. 1. He will succeed CEO Mike Ullman in August 2015. In a release, Ellison called JCPenney, "an important part of the American retail landscape" and said the company "is moving in the right direction." "As president and, ultimately, CEO, I will be focused on positioning the Company to compete in a rapidly changing retail environment for the benefit of our customers, shareholders, suppliers and associates," he said. "I am confident that we have the customer proposition, the brand, and the talent to make JCPenney successful over the long term." Ellison, 49, has worked for Home Depot for the last 12 years and he's been the head of U.S. stores for the last six. Before that, he spent 15 years working for Target in a variety of operational roles. Thomas J. Engibous, the chairman of JCPenney's board of directors, called Ellison a "a highly accomplished retail executive with a history of delivering top and bottom line results at major American retailers." "The board has completed its search for the right CEO to lead the next stage of JCPenney's growth," Engibous said. "He brings to the role, among other assets, an extensive knowledge of store operations and supply chain management as well as a demonstrated ability to successfully run large retail organizations. In light of these attributes, we believe he is well equipped to return the company to profitable growth." FREE AppDownload
Paul Szoldra/Business InsiderEnrico Cavatorta is out at Italian eyeware company Luxottica after a six-week stint as the company's co-CEO. Luxottica shares opened 10% lower in Milan, though the price has recovered somewhat over the course of the day. At last check it was down 3.27 points to 37.81 euros (about 8%). Luxottica is the maker of Ray-Ban and Oakley sunglasses. Cavatorta was appointed co-CEO in September after his predecessor, Andrea Guerra, unexpectedly resigned. According to the Wall Street Journal, Cavatorta "resigned over disagreements with company founder Leonardo Del Vecchio, as the two had conflicting views over the scope of Mr. Cavatorta’s powers..." FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Lam Yik FeiApple's iPhone 6 looks like it's going to be a monster in China.  MacRumors, citing a report from China's Tencent site QQ,  reports there were 20 million iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus pre-orders over the weekend period of October 10-October 13. It says there were 10 million pre-orders through China's three biggest carriers, China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom. There were 9.5 million orders through JD.com, a Chinese e-commerce site.  As with all things China, take these numbers with a grain of salt. These are reports of reports being translated, who knows. (If pre-orders are this big, we'd almost expect an announcement from Apple.) If these numbers are accurate, they're massive. When Apple started pre-orders of the two iPhone 6 phones in the U.S. and elsewhere, it did 4 million during the opening weekend. And its opening weekend sales were 10 million. Analysts are expecting Apple to sell ~59 million iPhones during the fourth quarter of the year. If these China orders are fulfilled, Apple will have knocked out roughly 1/3 of expectations in one weekend.  FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesShares of Chinese property Agile Property Holdings fell more than 17% on Monday after trading in the shares re-opened after the company canceled a proposed $350 million share offering.  Trading in the stock had been halted since October 3, pending news about the share offering, which was supposed to take place last Friday. The halt in shares and the canceling of the offering also came amid rumors that the company's chairman, Chen Zhoulin, had gone missing; Zhoulin and his family are the company's controlling shareholders.  On Monday, Zhoulin was placed under custody by Chinese prosecutors and accused of money laundering, according to a Bloomberg News report on Monday.  Here's the chart of Monday trading in Agile shares in Hong Kong, which were down as much as 31% at one point before closing with losses of 17%.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Russian Central Bank head Elvira Nabiullina has admitted that if currency markets continue to turn against the ruble the bank "won’t be able to restrain them." Despite the central bank spending $6 billion of Russia's foreign exchange reserves in only 10 days to prop up the value of the ruble, it continued its slide against the dollar on Monday: Bloomberg The admission that central bank is unable to defend a fixed exchange rate for the ruble against heavy selling of the currency by international investors demonstrates the extent of the country's problems as it battles falling oil prices and a weakening economy. But it's unlikely to mark the end of state interventions in the market. Russian media report Nabiullina as saying: I would like to stress that we’re not going to quit the foreign exchange market completely. We’re changing, so to speak, the nature of our participation in the foreign currency market. We’ll make interventions, if there are risks to financial stability. The central bank is undergoing stress tests to gauge the effects of further sharp falls in oil prices after Brent crude oil traded on Monday as low as $87 a barrel, its lowest point in 18-months. Oil exports are crucial for the Russian economy, particularly with international sanctions on the country's financial and commodities sectors weighing on growth. REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinCentral Bank of Russia governor Elvira Nabiullina. So far in 2014, Russia has burned through over $55 billion of its international reserves, much of which has been spent buying rubles to prop up its value, leaving around $452 billion in the coffers. It looks like it will have to dip even further into this pot if it is to protect the country from economic disaster.  FREE AppDownload
www.facebook.comA lot of investors don't believe in Lululemon.Shorting stocks is risky. Even when the market goes down, any stock can still go against you. And while the common truism that short sellers can only ever make 100% on a position isn't quite right, it takes a certain skill to find companies that might be hiding something from investors.  But this doesn't stop traders from taking their best shot.  Recently, we've seen a ton of volatility in the stock market, but all of the major stock indexes are still higher year-to-date.  However, we were still able to find 30 stocks with market caps over $2 billion that investors are still betting against like crazy. On the list, of course, is Herbalife, the company that hedge funder Bill Ackman has accused of being a pyramid scheme.  Also featured on the list is GoPro, the wearable camera company that went public in late June and has seen its stock just explode in the last several months. The biggest theme of the list is Chinese internet companies. Alibaba may have been the marquee IPO of the year, but other internet-based companies out of China have been met with quite a bit of skepticism. We ranked the stocks by short interest as a percentage of shares outstanding, going from the least shorted to the most. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsVolatility is on the rise in the global financial markets. Last week's roller coaster move ended with the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the red for the year. "'Whiplash' is how one veteran investor described [last] week’s market," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin wrote. "S&amp;P 500 fell 1.5% on Tuesday as the IMF’s newest World Economic Outlook discussed the weak prospects for global growth. Wednesday registered 2014’s best daily return (+1.8%) supported by the release of Fed minutes that noted US growth “might be slower than they expected if foreign economic growth came in weaker than anticipated”. The clear implication: Interest rates might be held lower for longer than market participants expected. This comfort was short-lived – S&amp;P 500 sank 2% on Thursday and 1% on Friday." Kostin believes that investors and traders can still make money in this market. His team's 12-month target for the S&amp;P 500 is 2150, which implies double-digit returns. For the near-term, Kostin recommends three strategies: (1) Focus on “American economic exceptionalism”. The world lacks growth, but our economists forecast US GDP will accelerate to 3.2% in 2015, the fastest rate of expansion since 2005. Meanwhile our economists expect Euro area growth of just 0.7% this year and 1% in 2015. US stocks with a high proportion of domestic sales have and should continue to benefit disproportionately relative to firms with a high share of foreign revenues. The performance YTD of US-facing firms versus stocks exposed to Europe totals 1055 bp (+7.5% vs. -3.1%), with 74% of the excess return coming since mid-year (780 bp). (2) Focus on sectors that benefit from lower oil prices. Energy earnings closely follow oil price changes. Brent plunged 20% since June and Energy stocks fell by 11% while S&amp;P 500 slipped only 1%. Without a rebound in crude prices, Energy equities will continue to lag. However, lower oil prices benefit non-energy sectors, particularly Consumer Staples and Discretionary, as input costs decline and personal consumption potentially rises. Other industries such as chemicals and airlines also experience reduced input costs. Investors should overweight Industrials and Consumer Discretionary. (3) Stick with large-caps despite the siren call of small-cap US equities that have dramatically underperformed. A strengthening US dollar and positive US GDP growth often correspond with Russell 2000 outperformance. However, negative earnings revisions have actually increased small-cap valuations even as share prices have declined. The tight relationship between Russell 2000 relative performance and the slope of the US yield curve highlights the degree to which concerns over growth and Fed policy have biased investors toward the relative safety of large-caps. US economic outperformance and cheap oil are familiar themes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jaime R. CarreroA member of the CG Environmental HazMat team disinfects the entrance to the residence of a health worker at the Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital who has contracted Ebola in Dallas, Texas, October 12, 2014. Good morning! These are the major stories making an impact on global markets so far Monday. China Exports Blow Through Expectations. China's exports rose more than expected in September while imports unexpectedly improved, data showed on Monday, bringing the trade surplus to $31 billion. Dubai Stocks Crash. Stocks in Dubai crashed 6.5% on Sunday — the biggest drop in four months and it brings the Dubai Financial Market General Index to its lowest level since July 20. European Markets Are Up. Germany's DAX is up 0.6%, the UK's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%, and France's CAC is up 0.4%. The Nikkei closed down 1.15%, while the Hang Seng closed up 0.24%. US futures are mixed with Dow futures up 17 points and Nasdaq futures down 0.5 point.   Federal Reserve Vice Chair Stanley Fischer Says US Rate Rises Won't Disrupt The Global Economy. Fischer told his audience at the IMF's annual meeting that Fed officials had given ample time and clear signals about their intentions, providing other national governments and investors plenty of time to prepare for a shift in policy. Saudi On Oil Prices: Get Used To It. OPEC’s largest producer is privately signaling to oil markets that it is ready to accept oil prices below $90 per barrel, and perhaps down to $80, for as long as a year or two, reports Reuters. China Steel Exports Hit Record High in September. Exports of the metal reached 8.5 million tons in September, while shipments rose 73% from a year earlier as steelmakers boosted cheap exports to make up for price cuts at home, reports the Wall Street Journal. Professor Jean Tirole Wins The Nobel Prize In Economics. The prize was awarded to French economist Jean Tirole for his analysis of market power and regulation. Chinese Smartphone Company Xiaomi Appoints Former Google Exec. Xiaomi has recruited former Google executive Jai Mani to be in charge of products as the company ramps up its team in the world's third biggest smartphone market, Reuters reports. Russia Spending $6 Billion Not Enough To Stop Ruble Rout. The ruble extended its longest losing streak in more than a year as $6 billion of Russian currency interventions failed to stem the depreciation amid tumbling oil prices, according to Bloomberg. Bill Ackman's Pershing Drops By Over 10% After Its IPO.  Shares in Pershing Square Holdings fail to inspire as they fell as much as 10.8% in their Dutch trading debut. FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz at Jones Trading has the top topics about which traders are talking about today. Good Morning!   US Futures are looking higher, with the S&amp;P rebounding off that key 200dma level this AM – but both Russell and Nasdaq futures, the hardest hit over the last week, are showing a less enthusiastic bounce.   Equity volumes in the USA may be light today, as our Credit market is closed for Holiday.     Overseas, the DAX is bouncing 80bp in decent volume, and even the French market is higher, shrugging off the S&amp;P France Downgrade late Friday.   FTSE is lagging, as Technology shares remain under global pressure, off 1.4% in early London trading.   Russia is bouncing 2% as Putin pulls back troops from the Ukraine border.  Over in Asia, Nikkei was closed for Holiday as Goldman Cuts Japan’s Growth Outlook this AM – Shanghai saw more profit-taking despite strong trade data – India bounced from the recent selling there, While Aussie closed off 60bp despite a bounce in the miners – dragged lower by continued selling in Tech and Industrials globally.  Emerging-market stocks headed for a six-month low, led by technology and industrial shares as well….  With US Bonds closed, eyes on the Dollar getting hit after Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fisher said US rate rises could be delayed by slowdowns elsewhere.   Credit in Euroland remains solid, with no weakness in French debt – interesting, After the Finland downgrade Friday, only Germany and Luxembourg are AAA rated by S&amp;P in the Eurozone.    Better China data and a weaker dollar has a slight bid under Industrial metals as well as Ore – but weakness persists in Oil – Brent is off 2.2% and WTI 1.6% as Saudi signals they r fine with South of $90 - even as low as $80.  Kuwait blowing off Venezuela's call for a emergency meeting, and Iraq slashing prices to Asian Buyers.   "OPEC countries appear to be more interested in defending their market shares at present than stabilizing prices"  Catalysts are light today - ECB's Praet Speaks in Munich at 8amET, there is NO POMO at 11 – and Fed's Evans Speaks on the Economic Outlook at 12:30.    Some of the catalysts ahead of us later this week, aside from the start of Bank Earnings, includes:  ECB's Draghi speaking several times, and Fed’s Yellen speaks Friday / Multiple FOMC speakers, and the Beige Book from the Fed / Inflation from China, Japan, Germany / Germany’s ZEW / IP from Japan, EU, US / US Advance Retail Sales / Housing Data - Housing Starts and Permits / HYG large Coupon Payment date – Could see re-investment bid. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe selloff in the LargeCap stock indexes in recent weeks coincided with mounting evidence of a global economic slowdown, which I have been monitoring since the start of the year. This development seems to have become of greater concern in recent weeks as the CRB raw industrials spot price index and the price of a barrel of Brent crude oil have dropped sharply. I combine these two into our Global Growth Barometer. Our GGB is down 13.7% since June 19 through Friday, to the lowest readings since June 28, 2012. Some of the drop in our barometer is undoubtedly attributable to the strong dollar. In addition, the drop in crude oil prices reflects not only weakening oil demand but too much supply. Figures released on Friday showed OPEC had lifted output by 402,000 barrels a day in September to 30.47mbd--the biggest monthly increase in almost three years. So our GGB may be exaggerating the global slowdown. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Behind the Curtain. (1) Curtain call. (2) Bad wizards. (3) Crisis of confidence. (4) More than just another dip? (5) Our Global Growth Barometer is taking a dive. (6) Strong dollar and too much oil supply may be exaggerating GGB’s drop. (7) Curtain raisers at the ECB, BOJ, and Fed. (8) Draghi says fixing economy isn’t his job. (9) Kuroda ready to buy more assets. (10) Fed’s “lift-off” may be delayed. (11) October selloffs can create opportunities. (12) More recession risks overseas than at home. (13) Risk off for now. (14) “The Judge” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA new Fiat Chrysler Automobiles sign is pictured after being unveiled at Chrysler Group World Headquarters in Auburn Hills, MichiganBy Agnieszka Flak MILAN (Reuters) - Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA)  makes its Wall Street debut to great fanfare on Monday, shifting the carmaker's center of gravity away from Italy and capping a decade of canny dealmaking and tough restructuring by CEO Sergio Marchionne. The world's seventh-largest auto group has sought the U.S. listing to help to establish itself as a leading global player through access to the world's biggest equity market and the cheaper, more reliable source of funding it ultimately offers. But Marchionne has picked a difficult moment to woo U.S. investors. Analysts think the U.S. auto industry is nearing a peak, while Europe is struggling to recover from years of decline and growth in China and Latin America has slowed. "Only those willing to accept the risks of a highly leveraged turnaround situation in a competitive, capital-intensive, highly cyclical industry should consider investing," said Richard Hilgert, an analyst at Morningstar, in a note. Marchionne will ring the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Monday to mark the milestone for the 62-year-old chief executive who revived one of Italy's top companies and helped rescue Chrysler along the way. "We're predominately a U.S. automaker with operations in foreign countries. I want this to be a U.S.-listed company," Marchionne has said. Half of FCA's sales are in North America. Fiat took management control of bankrupt Chrysler in 2009 and completed its buyout this year. It is now combining all of its businesses under Dutch-registered FCA, which will have a UK financial domicile and small London headquarters, with operations centers in Turin and Detroit. Wall Street is the first item on an ambitious agenda for the next five years as Marchionne gears up for the launch of dozens of new models, from funky Fiat 500s to sporty Maseratis. The target is a 60 percent boost in sales to seven million vehicles and a fivefold increase in net profit to as much as 5.5 billion euros ($6.9 billion) by 2018 -- the year Marchionne has said he would step down as CEO after seeing through his plan. FCA's growth plans won't come cheap, though, and Marchionne will need to be at his persuasive best if analysts are right with predictions that the group will need to raise more capital to pay for his 48-billion euro investment plan.  DETROIT POWER STRUGGLE In comparison with GM and Ford, FCA is seen as less attractive because of its aging model line-up, high debt, weaker margins in North America and its small presence in China. "Ford and GM also offer much stronger cash generation and balance sheets, and are thus in a position to return cash to shareholders, while FCA still needs to raise capital," Exane BNP Paribas analyst Stuart Pearson said in a note. FCA will decide on future financing options this month, though Marchionne insists it does not need a capital increase. But some analysts think FCA is a good long-term bet because of its potential in the fast-growing premium segment of the market with brands such as Alfa Romeo, Ferrari and Jeep. "Jeep's re-entry into China will provide Fiat with a turbo boost to its share of the market," Morningstar's Hilgert said. One U.S. investment banker said the true test for FCA would come once it seeks to access U.S. capital markets. "Now would be the worst possible time to ask investors for money," he said. John Casesa, senior managing partner at Guggenheim Securities, said investors would need to weigh the prospects of huge cost savings from integrating Fiat and Chrysler, with the risk that the autos market peaks in the next few years. Marchionne hopes to see more than half of FCA stock changing hands in New York instead of Milan, but appetite will take time to build, especially as FCA has yet to switch to U.S. accounting principles and to reporting results in dollars. Marchionne will hit the road next month to spread the word.  FCA may also sell treasury shares and other stock after the listing in an attempt to boost trading volumes. He believes that FCA's cause will be aided by Chrysler's brand strength in the United States, now the main profit center for the combined group. FCA sold more cars in North America last month than Toyota , the world's largest automaker. The stock opens at 1330 GMT (0930 EDT) in New York and shortly afterwards in Milan, where the group will keep a secondary listing. Monday's opening price will be benchmarked against Fiat's previous close of 6.94 euros ($8.76).   (Additional reporting by Laurence Frost and Paul Ingrassia in Paris and Bernie Woodall in Detroit; Editing by Silvia Aloisi, David Goodman and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChristopher Columbus is shown landing in the West IndiesDespite what has been a bright US economic picture, US stocks have been tumbling. At least some of the selling can be attributed to the significant overseas exposure of the publicly traded US companies. Last week's stock market sell-off put the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the red for the year. This week comes with some telling economic reports from the US and abroad. We'll also be hearing from more Fed officials including Fed Chair Janet Yellen, who'll speak on Friday at 8:30 a.m. in Boston. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists are split about the current volatility in the markets. Those like Fundstrat's Tom Lee who focus on fundamentals think this is just a blip in an ongoing bull market. But chartists like UBS's Art Cashin and MKM Partners' Jonathan Krinsky warn that the S&amp;P 500 testing its 200-day moving average is a bit ominous. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco notes that sell-offs are pretty typical ahead of mid-term elections, and we've got one coming up on November 4. Here's Bianco: "On average, the S&amp;P suffered a 12% decline in the 6 months leading to the election and then rallied 25% trough to peak in the 6 months after the election or a 10% gain from prior peak. Elections are important, but performance around past mid-terms was influenced by other factors. The S&amp;P suffered a correction in 7 of the 15 mid-term elections since 1954, all of which were related to recessions (1962, 1974, 1990, 2002) or aggressive Fed tightening (1966, 1978) or foreign strains (1998). Ex these 7, the average S&amp;P sell-off was under 5%." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter German Chancellor Angela MerkelThere's been no shortage of headlines out of Germany this week, showing just how much the country is now pitted against other eurozone countries, central bank authorities and international institutions.  Germany, which was so recently Europe's savior for helping bail out the Greeks, now finds itself isolated inside the EU. In general, the European Central Bank wants Germany to increase its fiscal government spending in order to stimulate the economy. Europe as a whole is faltering, and it needs its biggest national economy to stimulate demand. But the Germans prefer fiscal austerity and balanced budgets. They don't see why they should be the ones running up debts and deficits just because everyone else — France, Greece, Italy, Spain — can't get their act together. Finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble slammed suggestions during the IMF meetings last week that Germany should change its economic course, calling the attempts to get Germany to change course "spin doctoring". The cooling relations are spreading into the European Central Bank too, according to Germany's Focus magazine. The relationship between Draghi and Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann, responsible for promoting Germany's interests at the ECB, has now become "impossible" according to an editorial.  It's one thing for Germany to be criticized by members of France's socialist party or the Prime Minister of Italy, attacks that it can probably fend off. It's another thing for the IMF and international policymakers to turn against the country.  A change in ECB voting rules that requires a rotation of votes among different countries means Germany will sit on the sidelines for two months next year. In May and October, Weidmann won't be voting on eurozone monetary policy. That's a massive cause for concern in Germany, where the public already thinks the country is too lenient towards the southern euro users. Two charts from Pantheon Macroeconomics sum up the argument Germany finds itself in. Firstly, Germany is running an enormous current account surplus: Pantheon Macroeconomics This means Germany is a net lender and exporter to the rest of the world, while the IMF reckons it should be focusing more on its own public and private investment, and heightening domestic demand with more imports. Secondly, Germany's public finances are very strong.Pantheon Macroeconomics It's the only major eurozone economy that has managed to reduce its public debt in recent years, but this looks increasingly odd as the country drifts towards a recession. There's some sign of a tide turning. Germany is at risk of turning its balanced budget goals into a "fetish". That's according to Olaf Gersemann, the business editor of Die Welt, one of Germany's largest conservative newspapers. FREE AppDownload
Nobel Prize He's the third French economist to be awared the prize, and the first for more than a quarter of a century. He's also a smidgen younger than the average awardee, at 61 (the usual age is 67). Here's a biography from the European Coroporate Governance Institute. Though he's French, its a win for MIT too: Tirole took his PhD at the university, and has a visiting professorship there. Here's the Nobel Committee's explanation of why they chose Tirole: "Many industries are dominated by a small number of large firms or a single monopoly. Left unregulated, such markets often produce socially undesirable results – prices higher than those motivated by costs, or unproductive firms that survive by blocking the entry of new and more productive ones. From the mid-1980s and onwards, Jean Tirole has breathed new life into research on such market failures. His analysis of firms with market power provides a unified theory with a strong bearing on central policy questions: how should the government deal with mergers or cartels, and how should it regulate monopolies?" They've gone into more detail here, in a guide to Tirole's work for non-economists: Here are the other economies that Reuters thought had the best shot at receiving the award, and who will now have to wait at least one more year: FREE AppDownload
EIABrent crude oil spot price. The vice-president of Russia's state-owned oil behemoth Rosneft has accused Saudi Arabia of manipulating the oil price for political reasons. Mikhail Leontyev was quoted in Russian media as saying: Prices can be manipulative. First of all, Saudi Arabia has begun making big discounts on oil. This is political manipulation, and Saudi Arabia is being manipulated, which could end badly. The news comes as Reuters reports Saudi officials have been privately admitting to oil market participants that they are comfortable with lower oil prices. According to the news service, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is willing to accept prices as low as $80 a barrel for as much as the next two years. Falling prices are of particular concern to Russia. Russia needs high oil prices to buoy its economy. The country has seen its economic performance slow under the weight of sanctions over Ukraine and weakening domestic demand. The Russian Central Bank forecasts growth over 2014 to be a meager 0.4%, improving marginally to between 0.9%-1.1% in 2015. The problem is that Russia's latest budget requires oil prices to average at least $100 a barrel in order to cover the government's spending promises. The government already needs to borrow around $7 billion from foreign investors next year and as much as 1.1 trillion rubles ($27.2 billion) from domestic investors. Given the country's sanctions-imposed isolation from international bond markets, any additional borrowing would be a big concern for policymakers in Moscow. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov has already acknowledged that the budget forecasts for both Russian GDP growth and oil prices are "optimistic." During the Reuters Russia Investment Summit in September he was quoted as saying: There are risks to economic growth rates. It is a rather optimistic forecast; there are risks to the oil price. Without a doubt, this and the next year we will have to try very hard to ensure the planned growth rates. If the forecast growth fails to materialize and the oil price continues its slide it could force the Russian government into an embarrassing retreat on spending commitments and increase the country's economic woes. FREE AppDownload
Azad Lashkari/ReutersA worker adjusts a valve of an oil pipe at Taq Taq oil field in Arbil, in Iraq's Kurdistan region, August 16, 2014.  LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia is quietly telling the oil market it would be comfortable with much lower oil prices for an extended period, a sharp shift in policy that may be aimed at slowing the expansion of rival producers including those in the U.S. shale patch.  Some OPEC members including Venezuela are clamoring for production cuts to push oil prices back up above $100 a barrel.  But Saudi officials have given a different message in meetings with investors and analysts: the kingdom, OPEC’s largest producer, will accept oil prices below $90 per barrel, and perhaps down to $80, for as long as a year or two, according to people who have been briefed on the recent conversations.  The discussions, some in New York over the past week, offer the clearest sign yet that the kingdom is setting aside its longstanding de facto aim of holding prices at around $100 a barrel for Brent crude &lt;LCOc1&gt; in favor of retaining market share in years to come.  The Saudis appear to be betting lower prices – which could strain the finances of some members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries – will be necessary to pave the way for higher revenue in the medium term, by curbing new investment and further increases in supply from places like the U.S. shale patch or ultra-deepwater, according to the sources, who declined to be identified due to the private nature of the discussions.  The conversations with Saudi officials did not offer any specific guidance on whether - or by how much - the kingdom might agree to cut output, a move many analysts are expecting in order to shore up a global market that is producing substantially more crude than it can consume. Saudi Arabia pumps around a third of OPEC’s oil, or about 9.7 million barrels a day.  Asked about coming Saudi output curbs, one Saudi official responded "What cuts?", according to one of the sources.  Also uncertain is whether the Saudi briefings to oil market observers represent a new tack it is committed to, or a talking point meant to cajole other OPEC members to join Riyadh in eventually tightening the taps on supply.  One source not directly involved in the discussions said the kingdom does not necessarily want prices to slide further, but is unwilling to shoulder production cuts unilaterally and is prepared to tolerate lower prices until others in OPEC commit to action. EIA   With most other members of the cartel unable or unwilling to reduce their own output, the group's next meeting on Nov. 27 is set to be its most difficult in years. OPEC has agreed to cut production only a handful of times in the past decade, most recently in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  On Friday, Venezuela - one of the cartel's most price-sensitive members - became the first to call openly for emergency action even earlier. Foreign Minister Rafael Ramirez said "it doesn't suit anyone to have a price war, for the price to fall below $100 a barrel".  On Sunday, Ali al-Omair, oil minister of Saudi Arabia's core Gulf ally Kuwait, appeared to be the first to articulate the emerging view of OPEC's most influential member, saying output cuts would do little to prop up prices in the face of rising production from Russia and the United States.  "I don't think today there is a chance that (OPEC) countries would reduce their production," state news agency KUNA quoted him as saying.  Omair said that prices should stop falling at around $76 to $77 a barrel, citing production costs in places such as theUnited States, where a shale oil boom has unexpectedly reversed dwindling output and pushed production to its highest level since the 1980s.  Saudi oil officials have made no public comments on the deepening swoon in markets. Senior officials did not reply to questions from Reuters about recent briefings. REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA pump jack is seen during sunset at Lagunillas field in the eastern coast of Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela. Venezuela relies heavily on oil revenues.   Global benchmark Brent &lt;LCOc1&gt; crude oil futures have fallen steadily for almost four months, dropping 23 percent from a June high of over $115 a barrel as fears of a Mideast supply disruption ebbed, U.S. shale production boomed and demand from Europe and China showed signs of flagging. [O/R]  Brent fell below $88 a barrel on Monday, hitting its lowest in almost four years, after news of the Saudi and Kuwaiti statements.  "In light of these comments, one should not expect any OPEC output cuts before the Nov. 27 meeting," said Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst at SEB in Oslo.  An OPEC delegate from outside the core Gulf Arab group said he did not think OPEC would cut output at the November meeting but added he believed the Saudis should cut output unilaterally:  "The question should be posed to Saudi Arabia".  The growing difference in opinions means OPEC is heading for its most tense meeting since mid-2011 when it failed to agree on an increase in output despite a loss of Libyan production.  Until recently, Gulf OPEC members have been saying that the price dip was a temporary phenomenon, betting on seasonal demand in winter to prop up prices. But a growing number of oil analysts now see the latest slide as something more than a seasonal downswing; some say it is the start of a pivotal shift to a prolonged period of relative abundance.  Rather than fight the decline in prices and cede market share in the face of growing competition, Saudi Arabiaappears to be preparing traders for a sea change in prices.  The Saudis want the world to know that "nobody should be surprised” with oil under $90 a barrel, according to one of the people. Another source suggested that $80 a barrel may now be an acceptable floor for the kingdom, although several other analysts said that figure seemed too low. Brent has averaged around $103 since 2010, trading mostly between $100 and $120.  While the latest discussions are the bluntest efforts yet to signal the shift in Saudi strategy, early signs had already begun sending shivers through the oil market. In early October the kingdom cut its official selling prices more sharply than expected in a bid to maintain customers in Asia, widely seen as the opening shots in a price war for Asian customers.  "Riyadh's political floor on oil prices is weakening," Robert McNally, a White House adviser to former President George W. Bush and president of the Rapidan Group energy consultancy, wrote in a note to clients following a trip to Saudi last month.  McNally said he is not aware of any specific Saudi price or timing strategy, but told Reuters that Saudi Arabia "will accept a price decline necessary to sweat whatever supply cuts are needed to balance the market out of the U.S. shale oil sector.”  As that message began to dawn last week, the price rout quickened, with Brent lurching to its lowest level since 2010.  "Until about three days ago the absolute and total consensus in the market was the Saudis would cut," said McNally. That is no longer a foregone conclusion, he said. "The market suddenly realizes it is operating without a net."  (Additional reporting by Rania el Gamal in Dubai and Timothy Gardner in Washington; editing by Jonathan Leff, Christopher Johnson and Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
NASA With the market selling off, conversations about the economy have turned gloomy (that's how it works, the market feeds the perception of the economy, not the other way around). But Joachim Fels of Morgan Stanley has three pieces of good news for you: Also true, the continuing sell-off in equities and other risky assets risks feeding back negatively into economic sentiment and could induce companies and consumers to postpone spending. However, as I already pointed out last week, there is also some good news in some of the recent market moves. First, lower oil prices bolster households' real incomes, which is particularly welcome as nominal wage growth in the US and elsewhere has been broadly flat so far. Second, lower risk-free bond yields in the advanced economies benefit those EM economies that are dependent on external financing and buy time for them to continue to rebalance and reduce external vulnerabilities. Third but not least, the trend towards a stronger dollar versus the euro and yen is exactly what the doctor ordered for the ailing European and Japanese economies. Fels also notes that in recent days, expectations for the first Fed rate hike have been pushed back. So while markets have tumbled, already there are some positives. FREE AppDownload
LONDON — The caller said her home had burned down and her husband had been badly hurt in the blaze. On the telephone with her bank, she pleaded for a replacement credit card at her new address. "We lost everything," she said. "Can you send me a card to where we're staying now?" The card nearly was sent. But as the woman poured out her story, a computer compared the biometric features of her voice against a database of suspected fraudsters. Not only was the caller not the person she claimed to be, "she" wasn't even a woman. The program identified the caller as a male impostor trying to steal the woman's identity. The conversation, a partial transcript of which was provided to The Associated Press by the anti-fraud company Verint Systems Inc., reflects the growing use of voice biometric technology to screen calls for signs of fraud. Two major U.S. banks, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. and Wells Fargo &amp; Co., use voice screening, also known as voice biometric blacklists, according to three people familiar with the arrangements, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity because the system was meant to remain secret. Altogether seven major American financial institutions are already using such blacklists or have run pilots, said Shirley Inscoe, an analyst with the Aite Group, a research and advisory firm. Inscoe declined to identify the institutions, but said they largely saw them as a quiet and effective way of dealing with fraud. "It's in the background. It doesn't affect the call in any way," said Inscoe. "Nobody even knows it's happening." The blacklists are one of a growing number of everyday uses of speaker recognition, once a high-tech tool used by security agencies. Many governments and businesses use voiceprinting openly. "A recent AP survey of 10 leading voice biometric vendors found that more than 65 million people worldwide have had their voiceprints taken, and that several banks, including Barclays PLC in Britain and Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, are in the process of introducing their customers to the technology. Fighting fraud is different. One person familiar with Verint's deployment said that the company's technology has been at work at Chase's credit card arm since last year, when Verint's predecessor, Victrio, was helping screen roughly 1 million calls a month. Two people familiar with how the technology is being used at Wells Fargo said the San Francisco-based bank struck a deal for a similar voice biometric blacklist provided by Israel-based NICE Systems Ltd. NICE and Verint declined to comment on their customers. Chase and Wells Fargo declined to comment in any detail on their fraud prevention strategies. Chase spokeswoman Patricia Wexler said the company was "exploring many types of biometric authentication," but did not use voice biometric technology with customers. She declined to say whether the company was using the technology to screen calls for suspected criminals. At Wells Fargo, spokeswoman Natalie M. Brown said "...sharing any information about our fraud prevention measures would jeopardize their effectiveness." Banks may run into trouble when they deploy voice biometric technology secretly, legal experts say. That's because some states, such as Illinois and Texas, restrict the collection or sharing of biometric data. A confidential company memo obtained by the AP provides some insight into companies' attempts to build legal cover for their work. The document, dated Aug. 1, 2013, lays out NICE's plans for the creation of a blacklist shared across a consortium of different companies. It carries advice from NICE to U.S. banks suggesting that they deal with issues of consent by changing the traditional message at the beginning of each call to say: "This call may be monitored, recorded and processed for quality assurance and fraud prevention purposes." "Creating a voiceprint from the call falls under 'processing,'" the memo explains. "Sharing the voiceprints within the consortium is for the purposes of fraud prevention." Tech and privacy lawyer David Klein, the managing partner of New York-based Klein Moynihan Turco, said he had doubts about whether playing a canned message to callers counted as getting consent to gather biometric data. "It's at best a passive, assumed consent that they're obtaining from the calling party," he said. It isn't clear that banks are using the suggested language. A recent call to Chase's credit card support number was met with a recorded message saying: "This call will be monitored or recorded." Nearly identical language played during a call to a Wells Fargo's number. Neither Wells Fargo nor Chase responded to questions specifically addressing the legality of their voice harvesting. NICE confirmed that the memo was genuine. It said the purpose was merely to suggest new language for telephone calls and did not constitute legal advice. Industry observers said that, regardless of the legal issues, few would raise a fuss over the collection of biometric information from suspected criminals. Banks "truly are trying to protect legitimate customers," said Inscoe. She said the blacklists had to be seen in the context of organized gangs that call banks repetitively to try to break into accounts. The technology is winning converts fast. Mark Lazar, Verint's vice president for intelligence systems, said that when combined with other fraud detection techniques, voice biometric blacklists were effectively freezing the bad guys out of banks' call centers. "Within a few months we see a 90 percent reduction in the types of calls these fraudsters are making," he said. Avivah Litan, an analyst with technology research firm Gartner, estimates that by next year, 25 major U.S. call centers will be using some form of voiceprint technology, a five-fold increase over last year. Klein, the privacy and tech lawyer, said the growth of voice biometric technology meant it was time for regulators to take a fresh look at the rules. "There should be regulation on both the state and federal level that that govern practices with respect to the collection, use and sharing of that data," he said, "so that we don't go deeper into George Orwell's world." ___ Associated Press writer Jeff Horwitz in Washington contributed to this report. ___Online: Raphael Satter can be reached at: http://twitter.com/razhael Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuMasked anti-Occupy Central protesters try to remove barricades set up as road blocks by pro-democracy protesters.Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Monday. 1. Federal health officials express deep concern after a healthcare worker becomes the second person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the US. The female employee at Texas Health Presbyterian hospital is the first case of Ebola transmission in the US and the second outside Africa. 2. Liberian health officials are appealing to nurses and medical assistants not to go ahead with a national strike over the country's handling of the Ebola epidemic. The health workers are asking for an increase in the monthly risk fee paid to those treating Ebola. So far ninety-five of their colleagues have died. 3. Hundreds of men, some wearing masks, attempted to break through barricades erected by Hong Kong pro-democracy protesters on Monday, as the protests enter their third week. Angry truck and cab drivers in the city clashed with police as they attempted to open blocked roads. 4. European stocks stumble to new lows as worries about a eurozone slowdown intensify. A combination of worsening economic data out of the region and the tapering of Federal Reserve stimulus measures are casting a dark could over markets, the FT reports. 5. ECB President Mario Draghi and Jens Weidmann, the German central bank president, have renewed hostilities. Weidmann responded curtly to Draghi's call to aggressively expand the ECB's balance sheet by as much as 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion). 6. The Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences is due to be announced today at 8 a.m. ET (1 p.m. local time in Sweden). 7. Warren Buffett plans to license the Berkshire Hathaway name to estate agencies in Europe and Asia. Buffett is preparing to roll out the next phase of a campaign to use his widely respected investment company as a consumer brand, according to the FT. 8. Australia PM says he will confront Putin at G20 over downed flight MH17 'murders'. According to Reuters Prime Minister Tony Abbott told reporters that he was going to "shirtfront Mr Putin", a phrase taken from Australian Rules Football meaning to hit someone front on and knock them to the ground. 9. Oscar Pistorius returns to court for sentencing.  The South African athlete will be handed his sentence on Monday following his manslaughter conviction last month for shooting and killing his girlfriend through a locked bathroom door, the WSJ reports. 10. Deutsche Bank is seeing an exodus of traders due to a clampdown on bad behavior. “We definitely are seeing leakage,” Colin Fan, the lender’s co-head of investment banking told the FT. And finally... This year's Wife Carrying Championship has been won by Christina Arsenault and Jesse Wall at Sunday River ski resort in Newry. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Reed So much so that Murdoch has tweeted he will be buy a copy for each of his senior managers. Zero to One launches with a contrarian premise – that we actually live in an age of technological stagnation and and how short-term, distracted thinking ruins businesses. Thiel then covers off what he sees as the business challenges of the future and how the fallout of the ’90s dot-com boom still haunts tech startups. Business Insider This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Svitzer/HandoutNot a great start to the week. European markets are down this morning:  France's CAC 40 is down 0.79% Spain's IBEX is down 0.65% Italy's FTSE MIB is up down 0.66% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.61% Germany's DAX is down 0.7% The Hang Seng closed up 0.60% overnight. The Nikkei was closed for a national holiday, after falling 1.15% on Friday. U.S. futures are down a little, with Dow futures and S&amp;P futures dropping 0.19% and 0.25%, respectively. Today’s only significant economic event is a speech from Fed policymaker Charles Evans, which comes at 12.30 p.m. ET.   Trade data out from China overnight significantly exceeded analyst expectations, with exports up 15.3% in the year to September, and imports up 7% in the same period. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersContainers are transported at Nansha port in GuangzhouBEIJING (Reuters) - China's exports rose more than expected in September while imports unexpectedly improved, data showed on Monday, bringing the trade surplus to $31 billion. Exports rose 15.3 percent in September compared with a year ago, the General Administration of Customs said, beating a median forecast in a Reuters poll for a rise of 11.8 percent. Imports rose 7 percent in terms of value, compared to a Reuters estimate for a 2.7 percent fall. That led to a trader surplus of $31 billion, lagging forecasts for a surplus of $41 billion. China's economy, the world's second largest, has had a bumpy ride this year. Activity has been dampened by unsteady exports and a slowdown in domestic demand that has been compounded by a cooling housing market. As a result, authorities have repeatedly warned that China may miss its target to grow its trade sector by 7.5 percent this year. (Reporting by Shao Xiaoyi, Judy Hua and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
