 This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   Business Insider UK, our new London-based startup, is looking for a digital account manager who is proactive, highly motivated, and has a firm understanding of the online advertising industry and a tenacious desire to succeed in a start-up environment. This AM will call on a variety of blue-chip advertisers in the UK, with some exposure to greater EMEA markets. The position is based in London with limited travel and plenty of sales calls.Key requirements: The ideal candidate is a resourceful self-starter ready to launch the global expansion of a thriving business news site.  Business Insider was launched in 2007 and is a dynamic company reaching the new generation of business leaders. We are a well-funded startup at the forefront of digital media. Our site is one of the fastest growing business news sites with more than 48 million unique monthly users. BI events (including our flagship conference, IGNITION) bring together the top senior executives and entrepreneurs in publishing and technology.  BI Intelligence, our subscription research service, provides leaders in-depth reports, charts, and data so they can make smarter business decisions. The position is full-time and based in our Old Street/Silicon Roundabout-area office. Apply here and let us know why you're a great fit. Thanks in advance. FREE AppDownload
BBC / YouTubeAlex Salmond, leader of the Yes Scotland campaign for independence.Monday night's Scottish independence referendum debate between Alex Salmond and Alistair Darling raised the scariest question for voters leaning toward a Yes vote: Does Scotland have the courage to face down the Bank of England, walk away from its share of the U.K.'s national debt, and become an international banking pariah in order to get its independence? Scottish National Party leader Salmond did not quite say he would do that, but admitted it was a negotiating tactic. Darling, leading the "Better Together" campaign, led him to the brink on the issue. The central problem in the Sept. 18 independence vote is what Scotland's currency will be if the country becomes independent of the U.K. Salmond has said that Scotland should continue to use the British pound, and then negotiate some form of shared currency union with the U.K. The U.K. government in Westminster, however, has made it quite clear that Scotland will be going it alone if it leaves the union — the new country will have no say over the pound. One potential option for Scotland is to use the pound anyway, as Panama does the U.S. dollar. The difficulty with that is that Scotland would have no control over the Bank of England, and would be forced to pay its debts in a currency whose strength is determined by interest rate decisions in London. In that situation, Scotland could simply default on its debt and force the British to pay it instead — but that would make Scotland so risky as a sovereign borrower that it would be unable to borrow money elsewhere unless it accepted ludicrously high interest rates. Yet Salmond hinted that he was willing to force the BofE into sharing the pound by threatening just such a default, according to the Financial Times: Mr Darling confirmed that an independent Scotland would be able to use the pound unilaterally even if the rest of the UK refused a currency union, a statement leapt on by Mr Salmond as “the most important revelation” of the debate. But the former chancellor said the “sterlingisation” option would be hopeless since Scotland would not have a central bank and would have to run a permanent surplus. “Of course we could use the pound – but we could use the rouble,” he said. Mr Salmond also repeated his warning that Scotland would walk away from its share of Britain’s national debt if the UK refused to “share the assets” of the Bank of England in a currency union; Mr Darling said a default would make Scotland a pariah on international money markets That is an extraordinary thing to hear in a political debate: The leader of a country openly threatening default as a negotiating tactic. But it's a good one, and it appeals to the position that the nationalists are in: They are behind in the polls and need to show they have the grit to take Scotland to independence come what may. That grit, however, would come with a cost. It could bring Scotland to its knees, economically, through the prospect of a major, modern European capitalist economy, currently running at a debt, being suddenly cut off from all reasonable access to international finance. Such a scenario suggests a massive collapse of the Scottish economy. But Salmond is willing to risk it. Here's the Huffington Post's account: He added: "We don't need permission to use our own currency. The argument actually is that they will deny us the assets of the Bank of England. The reason that won't happen is that if you deny us the financial assets, then the UK will get stuck with all of the liabilities." Salmond said no chancellor would let Scotland away with its share of the debt liabilities and therefore a currency union would be agreed. Darling said: "If your first message in the world is here we are, here is Scotland, and by the way we've just defaulted on our debt, what do you think that would do to people who are lending us money in the future. Nobody would lend us any money in the future." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Chevron gas station sign is pictured at one of their retain gas stations in CardiffBy Mike Stone NEW YORK (Reuters) - Chevron Corp  has been searching for up to $1.5 billion of equity investment to help develop its Duvernay shale formation assets in Canada and contacted potential investors including private equity firms, according to people familiar with the matter. Chevron’s subsidiary, Chevron Canada Limited, has exploration leases for approximately 330,000 net acres (1,335 square km) in the Duvernay shale formation. The area is located about 124 miles (200 km) northwest of Edmonton, Alberta. The San Ramon, California-based oil and gas company has sent an offering memorandum to potential investors over the summer, said the people, who asked not to be named because the discussions were private. Because oil and gas developments take many years to generate a return for their investors, Chevron was looking for an equity investor with a long-term investment horizon, the people said. A representative for Chevron declined to comment. Chevron announced in October that its initial exploration of the Kaybob area of the Duvernay shall formation was complete. At the time, the company said the next step was transitioning to a two-rig drilling program to optimize well and completion design. A potential equity injection would help Chevron diffuse the development risk for the next phase of the project. Chevron commenced an exploration program in the Duvernay in 2011 and, as of August 2014, had drilled 15 wells, completed 13 using multi-stage hydraulic fracturing, and tied in 10 wells to existing third-party processing facilities. Hydraulic fracturing is more expensive than traditional extraction methods. Some private equity firms had looked at the opportunity to provide an equity investment into the Duvernay project, but may not ultimately partner with Chevron because of the long investment horizon, according to the people familiar with the matter. Chevron has recently bulked up its acreage in the Duvernay by 20 percent. In August, the company purchased the interests of Alta Energy Luxembourg, which had nearly 68,000 acres. New York-based private equity firm Blackstone Group LP  was an investor in Alta Energy. Other lease owners in the Duvernay shale formation include Penn West Petroleum Ltd , Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and Athabasca Oil Corp .  (Reporting By Mike Stone in New York) FREE AppDownload
Staying with the South America theme, we are seeing signs of economic troubles in Brazil. To be sure, the nation is still an economic powerhouse – the 7th largest economy in the world. Yet the end of the China-driven commodity supercycle has created significant headwinds for Brazil's economic growth.www.tradingeconomics.com / Banco Central Do Brasil Here are some key indicators economists are watching for signs of further deterioration: 1. In recent months industrial production has been declining at the fastest rate since 2009.  www.tradingeconomics.com/ Instituto Brasileiro De Geografia E Estatistica2. The labor markets remain under pressure, resulting in declines in consumer confidence.  Sober Look/REUTERS 3. While the consolidated public sector accounts (including state-owned enterprises) remain in the black, the surplus levels continue to shrink. Fiscal deterioration remains a major risk.  Central Bank/ Credit Suisse4. Even though the nation's banking system has been relatively sound, credit extended by banks to the housing sector has exploded in over the last 5 years. If the economy stumbles, this could become an issue.  Thomson Reuters Datastream/ Banco Central Do BrasilWith economists now projecting Brazil's GDP growth of just 0.79% for 2014 and the national elections approaching, the central bank is injecting new liquidity into the banking system. As usual, central bankers are asked to solve what amounts to structural problems - which they try to address with the only tools they have. FT: - Brazil has made its second multibillion-dollar injection into the banking system in less than a month as the government struggles to boost the economy ahead of hotly contested presidential elections. The central bank on Wednesday eased rules on reserve requirements, freeing up about R$10bn ($4.5bn) for new lending. Just over three weeks ago, it injected R$45bn into the economy by easing compulsory deposit rules and changing the risk calculation of some loans. While the nation faces a number of economic headwinds, the near-term risk for Brazil stems from the US monetary policy. If rates in the US rise faster than expected, we may revisit the volatility of 2013 (and early this year), as taper fears and capital outflows had sent the Brazilian currency and debt sharply lower (the 10-yr yield reached 13.5%). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric GaillardAn elderly couple sit on a bench as they look at a parasailor during a sunny summer day in Nice, southeastern France,FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Survey Shows Large Number of  Workers Won't Save Enough For Retirement (Natixis) A recent study by Natixis Global Asset Management shows that, even with the assistance of a financial advisor and access to a 401K, many workers will not meet their retirement saving goals. This especially the case for the Baby Boomers. The survey featuring 1000 respondents show, "33 percent of Boomers have put aside less than $50,000. In comparison, 41 percent of participants in the Millennial or Generation Y group (those from ages 18 to 33) already have put aside $50,000." In fact, "Baby Boomers have saved an average of $262,541, about a third of the $805,398 they predict they’ll need at retirement." "Investors of all ages should take a second look at how much they save and what their needs are likely to be when they retire,” Hailer said. “While many workers get it right, others might ask if their investing targets will get the job done. Too many seem to be setting the bar too low because they may lack access to the proper tools, education and guidance,"says John Hailer, CEO of Natixis Global Asset Management in the Americas and Asia. Fortunately, the respondents also show that "employers provide a great deal of retirement information and tools. Among the most popular materials available to them are printed education documents, retirement calculators and interactive planning tools. However, relatively few investors make full use of the offerings. " The House-Flipping Bubble Has Officially Imploded (Wolf Street) According Wolf Street's Wolf Richter, the time to make a quick buck by flipping homes has passed. Citing RealtyTrac, "in Q2 of 2014 fewer than 31,000 single-family homes were flipped across the US, or a 4.6% share of all single-family home sales, down from a 5.9% share in Q1 and down from a 6.2% share in Q2 2013. And single-family homes sales overall were already down from last year."  This current home-flipping trend started in 2012 when "flippers" saw profits from Wall Street private equity firms, REITS, and other institutional investors.  However, "profits have come under pressure. Flippers averaged a gross profit of just over $46,000 per flip, a return on the initial investment of 21%. That’s down from 24% in Q1, and from 31% a year ago, the highest return in RealtyTrac’s data series going back to 2011." In fact,"profits in dollars are down 23% per flip from a year ago, and it takes 39% longer to complete a flip. " Now Is the Perfect Time To Be A Preferred Securities Investor (Alliance Bernstein) New U.S banking regulations could be a boon to fixed-income investors writes Jeff Skogland, Director of Global Credit Research for Fixed Income, and Shrut Vakil, Global Credit Research Analyst, at Alliance Bernstein. The duo from say that, "better fundamentals and stricter regulations are creating a good formula for banks’ preferred securities." They argue that "as banks rebuild their capital and reduce risk, the market for these securities—which are subordinate to many pure bonds—is set to grow." In fact, "the top 25 US banks have already issued nearly $100 billion of preferred securities. We expect the market to expand to about $130 billion in the next few years, as banks ramp up issuance to satisfy the new Basel III global capital rules, which require them to hold more capital as a cushion against losses." According to Skogland and Vakil, "as banks have been rebuilding their muscle, bank regulations have raised the bar on what constitutes acceptable risk management." They believe, "a stronger US banking sector makes it more appealing to invest in lower tiers within a bank’s capital structure. Preferred securities, also known as Additional Tier 1 (AT1) securities, seem like a particularly attractive opportunity." Why Bond Index Funds Are No Longer The Way To Go (Columbia Management) Citing Morningstar, Columbia Management indicates that "there is currently $2.9 trillion invested in taxable bond mutual funds, including ETFs, of which $2.3 trillion is actively managed."  Carl Pappo, head of core fixed income, and Michael Zazzarino, senior portfolio manager, at Columbia Management argue that, actively managed bonds hold a distinct advantage over its passively managed/index counterparts. "Index funds are at a significant disadvantage to active portfolios in which managers incorporate valuation into their decision making process," writes Columbia Management. "The objective of an index fund is to replicate the return of its stated benchmark. While this has proven to be a fairly easy task for the most popular equity indices, fragmentation and illiquidity in the bond market make true replication more difficult." Which means, "there have been instances where the passive approach to bond investing produced significant underperformance relative to a benchmark." On the other hand, "an active manager’s objective is to outperform the benchmark. They are able to do this by managing interest rate risk, identifying attractive sectors and utilizing fundamental research to drive security selection. Active management also allows the flexibility to capitalize when interest rates or credit spreads reach unsustainable levels." It's Time To Sell Your Stocks! (The Growth Stock Wire) If veteran trader Jeff Clark is correct, now is the time to start selling. According to Clark, "the NYSE McClellan Oscillator (NYMO) – a measure of overbought and oversold conditions in the market – is saying stocks are ripe for a pullback."  Clark says that the NYMO over the past few weeks show that the market was overbought and now exhibit signs of an impending decline. Furthermore, "the NYMO has a terrific track record of signaling short-term reversals in stocks." In fact, previous "buy" and "sell" signals from the MYMO have lined up perfectly with the rise and fall of the S&amp;P.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcus DonnerAircraft orders took off in July. On Tuesday, August 26, the Census will release its advance report on durable good orders for July. Expectations are for the headline reading to show orders grew 8%, according to data from Bloomberg. But according to Wall Street economists, that number could be as high as 38%. The reason? A massive number of planes were ordered in July. "Swings in aircraft orders are the key driver of short-term volatility in the headline durable goods number via their impact on the transportation component," writes Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Shepherdson notes that Boeing recorded orders for 324 aircraft in July, up from 109 in June. Despite this large increase in orders, Shepherdson sees the headline durable goods index growing 6%. In a note to clients, Brian Jones at Societe Generale said he expects durable goods bookings jumped 24.5% in July, which would be a new all-time record for the index, topping the 16.6% jump recorded in June 2000. Ethan Harris at Bank of America Merrill Lynch expects durable goods orders climbed 18.5% on the back of what he calls, "a sensational gain in aircraft orders." Harris noted that a huge number of orders from the London Farnborough air show in July drove the surge in orders, though a number of these orders are for models that are still under development and so shipments won't arrive for several years. Paul Dales at Capital Economics sees durable good orders surging by 30% in July, but like Harris notes that these orders won't be complete until the end of the decade, and won't boost GDP until then, either. Of Wall Street economists followed by Business Insider, Michael Gapen at Barclays has the lowest estimate for durable goods, expecting a 0.5% increase in July, writing in a note to clients that he expects, "modest gains in the aircraft and vehicles components" of the report. Last week, we highlighted this chart from Societe Generale, which showed what the expected increase in durable goods orders could look like. The report is due out at 8:30 am ET on Tuesday.  Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view shows the Standard & Poor's building in New York's financial districtBy Jonathan Stempel (Reuters) - The United States, which is suing Standard &amp; Poor's for $5 billion over its credit ratings, said on Monday it is confident that documents the rating agency wants for its defense will not show that the lawsuit was filed in retaliation for a downgrade of the country's debt. In a filing with the U.S. District Court in Santa Ana, California, the U.S. Department of Justice said S&amp;P's "general suspicions" do not justify the rating agency's request for the release of dozens of unredacted documents, including materials from former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. The Justice Department said it has submitted documents sought by S&amp;P to U.S. District Judge David Carter, and is "confident" that his review will prove they "do not support the defendants' allegations of retaliation in any way." Indeed, the Justice Department added in a footnote, "The United States believes that the redacted information in certain of these documents would affirmatively rebut S&amp;P's claims." Other material was redacted because it was privileged or irrelevant, the government said. Catherine Mathis, an S&amp;P spokeswoman, declined to comment. A hearing is set for Sept. 9. S&amp;P, a unit of New York-based McGraw Hill Financial Inc, has said the government singled it out for a lawsuit after it took away the United States' "triple-A" rating on Aug. 5, 2011. The $5 billion lawsuit filed in February 2013 accused S&amp;P of issuing inflated ratings before the 2008 financial crisis to win more fees from issuers, and failing to downgrade debt backed by mortgage-backed securities fast enough. Harold McGraw, the chairman of McGraw Hill, has said Geithner angrily told him on Aug. 8, 2011, three days after the downgrade, that the downgrade was based on a "huge" math error, and that the company would be held "accountable." S&amp;P has said its ratings are opinions protected by the U.S. Constitution's First Amendment. It is represented by Floyd Abrams, a leading First Amendment specialist. The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos et al, U.S. District Court, Central District of California, No. 13-00779.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Burger KingRep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Maryland), the ranking member of the House Budget Committee and a co-sponsor of a bill to halt the flow of corporate inversions, believes a potential deal between Burger King and Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons will fundamentally change public opinion about the practice and potentially needle Congress toward a solution. "If I were McDonald's, I'd be launching a 'Buy America' campaign the next day," Van Hollen told Business Insider Monday afternoon.  "I think American consumers are not going to take kindly to an iconic American company dodging its tax obligations." At 35%, the U.S. has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world. In Burger King's case, Canada is attractive because its corporate tax rate is just 15%. But the proposed Burger King-Tim Hortons deal is different from most other corporate inversions that have taken place or have been part of discussions over the past year. The practice has mostly been attractive to large companies in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. Before the Burger King talks, the most household name to be featured in inversion discussions has been Walgreens, which dropped its bid to move its tax base overseas as part of acquiring European pharmacy chain Alliance Boots. "If this merger goes through, there could well be a strong public reaction against Burger King that could more than offset any tax benefit it receives from a tax avoidance move," said Rep. Sander Levin (R-Michigan), who introduced the House's legislation. Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), a supporter of tax-inversion legislation in the Senate, suggested consumers should turn to Wendy's or White Castle for their hamburgers. AP ImagesAn unidentified motorist behind the wheel of a Rolls Royce picks up a meal at a Burger King, fast food restaurant drive-thru, in northeast Philadelphia on Monday Dec. 15, 2008. Van Hollen compared the proposed Burger King deal to Walgreens, but he said it goes even further as an iconic American institution that millions of Americans frequent on a regular basis. "Burger King is a household name. Everybody knows Burger King," he said. "People can relate in a visceral way to this issue." Van Hollen said he hopes if the American public's consciousness is woken up by the proposed Burger King deal, congressional Republicans will be spurred to act on inversion-related legislation. Many Republicans agree on the need to address inversions, but they think it should be part of comprehensive tax reform. In an interview with Business Insider over the weekend, Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin), the chair of the House Budget Committee, agreed that inversions represent a "dangerous trend." But Ryan, like many other congressional Republicans, favor a fix to inversions as part of broad, overall tax reform. But that's a big project that likely won't even begin to be tackled until next year. "I think this is going to create a huge backlash in the country and, I hope, in the Congress," Van Hollen said. "And I hope this will spur congressional Republicans to act on an immediate basis. We're all in favor of tax reform, but we need to address this particular piece immediately." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past the Time Warner Center near Columbus Circle in Manhattan, New York(Reuters) - Time Warner Inc's Turner cable division is preparing to offer buyouts targeting 500 to 600 staffers, or roughly 4 percent or its workforce, according to a person familiar with the company. Turner, which is home to cable networks such as CNN, TNT and the Cartoon Network, employs about 14,000 people. A spokeswoman for Turner did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment. The buyout packages are part of a larger initiative at Turner to improve the efficiency of the division. During a quarterly earnings call on Aug. 6, Time Warner executives said the reorganization would likely be material in the second half of the year. During the second quarter, revenue at Turner rose 5 percent to $2.8 billion, buoyed by growth in subscriptions, but parts of the division have struggled with ratings and increased programming costs. The Wrap, an online publication that covers Hollywood, first reported the buyout news on Monday.  (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
USGSA plot of every earthquake greater than mw 3.5 since 1850. On Sunday, large swaths of Napa Valley got hit with a 6.0 earthquake. According to Bloomberg, the event is estimated to have caused $4 billion in damages. However, only half of that is likely to be picked up by insurance companies. That's because just 10% of California homes are insured against earthquakes, according to the Insurance Information Institute (III), a figure the state's insurance commissioner has warned could prove "disastrous."  Despite the fact that, as the state's earthquake insurance authority puts it, "no part of California is 'immune' from earthquakes," coverage rates have plummeted over the past two decades because there hasn't been a major quake.    "Nothing sells earthquake coverage like an earthquake, and the more time elapses between major events, the more people believe it will never impact them," Dr. Robert Hartwig, an economist and the president of the III, told Business Insider Monday. Over the last 20 years, insurance coverage in California has dropped from about one in three homes to as much as one in 10, he said. In Napa Valley, he estimated that the coverage rate is less than 6%.  For a California renter living in or around San Francisco or Los Angeles, earthquake insurance premiums cost less than $150 a year. For a condo or homeowner the cost is between $700 and $1,000 a year. (The California Earthquake Authority has a cost-calculator here. Businesses must purchase insurance directly from a private insurer). Hartwig said costs are unlikely to rise immediately following Sunday's quake, since many will likely perceive it as an isolated event, unless aftershocks follow.   One need only look at the map above, or the following chart showing the all-time most damaging U.S. earthquakes in recorded history, to see how disturbing it is that there's so little coverage: III.org In July, the U.S. Geological Survey updated its quake forecast model to reflect recently discovered faults in San Jose, Vallejo, and San Diego, and increased hazard activity in some parts of San Francisco and Los Angeles. Here is the new map showing the likely intensity of an earthquake hitting in the next 50 years.  USGS2014 USGS National Seismic Hazard Map, displaying intensity of potential ground shaking from an earthquake in 50 years (which is the typical lifetime of a building). FREE AppDownload
Patrick T. Fallon/Getty ImagesTwitch CEO Emmett Shear.Amazon said on Monday it would pay $970 million in cash for Twitch, a live video-game-streaming site with more than 55 million users that's like YouTube for video games. As of July, Twitch had over 15 billion minutes of content, and users were spending more than 100 minutes a day on the site, on average. Twitch users can host live streams of their gaming sessions and broadcast them to the world. They can also chop up their sessions into segments for streaming later. It's also a resource for gamers who like to show off their unique skills. For example, there's an entire community on Twitch dedicated to doing weird stuff like beating Zelda games in under 20 minutes or playing massively collaborative games of Pokemon. Twitch/ScreenshotA Twitch streaming session.Twitch is a huge part of the internet, and it accounts for nearly 2% of all traffic in the U.S. during peak hours, according to a report by The Wall Street Journal. Only Netflix, Google, and Apple account for more traffic. In that respect, Twitch even streams more video than Hulu. Twitch also accounts for 40% of all live-streamed internet content, according to Business Insider Intelligence: BI IntelligenceWhat's really impressive is that Twitch was able to become so big after just three years. You can see Amazon's purchase of Twitch as a play to take over the future of TV. More and more content is being streamed online, and more and more hours of video watching are being done on sites like YouTube, Netflix, and Hulu. Amazon has its own streaming video service called Amazon Instant that comes with Amazon Prime memberships. Amazon Instant includes thousands of streaming movies and TV shows, including original shows like "Alpha House." AmazonAlpha House is an original Amazon show.Earlier Monday, multiple reports indicated Amazon was in late-stage talks to acquire Twitch. The news came as a big surprise because just last month it was reported that Google had agreed to acquire Twitch for about $1 billion. That deal, however, was never officially confirmed. The Google-Twitch deal felt like a natural fit, since it would've been a good way for YouTube to expand its video offerings. Yahoo also tried to buy Twitch for $970 million, but Amazon swooped in and got it instead. It's unclear what had caused the Google-Twitch deal to fall through, but one possible reason is over antitrust issues. Since Google already owns YouTube, the world's largest video streaming site, acquiring another massive video streaming site like Twitch could raise antitrust issues. According to Forbes, the two sides couldn't agree on the potential break up fee. Here's the official announcement from Amazon: Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced that it has reached an agreement to acquire Twitch Interactive, Inc., the leading live video platform for gamers. In July, more than 55 million unique visitors viewed more than 15 billion minutes of content on Twitch produced by more than 1 million broadcasters, including individual gamers, pro players, publishers, developers, media outlets, conventions and stadium-filling esports organizations. “Broadcasting and watching gameplay is a global phenomenon and Twitch has built a platform that brings together tens of millions of people who watch billions of minutes of games each month – from The International, to breaking the world record for Mario, to gaming conferences like E3. And, amazingly, Twitch is only three years old,” said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. “Like Twitch, we obsess over customers and like to think differently, and we look forward to learning from them and helping them move even faster to build new services for the gaming community.” “Amazon and Twitch optimize for our customers first and are both believers in the future of gaming,” said Twitch CEO Emmett Shear. “Being part of Amazon will let us do even more for our community. We will be able to create tools and services faster than we could have independently. This change will mean great things for our community, and will let us bring Twitch to even more people around the world.” Twitch launched in June 2011 to focus exclusively on live video for gamers. Under the terms of the agreement, which has been approved by Twitch’s shareholders, Amazon will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Twitch for approximately $970 million in cash, as adjusted for the assumption of options and other items. Subject to customary closing conditions, the acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2014. Here's a letter from Twitch's CEO: Dear Twitch Community,  It’s almost unbelievable that slightly more than 3 years ago, Twitch didn’t exist. The moment we launched, we knew we had stumbled across something special. But what followed surprised us as much as anyone else, and the impact it’s had on both the community and us has been truly profound. Your talent, your passion, your dedication to gaming, your memes, your brilliance - these have made Twitch what it is today. Every day, we strive to live up to the standard set by you, the community. We want to create the very best place to share your gaming and life online, and that mission continues to guide us. Together with you, we’ve found new ways of connecting developers and publishers with their fans. We’ve created a whole new kind of career that lets people make a living sharing their love of games. We’ve brought billions of hours of entertainment, laughter, joy and the occasional ragequit. I think we can all call that a pretty good start. Today, I’m pleased to announce we’ve been acquired by Amazon. We chose Amazon because they believe in our community, they share our values and long-term vision, and they want to help us get there faster. We’re keeping most everything the same: our office, our employees, our brand, and most importantly our independence. But with Amazon’s support we’ll have the resources to bring you an even better Twitch. I personally want to thank you, each and every member of the Twitch community, for what you’ve created. Thank you for putting your faith in us. Thank you for sticking with us through growing pains and stumbles. Thank you for bringing your very best to us and sharing it with the world. Thank you, from a group of gamers who never dreamed they’d get to help shape the face of the industry that we love so much. It’s dangerous to go alone. On behalf of myself and everyone else at Twitch, thank you for coming with us. Emmett Shear, CEO Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannA participant arrives on his vintage Riley sports car during the British Car Meeting 2014 in the village of Mollis east of Zurich, August 24, 2014.Stocks rallied as the S&amp;P 500 cracked 2,000 for the first time on Monday, closing just below that milestone level while making another all-time high.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. The top story on Monday was the news that Burger King and Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Horton's are in talks on a merger. The deal, which would be structured as a "tax inversion" with Burger King moving its tax base to Canada, was cheered by investors, as shares of both companies rallied furiously following the news. Burger King shares gained 20%, while shares of Tim Horton's trading in New York were up more than 18%. Greg Valliere of Potomac Research said the deal "throws down the gauntlet, and Treasury will almost certainly have to respond by proposing curbs on interest payment deductions." 2. Markit's flash PMI reading for U.S. service sector activity in August came in at 58.5, better than the 58.0 expected by economists, but down from 60.8 in July. "The U.S. service sector continues to enjoy a strong growth phase, but the latest survey suggests the recovery has lost some momentum since hitting a post-crisis peak in June," Markit's Tim Moore wrote. "Output expanded at the slowest pace for three months in August, while new business growth picked up only slightly from July’s recent low." 3. New home sales fell 2.4% to an annualized rate of 412,000 units in July, missing expectations for a pace of 429,000. June's report, however, was revised up to 422,000. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Rising supply and flat sales is slowing price gains; construction needs to slow."  4. The Dallas Federal Reserve's manufacturing index fell to 7.1, missing expectations for a 12.8 reading and down from July 12.7 mark. The report showed that some companies reduced staff and raised prices as a result of the Affordable Care Act. "The Affordable Care Act is such a huge cost increase we must pass it on to our customers or go broke," one metals manufacturing exec said in the survey. "The projected cost increase is more money than we made last year. This increase will put us at an even bigger cost disadvantage versus imports. We will lose business to imports and plan to reduce our workforce accordingly." 5. BOC Aviation, a Singapore-based company owned by the Bank of China, placed an order for 82 Boeing planes worth $8.8 billion at list prices, according to a report from AFP.  6. Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated an email on Monday with the subject line, "Buy equities." "I believe the stock market will continue to go up until we get a recession. And we are nowhere near entering a recession," Slok wrote. Slok's view, however, differs from the Deutsche Bank "house view" currently held by David Bianco and the equity strategy team at the firm, which has a year-end price target of 1,850 for the S&amp;P 500.  Don't Miss: This 19th Century Livestock Scam Will Help You Understand Why GrubHub Shares Fell On Monday » FREE AppDownload
Summer is hot, and heat can lead to some questionable fashion choices all in the name of staying cool. Aaron Marino, an image consultant and men's style expert of iamalpham.com, and Kat Griffin, founder and editor-in-chief of Corporette.com, share some of the worst mistakes you can make when trying to keep cool at work. Produced By Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP ImagesBurger King is in talks to acquire Canadian donut and coffee chain Tim Hortons as part of a plan to avoid U.S. taxes. And even as the issue has gained attention in Washington all the way up to President Barack Obama, the legislation on the table might not apply to the proposed Burger King-Tim Hortons merger. Even as lawmakers played up the talks as a potential wake-up call to the American public, it's unclear whether legislation proposed by Democrats in both the House and Senate would address this specific merger. So-called tax "inversions" have become a corporate trend over the past year, as companies have either acquired rivals or merged with them to relocate their headquarters to a foreign country with lower corporate tax rates. At 35%, the U.S.  has the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world. In this case, Canada's corporate tax rate is just 15%.  Legislation introduced in the House by Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Michigan) would attempt to stop the flow of corporate inversions in a few different ways. (Sen. Carl Levin, also a Democrat from Michigan, has introduced companion legislation in the Senate that could get a vote in September.) Levin's legislation would change the tax code so that the stakeholders of U.S. companies who reincorporate overseas through an inversion would have to maintain at least 50% of the combined foreign corporation. But the Burger King-Tim Hortons merger could be granted an exception under the legislation.  The bill would continue to provide an exception for the companies if "the affiliated group has substantial business activities" in the foreign country where the combined entity is permanently located — specifically, if 25% of employees by number, employees by compensation, assets, and income are held in the foreign country. Because the two companies are similar in terms of market cap, the thinking is that a significant chunk of the combined entity's assets, income, and employees would remain in Canada. A House Democratic aide familiar with the legislation told Business Insider that their "hunch" is that the legislation would allow for an exception. The aide cautioned, though, that they didn't have any more information than what had been reported about the possible deal in the press. However, Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Maryland), the ranking member on the House Budget Committee and a co-sponsor of the legislation, told Business Insider in an interview on Monday he believes the bill would still apply to the potential Burger King-Tim Hortons. AP ImagesA sign welcoming President Barack Obama is seen at a Burger King in Orefield, Pa., near where President Barack Obama gave a speech, at Lehigh Carbon Community College on Friday, Dec. 4, 2009.  Burger King, he explained, would still control more than 50% of the combined foreign corporation and there are other provisions in the legislation dealing with where "most of the operations would reside." "Based on the facts as I understand them, our legislation would still apply," he said. Van Hollen said he hoped the fact an corporation as visible and quintessentially American as Burger King would spur congressional Republicans to act on inversion legislation. In an interview with Business Insider over the weekend, Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin), the chair of the House Budget Committee, agreed that inversions represent a "dangerous trend."  But Ryan, like many other congressional Republicans, favor a fix to inversions as part of broad, overall tax reform. But that's a big project that likely won't even begin to be tackled until next year. "I think this is going to create a huge backlash in the country and, I hope, in the Congress," Van Hollen said. And I hope this will spur congressional Republicans to act on an immediate basis. We're all in favor of tax reform, but we need to address this particular piece immediately." Later, he added: "If I were McDonald's, I'd launch a 'Buy America' campaign the day after" the potential deal is completed. FREE AppDownload
Bitter Root Ranch via FacebookCattle. GrubHub shares fell more than 8% on Monday after the company announced that it would issue about 10 million additional shares. The offering is comprised of about 8.7 million shares being sold by members of the company's board and management, and 1.25 million shares sold by the company. The proceeds from stock being sold by company insiders won't go to the company. When companies issue more stock, they are said to be "diluting" their shares, as the greater number of outstanding shares spreads earnings thinner, often leading to a decline in the price of the outstanding shares. You could also think of this as "watering down" the stock. This discounting has a mathematical origin, of course, but the origins of the phrase are rooted in Wall Street lore.  In Benjamin Graham's "The Intelligent Investor," The Wall Street Journal's Jason Zweig, who updated and annotated the most recent version of Graham's book, gives us the origins of "watering" or "diluting" a stock's float. "And, in earlier days, a company that drastically diluted its shares (with large amounts of convertible debt or multiple offerings of common stock) was said to have 'watered' its stock. This term is believed to have originated with the legendary market manipulator Daniel Drew (1797-1879), who began as a livestock trader. He would drive his cattle south toward Manhattan, force-feeding them salt along the way. When they got to the Harlem River, they would guzzle huge volumes of water to slake their thirst. Drew would then bring them to market, where the water they had just drunk would increase their weight. That enabled him to get a much higher price, since cattle on the hoof is sold by the pound. Drew later watered the stock of Erie Railroad by massively issuing new shares without warning."  So that's where we get the phrase.  However, GrubHub told us they were selling shares, and so investors today, unlike those in the 1800s, are able to discount shares accordingly, instead of getting stuck buying water-logged cows.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/ Vincent LiDeloitte in Belfast, Northern IrelandSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Hewlett-Packard plans to sue the British unit of Deloitte over its role in auditing Autonomy Plc, the software company HP acquired but later accused of inflating financial figures, a lawyer for the U.S. company said in court on Monday. HP had previously disclosed its intention to pursue claims against Autonomy executives, including former chief executive Michael Lynch, in connection with the sale.   (Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA township resident walks past Lonmin's Marikana platinum mineBy Ed Stoddard and Silvia Antonioli JOHANNESBURG/LONDON (Reuters) - The chief executive of platinum producer Lonmin  denied assertions from mining industry sources on Monday that the company aimed to cut around 5,700 jobs as part of a drive to restore profits after a five-month strike. "There are no plans like that. Our priority is to ramp up production," Chief Executive Ben Magara told Reuters. He did not provide further comment. Two mining industry sources, one in London and the other in Johannesburg, told Reuters earlier that the proposed plan would see the closure of four to six of the company's 11 shafts. The company, the world's third-largest producer of the precious metal used for emissions-capping catalytic converters in automobiles, said in June that the strike and low prices meant "restructuring of our business has become inevitable". Job cuts could trigger more labor unrest, including potential strikes by the hardline Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), whose members have downed tools in the past to protest against planned lay-offs. "There will be six shafts closed and 5,700 jobs will go. That is the plan," the Johannesburg source, who declined to be identified, said. Lonmin has a staff of around 27,000. The source did not disclose which shafts would go but said Lonmin had decided it "could no longer subsidize the loss-making shafts and had to focus on the profitable ones". A key reason behind the restructuring is the wage settlement reached in June with AMCU to end the strike, which will see its members get pay increases of up to around 20 percent annually for the next three years. "The settlement was a short-term solution to get the mines running again. But the only way Lonmin can afford it is to cut marginal shafts," said the source, who added he had been provided with an outline of the plan by a top Lonmin official. The London-based source said at least four shafts would be closed and the board was putting together a plan that should be announced before the end of the year. Lonmin has few options for returning to healthy profit margins as it struggles to recover from the strike at a time when platinum prices  are depressed. Lonmin raised $800 million to shore up its balance sheet in 2012 after it was hammered by a violent wildcat strike that killed dozens of people, but analysts say the company would struggle to get more funds from shareholders so soon. AMCU's 2014 strike, the longest and costliest in South African history, also affected Lonmin's bigger rivals Anglo American Platinum  and Impala Platinum . Amplats has since said it plans to sell or spin off a number of the mines that were shut during the 2014 strike. Implats is expected to update the market on potential restructuring when it reports full-year earnings on Thursday.  (Editing by Joe Brock, Dale Hudson and David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAs market watchers dissect Federal Reserve (Fed) Chairwoman Janet Yellen’s widely anticipated Jackson Hole Symposium comments, many are focusing on her statements regarding how the U.S. jobs market has not yet fully recovered. However, while her comments certainly were more dovish in tone than most other Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) members, she did acknowledge improving labor and inflationary conditions, and this strikes me as the most significant part of her statement. Why? These comments from Chair Yellen, along with the recently released minutes from the FOMC’s July meeting, show a Fed that is clearly angling toward more near-term policy normalization. As such, I continue to expect that the move to higher rates will begin sooner than many anticipate, given the pace of economic growth, the Fed’s targeted objectives and the harmful economic and market effects of excessively low rates. So, you’re probably wondering now: When will the Fed begin to raise rates? Here’s my take on the rate rise timeline to watch for now post Jackson Hole. If the August payroll report shows continued labor market improvement, watch for a policy transition announcement at the Fed’s September meeting. Assuming that the upcoming jobs report, due out September 5, confirms the recent improving employment trend, the Fed will have room to potentially lay out its transition game plan, including the metrics to focus on regarding the pace of rate normalization, at its September FOMC meeting. The press conference for this meeting provides the Fed with much explanatory potential. A September transition announcement could lead to rate normalization beginning as early as March. A presumed six-month period after the public dissemination of the transition plan would mean a March rate lift-off. But if the Fed doesn’t use March 2015 as the starting point, I’d expect the rate rise to begin in May or June of next year. After lift-off, the Fed will likely normalize rates slowly until we reach a federal funds rate closer to 3%. The pace at which the Fed normalizes the rate will most likely be very deliberate, and much slower than any exit strategy (rate hiking cycle) in the past. I also expect that the destination of ultimate rate policy is to a neutral federal funds rate that will be lower than the 4% it has been at historically, i.e. closer to a 3% neutral federal funds rate. In short, we’re at the beginning of a sooner-than-expected, and very significant, period of transition for Fed monetary policy, and given today’s slow economic growth, the path toward normalizing rates is likely to involve a slower pace and a well-defined lower rate destination than past exits. As for what this means for markets and the economy, news of a rate rise plan could disrupt markets in the near term, but I don’t expect to see another market reaction like the 2013 “taper tantrum” following the Fed’s taper announcement. Rather, assuming the Fed clearly lays out its transition plan and key metrics and articulates that this exit strategy won’t look like the rapid ones of the past, the long-end of the interest rate curve should move up only modestly and remain relatively stable in coming months as the yield curve flattens, and markets should be able to adjust fairly smoothly. In addition, a well-articulated Fed plan for normalizing rates at a slower pace and with a lower destination rate than past exits is likely to imbue corporations and other economic actors with more confidence in the future. As a result, they may engage in more long-term spending and investment decisions going forward, and capital spending, housing, and investment may move forward. This, in turn, should ultimately benefit the economy and markets. Source: BlackRock Research  Rick Rieder, Managing Director, is BlackRock’s Chief Investment Officer of Fundamental Fixed Income, is Co-head of Americas Fixed Income, and is a regular contributor to The Blog.  You can find more of his posts here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSPresenter and showmaster of the German TV program "Wetten Dass" (take a bet) Thomas Gottschalk holds up a cap of U.S. fast-food company Burger King during the show in Berlin in 1999.Burger King shares were up as much as 22% Monday on news the fast-food chain was in talks to buy Canadian donut giant Tim Hortons in a deal that would see Burger King headquarters move to Canada to avoid U.S. taxes. The Wall Street Journal reported late Sunday that the home of the Whopper was hoping to execute a "tax inversion" deal that would allow for savings on foreign earnings and cash and in some cases a lower overall corporate tax rate. Tax inversion deals have surged this year as cash-flush companies prioritize acquisition targets beyond the reach of U.S. levies. The Obama administration is well aware of the strategy and has urged Congress to pass legislation that would disincentivize businesses from trying to pull it off. Here's the chart:Goldman Sachs If consummated, the deal would create the world's third-largest fast-food chain.  Tim Hortons was up 18%. FREE AppDownload
ifeng.comChinese millionaire Chen Guangbiao, the self-proclaimed "most influential person of China," says he did a record-breaking ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. The Shanghaiist reports that Guangbiao said he sat in ice water for 30 minutes on Friday. He also said that if anyone could beat his record in the next six days, he would donate one million yuan to the cause. Guangbiao posted an nearly 12-minute long video showing his team breaking up large blocks of ice out of the back of a truck. Guangbiao was then filmed sitting in a large blue trashcan while his team dumped water and small cubes of ice on him. youku.comGuangbiao doesn't even appear to flinch as he's doused with water and ice.    Because of this, he has been accused of cheating. Some people think that the smaller ice cubes were fake. Guangbiao denied those accusations, posting on the website Weibo that he would show himself eating the ice to prove that it was real. It gets even weirder. Toward the end of the video, he is wearing red underwear and is sandwiched between two slabs of ice as someone breaks it on him using a sledgehammer. Who's surprised? He's infamously eccentric.  youku.comGuangbiao, 46, is a recycling magnate with a reported wealth of $740 million. According to Reuters, he is "something of a celebrity" in China.  He has many self-proclaimed accolades. For example, his business card describes himself as the "Most Influential Person of China, Most Prominent Philanthropist of China, China Moral Leader, China Earthquake Rescue Hero, Most Well-known and Beloved Chinese Role Model, Most Charismatic Philanthropist of China." Perhaps he'll include the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge on there now.  Watch below:  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThree-year-old coffee trees are irrigated on a farm in Santo Antonio do JardimCOMUNIDADE DOS MARTINS Brazil (Reuters) - Years of low coffee prices followed by the worst drought in decades in Brazil have pushed even the smallest family farmers to buy modern machinery rather than rely on increasingly scarce and expensive labor. Brazil's crop supply agency Conab noted an "intense trade in machinery, mainly harvesters," in the main coffee-growing states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais this season, in response to a 46 percent average rise in day laborer wages from a year earlier. Large producers in Brazil, which supplies about a third of the world's coffee, started buying machinery, much of it from the United States, 15 years ago. Now modernization has become a necessity for cash-strapped small farmers. Michael Reguim, 26, purchased an automated harvester in 2008 and this season became the first in his mountain community of 82 farmers to buy a machine that strips the skin off coffee cherries, a job he previously paid four people to do. "You used to buy machinery to try to improve margins – now you do it to survive," said Reguim, showing off the two-storey contraption imported from Colombia that he bought and installed for 72,000 reais ($31,718), with a government loan. The machine has the added benefit of reducing water consumption in a region that saw drought sap at least 30 percent off 2014 coffee output. Reguim originally expected to harvest 4,000 bags of coffee in southern Minas Gerais this year. "Now, I'll be happy with 2,000. If I hadn't mechanized I would not survive this," he said of the drought. Coffee is the only major export commodity that is still produced by a significant number of small families in Brazil, which has evolved from a net food importer into a modern agricultural superpower over the last few decades with grain fields as sophisticated as those in the United States. In southern Minas Gerais, a region responsible for a quarter of Brazil's coffee, half of all harvesting is now automated, up from 20 percent five years ago, said Luiz Reis, an agronomist at the government's rural assistance agency Emater. He expects field work there to be 70 percent automated next year. Some remote mountain regions are impossible to harvest mechanically. Bruno Reguim Filho, Michael Reguim's cousin, bought an automated harvester with his brother last year and plans to pay off a loan he used to pay for it over 10 years. Unable to find willing coffee pickers in 2013, he hired 20 migrant workers from Bahia state, 1,000 kilometers away. Now, Bruno's harvesting costs dropped from 300 reais per hectare to 100 reais per hectare with automation, he said, as a whirring machine whisked the last of 2014's ripe coffee cherries into a giant sack. Even though arabica prices rose 55 percent in the last 12 months to their highest in two years after the drought, farmers said they are still struggling to compensate for smaller output. "Even with mechanization, costs are very high. Anyone who isn't mechanized is not able to make ends meet," said Luiz de Castro Junior, an economist and associate professor at the federal university in Lavras, Minas Gerais. ($1 = 2.27 reais)   (Reporting by Caroline Stauffer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Investorplace.comTim Hortons' shares are soaring on the news that Burger King is in talks to buy the Canadian coffee chain. Both companies' shares increased on the news. The move would create the third largest fast food company in the world.  Combined, the companies would be worth about $18 billion and have more than 18,000 restaurants in 100 countries. Tim Hortons alone is worth about $8.4 billion. It's the largest coffee chain in Canada with 4,546 restaurants, including 866 in the U.S. ReutersThe chain boasts that it sells eight out of 10 cups of coffee in Canada, where it has 3,630 outlets. That's equal to about 36,000 locations in the U.S. on a per capita basis, which is double the number of McDonald's in the U.S., the New York Times writes. The map below shows Horton's locations in the U.S. and Southern Canada.  Flowing DataTim Hortons sold just one coffee blend until last week, when it added a dark roast. The company promises that all of its coffee is served within 20 minutes of being brewed, or it's thrown out. The chain, once called Canada's "most treasured brand," also sells tea, smoothies, and food including donuts, made-to-order paninis, wraps and soups. APThe company was founded by hockey legend Tim Horton. The first location opened in Ontario in 1964 and it made its U.S. debut 20 years later.  Wendy's bought Tim Hortons in 1995 when it had just 1,000 stores, then spun it off in 2006. During its decade of ownership, Wendy's opened a number of joint stores, like the one pictured below. AP The chain's same-store sales grew 2.6% in Canada and 5.9% in the U.S. in the most recent quarter. Traffic has been declining for nine consecutive quarters in Canada, however, and it was flat in the U.S. last quarter, compared to the previous year. Tim Hortons CEO Marc Caira blamed the traffic trends on a "new era of low growth, competitive intensity, evolving consumer demands and changing technology," in a recent earnings call. The company is betting on menu innovation to keep driving sales growth and eventually attract new customers. "We have identified some key trends we are seeing in the market, including changing demographics, increased emphasis on nutrition, health and wellness and a desire for bold flavors along with fresh quality ingredients," Caira said. "Menu innovation is also an important part of our strategy to grow [customers'] average check. We plan to introduce more value-added premium products, as well as appealing side dishes that will encourage our guests to purchase combos." For decades, the chain was best known for its coffee and donuts. Now, the chain is putting more emphasis on its made-to-order sandwiches, like the Angus Steak Melt Panini below. Facebook/Tim HortonsThe breakfast menu includes sandwiches, paninis and bagels with a combination of eggs, cheese, bacon, sausage or turkey sausage. The chain also sells pastries and muffins. Facebook/Tim Hortons  FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock For guys, there's just one appropriate thing to wear: A suit. There's a difference between buying a first suit for interviews and a whole wardrobe of suits once the job has started. Think of a first suit as a springboard, giving the wearer the necessary look to shine in an interview, without making an impression on its own.   The last thing an interview suit should do is stand out. Here are a few things to consider when you're shopping for the perfect interview suit: Blue or medium to dark grey, two buttons, no pinstripes. Black is too formal for interviews, and earth tones are too casual. Two-button suits are the professional standard. Though you will see three-button and one-button suits, they should be considered only when your wardrobe requires multiple suits.   The same goes for patterns like pinstripes. Once you're wearing a suit regularly, they're fine, but for the first suit, basic is best. A solid price point for the first suit should be around $500, give or take. Plenty of options can be found around and below that amount, but avoid very inexpensive suits, as they are often poor quality and will look cheap.   You want a suit that will last you through multiple rounds of interviews, not one that will come apart at the seams after a few marathon interview days.   On the other side of the spectrum, you don't want to spend thousands on this suit. What will an interviewer think if you show up at an interview for an entry-level position in a suit that is more expensive than theirs? It is not a risk worth taking, as it may have a negative impact on your candidacy. Jacket: The best method for determining fit for an off-the-rack suit is to start with the jacket.  Bring a dress shirt with you when you go to the store so you can recreate how it will be worn. The jacket will not fit the same way with a T-shirt underneath as it will with a dress shirt.   Put on the jacket and button the first button. Take your fist and put it between your torso and the jacket at the point where it buttons. Can you fit it there comfortably? If so, size down until you can't, at which point you know what's too small.   Buy the size larger than the one where your fist no longer fits. The point of this exercise is to make sure the suit looks normal when buttoned. If it is too tight in the torso, it'll pinch, making you look like Chris Farley.  Pants: It's better to buy larger rather than smaller, because it's much easier to have pants taken in than it is to have them let out. If a pair feels a little tight, size up. Most suit pants come unfinished, meaning you'll need to take them to a tailor anyway to have them hemmed to your desired length.  If they are not unfinished, go with what feels right. The general rule is to have a little bit of break (how much of the pant leg sits on top of your shoe). More fabric than that, and the pants will look too baggy around the ankles, which will make you look shorter. A perfectly fitting jacket can be undone by baggy pants, and vice versa. The guide below, via Real Men Real Style, shows how a suit should fit: Real Men Real Style Leave them at home, unless it's interesting socks. The important thing to consider with interview suits is that they are meant to make you look polished, professional, and no more, so that you can get down to business and impress the interviewer with your skills and attitude.   The suit has done its job perfectly if the interviewer can't remember it, because you want the interviewer to remember you rather than what you wore. This keeps interviewers focused on your abilities, with the added benefit being that you will be able to wear the suit again with a different shirt/tie combination when they ask you back for round two.Christopher Furlong/Getty Images    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David StubbsU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen (R) speaks with European Central Bank President Marlo Draghi at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming August 22, 2014. Inflation expectations in Europe have fallen off a cliff. This summer has seen a rash of poor economic data out of the Eurozone, with the most discouraging data coming from the August 14 GDP report which showed flat growth in the second quarter.  Poor growth has also been accompanied by poor inflation data. In July, prices in the Eurozone climbed just 0.4% year-over-year, the slimmest increase since October 2009.  And as inflation and growth have both stalled, the yield on European bonds has tumbled, with German 10-year bunds trading under 1%.  This has European Central Bank President Mario Draghi facing the one thing that keeps all central bankers up at night: deflation.  Over the weekend, Draghi spoke at the Jackson Hole economic symposium. He addressed the absolute disaster that unemployment in the Eurozone has been, but also made the case that the ECB has been somewhat limited in its ability to address the economic situation in the bloc because of austerity measures taken by European governments.  But Draghi has no direct control over European fiscal policy, and the last year has shown that the ECB is largely helpless to fight the austerity measures undertaken by so many governments in the wake of the sovereign debt crisis.  "Sovereign pressures also interrupted the homogenous transmission of monetary policy across the euro area," Draghi said. "Despite very low policy rates, the cost of capital actually rose in stressed countries in this period, meaning monetary and fiscal policy effectively tightened in tandem." And the market has noticed. Currently, expectations of Eurozone inflation are at their lowest levels since the depths of the financial crisis in 2009. This chart, which comes to us from Frederik Ducrozet at Credit Agricole, is Draghi's nightmare. Credit Agricole FREE AppDownload
Tim Simpson via www.flickr.com creative commonsPeople are awful at making decisions due to the influence of countless cognitive biases. Nobel-prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman realized how true this was while working as a psychological evaluator for the Israeli Defense Forces in the 1950s, when he saw that an extensive test for officer candidates boiled down to intuitive judgments that were close to worthless and that, due to a bias he called the illusion of validity, evaluators continued to trust in their method even when it was found to be ineffective. In order to counteract biases, Kahneman designed a new method for evaluating officer candidates, which involved coming up with multiple quantifiable criteria, evaluating choices based on those criteria, and trusting in the result. In effect, he was forcing evaluators to think like a computer. Although the new approach nearly caused mutiny, it was soon shown to be more effective. The psychologist recommends using a similar method for various hard decisions, as he writes in his 2011 book, "Thinking, Fast And Slow": Suppose that you need to hire a sales representative for your firm. If you are serious about hiring the best possible person for the job, this is what you should do. First, select a few traits that are prerequisites for success in this position (technical proficiency, engaging personality, reliability, and so on. Don't overdo it — six dimensions is a good number. The traits you choose should be as independent as possible from each other, and you should feel that you can assess them reliably by asking a few factual questions. Next, make a list of those questions for each trait and think about how you will score it, say on a 1-5 scale. You should have an idea of what you will call "very weak" or "very strong." These preparations should take you half an hour or so, a small investment that can make a significant difference in the quality of the people you hire. To avoid halo effects, you must collect the information on one trait at a time, scoring each before you move on to the next one. Do not skip around. To evaluate each candidate add up the six scores ... Firmly resolve that you will hire the candidate whose final score is the highest, even if there is another one whom you like better — try to resist your wish to invent broken legs to change the ranking. A vast amount of research offers a promise: you are much more likely to find the best candidate if you use this procedure than if you do what people normally do in such situations, which is to go into the interview unprepared and to make choices by an overall intuitive judgment such as "I looked into his eyes and liked what I saw." Although Kahneman does not explicitly discuss using this process outside of applicant evaluations, there's no reason it could not be applied widely. Indeed, Business Insider used it when evaluating the best employers in America, and I used it when choosing between New York City apartments. It could also be used to choose between investments, video game consoles, or suitors. It could even be used in binary decisions, especially if decision-makers also adopt the wise strategy of converting those binary decisions into non-binary decisions. Broadly speaking, the insight is to use coolly logical (and often quantifiable) rules to guide any decisions that may be subject to significant bias: In other words, force yourself to think like a computer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorIt almost seems surreal.  The major central banks seem to agree that wages need to rise.  Usually, to the extent central banks address the issue, they traditionally have cautioned against large pay increases.  And is so doing, reveal their underlying pro-business agenda.  Why should it matter to a central bank how the productivity gains are divided between wages on one hand, and profits on the other.  One reason for the usual desire to keep wages intact is that there is the belief that wages are the key driver for core inflation.  Yet, the cost of labor in the total cost of production has steadily fallen.  This is the mirror image of increased productivity.   This can be seen in the secular decline in manufacturing employment. Services are by definition more labor intensive.  However, even in many services, that account for the bulk of services employment, technological advances, including the rise of the internet, has increased the productivity of service sector workers.   Increasingly shoppers are expected to scan their own goods at check-out counters, for example. The lack of aggregate demand and low inflation has facilitated the shift in central bank views.  Even the German Bundesbank has come out in favor of higher wages throughout the euro area.  At Jackson Hole, the issue for US and UK officials was how to measure the slack in the labor markets, and how much of that slack is cyclical and how much is structural. Some pundits points out that central bankers simply do not know.  While that may be a fair assessment, as a criticism it is not very biting, as private sector economists also do not know.  Or to say it better, there is a vigorous debate over these issues, and reasonable people can and do differ. Yellen's attitude differed from her immediate predecessors.   She did not appear to project greater confidence in her views than she had.  She recognized the difference of opinion.   At the same time, her bias seemed clear.   She argued that there is both a cyclical and structural component, and with inflation expectations anchored, the Federal Reserve will continue to try to address the cyclical component.  This Great Graphic was in a new report by KPMG.  It shows the labor costs of 10 large countries.  Labor costs include wages and benefits.  There are two parts of benefits, those that legally required and those that are not.   According to the table below, the US average wages are among the highest.  The required benefits are the lowest, but the non-statutory benefits are the highest.  This leaves total labor costs the second highest after Germany.    In contrast, Mexican wages are the lowest, of the countries examined here, the statutory benefits are middling, and other benefits are at the upper end.  Nevertheless, KPMG reckons labor costs in Mexico are the lowest, 40% of the US and Germany.   This should help prod our thinking into what is missing here.  To appreciate the true cost of labor, one needs to take into account productivity.  The measure that captures wages, benefits and productivity is unit labor costs.  KPMG Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressTraders.We made it: S&amp;P 2,000. For the first time, the benchmark S&amp;P 500, which contains the 500 largest companies publicly traded in the U.S., has touched 2,000. Since making its financial crisis lows on March 6, 2009, the S&amp;P 500 has tripled (2,000.37 is an exact triple off the 666.79 intraday low).   The top story on Monday is a report that Burger King is in talks to acquire Tim Hortons, the Canadian coffee and donut chain. The deal would be structured as a tax inversion, with Burger King moving its headquarters to Canada.  On the economic data front, the pace of new home sales fell 2.4% to an annualized rate of 412,000 units in July. Expectations were for a pace of 429,000.  Markit's flash reading for U.S. services sector activity in August topped expectations, coming in at 58.5 against estimates for 58.0. This reading, however, was down from July's 60.8.  FREE AppDownload
AP Images It's a bull market. "Buy equities." That's the subject line of an email Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok just blasted. Slok is convinced stocks will go up until there is a recession. Slok: I believe the stock market will continue to go up until we get a recession. And we are nowhere near entering a recession. Recessions happen because of a bubble bursting in capex (as we saw on 2000) or because of a bubble bursting in consumption (as in 2008) or when monetary policy is too tight, i.e. when the fed funds rate is well above its neutral level. None of this is happening at the moment. If anything, we are seeing too little capex and consumption. Slok says he expects "some wobbles" as the Fed begins to raise rates, but this will not derail the current economic expansion.  "I don't think the low dealer inventory issue will be big enough to cause a recession because balance sheets in the banking sector, household sector, and corporate sector are today much stronger than they have been in a very long time," Slok writes. "Or put differently, Fed hiking rates in 2015 will not derail the current expansion. That's why I expect equities to continue to rise steadily over the coming years." So there you have it. This, however, is just Slok's view. The Deutsche Bank "house view," per the firm's equity strategy team led by David Bianco sees the S&amp;P 500 finishing 2014 at 1,850.  On Monday, for the first time ever, the S&amp;P 500 touched 2,000.  Here's the rubric for financial stability from Deutsche Bank, which right now is showing "no signs of significant systemic risk in the financial system." Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople are reflected in a window of a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian food safety watchdog said on Monday it had ordered the temporary closure of one McDonald's &lt;mcd.n&gt; restaurant in the southern Stavropol region over sanitary violations. The regulator, known in Russian as Rospotrebnadzor, said that violations had been unveiled during an inspection of the restaurant. Last week, the state agency closed three McDonald's restaurants in Moscow and unveiled sweeping checks at its outlets across the country.   (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Alexei Anishchuk) FREE AppDownload
The Dallas Fed's manufacturing index fell to 7.1. That was well short of the consensus forecast for 12.8, as well as July's 12.7 mark. However, a positive reading still signals expansion.  The Dallas Fed said manufacturing companies had been reducing staffing and raising prices as a result of the Affordable Care Act. "The Affordable Care Act is such a huge cost increase we must pass it on to our customers or go broke," one metals manufacturing exec said in the survey. "The projected cost increase is more money than we made last year. This increase will put us at an even bigger cost disadvantage versus imports. We will lose business to imports and plan to reduce our workforce accordingly." Here's what the survey now looks like: Dallas Fed FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Saul LoebSingapore (AFP) - Aircraft leasing firm BOC Aviation said Monday it has ordered 80 Boeing 737 planes and two B777-300ERs worth a total $8.8 billion at list prices, to meet expanding client needs as travel booms in Asia. The Singapore-based company, owned by the Bank of China, said the bulk of the orders was for 50 B737 MAX 8 planes and 30 next-generation B737-800s. The 80 planes have a value of $8.14 billion based on 2014 catalogue prices published on Boeing's website. The orders will allow BOC Aviation to build on its fleet for the next seven years, the company said in a statement. The firm said it has also ordered two B777-300ER aircraft, worth a total $660 million at catalogue prices. Both planes have already been placed with an existing customer, it added. US aircraft maker Boeing said in a separate statement that the order is the "largest in BOC Aviation's 20-year history" and is part of the leasing firm's effort "to grow its portfolio of fuel-efficient airplanes". Robert Martin, BOC Aviation's managing director and chief executive, said the fresh B737 orders followed a similar purchase made in 2006 for 50 B737 next-generation aircraft. "This is a continuation of our commitment to be responsive to airline customers which are expanding or replacing older fleets," he said. "The 737 is known for its operational and fuel efficiency, and BOC Aviation expects healthy demand for the next generation 737 and 737 MAX in the next seven years." As of June 30, BOC Aviation said its fleet of 251 delivered aircraft included 118 Boeing aircraft operated by 27 airlines. At the Farnborough airshow in July, BOC Aviation also ordered 43 Airbus single-aisle A320 passenger jets worth $4.4 billion at list prices. Boeing has projected a travel boom in the Asia Pacific region over the next 20 years from 2013, fuelled by a rising middle class and strong regional economic growth. "As income levels rise, Asia Pacific is set to become the largest air travel market in the world. In 2033, approximately 48 percent of global traffic will be to, from, or within the region," Boeing said in its latest regional forecast. FREE AppDownload
Library Of CongressTraders.We made it: S&amp;P 2,000. For the first time, the benchmark S&amp;P 500, which contains the 500 largest companies publicly traded in the U.S., has touched 2,000. Since making its financial crisis lows on March 6, 2009, the S&amp;P 500 has tripled (2,000.37 is an exact triple off the 666.79 intraday low).   The top story on Monday is a report that Burger King is in talks to acquire Tim Hortons, the Canadian coffee and donut chain. The deal would be structured as a tax inversion, with Burger King moving its headquarters to Canada.  On the economic data front, the pace of new home sales fell 2.4% to an annualized rate of 412,000 units in July. Expectations were for a pace of 429,000.  Markit's flash reading for U.S. services sector activity in August topped expectations, coming in at 58.5 against estimates for 58.0. This reading, however, was down from July's 60.8.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toussaint KluitersThe pace of new home sales fell 2.4% to an annualized rate of 412,000 units in July. Economists were expecting a pace of 429,000 units. June's report, however, was revised up to 422,000 from an earlier estimate of 406,000. The median sales price was $269,800, and the average price was $339,100. According to the Census, there is a 6.0 month supply of homes available for sale, up from 5.6 months in June. Here's a regional breakdown: Census FREE AppDownload
Markit Economics' flash reading for U.S. service sector activity for August came in at 58.5. That was better than the consensus forecast for 58.0, but down from 60.8 in July. “The U.S. service sector continues to enjoy a strong growth phase, but the latest survey suggests the recovery has lost some momentum since hitting a post-crisis peak in June," Markit's Tim Moore wrote. "Output expanded at the slowest pace for three months in August, while new business growth picked up only slightly from July’s recent low." However, outlook new business growth and outlook optimism spurred hiring, Markit said, with the rate of workforce expansion climbing month-on-month. The latest upturn in payroll numbers marks four-and-a-half years of continuous jobs growth. Here's what the survey now looks like — we're still well above the survey's 55.7  average.  Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Saul LoebSingapore (AFP) - Aircraft leasing firm BOC Aviation said Monday it has ordered 80 Boeing 737 planes and two B777-300ERs worth a total $8.8 billion at list prices, to meet expanding client needs as travel booms in Asia. The Singapore-based company, owned by the Bank of China, said the bulk of the orders was for 50 B737 MAX 8 planes and 30 next-generation B737-800s. The 80 planes have a value of $8.14 billion based on 2014 catalogue prices published on Boeing's website. The orders will allow BOC Aviation to build on its fleet for the next seven years, the company said in a statement. The firm said it has also ordered two B777-300ER aircraft, worth a total $660 million at catalogue prices. Both planes have already been placed with an existing customer, it added. US aircraft maker Boeing said in a separate statement that the order is the "largest in BOC Aviation's 20-year history" and is part of the leasing firm's effort "to grow its portfolio of fuel-efficient airplanes". Robert Martin, BOC Aviation's managing director and chief executive, said the fresh B737 orders followed a similar purchase made in 2006 for 50 B737 next-generation aircraft. "This is a continuation of our commitment to be responsive to airline customers which are expanding or replacing older fleets," he said. "The 737 is known for its operational and fuel efficiency, and BOC Aviation expects healthy demand for the next generation 737 and 737 MAX in the next seven years." As of June 30, BOC Aviation said its fleet of 251 delivered aircraft included 118 Boeing aircraft operated by 27 airlines. At the Farnborough airshow in July, BOC Aviation also ordered 43 Airbus single-aisle A320 passenger jets worth $4.4 billion at list prices. Boeing has projected a travel boom in the Asia Pacific region over the next 20 years from 2013, fuelled by a rising middle class and strong regional economic growth. "As income levels rise, Asia Pacific is set to become the largest air travel market in the world. In 2033, approximately 48 percent of global traffic will be to, from, or within the region," Boeing said in its latest regional forecast. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriBurger King is in talks to buy Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons, and shares are going crazy. The acquisition would create the third-largest fast-food company in the world and allow Burger King to move its headquarters to Canada, which would shave a couple of percentage points off its corporate tax rate. The move isn't surprising considering the recent shift in Burger King's strategy since its new CEO took over last year. Daniel Schwartz, 33, had a background in private equity — not fast food — when he took the helm at Burger King in June 2013. Burger KingAfter surrounding himself with a young management team — including a 28-year-old chief financial officer — Schwartz began implementing deep cost-cutting measures to help the struggling burger chain generate more cash. Under the direction of Burger King's parent company, 3G Capital, Schwartz has helped reduce Burger King's corporate headcount from to 2,425 from 38,884 by refranchising restaurants, meaning those workers now report to franchise owners.  He has axed many executive perks, including lavish offices that employees called "Mahogany Row" and a $1 million annual party at a chateau in Italy, according to Businessweek. Schwartz has also negotiated deals with restaurant operators in Brazil, China, and Russia, which have helped grow the number of Burger Kings worldwide by 12% to 13,667 over the past year. A merger with Tim Hortons would help both chains grow faster worldwide. Under Schwartz, in the first quarter of this year, Burger King's same-store sales increased 2% and net income nearly doubled to $60.4 million. Combined, Burger King and Tim Hortons would be worth about $18 billion and have more than 18,000 restaurants in 100 countries. The possible merger signals that Burger King "is on a trajectory to significantly reshape the [fast food] industry," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a research note on Monday. Tim Hortons alone is worth about $8.4 billion. It's the largest coffee chain in Canada with 4,546 restaurants, including 866 in the U.S. The map below shows Hortons' locations in the U.S. and Southern Canada.  Flowing DataThe chain says it sells eight out of 10 cups of coffee in Canada, where it has 3,630 outlets. That's equal to about 36,000 locations in the U.S. on a per capita basis, which is double the number of McDonald's in the U.S., according to the New York Times. Tim Hortons' same-store sales grew 2.6% in Canada and 5.9% in the U.S. in the most recent quarter. Traffic has been declining for nine consecutive quarters in Canada, however, and it was flat in the U.S. last quarter, compared to the previous year. The company says it has been investing in new menu items and healthier, fresher ingredients to attract new customers. "We have identified some key trends we are seeing in the market, including changing demographics, increased emphasis on nutrition, health, and wellness and a desire for bold flavors along with fresh, quality ingredients," Tim Hortons CEO Marc Caira said on a recent earnings call.      FREE AppDownload
Richard Branson is known for his crazy stunts and incredible business acumen. But do you know how he got there? Branson is a product of his past as we all are – here are three fascinating things that made him the man he is today. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On YouTube
ReutersHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, is having a big day.  He made more than $161 million on his Burger King stake Monday morning. The news ahead of the rise was that U.S. burger chain Burger King was in talks to acquire Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons. This is significant because if the deal goes through, it could be an opportunity for Burger King to become a Canadian company and take advantage of a lower corporate tax rate.  Ackman is the second-largest hedge fund holder of the fast-food chain. According to data compiled by Bloomberg, Pershing Square owns 38,387,865 shares, or a 10.9% stake. The stock was last trading up about 15.49%, or $4.20 per share. That makes his stake worth more than $1.2 billion. Ackman first disclosed his stake Burger King in June 2012. He used his cash-shell company Justice Holdings to buy Burger King and then returned the burger chain as a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  Since Burger King re-emerged as a publicly traded company, its shares have soared more than 71%.  FREE AppDownload
Alexander Demianchuk/ReutersThe big news on Monday has been reports that Burger King is in talks to acquire Tim Hortons, Canada's most popular coffee chain.  According to a recent KPMG study, Canada is one of the most business-friendly countries in the world. At least, when you look at the total tax cost for companies operating in some of the world's biggest economies.  KPMG examined the tax costs of doing business in 10 major economies: Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Using the U.S. tax rate as a benchmark of 100, the report found that Canada has the lowest total tax costs, with costs coming in 46.4% lower than those in the U.S.  To find the total tax costs, the report weighed corporate income taxes, property taxes, capital taxes, sales taxes, miscellaneous local business taxes, and statutory labor costs in each country. So, a company's total tax cost is about more than just the effective rate it pays.  And on the basis of simply an effective tax rate, Burger King wouldn't appear to be getting that much of a break in acquiring Tim Hortons. This table from KPMG shows the corporate tax rate in Canada is 26.5%, which compares with 40% for the U.S. According to Burger King's most recent 10-K, in 2013 the company's effective tax rate was 27.5%, so not much higher than the Canadian corporate tax rate.  But Burger King is run by a 33-year old alumnus of the private equity firm — 3G Capital — which bought out Burger King in 2010 and took it public in 2012, and its management certainly knows that tax costs are about more than just the advertised rate.  This table from KPMG shows how countries stack up in total tax index. KPMGAnd this is what those differences look like in chart form. KPMG FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJanet Yellen arrives at the morning session of the Economic Policy Symposium at Jackson Hole in Moran, Wyo., Friday, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2011.I must have heard it on the radio recently, because Janet Yellen’s speech at this year’s Jackson Hole conference brought to mind lyrics from one of my favorite Beatles songs: I’m looking through you, where did you go I thought I knew you, what did I know You don’t look different, but you have changed I’m looking through you, you’re not the same Yellen’s remarks on last Friday could be described as “surprisingly neutral.” She offered a balanced assessment of labor market conditions that suggests her views are closer to the center of the FOMC than we previously had thought, and notably different from the most dovish FOMC members (e.g. Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota) as well as outside observers with similar ideological stripes (e.g. monetary economist Adam Posen). Indeed, her comments were starkly different in tone than her speech on labor markets in March, when she said that the recovery “still feels like a recession to many Americans, and it also looks that way in some economic statistics,” and “In some ways, the job market is tougher now than in any recession.” Janet Yellen at Jackson Hole was not the dove we thought we knew. Her remarks of course included the usual statement that there remains slack in the labor market and that the unemployment rate probably understates the degree of slack. However, those conclusions have never really been a matter of debate among mainstream economists. Instead, the key questions are (1) to what degree does the unemployment rate understate slack? and (2) what does that mean for the FOMC’s exit timing? On these questions we saw three important elements in Yellen’s remarks: First, her description of current trends in the labor market and cumulative progress toward recovery was clearly upbeat. In the opening paragraph she noted the faster pace of payroll growth this year compared to previous years, the fact that payrolls now exceed their pre-crisis peak, and that the unemployment rate has declined almost four percentage points. If she wanted to stress why policy remains easy, we think Yellen would have opened the speech with a different set of statistics. Instead, this sounds like a central banker justifying why policy might need to become less easy. Second, her extensive discussion of slack was more balanced around the structural factors affecting labor markets than her past remarks, in our view (see here for background). We would point to: (A) the comment that labor force dropouts related to disability and school enrollment are “clearly and importantly” affected by structural trends; (B) her view that “some portion” of the rise in involuntary part-time work could be structural; (C) her conclusion that factor models which summarize a wide range of labor market indicators can be a useful guide (these types of indicators show a considerable improvement in slack); and (D) the lack of a central discussion of what is often called the “high pressure economy” view—i.e. that the Fed should overstimulate in order to raise the structural level of employment (the concept was mentioned in footnote number seven in her remarks). Third, Yellen characterized the idea that policymakers should simply focus on inflation due to uncertainty about slack as “not nearly so straightforward.” She emphasized that other factors besides labor market slack affect inflation, and that there are leads and lags that need to be taken into account. She has made statements along these lines before (e.g. at the press conference following the March FOMC meeting), but it’s nonetheless important to hear the point made again in this type of speech. Our read would be that higher inflation is not an absolute prerequisite for rate hikes—better real economy indicators (i.e. lower slack and solid growth) and higher forecasted inflation might be enough. Thus, Yellen’s Jackson Hole speech provided some new information about the key labor market questions we have been focusing on. To what degree does the unemployment rate understate slack in the labor market? Yellen’s views seem closer to the CBO and White House—which see a quantitatively modest amount of additional slack—than the larger estimates from economist Andrew Levin (previously a close advisor to Yellen). What does underemployment mean for exit timing? Not a tremendous amount: the FOMC has not switched to a wage-based policy rule and does not seem intent on deliberately overshooting. All of this simply confirms that Fed officials are likely eyeing an exit from zero interest rates—likely by June 2015 or a bit sooner. FREE AppDownload
BI Paul Krugman deserves some of the blame.  The incident that immediately precipitated the resignation of French Prime Minister Manuel Valls' cabinet was an interview given by Arnaud Montebourg, France's economics minister to LeMonde, in which he protested his government's ongoing austerity policies.  As evidence of that policy's failure, Montebourg cited the former Princeton professor and New York Times columnist. Here's the exchange: LeMonde: Has Europe, and France too in the past two years, focused too much on budget contraction? Arnaud Montebourg: That's not my observation, that's the diagnosis of financial institutions across the world, starting with the IMF which, whose director, Christine Lagarde, warned European leaders about an excess of budget consolidation. Paul Krugman, a Nobel laureate, also wrote on Aug. 13, "The nightmare scenario in Europe is not a hypothetical. The news that industrial production has ground to a halt raises the prospect of a new recession in Europe — its primary cause, austerity." These warnings have also been sounded by other leaders of world powers including Barack Obama. Montebourg's comments were supported by Hollande's education minister, as well as his culture minister. Faced with de facto insubordination Hollande laid off his whole government. However Despite the noise France's cabinet reshuffle was making Monday morning, it may not amount to much. As Krugman also pointed out, European governments can now do only so much to address severely weak underlying economic fundamentals. Europe's fate mostly now lies in the hands of ECB Chief Mario Draghi, who seems to fully understand the stakes but also faces vocal monetary hawks out of eurozone member countries.  That may include France itself. By accepting his own cabinet's resignation, Hollande is signaling that he will remain committed to his announced budget cuts and corporate tax reductions. Meanwhile multiple reports indicate Montebourg and education minister Benoit Hamon, who also lashed out at Hollande, won't survive into the new coalition.  Thus, any satisfaction Montebourg ultimately receives may come at the grim price of further economic malaise.     FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogOn July 15, Fed Chair Janet Yellen testified before the US Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. She presented the Fed’s semiannual Monetary Policy Report (MPR) to the Congress. In her prepared remarks, she stated that while valuation seems “stretched” in some areas of the bond market, equities “remain generally in line with historical norms.” Yet in the MPR, which bears her signature, the following observation appeared: “Nevertheless, valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched--particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries, despite a notable downturn in equity prices for such firms early in the year.” In other words, in her opinion, the stock market is showing some signs of irrational exuberance. Of course, this term was popularized by Fed Chair Alan Greenspan in a speech on December 5, 1996 indicating his concern about a possible bubble in stock prices. About two years later, on January 28, 1999, in testimony before a Senate Committee, he defended the mania in Internet stocks by offering his Lottery Principle. The following is a reconstruction of various quotes picked up by the press from his response to a question about this issue: “You wouldn't get hype working if there weren't something fundamentally, potentially sound under it. The issue really gets to the increasing evidence that a significant part of the distribution of goods and services in this country is going to move from conventional channels into some form of Internet system--whether it's retail goods or services or a variety of other things. The size of that potential market is so huge that you have these pie-in-the-sky type of potentials for a lot of different vehicles. And undoubtedly some of these small companies, which have stock prices going through the roof, will succeed and they very well may justify even higher prices will succeed [even if] the vast majority are almost sure to fail. There is something else going on here though, which is a fascinating thing to watch. It is, for want of a better term, a 'lottery' principle. What lottery managers have known for centuries is that you could get somebody to pay for a one-in-a-million shot, more than the value of that chance. In other words, people pay more for a claim on a very big payoff, and that's where the lotteries' profits have always come from. What that means is that when you are dealing with stocks--the possibilities of which are it's going to be valued at zero or some huge number--you get a premium in that stock price which is exactly the same sort of price-evaluation process that goes on in the lottery.” So who is right, Yellen or Greenspan? With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that Greenspan was too much of a cheerleader during the second half of the 1990s. He certainly contributed to the stock market bubble that burst one year after he promoted his Lottery Principle. However, that principle actually makes more sense today. This is especially true for biotechnology stocks, as I wrote on July 31: “In addition, one has to wonder whether it is even appropriate for the Fed to express opinions about specific stock groups. Lots of sophisticated investors purchase biotech companies that have no earnings and are regularly raising cash to stay in business. These investors do so knowing that the outcomes are binary: The companies they invest in will either find a cure for a disease or they won’t. Their new drugs will either be approved by the FDA or they won’t. They might be acquired for a huge premium or they might not, or might go out of business. Why should the Fed weigh in on the valuation of biotechs? After all, speculators are providing the funding that might actually cure diseases. Or they might get wiped out. Why should the Fed get in the middle?” In any event, industry analysts have been scrambling to raise their earnings estimates for S&amp;P 500 Biotechology industry. They now expect earnings to rise 38.7% this year and 13.6% next year compared to forecasts of 15.8% and 17.8% at the beginning of the year. Forward earnings has soared 64.3% y/y through mid-August. Consensus expected earnings growth over the next five years is around 19% per year, up from 11% in 2011. The stock index is at a record high, up 23.4% ytd and 56.5% y/y, after a brief swoon during March and April. Yet the forward P/E has actually declined from this year’s peak of 24.0 during the week of January 23 to 16.1 currently. Within days of Yellen’s testimony, Facebook, Google, and Twitter all reported better-than-expected results for Q2 earnings. The S&amp;P 500 Internet Software &amp; Services stock price index is up 17.0% from this year’s low on May 8. Forward earnings rose to a new record high in mid-August. The stocks seem expensive with the forward P/E around 20. But that’s also the expected annual growth rate for earnings over the next five years. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Taking Issue With Yellen. (1) Are social media and biotech stocks still “stretched?” (2) Greenspan’s clever contribution to investment strategy: irrational exuberance and the Lottery Principle. (3) The biotech lottery. (4) Binary outcomes with all or nothing payouts. (5) Is the Fed registered to give investment advice? (6) Biotech earnings expectations are soaring. (7) The Internet’s fundamentals are also hot. (8) Yellen is a two-handed economist on wages. (9) The wage stagnation myth again. (10) Are baby boomers dropping out of the labor market, or staying in too long? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking today: Equity Futures are starting this big vacation week well into the green (2000 within reach this AM), propelled by a Dovish Draghi Speech from Jackson Hole, and heavy M&amp;A headlines (Burger King is in talks to buy Tim Hortons / Roche for InterMune for $8.3B). Volumes are quite light overseas, as the UK is closed and America gears for Labor Day Weekend – The DAX is up 1%, but volume is 50%+ lower than normal. Russia’s MICEX is up small into the Putin/Poroshenko meeting tomorrow as headlines were quiet over the weekend – but news wires should dictate the direction of trade this week, so remain glued to the headlines. In Asia, Nikkei loved the weaker Yen – but Shanghai lost 50bp, and miners dragged Aussie away from 6Y highs.   There was a CME “glitch” halted electronic trading for 4hours overnight – but Credit buyers were waiting, and Yields are in collapse right now, With German 10’s at 93bp, and US 10YY off 2bp early, with August Lows in site – The real weight on the Euro is the diverging 2YY of US and Germany – as US 2YY popped last week as traders brought forward rate projections – while the fear of deflation has driven German 2YY to a -4bp overnight. The DXY overnight took out its 1Y peak, causing a headwind for commodities – that said, we are seeing a bounce in Oil (Dead Cat?) as futures longs collapsed last week – but Libya headlines show ramping exports, so remain wary – Natty gas is continuing last week’s pop, adding 2% this AM as tailwinds blow. Copper nearing 3week highs, while Gold is dancing on last week’s lows. Scheduled Catalysts today include Dudley speaking at 8:30, Markit US Composite PMI at 9:45, New Home Sales at 10, Dallas Fed at 10:30 – there is NO POMO at 11 FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)By Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were modestly higher on Monday, indicating the S&amp;P 500 would open near record levels, amid corporate merger activity and as hopes grew for more monetary stimulus in European markets. U.S. investors took cues from Europe, where an index of major shares  rose 0.7 percent after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said Friday the ECB was prepared to respond with available tools if inflation dropped further. Investors took this to mean the ECB could start an asset purchase program or adopt other stimulus measures in the coming months, which would boost assets like stocks and bonds. Draghi spoke at a global central banking conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen spoke, too, but didn't provide hints on the timing of any interest rate hikes, contributing to a modest equity market decline on Friday. InterMune Inc  jumped 37 percent to $73.48 in premarket trading after Roche Holding AG  agreed to buy the biotechnology company for $8.3 billion in cash. The deal is the latest vote of confidence in the biotech sector, which many - including Yellen - worry is overvalued. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures  rose 6 points and were above fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract, indicating a higher open. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures  added 44 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures  rose 15.5 points. U.S. stocks have been strong of late. Major indexes closed a third week of gains Friday, with the Dow and S&amp;P enjoying their best weeks since April. The S&amp;P hit an intraday and closing high last week, and market participants are looking for the benchmark index to pierce the 2,000 level for the first time. Burger King  is in talks to acquire Canadian coffee and doughnut chain Tim Hortons Inc , in a deal that would be structured as a so-called tax inversion transaction to move Burger King's domicile to Canada, which has lower overall corporate taxes. The Wall Street Journal reported that activist Investor Engine Capital LP wants Ann Inc  to sell itself, believing the company could fetch around $2.5 billion. A cyber attack took down Sony Corp's  PlayStation Network over the weekend, though it was back online on Monday. Investors continued to eye tensions between Ukraine and Russia, with Ukraine's military saying its government force had engaged with a separatist armoured column near the southeastern town of Novoazovsk, not far from the Russian border. Traders are looking ahead to a read on July new home sales, as well as August data on the services sector from financial data firm Markit. The Markit data will be released at 9:45 a.m. EDT (1345 GMT), and the housing data at 10:00 a.m.    (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darrin Zammit LupiA man slips off the "gostra," a pole covered in grease, during the week-long celebrations for the religious feast of St Julian, patron of the town of St Julian's, outside Valletta on Sunday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1) French Government Resigns. Things haven't been going so great in the Hexagon economically of late, and now France's governing coalition has resigned after the country's economic minister criticized his growth policies. Arnaud Montebourg called out "the economic failure everywhere in the eurozone, and thus France," especially the "obsession" with austerity. "The role of the economic minister, or many state official," he added, "is to confront the truth, however cruel, and propose alternative solutions." 2)  Burger King Moving To Canada? The home of the Whopper may be moving to Canada, as The Wall Street Journal reported Burger King was in talks to buy mega donut chain Tim Hortons as part of a "tax inversion" scheme. If consummated, the deal would create the world's third-largest fast-food enterprise.  3)  Roche Deal. The Swiss drugmaker announced Sunday it would pay $8.3 billion for California biotech InterMune Inc., which specializes in respiratory disorder treatments. “It is a good use of cash in our view,” said analysts at Bryan, Garnier &amp; Co. in a note reviewing the deal, according to Marketwatch. 4)  German Business Confidence Collapses. The Ifo Institute's survey of 7,000 companies fell to the lowest level in 13 months. The index hit 106.3, down from 108.0 in July and worse than the 107.0 reading forecast. It was the fourth straight decline. 6)  Euro Sinks. In the wake of what some analysts believe were more hawkish signals out of the Fed at its Jackson Hole summit last week, and more dovish signals from the ECB, the euro fell 0.3% against the dollar Monday and has begun approaching an annual low. The dollar also gained 0.2% on the Swiss franc. 7)  Hong Kong Stocks Hit A High. The city's Hang Seng index closed up 0.2% to 25,166 points, the best level since May 2008, even as protests for universal suffrage continue to grip the territory. China recently allowed cross-border trading in stocks, which may be sparking a flood of previously allowed Chinese cash into the index, the FT said.  8)  Data. At 8:30 a.m. we get the Chicago Fed's National Activity index, followed by a "flash" reading for U.S. services PMI at 9:45 a.m. At 10 a.m. the Census will give us new home sales data, and at 10:30 a.m. we get the Dallas Fed's manufacturing survey. 9)  Civil War In Libya. The New York Times' David Kilpatrick says conflict between Islamist militants and former Moammar Gadhafi loyalists has reached the point of civil war. "In an alarming turn for the West, the rush toward war is also lifting the fortunes of the Islamist extremists of Ansar al-Shariah, the Benghazi militant group. It has gained ground because other militias and factions are building new alliances with its fighters against common enemies. The United Nations, the United States and the other Western powers have withdrawn their diplomats and closed their missions. 'We cannot care more than you do,' the British ambassador, Michael Aron, wrote in a Twitter message to a Libyan pleading for international help. (The United Nations is sending a special envoy, Bernardino León, to try to arrange a truce.)." Brent crude was trading up 0.25%. 10) Markets. European stocks climbed as markets digested dovish signals from ECB chief Mario Draghi. Germany's DAX was up 1%, while France's CAC climbed 0.8%. Asian indexes were more mixed, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.4% and Indian stocks reaching a fresh intraday high but Shanghai stocks off 0.5%. U.S. futures were higher, with Dow futures up 46 points.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFed Janet Yellen and European Central Bank President Mario Draghi speak during the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium at the Jackson Lake Lodge.Another year, and another Jackson Hole conference has come and gone. Top economists presented some interesting papers about the labor market. But it was Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's opening remarks that were most-anticipated by economists and traders around the world. Unfortunately, her speech was less a main event and more a non-event. The good news is everyone can refocus on the economic data, which we'll get a lot of this week. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Corporate profit margins hit new highs during the second quarter. However, this average has been driven by gains among large cap companies. UBS's Julian Emanual noted that margins for small cap stocks have actually been falling and are set to continue falling. UBS"Small Cap stocks' margins – and relative price performance - have begun to slip as a result of the same strength in wages and the tightening labor situation," wrote Emanual on Friday. "We expect Small Caps to continue to face headwinds in the months ahead as the Fed's favored measure of inflation, PCE, is forecast by UBS to rise to 2.0% by year end 2014 driven largely by evolving labor market dynamics." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe big corporate news of the day is that Burger King is in talks to acquire Canadian coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons. Besides the possible linking up of two iconic brands, each strongly associated with its home country, the deal is significant because it would be a tax inversion for Burger King. If the deal is consummated, Burger King would become a Canadian company and pay a lower tax rate. Tax inversions have been a big theme of 2014, as several companies (largely in the pharmaceutical space) have acquired foreign rivals to move their tax base elsewhere. Goldman SachsTax inversions have been soaring in 2014, prompting talk of new legislation.These deals have infuriated some in Washington, and the loss of an iconic brand only adds fuel to the fire. There has been talk of legislation to limit tax inversions, but in this political climate, the idea of anything actually passing both houses of Congress seems very slim. So earlier this month, the White House said it may use an executive order to limit tax inversions, though it remains unclear how much teeth any executive order would have. Either way, this warning (or threat) apparently is not much of a deterrent to deals being commenced. Greg Valliere of Potomac Research says that Burger King's actions are a direct statement to the White House and the Treasury, basically daring them to back up their warning with action: So much for the theory that Treasury could chill future inversion deals by hinting of possible action. The Burger King deal throws down the gauntlet, and Treasury almost certainly will have to respond by proposing curbs on interest payment deductions. We still don't expect regulations to be finalized until early next year, after a deliberative comment period, but we think there's a good chance that Treasury will get a phone call today from the White House, urging quicker action. Meanwhile, the news gives Democrats another talking point. The potential departure of an iconic American company because of "corporate greed" will be trotted out on the campaign trail. FREE AppDownload
Here's the latest sign of decline in Europe. Business confidence in Germany is collapsing. The latest IFO survey of business leaders finds that assessments of the current and future state of the economy have fallen to their lowest levels in about a year. This chart shows the story of the deteriorating. IFO FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIn his speech at Jackson Hole, Mario Draghi made some off-the-cuff comments with major implications. ECB chief Mario Draghi gave a big speech at Jackson Hole on Friday. There were two big ideas to come out of the speech: The first is that the ECB will do more to halt falling inflation. The other is that the ECB probably can't do it on its own, and that the destructive effects of austerity need to be reversed somehow. Markets are higher on Draghi's promise to do more. But most people might have missed one of Draghi's most crucial statements, because it wasn't originally in the prepared remarks. It was delivered off the cuff. In a note out Monday morning, Lorcan Roche Kelly of Agenda Research highlights the significance of this. First, here was the text as originally stated in the prepared remarks. Basically, it's a pro-forma acknowledgment of declining inflation numbers: Inflation has been on a downward path from around 2.5% in the summer of 2012 to 0.4% most recently. Acknowledging this, the Governing Council would use also unconventional instruments to safeguard the firm anchoring of inflation expectations over the medium- to long-term. But here's what he said off the cuff, going much further, acknowledging there were no good excuses for the decline in inflation and inflation expectations: Inflation has been on a downward path from around 2.5% in the summer of 2012 to 0.4% most recently. I comment on these movements about once a month in the press conference, and I have given several reasons for this downward path in inflation, saying it is because of food and energy price declines; because after mid-2012 it is mostly exchange rate appreciation that has impacted on price movements; more recently we have had the Russia-Ukraine geopolitical risks, which will also exert a negative impact on the euro area economy; and of course we had the relative price adjustment that had to happen in the stressed countries as well as high unemployment. I have said in principle most of these effects should in the end wash out because most of them are temporary in nature — though not all of them. But I also said if this period of low inflation were to last for a prolonged period of time, the risk to price stability would increase. Inflation expectations exhibited significant declines at all horizons. The 5year/5year swap rate declined by 15 basis points to just below 2% — this is the metric that we usually use for defining medium term inflation. But if we go to shorter- and medium-term horizons, the revisions have been even more significant. The real rates on the short and medium term have gone up, on the long term they haven't gone up because we are witnessing a decline in long-term nominal rates, not only in the euro area but everywhere really. The Governing Council will acknowledge these developments and within its mandate will use all the available instruments needed to ensure price stability over the medium term. As Lorcan points out, Draghi is done making excuses for low inflation. He's acknowledging significant real deterioration that can't just be explained by some temporary problems, like the situation in Ukraine or food prices. And he is promising to do more. Furthermore, making big statements in off-the-cuff comments is Draghi's move. Here's Lorcan: If you think we are reading too much into Draghi’s off-the-cuff comments, you must remember that this is a tactic that Draghi has used before to spectacular effect — his 'whatever it takes' speech in London in July 2012 was unscripted. His remarks then were the single most significant factor in changing investor sentiment towards the euro area. Clearly more moves out of the ECB are coming, and you can see that in the euro, which is falling nearly to its lowest level of the year. FinViz FREE AppDownload
AP/John LocherWatching the fountains in front of the Bellagio is still free. Guaranteeing two queen beds or one king bed will cost you, as will checking in early or checking out late. Don't need the in-room safe? You're most likely still paying. And the overpriced can of soda may be the least of your issues with the hotel minibar. Vacationers are finding it harder to anticipate the true cost of their stay, especially because many of these charges vary from hotel to hotel, even within the same chain. Coming out of the recession, the travel industry grew fee-happy. Car rental companies charged extra for services such as electronic toll collection devices and navigation systems. And airlines gained notoriety for adding fees for checking luggage, picking seats in advance, skipping lines at security, and boarding early. Hotel surcharges predate the recession, but recently properties have been catching up to the rest of the industry. "The airlines have done a really nice job of making hotel fees and surcharges seem reasonable," says Bjorn Hanson, a professor at New York University's hospitality school. This year, hotels will take in a record $2.25 billion in revenue from such add-ons, 6 percent more than in 2013 and nearly double that of a decade ago, according to a new study released Monday by Hanson. Nearly half of the increase can be attributed to new surcharges and hotels increasing the amounts of existing fees. Hanson says guests need to be "extra-attentive" to the fine print. Fewer and fewer services come for free. Need to check out by noon but don't have a flight until after dinner? Hotels once stored luggage as a courtesy. Now, a growing number charge $1 or $2 per bag. Shipping something to the hotel in advance of your trip? There could be a fee for that, too. The Hyatt Regency San Antonio, which subcontracts its business center to FedEx Office, charges $10 to $25 to receive a package, depending on weight. Some budget hotels charge $1.50 a night for in-room safes. Persuading a front desk employee to waive a fee at checkout is getting harder. Fees are more established and better disclosed, and hotel employees are now trained to politely say no. "It's the most difficult it's ever been to get a charge removed," Hanson says. U.S. hotels last year took in $122.2 billion in room revenue, according to travel research company STR. Fees only add an extra 2 percent in revenue, but Hanson notes that most of that money is pure profit. Some guests are revolting. Royce Breckon travels frequently for his job marketing outdoor sporting equipment but refuses to spend the night at any hotel charging for internet. Charges typically range from $10 to $25 a night. "You can walk into just about any coffee shop and have it for free," Breckon says. The American Hotel and Lodging Association says fees are common in the travel business and that its members disclose them at the time of booking. Hotels first started adding surcharges in 1997, mostly at resorts with expansive pools, tennis courts, and fancy gyms. The so-called resort fees paid for staff to set up beach umbrellas and lounge chairs. Three years later, hotels added energy surcharges to cover rising utility bills. Hotels then refrained from adding any major surcharge for several years. But as airlines and car rental agencies made fees commonplace, hotels started to think up new ones, collecting record amounts in each of the past four years, according to Hanson's research. Even the in-room minibar — a decades-old splurge — isn't safe from the new wave of add-ons. At the Liberty Hotel in Boston, a cold can of Coke from the minibar costs $5. That's just the base price. The fine print on the menu reveals an 18 percent "administrative fee" to restock the bar. Elsewhere, the in-room offerings more conspicuous. Jimmy R. Howell was shocked by the W San Diego's efforts to sell him snacks and drinks. "Usually these extras are kept under lock and key," Howell says. At the W, they were "strewn about" the room, above the bar, on the desk, nightstands and in the bathroom. "It seems like an effort to tempt you." Even moving an item in the minibar can generate a fee. The Aria Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, like many other hotels, bills items to guests' rooms if sensors in the minibar note they have been removed for more than 60 seconds — enough time, hotels say, to read the nutritional information and make a decision. The Aria goes one step further. It also charges a $25 a day "personal use fee" if a guest puts his or her own soda or bottled water in the minibar. A guest in need of a mini refrigerator can have one delivered to his or her room — for an extra $35 a night. Some hotels are bucking the trend. Hyatt's upscale boutique Andaz chain offers complimentary local snacks and non-alcoholic drinks from its minibars. Hotels are also revisiting resort fees, upping the price, especially at the high end. For $650 a night, guests at the St. Regis Bahia Beach Resort — set on a former coconut plantation in Puerto Rico — enjoy rooms with 300-thread-count sheets and walk-in-closets. But that's not the full price. There's a $60 nightly resort charge, which provides for a welcome drink upon check-in, internet access, the use of beach umbrellas and lounge chairs, bicycles, and a daily poolside ritual iced tea service that includes fruit skewers. Guests pay whether they use the services or not. Other hotels are adding mandatory tips. The Fairmont Southampton in Bermuda, which was recently charging $469 a night, charges a resort fee and mandatory gratuities for each person in a room. So two adults and two kids sharing a room would incur $48.28 a night in resort fees and $40.80 tips — adding 19 percent to the nightly rate. And the fees aren't limited to resorts anymore. The Serrano hotel in downtown San Francisco adds on a $20 per night "Urban Fee" that includes internet, local phone calls, newspapers, morning coffee, and use of bicycles. Perhaps nowhere are hotels pushing fees further than in Las Vegas. Forget resort fees. Those are taken for granted there. Resorts like the Bellagio are learning from airlines and selling enhancements. Want to skip the notoriously long Las Vegas check-in lines? That will be $30 extra. Want to check in early? That's another $30. Check out late? Also $30. And if you want two queen beds or one king bed, it will cost extra to guarantee your preference. For an extra — you guessed it — $30, the Bellagio will lock in three room preferences such as bed type, requests to be near or far away from the elevators, rooms on a high or low floor, or the option to have quieter non-connecting rooms. Then there was the fee Hank Phillippi Ryan, a mystery writer, faced while in town to sign copies of her new book "Truth Be Told" at a convention. Before heading to the airport, she went to the lobby of the Paris Las Vegas Hotel and Casino to print her boarding pass. There a kiosk offered the service — for $7.95. "I think I actually yelped," she recalls. "I had never seen that before." __ Scott Mayerowitz can be reached at http://twitter.com/GlobeTrotScott. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiEurope's Central bank head Mario Draghi leads the annual assembly of Bank of Italy in Rome May 31, 2008.European markets are up early Monday.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is up 0.86%. Germany's DAX is up 1.05%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.80% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.08%. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.04%. This comes after European Central Bank head Mario Draghi said at the Jackson Hole economic conference on Friday that "he was prepared to take action if inflation dropped further, raising expectations of quantitative easing," Reuters says.  Asian markets closed in the green. Nikkei's 225 closed up 0.48%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed up 0.22%. U.S. futures are up, with Dow futures up 50 points and S&amp;P futures up 6.20 points. Here's what data is coming out of the U.S. on Monday: Markit U.S. Services PMI will be released at 10:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index of services slipped to 58.0 in August from 60.8 in July. The U.S. Census Bureau provides data on new home sales at 10 a.m. ET. Economists estimate the pace of sales jumped 5.7% to an annualized rate of 429,000 units in July. The Dallas Fed's manufacturing outlook survey comes out at 10:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this regional activity index ticked up to 12.8 in August from 12.7 in July. FREE AppDownload
FRANKFURT/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Three German car parts suppliers have been told by China they can no longer manage their Chinese units independently but need to form partnerships with local peers, the chief executive of auto parts maker Elring Klinger  told a German paper. "The Chinese state has told several (German car) suppliers that they are no longer allowed to operate their Chinese subsidiaries on their own but only as part of a joint venture in the future," Stefan Wolf was quoted as saying by the Stuttgarter Zeitung.    He said he knew of three companies that now needed to look for a Chinese partner, but did not say which, adding Elring Klinger was not affected.    "If that were to happen, it would be an attack on intellectual property. 50 percent of the company is being taken away - this, effectively, is expropriation," Wolf said.    "I believe this is an attempt to make up leeway in terms of know how and innovation." German auto parts maker Robert Bosch GmbH's [ROBG.UL] China unit said it has not received any notification from Chinese authorities with regard to changes of foreign investment policies related to the automotive component industry. "We believe that foreign investment will continue to play a vital role in China's economic development and foresee improving investment environment of fairness and open competition in China," Bosch said in an e-mailed statement. Continental , another major German automotive supplier, could not immediately be reached for comment at its headquarters. The China units of U.S. engine maker Cummins Inc  and France's Faurecia SA  said they're not aware of any policy changes. Chinese investment bank China International Capital Corp said in a report on Monday that the Chinese government, which has the power to approve foreign investments, will more likely urge foreign component makers to "voluntarily" seek Chinese partnership during the approval process, rather than make drastic policy changes in the short term. Currently, foreign automakers must form joint ventures in China to make cars locally, but overseas component makers are not subject to any ownership requirements. Earlier this month, the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China expressed concern over a recent series of antitrust investigations, saying China, the world's largest car market, was using strong-arm tactics and appeared to be unfairly targeting foreign firms. At the time, the chamber said it had "received numerous alarming anecdotal accounts from a number of sectors that administrative intimidation tactics are being used to impel companies to accept punishments and remedies without full hearings."    The auto sector has been put under scrutiny from China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), which has investigated car companies amid accusations by state media that global car makers are overcharging consumers. "The Chinese state is noticing that 50 percent of the automotive world is taking place in China and that its manufacturers are not benefiting accordingly," Elring Klinger'sWolf told the paper. European car brands including Volkswagen AG's Audi, BMW  and Mercedes-Benz  are scrambling to lower prices for new cars and spare parts in an effort to appease Chinese regulators who have accused some of them of anti-competitive behavior. European and U.S. manufacturers are eager to increase their footprint in China, now the world's largest car market, but have been limited to owning 50 percent or less of joint venture companies run together with Chinese state-owned enterprises.  (Reporting by Christoph Steitz, Edward Taylor, Andreas Cremer in FRANKFURT and Samuel Shen in SHANGHAI; Editing by David Evans and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan looks up as he is reflected on an electronic board displaying Japan's Nikkei average outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Francesco Canepa LONDON (Reuters) - The euro fell to a near one-year low against the dollar and euro zone stocks and bonds rallied on Monday as investors positioned for rising chances of further policy easing by the European Central Bank. ECB President Mario Draghi said late on Friday that the bank was prepared to respond with all its available tools should inflation in the euro zone drop further. Investors speculated this meant the ECB was more likely to embark on an asset purchase program, or quantitative easing, or adopt other stimulus measures in coming months which would weigh on the euro and boost assets such as stocks and bonds. "The key message is that Draghi stands ready for more action if needed," Franz Wenzel, chief strategist at AXA Investment Managers in Paris, said. "Whether they're going to do quantitative easing remains to be seen but we're fairly confident that the financial engineers at the ECB will find other tools. At this juncture, we don't exclude quantitative easing at the end of this year." A weak German business sentiment index, Ifo, also added pressure on the euro in European trade, as it reinforced concerns about Germany, the euro zone's biggest economy. The euro skidded to $1.3185  in early Asian trade, its lowest since September 2013, from around $1.3246 late in New York on Friday. It was last trading at $1.3190, down about 0.3 percent on the day, amid lower than usual volumes due to a holiday in London. The euro zone's blue-chip Euro STOXX 50 index  was up 1.2 percent to 3,135.38 points after climbing to a three-week high in early deals. Both Germany's DAX  and France's CAC 40  gained 1.2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World index  was up 0.1 percent at 429.03 points. Spanish  and Italian  10-year yields fell 8 bps to 2.31 percent and 2.51 percent, respectively, while Portuguese yields  fell 14 bps to 3.12 percent. "The ... market has interpreted Draghi's statement as meaning that broad-based asset purchases, or quantitative easing, has now become more likely," said Lutz Karpowitz, currency strategist at Commerzbank. The Ifo business climate index dropped for a fourth straight month in August and the Ifo Institute said it was likely to cut its 2014 growth forecast for Germany to 1.5 percent from 2 percent. Also sounding dovish was Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda who vowed over the weekend to press ahead with aggressive monetary easing for as long as needed to convince the public that deflation was dead and buried. Kuroda's pledges of policy stimulus weighed on the yen , which was down 0.1 percent against the dollar.  US RATES SEEN RISING EARLIER In contrast, U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen on Friday gave a nod to the concerns of some Fed officials about the sustained level of monetary policy stimulus, even as she stressed the need to move cautiously on raising rates. As a result, Fed funds futures fell back  as the market priced in the risk of an earlier rise in interest rates, while the dollar index  rose to 82.563, its highest since September last year. U.S. T-note futures  were flat at 125-57/64, with cash 10-year yields  trading at 2.41 percent. In commodities markets, the rising dollar pressured prices with spot gold  hovering near its lowest in two months at  $1,277.00. Brent crude dipped towards $102 a barrel on Monday as ample supply and a stronger U.S. dollar continued to pressure oil markets.  (Additional reporting by Anirban Nag and Marius Zaharia in London; Wayne Cole in Sydney; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe shopping mall "Galerie Luise" is pictured in downtown HanoverBERLIN (Reuters) - German business sentiment dropped for a fourth straight month in August, suggesting concerns about the Ukraine crisis and the impact of sanctions against Russia are sweeping through corporate boardrooms in Europe's largest economy. The Munich-based Ifo think tank's business climate index, based on a monthly survey of some 7,000 firms, fell to 106.3 from 108.0. The Reuters consensus forecast had been for a decrease to 107.0.  It was the lengthiest period of decline since the height of the euro zone crisis in summer 2012 and sent the euro to a day's low against the dollar.   (Reporting by Michelle Martin; Editing by Noah Barkin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen Lam A car damaged by bricks falling during an earthquake next to a downtown building in Napa, California, on Sunday. 1. A 6.0-magnitude earthquake struck 50 miles northeast of San Francisco early Sunday. The biggest quake to hit the region in 25 years injured hundreds and led to multiple fires.  2. Burger King is in talks to buy Canadian doughnut and coffee chain Tim Horton's, The Wall Street Journal first reported. The deal would see the hamburger giant's home move to Canada to avoid U.S. taxes.  3. British actor and Oscar-winner director Richard Attenborough died Sunday. He was 90. Attenborough won an Academy Award for his direction of "Gandhi." 4. American freelance writer Peter Theo Curtis was released Sunday after nearly two years of being held captive by Nusra Front, the Al Qaeda affiliate in Syria.  5. Sony says the information of 53 million PlayStation users is safe after hackers attacked its network on Sunday. "The unidentified hackers said on their @LizardSquad Twitter microblogging account that the attack was meant to pressure the Japanese tech giant to spend more of its profits on security," Reuters said. 6. The political leaders of both sides of the Scottish Referendum on Independence will go head to head Monday night in the last televised debate before the Sept. 18 vote.  7. A memorial was held Sunday for American journalist James Foley in his hometown of Rochester, New Hampshire. Foley was killed by Islamic State militants last week after his capture in Syria in 2012.   8. The first British man to contract Ebola in West Africa is being treated at a London hospital. A special isolation ward was set up for the patient. 9. Rap mogul Suge Knight was shot at an MTV awards pre-party in West Hollywood. Knight, 49, is expected to survive.  10. Swiss drugmaker Roche has agreed to buy U.S. biotech company InterMune for $8.3 billion. "The driver for Roche was to gain access to InterMune’s drug, pirfenidone (trade name, Esbriet), which is already approved in Canada and Europe for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF)," according to Forbes.  And finally... Nicki Minaj's dress ripped during her performance of  "Bang Bang" with Jessie J and Ariana Grande at the MTV VMAS. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench Economy Minister Montebourg attends a news conference at the Bercy Ministry in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - The time has come for France to resist Germany's "obsession" with austerity and promote alternative policies across the euro zone that support household consumption, firebrand French Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg said on Sunday. Deficit-reduction measures carried out since the 2008 financial crisis have crippled Europe's economies and governments need to change course swiftly or they will lose their voters to populist and extremist parties, Montebourg told a socialists' meeting in eastern France. "France is the euro zone's second-biggest economy, the world's fifth-greatest power, and it does not intend to align itself, ladies and gentlemen, with the excessive obsessions of Germany's conservatives," Montebourg said. "That is why the time has come for France and its government, in the name of the European Union's survival, to put up a just and sane resistance [to these policies]." Montebourg said consensus was growing among economists and politicians worldwide on the need for growth-oriented policies and mentioned his German socialist counterpart Sigmar Gabriel and Italy's premier Matteo Renzi as potential allies. He cited former president Charles de Gaulle and former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher as having effectively spoken up to change the course of EU policies they opposed. Montebourg said he had personally asked President Francois Hollande for "a major re-direction of our economic policy". The government should now focus less on cutting debt than on supporting households to revive consumption, a traditional economic driver, he said. Montebourg, who makes no secret of his own presidential ambitions, is known for his frequent attacks on austerity, but his latest comments are likely to embarrass Hollande, who despite mounting pressure said just days earlier he would not back away from his policy based on spending cuts and corporate tax breaks. Hollande's business-minded policies have alienated many left-wing lawmakers and voters already frustrated with his failed pledge to curb unemployment. He is now the most unpopular president in over half a century, with an approval score of 17 percent in the latest Ifop poll. In an interview published on Saturday, Montebourg had already warned the austerity measures pursued by France and its European peers were strangling growth. Six years after the collapse of banking group Lehman Brothers and the start of the global economic crisis, the United States and Britain have returned to growth while euro zone economies are still shrinking or stagnating, he noted on Sunday. "There is a disease specific to the euro zone, a serious disease, persistent and dangerous," Montebourg said, arguing that fiscal and monetary austerity would not help end the crisis but had only worsened and extended it. "The time has come for us to take on an alternative leadership, to set up an alternative motor and promote ideas and practices alternative to this destructive ideology," he said. (Reporting by Natalie Huet, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
