Sri Lanka's Lasith Malinga takes a catch to dismiss Pakistan's Umar Akmal during their first ODI (One Day International) cricket match in Hambantota August 23, 2014. The weekend is over and markets are mostly going nowhere — in one big case, literally. Japan's Nikkei was up 0.3%.  Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 was flat. Korea's Kospi was down 0.1%. Chicago's CME/Globex suspended futures trading until 10 p.m. Eastern due to a technical glitch on its exchange. We are going to get deluged with economic data this week. Click here for the preview from BI's Sam Ro » FREE AppDownload
Business Insider source Futures trading on Chicago's CME/Globex exchange will open at 10 p.m. Eastern Sunday, according to a statement on the firm's website.  Earlier, trading was suspended indefinitely following a technical glitch.  Any day orders that brokerages attempted to file and any orders that were filled, dated today have been canceled, Jerry Kukowski, a CME/Globex analyst with knowledge of the situation, told Business Insider  He said the problem may be related to one of the exchange's trading engines but that the exchange was still working to identify the extent of the damage.  Developing... FREE AppDownload
Burger King The Wall Street Journal's Liz Hoffman and Dana Mattioli report Burger King is in talks to buy Canadian donut giant Tim Hortons to pull off a "tax inversion" that would see the home of the Whopper move to Canada to avoid corporate levies in the U.S. The report was confirmed by The Toronto Globe and Mail's Paul Waldie. "One of the people said a deal between the two companies could be struck soon, though additional details on timing couldn't be learned," Hoffman and Mattioli say. We have written often about how tax inversions have recently surged in the U.S. as cash-flush companies, looking to make deals, prioritize those with low exposure to what some see as overly burdensome corporate taxes. Here's the chart from Goldman showing the spike:  Goldman Sachs The issue has the full attention of U.S. President Barack Obama, who told CNBC's Steve Liesman in July that inversions undermine "people's confidence in how companies are thinking about their responsibilities to the country as a whole." In a recent Washington Post op-ed, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urged Congress to pass legislation the administration has been proposing that would overhaul the corporate tax code to make inversions less appealing. The deal would create the world's third-largest fast-food enterprise — the firms' current market caps total approximately $18 billion. Burger King went public for the third time in 2012. Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is a minority stakeholder.  Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com FREE AppDownload
Burger King The Wall Street Journal's Liz Hoffman and Dana Mattioli report Burger King is in talks to buy Canadian donut giant Tim Hortons to pull off a "tax inversion" that would see the home of the Whopper move to Canada to avoid corporate levies in the U.S. The report was confirmed by The Toronto Globe and Mail's Paul Waldie. "One of the people said a deal between the two companies could be struck soon, though additional details on timing couldn't be learned," Hoffman and Mattioli say. We have written often about how tax inversions have recently surged in the U.S. as cash-flush companies, looking to make deals, prioritize those with low exposure to what some see as overly burdensome corporate taxes. Here's the chart from Goldman showing the spike:  Goldman Sachs The issue has the full attention of U.S. President Barack Obama, who told CNBC's Steve Liesman in July that inversions undermine "people's confidence in how companies are thinking about their responsibilities to the country as a whole." In a recent Washington Post op-ed, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urged Congress to pass legislation the administration has been proposing that would overhaul the corporate tax code to make inversions less appealing. The deal would create the world's third-largest fast-food enterprise — the firms' current market caps total approximately $18 billion. Burger King went public for the third time in 2012. Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is a minority stakeholder.  Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com FREE AppDownload
Burger King The Wall Street Journal's Liz Hoffman and Dana Mattioli report Burger King is in talks to buy Canadian donut giant Tim Hortons to pull off a "tax inversion" that would see the home of the Whopper move to Canada to avoid corporate levies in the U.S. The report was confirmed by The Toronto Globe and Mail's Paul Waldie. "One of the people said a deal between the two companies could be struck soon, though additional details on timing couldn't be learned," Hoffman and Mattioli say. We have written often about how tax inversions have recently surged in the U.S. as cash-flush companies, looking to make deals, prioritize those with low exposure to what some see as overly burdensome corporate taxes. Here's the chart from Goldman showing the spike:  Goldman Sachs The issue has the full attention of U.S. President Barack Obama, who told CNBC's Steve Liesman in July that inversions undermine "people's confidence in how companies are thinking about their responsibilities to the country as a whole." In a recent Washington Post op-ed, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urged Congress to pass legislation the administration has been proposing that would overhaul the corporate tax code to make inversions less appealing. The deal would create the world's third-largest fast-food enterprise — the firms' current market caps total approximately $18 billion. Burger King went public for the third time in 2012. Bill Ackman's Pershing Square is a minority stakeholder.  Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com FREE AppDownload
LOCA photo of Jackson Hole from the 1930sOn Friday, Janet Yellen delivered the keynote address at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Symposium in Jackson Hole.  Many analysts remarked that the speech did not offer many surprises as Yellen discussed the state of the monetary landscape without signaling anything as far as policy moves. Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson still found the speech quite revealing. "Chair Yellen’s Jackson Hole speech laid bare just how little the Fed knows about the labor market," he wrote in a Sunday note. Shepherdson described the litany of items that, five years into the recovery, the Fed has still not been able to nail down that would allow it to determine how much "slack," or underutilized workers, still exists in the labor market.    "They don’t know how much of the drop in labor participation is structural and how much is cyclical," he says. "They have no way reliably to predict wage or price inflation from the degree of labor market slack. They aren’t even sure whether the labor market needs to tighten further before inflation rises further. And they have no way to know for sure how the economy would respond to a change in policy." Shepherdson argues that in the face of such uncertainty the Fed will continue do nothing, even if there is suddenly conclusive proof of a pick-up in the one item the Fed has been most sensitive to, wages. "In short, the list of labor market questions is rather longer than the list of definitive answers, so, with inflation still well below the Fed’s objective, Dr. Yellen is comfortable for now to watch and wait," he writes. "The crunch will come when wage gains finally take off, but even then the initial uptick will not trigger any sort of panic. It will take several months of solid gains to convince the FOMC’s doves that policy needs to be adjusted, and, as of now, the hard data have not begun to move. Accordingly, while we are sticking to our view that the first hike will come in March, it is entirely possible that the Fed will be able to wait until June." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche is seen outside the Shanghai Roche Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. headquarters in ShanghaiLONDON (Reuters) - Roche Holding AG has agreed to buy U.S. biotech company InterMune Inc for $8.3 billion in cash, marking the latest multibillion-dollar deal in a consolidating pharmaceutical sector, Roche said on Sunday. The Swiss drugmaker will pay $74.00 a share for InterMune, representing a premium of 38 percent to the closing price on Aug. 22. (Reporting by Ben Hirschler, Editing by Angus MacSwan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heinz-Peter BaderPeople relax on a lawn installed on Ringstrasse street by environmental groups to celebrate World Car Free Day.The Economist Intelligence Unit conducted a livability survey to determine which cities around the world "provide the best or worst living conditions." Cities that tended to score the best on the survey were mid-size and located in wealthier countries with relatively low population densities. This environment, according to the report, "can foster a range of recreational activities without leading to high crime levels or overburdened infrastructure." Out of the top 10 cities, seven are located in Canada or Australia, which have population densities of 3.40 and 2.88 people per square kilometer respectively. Finland and New Zealand, which also have high-ranking cities, have 16 people per square km. The global average is 46.65 people per square km, and the U.S. average is 32 people per sq km, according to the report. Sixty-four cities scored above an 80% — which means they are considered to be "in the top tier of livability." FREE AppDownload
Money goes further in some states than others. The Tax Foundation released a map, via Elliot Turner, showing the relative value of $100 in every state compared with the national average using the data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In expensive states like New York, you can afford comparatively less than average; while in less expensive states like Mississippi, you can buy relatively more. If you look at the map, you'll notice that the relative value of $100 is higher in the center of the country, while it is significantly less in the Northeast and West Coast. "The same amount of dollars are worth almost 40 percent more in Mississippi than in D.C., and the differences become even larger if metro area prices are considered instead of statewide averages," writes the Tax Foundation. "A person who makes $40,000 a year after tax in Kentucky would need to have after-tax earnings of $53,000 in Washington, D.C., just in order to have an equal standard of living, let alone feel richer." Here's the map: Tax Foundation The states with the smallest relative value of $100 were: While the states with the largest relative value of $100 were:    FREE AppDownload
One of the common misconceptions people have about marijuana is that it isn't addictive. Dr. Samuel Ball of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University (CASAColumbia) explains how marijuana has evolved over the years and debunks the myth that weed isn't an addictive substance. Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Andrew BirajPeople wait to commute as an overloaded bus approaches on a street after office hours during Ramadan in Dhaka.The Economist Intelligence Unit conducted a livability survey to determine which cities around the world "provide the best or worst living conditions." Cities with major conflicts tended to score the lowest. Military and political conflicts weigh heavily on livability because they adversely affect many other factors as well: infrastructure is destroyed; hospitals are supersaturated with the wounded and dead; and economic productivity drops. The survey notes that it is "designed to address a range of cities or business centers that people might want to live in or visit," and consequently, it excluded hotspots like Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad.  FREE AppDownload
UBSDuring her remarks at Jackson Hole on Friday, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen referenced a "labor market conditions index from 19 labor market indicators." The Fed first wrote about it on May 22. "This broadly based metric supports the conclusion that the labor market has improved significantly over the past year, but it also suggests that the decline in the unemployment rate over this period somewhat overstates the improvement in overall labor market conditions," she said, reiterating the July FOMC statement, which explicitly aimed to downplay the ambiguous message of the falling unemployment rate. UBS's Drew Matus looked into the index and noticed a few things. "As of April (latest data), the Fed's Labor Market Conditions Index (LMCI) was well above the levels seen at the start of the previous two Federal funds rate hiking cycles," wrote Matus on Friday. "Indeed, history shows that Fed tightening started well before what LMCI lost in recession was recovered. In the last recession, the LMCI fall was unusually steep." Matus doesn't appear to care for this index as an indicator of the labor market as Yellen sees it. "Unfortunately, we find that the LCMI has a low correlation with both the labor force participation rate and with wages, two key areas of concern" for the Federal Reserve," he said. On a 12-month period, the LMCI only had a 0.36 correlation with the labor force participation rate and a 0.38 correlation with average hourly earnings. The big worry for Matus, and other more hawkish Fed watchers, is that the Yellen-Fed will misinterpret the labor market signals and maintain loose monetary policy for much longer than the economy needs. "If the Fed's highly stimulative policy cannot solve the unemployment problem now but keeps policy over easy for too long, it will be setting the stage for the labor market to tighten significantly," he said. "As the labor market normalizes, wage (and inflation pressures more broadly) can accelerate more rapidly as lagged effects of the stimulative policy extend into the period where labor markets have re-normalized." With that comes unwanted levels of inflation. Matus believes that the first rate hike will come in "mid-2015" with subsequent hikes accelerating at a pace faster than what the Fed currently projects. "Indeed, Yellen notes that 'if progress in the labor market continues to be more rapid than anticipated by the Committee or if inflation moves up more rapidly than anticipated, resulting in faster convergence toward our dual objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target could come sooner than the Committee currently expects and could be more rapid thereafter,'" said Matus. "We believe that this will prove the case as the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy and boost the labor market overlap with the normalization of the labor market, resulting in a version of the scenario described above." FREE AppDownload
Deboning and cooking a whole fish is not an easy task. It requires a precise hand and a delicate touch. We visited top New York chef Laurent Tourondel, chef/partner of Arlington Club, a steakhouse on the Upper East Side, for an expert demonstration. Produced by Robert Libetti
In 2012, Susan Shaffer invested about $100,000 of retirement savings with a robo-advisor. The Philadelphian has been investing for over 25 years. She has worked with traditional financial advisors, directly with brokerages, and now, with online investing platform Betterment. At age 67, Shaffer is distinctly outside of the usual robo-advice market, which generally seeks and attracts tech-savvy Millennials. That's not to say that Shaffer isn't tech-savvy: She owns a suite of Apple products, favors Twitter to get her daily news, and considers herself an early adopter of new technology. "A lot of people think I'm a little crazy because I have a lot of things online," Shaffer admits. "It's not really the way of the Baby Boomers. When I tell people about it, they're like 'I would not do that,' 'Where do you meet these people?' 'Where's their office?' I'm a bit of a risk taker. Sometimes it's a good thing, sometimes not." In the case of her online investments, she came to Betterment through Mint.com, which she uses to manage her budget. "I had chosen a money market account that Mint had advised me to use, and I thought they gave good advice. When they suggested Betterment, I just looked and decided to try it." Betterment launched in 2010, meaning Shaffer was in their first wave or two of investors. While she isn't familiar with the term "robo-advisor" ("I must have missed that on Twitter"), she did read some online reviews and about the history of the company before entrusting them with the money she's investing for retirement. Shaffer is no stranger to doing her research. When she first started concentrating on her money after her divorce, she went to seminars, and learned from the advice of personal finance guru Suze Orman. To this day, she regularly watches the CNBC morning news program Squawk Box to learn what's happening in the markets. "I like to know what's going on," she says. "I don't think I react as quickly as some people who just look at the numbers. There's always a reason things are happening." When she came across Betterment, Shaffer was looking for a change. Years ago, she had been paying a financial planner about $500 annually, plus commission. "I disliked the fact that they were pulling all the money out when the market went down and putting it into a money market account, and when the market went up they would buy things," she remembers. "Then I found out what they were charging me for the transactions: $10,000 in commission." Flickr / JD HancockShaffer finds that despite the online interface, her financial advice feels personal. Shaffer left her financial planner, and over the course of nearly three decades added Morgan Stanley, American Express, RBC, and Fidelity to the list of companies she worked with. She found that working with a brokerage directly still felt a little too expensive. "Even though everyone there was very personable and helpful, I didn't feel that I could afford their 1% fee for the next 30 years." Betterment charges .15-.35%, depending on the amount of money you invest. Eventually, Shaffer moved the rest of her retirement savings, including a pension and some rollovers, into Betterment as well.  Shaffer, who has retired from a full-time job in the pharmaceutical industry to work part-time in real estate, finds the site intuitive. "I will get to a point where I need to take my withdrawals for retirement, and they have a tool that will set that up and direct transfer money into my checking account. I think it's easier than some other systems, where you have to call and wait. You can do a lot of planning, change your allocation whenever you want, and go in and look at the activity to see whether you've gained or lost in the market." Despite the online interface, she finds that her "robo-advisor" doesn't seem all that robotic. "I've called customer support at Betterment," she explains, "and I usually get the same person every time. That's reassuring — you can call Verizon and you never know who you'll get. They have a very human feel, even through they're all online." Shaffer says she would recommend an online investment service to others, but, she confesses, "I have a hard time selling it, even to family members. They think it's scary." She recalls that her cousin, who recommended the service that charged her $10,000 in commission, was surprised to hear about the cost. "He said, 'You just do your homework better than I do.'" *This post has been updated to clarify the fact that while Susan Shaffer initially invested about $100,000 with Betterment, she later added the rest of her savings. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAs far as corporate quandaries go, figuring out the best way to spend nearly $2 trillion falls squarely into “high-class problem” territory. That doesn’t mean it’s an easy one to solve—for the better part of a decade, corporate America has manifestly failed to land on a solution—but over the past two years, big company executives have finally started rising to the challenge. First, they bought back stock. Now, they’re engaged in an M&amp;A frenzy. And tomorrow, says Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division, they’re finally going to crank up capital expenditures, making long-overdue upgrades to equipment and factories. Before long, all this surplus cash could be a distant memory. Corporations completed $620 billion worth of share buybacks in 2013, a 32 percent increase over the $471 billion in 2012, and more than halfway back to the $748 billion spent in 2007.Deal making activity is on track to hit a record high of $1.6 trillion this year. Capex, though, has been a little slow going. Businesses cut investment spending sharply during the Great Recession from 3 percent of GDP to less than 1 percent, and have been slow to open their wallets again, despite rising share prices and record profits. While business investment has been edging steadily higher over the last six years, it’s still hovering around 2 percent of GDP. Setting aside the 2007-2011 financial crisis, that’s as low as it’s been since the dot-com bust in the early 2000s. “Both corporate executives and investors were nervous for a long time after the crisis ended,” Barbara Reinhard, Chief Investment Officer – Americas in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division. “A lot of people didn’t trust this recovery, and who could blame them? We’ve been through two vicious bear markets in a 15-year period.” But they’re starting to trust it now: In the second quarter of 2014, U.S. nonresidential fixed investment rose 5.5 percent, versus just 1.6 percent in the first quarter. So far this year, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia surveys show that an average of 30.5 percent of businesses plan to increase spending over the next six months, up from 27 percent over the same period in 2013. The portion that plans to cut spending, meanwhile, has declined from 13 percent to 6.7 percent. (It’s worthwhile to note that both figures mark a 180-degree turnaround: Over the same time period in 2009, only an average of 18 percent cited plans to expand spending, while 25 percent said they planned to cut.) Further evidence that there’s optimism in the air: The Conference Board’s CEO Conference Survey index sat at 62 out of a possible 100-points this month, and anything above 50 is considered positive. And more than three-quarters of CEOs expect profit growth over the next 12 months. With aggregate lending standards relaxing over the past two-plus years, banks are seeing higher demand for commercial and industrial loans from companies with at least $50 million in sales. The net percentage of banks citing higher loan demand in their most recent quarter has been positive since the first quarter of 2013. In July’s quarterly survey, 36 percent of banks surveyed said demand for C&amp;I loans from large and middle-market companies had grown over the past quarter, compared to just 5.3 percent that reported flagging demand. If the floodgates really are opening this time around, the resulting deluge will have been long overdue. The corporate capital stock in the U.S. is older than at any point since 1965, with the average age of non-residential fixed assets at 15.9 years as of 2012. Prior to 2005, the average age of non-residential fixed assets had been less than 15 years since 1967, with a trough at 13.8 years in 1986. Capacity utilization, a measure of how much output a country wrings from its installed capital base, troughed at 66.9 percent in 2009, but it’s now close to pre-recession levels at 79.1 percent. In other words, factories and production facilities are inching closer to running at full tilt, and Reinhard says some will undoubtedly need to add capacity in the near future. As businesses upgrade computers and software over the next two years, expect sales at IT companies of all kinds to get a boost. Manufacturing firms should also place more orders to companies that specialize in industrial equipment, particularly automation systems. And Reinhard says the spending won’t stop with machines. Service businesses that cater to corporate clients — such as hotel chains, airlines, advertising, and employment agencies — also stand to do very well as corporate spending picks up.  The increase in share buybacks, dividends, and even M&amp;A activity has been nice for shareholders holding the right stocks at the right time – but the ripples from an uptick in corporate capital expenditures should be much wider. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAttendees talk during a break at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium at the Jackson Lake Lodge in Grand Teton National Park near Jackson, Wyo.Janet Yellen has given her widely anticipated opening speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s Jackson Hole Conference. As expected, she devoted her remarks to the labor market, which is the subject of this year’s conference. Her discussion covered a wide range of issues and questions concerning current conditions in the labor market and how they might or might not be changing. To be sure, she emphasized that while current market conditions are clearly improving, in some cases they are changing more rapidly than the Committee anticipated, there is significant room for more improvement. Yellen’s presentation set up the remaining panels of the conference by highlighting what we currently know and don’t know about labor market dynamics and how those answered and unanswered questions are impacting the FOMC’s assessment of current market conditions. She not only explained why the headline unemployment rate is not capturing what is truly happening in labor markets but also moved beyond that simple measure to consider a host of other issues.  These included: labor market slack and difficulties in measuring it; the recent changes in the labor market participation rate; the problem of the chronically unemployed; the role of people who are employed part-time but want full-time jobs; labor market flows in terms of quits and hires; workforce demographics and the impact of an aging workforce; the disappearance of so-called middle-skill jobs; the impact of disability rates, retirements, and school enrollments; and finally, the effects of the recession on wages and productivity gains. But she also moved beyond just that discussion of key labor market issues to devote attention to how they are shaping the formulation of monetary policy. Implicit in her discussion was the dual role that labor market conditions and the measurement of slack are playing from a policy perspective. Her attention focused mostly on the Fed’s dual employment/inflation mandate, and here she emphasized the goal of promoting full employment in a way that broadly improves labor market conditions, rather than just seeking to lower the unemployment rate. At the same time, there is also a second implicit role that labor market slack is playing in the policy debate, and that involves its impact on inflation. Most contemporary macro models focus on measurements of labor market slack and deviations of real GDP from its potential as indicators of possible inflation pressures. Tight labor markets and wage inflation – combined with an economy growing above trend – signal that inflation is or soon will be a problem. In the framework of such models, there is no financial sector and no role for money in the dynamics of inflation. Inflation is viewed as being driven solely by real-side factors. So, in this view, slack in labor markets combined with an economy growing at or slightly below trend is evidence that inflation is not a near term problem nor is likely to become one, so accommodative policy is not an issue.  What the press and markets took away from the presentation was Yellen’s observation that, despite the labor market improvements that have occurred, considerable slack in remains, and hence, rates will remain low until greater improvement is evident. To be sure, Yellen and other Federal Reserve officials took great pains to emphasize that policy will definitely depend upon incoming data, so any inference about when the FOMC will begin policy normalization cannot be made at this time. Where does the Fed’s posture leave those people who are now arguing that a policy move is now likely as soon as the end of the first quarter of 2015? Their conclusion is based largely on two considerations: first, on their optimistic forecasts that real GDP growth will exceed 3% for the second half of this year, further lowering the unemployment rate and putting upward pressure on wages, and, second, on the observation that the minutes of the most recent FOMC meeting suggested that there is growing talk of policy normalization. Is this view reasonable? We won’t comment here on GDP projections, but we will comment on the minutes and the inferences being drawn. A careful reading of the minutes suggests a number of observations and conclusions. First, the FOMC is initiating a discussion of how policy will be normalized is simply good planning but tells us little about how far off such a policy move actually is. Second, it is clear that there is no consensus as to how policy should be normalized, when the FOMC should stop rolling over its securities, how the four relevant policy rates (discount rate, interest rate on reserves, federal funds rate, and reverse repo rate) should be set relative to each other, what role forward guidance will play or what the timing will be. Indeed, the FOMC has just formed yet another committee to consider its communications policy. Given this lack of consensus – and the minutes make it clear that there are widely divergent views on all these issues – it is not realistic to assume that views will coalesce on these critical issues in just the next few months so as to enable a shift in policy as soon as March. Third, even if there were a consensus, great uncertainty remains as to how markets will react to any policy move or even to a hint that a policy move is imminent. A sharp market reaction – and it is not unreasonable to fear that rates could jump precipitously as holders of large portfolios of low-yielding bonds dump them abruptly to avoid capital losses – could destabilize markets and derail the recovery.  This point was raised as a possibility by former Fed Vice Chair, Alan Blinder, in an interview he gave at Jackson Hole on Thursday. Fourth, both the U.S. economy and economies in the rest of the world are facing various headwinds that could pose problems for growth.  Housing still hasn’t recovered.  External demands for exports could slow because of slow growth worldwide.  Then there numerous and significant geo-political issues, any one of which could further contribute to increased market volatility and threaten the recovery. Finally, one must also consider the fact that the bulk of the FOMC voting members– which comprises the seven governors and President Dudley – control the policy vote.  Only one clearly more hawkish voice, represented by President Lacker, will even have a vote next year.  Thus, it appears from all the FOMC participants’ public utterances, including Chair Yellen’s speech at Jackson Hole, that the probability is extremely high that the Fed will wait rather than act preemptively. Thus it is likely that, in terms of labor market issues, conditions for a rate move will not be in place until at least the end of the third quarter of next year. Bob Eisenbeis is Cumberland’s Vice Chairman &amp; Chief Monetary Economist. Prior to joining Cumberland Advisors he was the Executive Vice President and Director of Research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Bob is presently a member of the U.S. Shadow Financial Regulatory Committee and the Financial Economist Roundtable. His bio is found at  www.cumber.com.  He may be reached at  Bob.Eisenbeis@cumber.com. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joe PenneyA Chinese worker jokes with his Nigerian counterpart at the National Arts Theatre stop of the light rail system under construction in Lagos, Nigeria, May 30, 2014."China's Second Continent: How a Million Migrants Are Building a New Empire in Africa" By Howard French.Knopf; 304 pages. "NI HAO" and "chi ku" may be the two commonest phrases in this riveting worm's-eye account of the Chinese in Africa. They mean, respectively, "hello" and "eat bitter". The first is relentlessly used by Howard French, a veteran American reporter with a Ghanaian wife who has been based in both Africa and China for the New York Times and speaks Chinese, enabling him to converse with an array of Chinese people in Africa, from rugged bricklayers in Zambia and brothel madams in Liberia, to engineers in Mali and farmers in Mozambique. The second phrase is used by many of Africa's new Chinese diaspora to denote their ability to live rough in remote and inhospitable places and to work staggeringly hard, qualities that the continent's previous roaming visitors, principally from Britain, France and America, seem to have lost, at least in Chinese and African eyes. The numbers are hard to pin down. Mr French reckons that the million cited in his book's title may be an underestimate. Most of them, he says, came to work on big projects, then stayed on as adventurous entrepreneurs on their own or in family groups. Chinese companies bring far more of their own people to work in menial jobs than Western companies would ever do. Mr French says that in 2011 China's parliament debated a proposal, admittedly fanciful, to deploy as many as 100m people in Africa. The rumour circulating widely in Africa that many of the more roughneck types of Chinese incomer are prison labourers is, he says, entirely baseless. The trade and investment figures are hard to verify, too. According to one source used by Mr French, "China's Export-Import Bank extended $62.7 billion in loans to African countries between 2001-2010, or $12.5 billion more than the World Bank." Other figures go even higher. What is clear, at any rate, is that Chinese people and money have flooded into Africa in the past decade, chiefly to buy raw materials to fuel China's roaring economy. REUTERS/Christopher HerwiLiberian children hold Chinese flags before the arrival of China's President Hu Jintao in Monrovia February 1, 2007. What is tantalisingly unclear is whether the Chinese economic onslaught is the result of a methodical policy fashioned in Beijing as part of an imperialist venture to promote "Chinese values" and dominate the continent as Europeans did a century ago, or whether it has become a self-generating process fired up by individual Chinese who are simply keen to enrich themselves without the slightest intention of kowtowing to the authorities back home. The conversations recorded by Mr French in a dozen of sub-Saharan Africa's 48 countries leave an impression that strongly supports the second thesis. Indeed, many of the Chinese in Africa excoriate the Communist Party back home and have dared to start new lives far away precisely to breathe fresher air--much as pioneers from Europe did when heading to the new world or to the dark continent. Many cite the Chinese ruling party's corruption as a spur for seeking a freer climate elsewhere and even say that Africa is a lot less corrupt by comparison. At the same time, many Chinese in Africa have intensely nationalist feelings, often expressed in crudely racist terms. They tend to stick together, perhaps even more tightly than other incomers in the past. They are wary of joint enterprises with Africans, except at the highest level, where presidents and generals come into play. Africans are routinely derided by the ordinary Chinese, in virtually every country Mr French visits, as lazy and incompetent; "90% of Africans are thieves," says a leading entrepreneur in Namibia. In Liberia a Chinese hotelier explains that his compatriots generally bring their own towels for fear of using one previously used by "hei ren" ("black people") as they are lumpenly known. Far from embracing Chinese values, many Africans have become wary of them. In Guinea, writes Mr French, "there was mounting resentment over the way China was seen to be...despoiling the environment, dispossessing powerless landholders or flouting local laws, fuelling corruption, and, most of all, empowering awful governments." The dumping of cheap and shoddy goods is another source of complaint, and poor safety standards at work yet another. In Namibia, a local activist says Chinese businessmen often pay their labour a third of the official rate. Illegal fishing, ivory-smuggling and logging by Chinese operators are rife. African worries about such activities and behaviour are gaining ground across the continent. REUTERS/Thomas MukoyaKenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta, flanked by Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni (L) and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, addresses a news conference after the signing of the Standard Gauge Railway agreement at the State House in Nairobi May 11, 2014. Some African leaders, by contrast, plainly like the Chinese approach to government and big business, which puts human rights and transparency totally to one side, while ritually uttering the official mantra of "win-win": Africans and Chinese benefit equally. The presidents of Angola and Zimbabwe are notorious examples, but others abound. Moreover, if Western donors or investors try to lay down conditions on such matters, African leaders have become adept at threatening to "go east". As a massive transactional process, China's entry into Africa has been a dramatic success, and many of those roads and bridges are useful. But as an ideological and cultural undertaking, Mr French's masterly account suggests that it is getting nowhere. Click here to subscribe to The Economist   FREE AppDownload
CNBC via Zero Hedge    This article originally appeared at Zero Hedge.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BIIBitcoin is most often discussed as a volatile digital currency, with a value that seesaws depending on the latest news — good and bad. It's beloved by some, derided by others. But where Bitcoin's real value lies is as a payments technology that has the potential to revolutionize the legacy payments industry.  Bitcoin offers merchant and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants to pay extortionate transaction fees. But, while the emergence of Bitcoin brings with it numerous advantages, it also faces incredible hurdles. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared with the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees Latif The San Gabriel Mountains are seen in the background during cloud cover over the Los Angeles skyline on January 26, 2013. JOSE MARROQUIN lives with his mother, wife and four children in a tiny apartment in a rough part of town. It costs the seven of them $1,080 a month: about two-thirds of their cash income, most of which comes from Mr Marroquin's job as a forklift driver.  Steep rents for tiny spaces are the norm in dense cities like New York or San Francisco. But Mr Marroquin lives in Los Angeles, a city known for spacious homes and sprawl. Even in South Central LA, which is poor and gang-plagued, renting a place to live is expensive. A new study by the University of California, Los Angeles concludes that LA has the least affordable rental homes in America, and other reports rate California as the worst state both for renters and mortgage-payers (see map). The UCLA study reports that tenants in LA spend on average 47% of their gross income on rent--a higher share than in any other city. (Academics typically deem rent "unaffordable" if it eats up more than 30% of a household's income). Median rents in LA have risen more than 25% since 2000, while median household income has fallen slightly. New York and San Francisco have slightly higher rents but much higher incomes: the annual median in LA is $57,000 to San Francisco's $75,000 and New York's $64,000. The Economist LA's deep-rooted culture of NIMBYism makes matters worse. If developers could build more high-rise or high-density housing, rents would fall. But thanks to restrictive zoning laws, they find this extremely hard. The zoning code hasn't changed much since the 1940s. More than 78% of the city's residential land is currently zoned for single-family dwellings, according to the LA Department of City Planning. By comparison, only 24% of San Francisco and 25% of New York City is zoned exclusively for one- and two-family homes. Some of California's green rules drive up rents--and hurt the environment, too. The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), signed by Governor Ronald Reagan in 1970, allows almost anyone to sue to block any development, and is used by the slow-growth lobby to thwart vertical expansion. "The irony is that CEQA is now preventing us from building high-rises near public transit, which would improve the environmental quality by allowing people to walk more and not use their cars," says Richard Green of the University of Southern California. Developers seeking to build in LA today find that they have to scale back their projects to get them built at all. Construction began on Ponte Vista, a cluster of 676 homes near the Port of LA, earlier this year. The original plans called for three times as many units, but the project was cut back after neighbours protested about the extra traffic it would bring. In February a judge struck down what he called a "fatally flawed" plan to build taller, denser buildings in some parts of Hollywood, after community groups sued under CEQA, complaining that the plan would "Manhattanise" Hollywood. REUTERS/David McNew Last year Takao Suzuki, a developer, finished a 45-unit affordable housing complex in LA's Historic Filipinotown. The five-storey building was originally slated to contain 70 units, but after years of knocking heads with NIMBYists, Mr Suzuki agreed to build fewer. "We had no choice. NIMBYism has been institutionalised by the zoning code in Los Angeles," says Mr Suzuki. He received more than 2,000 applications for 45 subsidised apartments. A report by the California Housing Partnership Corp, a non-profit, claims that Los Angeles County faces the greatest shortage of affordable housing in California. The city needs nearly another half a million homes with below-market rents, it reckons. Until that happens, people like the Marroquins will be tempted to leave town. Mr Marroquin says he has considered Riverside County, part of the Inland Empire, where jobs are scarce but rents are lower. "It can't be worse than here," he says. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Lockheed Martin/US Navy The Pentagon has stuck with the F-35 Lightning Joint Strike Fighter program despite dozens of technical problems and delays, strategic concerns, and massive cost overruns that have nearly doubled the initial cost estimate, raising the cost of building the planes to around $400 billion with a lifetime cost of up to $1.5 trillion. One reason why the project has become such a boondoggle is that many states and countries are significantly invested in the plane, relying on its production for income and jobs. Every U.S. state but Alaska, Hawaii, Nebraska, and Wyoming has economic ties to the F-35, with 18 states counting on the project for $100 million or more in economic activity, according to primary contractor Lockheed Martin. All told, the project is supposedly responsible for 32,500 jobs in the U.S. Globally, another nine countries have major ties to the F-35. One way or another, America's multirole fifth-generation fighter is coming — though it was most recently delayed to September 2017. Skye Gould/Business Insider
Thomson ReutersFrench Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg delivers a speech during a conference about the economic recovery of France at the Bercy ministry in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - Austerity measures being pursued by France and elsewhere in the euro zone are quashing growth, French Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg was quoted saying on Saturday, renewing his attacks on policies he sees as negative for the economy. Montebourg's interview with Le Monde daily came days after President Francois Hollande said he would accelerate reforms but not back away from his supply-side economic policy, based on bigger tax cuts for business. The outspoken minister, a fierce critic of budget austerity, is known for frequent attacks on big business and the European Commission, which he accuses of strangling economic recovery with its prioritization of deficit reduction. "We have to give priority to getting out of the (economic) crisis and relegate to second place the dogmatic reduction of deficits, which is driving us to austerity and a continued rise in unemployment," Montebourg said. Without specifically taking on Hollande, he said he did not exclude France from his criticism. "Today, forced deficit reduction is an economic aberration because it aggravates unemployment; a financial absurdity because it makes stabilizing public accounts impossible; and a political disaster because it throws Europeans into the arms of extremist parties who want to destroy Europe," Montebourg added. He pointed a finger at Germany, saying the euro zone's largest economy was "trapped by the austerity policy she has imposed on all of Europe." While not as strident as the comments by Montebourg, French Finance Minister Michel Sapin similarly argued for moderated deficit reduction in an interview published in Italian newspaper La Repubblica. "The euro zone is at risk of getting stuck in a spiral of weak or negative growth. We absolutely must slow down the rate of deficit reduction," Sapin was quoted as saying. "And it will take time for investments decided upon at the European level to produce their first results. In the meantime we need to reorientate economic policies, adapting the rate of deficit reduction to the economic situation," he added. Hollande's government was forced to abandon growth and fiscal targets for 2014 and 2015 earlier this month after data showed the economy delivered no growth for the second straight quarter. The most unpopular French president in modern history, Hollande has already failed to meet his goal of reversing the rise in unemployment by the end of last year. His pro-business strategy designed to lift the economy out of stagnation through tax breaks for companies in exchange for hiring promises has alienated many lawmakers on the left wing of the ruling Socialist party. Prime Minister Manuel Valls on Sunday dubbed "irresponsible" propositions made by members of this camp to abandon the so-called "responsibility pact," acknowledging it would take time to produce results. Still, Hollande said last week he would reform welfare benefits and income tax rules to ease the strain on poorer households, and boost home construction - an important stimulus of the economy - without providing concrete details. The Socialist party begins its annual end-of-summer gathering on Thursday in the port town of La Rochelle, where those who oppose fiscal rectitude will have a chance to air their gripes over economic policy. (Additional reporting by Isla Binnie in Rome; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of a Family Dollar store is seen in Chicago(Reuters) - Like millions of Americans, Darnel Ware needs to save money, even if it's 40 cents on a bag of flour. He searches for those savings during his daily visits to the Family Dollar Store near his home in Fraser, Michigan, sometimes stopping by as many as 10 times a week "if there are things I need," said the 51-year-old home care provider. "I buy a lot of everything; merchandise and food products." He said he typically spends about $30 a trip on items like the soft drinks, paper cups and cookies he bought on a recent afternoon at the small store in a strip mall alongside other discount retailers and small factories five miles from Detroit. The small but frequent purchases of low-income customers such as Ware add up: Family Dollar Stores, which operates about 8,200 stores in mainly urban sections of the U.S., is the target of an $9 billion cash takeover offer from rival Dollar General and an $8.5 billion cash and stock offer from Dollar Tree. Both competitors are betting not only on the health of the deep discount retail sector but also on the intractability of poverty in America. Mid-market retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Macy's Inc and J.C. Penney Company Inc have been struggling in recent years as consumers have been slow to return to their pre-recession, freer spending ways. On Wednesday, Target said it was cutting its full-year earnings and slashing prices. But the popularity of so-called dollar stores is growing. Shopping by the 46.5 million Americans living below the poverty line poor helped boost the annual U.S. market for deep discount stores by 45.7 percent to $48.2 billion between 2008 and 2013, according to London-based market researcher Euromonitor International. The firm projects the sector to grow to $57 billion in 2018. The U.S. Census sets the poverty line at $24,000 a year or less for a family of four. Such forecasts help explain the battle over Family Dollar, the number-two deep discount chain. Market leader Dollar General Corp on Monday made its $78.50 a share bid, which Family Dollar rejected on Thursday, citing antitrust concerns. In July, the third-ranked chain, Dollar Tree Inc, bid $74.50 a share. Family Dollar has said it prefers Dollar Tree's lower offer. The deep discounters' reliance on poor Americans, who made up 15 percent of the U.S. population in 2012, compared with 12.5 percent in 2007, has been validated by investors. From 2000 to now, as the poverty rate rose 11.3 percent to 15 percent, Family Dollar's stock price rose by about 300 percent. Against that backdrop, the bidding over Family Dollar, said Kurt Jetta, CEO of retail analyst Tabs Group, reflects an "acceptance that there will be a sizable and perhaps growing low-income population that makes dollar stores an ongoing opportunity." Not all analysts agree that dollar stores are poised for continued growth. Roger Davidson, a former grocery executive at Wal-Mart, Whole Foods Market Inc and Supervalu, said dollar stores face increasing competition from other discounters, including Walmart itself, which is opening smaller neighborhood stores. "Consolidation is now the only path to growth in sales and earnings," he said. Deep discount dollar stores have been around for decades, but have grown by about 10,000 to about 24,500 stores in the last decade. Combined sales of the big three - Family Dollar, Dollar Tree and Dollar General - have grown to $35 billion. Dollar stores offer their customers low prices, but not necessarily the best value. For example, Huggies diapers this week were selling in a Family Dollar store for 27 cents a diaper in an 80-diaper pack. But at Walmart, shoppers could pay 17 cents a diaper if they purchased the larger 120-diaper pack. The poor often don't have the funds needed to buy in bulk, experts said. Nor do they necessarily have the wherewithal to travel to often remote big-box stores like Target and Walmart. The dollar stores play the role of "fill in" retailers, said Joan Storms, a retail analyst at Wedbush Securities. Their customers try to do most of their shopping at places like Walmart when they get paid or receive benefits, she said, but they pick up necessities and other items at the deep discount stores. The expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of jobless Americans and a reduction in food stamp payments last year also helped the deep discounters, analysts said. With less cash on hand to make regular "big shops" at places like Walmart, these consumers are more likely to turn to the dollar stores to buy a few items at a time to feed their families. With wages stagnant, even middle-class consumers follow this shopping pattern, giving dollar stores a source of revenue not wholly dependent on the lowest-income Americans. In real dollars, the median U.S. wage has declined since 1999, when it was $56,080 compared with $51,017 in 2012. Joseph Garrett, 58, a welfare-fraud investigator for New York City, was among the shoppers at a Dollar Tree Deals location in Manhattan's Harlem neighborhood recently. He said he does most of his grocery shopping elsewhere but uses the dollar store when he's looking for a bargain. The store was crowded with families shopping for groceries and school supplies. Backpacks were prominently displayed but absent the brand names of merchandise typically found at Target or Walmart. Most of the canned food also was private label rather than well-known national brands. "Everything is going up," said Garrett. "So you've got to save what you can." (Additional reporting by Anjali Athavaley in New York and Peter Suciu in Detroit; Editing by Eric Effron and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David StubbsU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen (L) speaks with European Central Bank President Marlo Draghi at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.JACKSON HOLE Wyo. (Reuters) - Pressure is building within the Federal Reserve for officials to move as early as next month to more clearly acknowledge improvements in the U.S. economy and lay the groundwork for the central bank’s first interest rate hike in nearly a decade. According to some U.S. central bankers and their close advisers, signs of economic resilience and growing anxiety about the risks of holding rates too low for too long have set the stage for an intense debate over rewriting their policy statement. It is uncertain whether officials will use their upcoming meeting on Sept. 16 and 17 to scrap key parts of the language they have been using to keep rate-hike expectations at bay, but if they do not, October looks like a good bet. "Some shift of language is on the table, and should be on the table in the coming meetings," Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Dennis Lockhart, a policy centrist, said in an interview. While a handful of officials have argued for prompt changes, Lockhart said he thinks September "is still early." Adding, dropping or adjusting even a few words in the Fed's post-meeting statement is a potentially treacherous task. A miscommunication by the world's most powerful central bank could shock financial markets globally and, in a worst case, reverse the economic recovery it seeks to foster. At issue is a 5-month old pledge from the Fed to keep benchmark rates near zero for a "considerable time" after it shelves an asset-purchase program in October. Another line that has drawn internal objections is the month-old statement that "significant" slack remains in the labor market, a suggestion that not even strong job growth and a further drop in unemployment will prompt a tightening of policy any time soon. "The language puts us in a box that I think is not a good box to be in," Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser told Reuters on the sidelines of the central bank's annual Jackson Hole conference. Plosser dissented against the "considerable time" line at the Fed's last meeting in late July. Like fellow hawks at the central bank, he said he prefers "very simple, data-dependent" guidance that avoids timelines or calendar dates. Aside from an unpredictable market reaction, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will have to contend with a potentially uncooperative world economy that could upend U.S. economic progress. During the Jackson Hole meetings, central bankers from England, Europe and Japan described how their economies were healing more slowly than expected - and in Europe's case, at risk of slipping backward. Worse than a bout of inflation, Yellen does not want to raise rates only to have to shift gears if the economy slows. That means any change in language is not likely to mean rate hikes will come earlier or occur faster than currently envisioned. As it stands, investors and the core of Fed policymakers expect to hold off raising rates until the middle of next year. But a rhetorical shift would mark the start of a delicate transition as the Fed plans how to close the book gently on six years of near-zero interest rates. At some point, it needs to shed key phrases it has used to describe the slack in the economy and prepare markets for the return to a more normal monetary policy. In an address to fellow policymakers on Friday, Yellen gave more voice than usual to the possibility that economic conditions may tighten faster than expected. Coupled with increasingly loud calls from Fed hawks for a shift in course, her remarks suggested change was afoot. "With a few exceptions, the data are mostly coming in to push everybody in a slightly more hawkish range," said former Fed Vice Chairman Alan Blinder, a professor at Princeton University who attended the conference. "The whole range is moving, so the midpoint is moving, and (Yellen) is moving." Minutes from the Fed's last meeting in July revealed that several participants disagreed with parts of the statement, including the description of the degree of labor market slack and the likely timing of a rate hike. Those voices are only likely to get louder. In her speech on Friday, Yellen nodded to the possible need to shift the tone soon. "With the economy getting closer to our objectives, the FOMC's emphasis is naturally shifting to questions about the degree of remaining slack," she said of the Fed's policy-setting committee. "And thereby to the question of under what conditions we should begin dialing back our extraordinary accommodation." (Editing by Peter Cooney) FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/officialsigepFall fraternity rush is beginning at college campuses across the country. The reasons people join these groups might vary. Most people probably want to make more friends and have a full social calendar, while others might want to form connections with past and current brothers that could be useful in later life. We combed through a bunch of fraternities' notable members lists to find big Wall Street names, both past and present, who were brothers.   We have included a roundup of frats that have produced some of the biggest, and in a couple of cases some of the most infamous, names on the Street.  If you know of any names we are missing, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. If anyone knows of sorority alums working in finance, feel free to send those names, too.  FREE AppDownload
You know how, when you when you send money to someone else's bank account, the funds aren't available right away? It turns out that the U.S. is one of the last developed countries to have this problem. And while regulators and some financial institutions are finally recognizing this should no longer be the case, it will likely take years for any reforms to take effect. In 2012, the UK's Faster Payments Service went into operation, replacing its BACS system, which like ACH dates from the early '70s. Other countries' same-day services, like those in Switzerland, Japan, India and Mexico, have been around for a decade or more. The U.S. has been using the same technology to settle electronic payments for the last 40 years. It’s called the Automated Clearing House (ACH).  Lipis Advisors How It Works The ACH batches transactions together at regular, predetermined intervals, then sorting them out and patching them through to their destinations. Depending on the time of day and day of the week, you may not see your payment go through for three days. The Fed (along with one additional private consortium)  is the physical operator of ACH (which is actually just a network of servers), but its rules are governed by NACHA, a banking industry group.  The Fed recognizes the shortcomings of the system, calling it a “key gap” of U.S. commerce on a site dedicated to that issue and others, called FedPaymentsImprovement.org. One could think of a myriad of cases where consumers and businesses would benefit from instant settlement: If you've cut a bill payment deadline too close, if your kid got robbed backpacking abroad, or there's been a natural disaster and urgent transactions are required.  The Fed has also found ACH's share of payments volumes has surpassed those of checks': Federal Reserve Banks Foil Change But so far banks have proven resistant to changing up the system: Two years ago NACHA rejected a proposal to start down the road of converting ACH to same-day settlement.  “It surprised a lot of people — why work against incremental progress?" Shamir Karkal, the head of banking startup Simple, told us BI by phone recently.  According to American Banker reporter Kevin Wack, banks said they were concerned about the cost of implementing the changes, especially at a time when they were being hammered on complying with new post-Lehman rules. Some also said fraud could increase, and that the benefits would only accrue to banks whose users do a lot of online banking. But Wack says there were signs that the proposal was torpedoed by large banks looking to protect fees from wire transfers.  "I do think it is one of the more significant factors," Beth Robertson, managing director of Roberts Payments LLC, told Wack. "It's not one that everyone is going to readily admit." Right now banks charge an average $26.40 for you to wire money in the U.S. Reached by Business Insider, Robertson added that that argument starts to fall apart when one considers that most wire systems process high dollar volume transactions not suited to something like ACH in the first place. "Eating away at revenue — it's probably not that significant a threat." Simple's Karkal has said he even reached out to a lawyer to see if any action could be taken against the banks.  "If this isn’t anticompetitive behavior, I don't know what is," he said. Nor do banks' arguments about the potential for increased  fraud hold up. As Wack explained, faster settlements would allow for it to be spotted quicker.  In an emailed statement to BI, PayPal, a member of NACHA and which uses ACH to make money available to customers. said improvements could actually reduce suspicious activity.  "We encourage improving the exchange of information between all parties to help ensure quick fraud detection and more convenience to our customers," PayPal said.  Fed Steps In The Fed has now realized that banks will not act without prodding. Last year they published a white paper on settlement reform, and in June held a seminar on the topic. A progress report is due in weeks. A recent Fed survey found that faster settlements would improve at least 29 billion annual† payments. “While we’re not telling industry this is the way way ought to do it, we have indicated that there would probably be a benefit in thinking about building a new [system]," Cheryl Venable, the senior vice president and retail payments product manager in the Atlanta Fed's retail payment office, told Business Insider. That would be instead of trying to reform the old one. “While addressing these unmet needs may not seem urgent to some, the Fed feels it will take several years to achieve these enhancements and that the work to address them should begin soon.” Venable acknowledged the U.S. is running behind, but said that comparing its situation to that of other countries was unfair given the American financial system's relative complexity. “I think the challenges we face as an industry unlike other geographies around the world, where their adoption of real-time payments has come as a mandate from their government, or treasury, that’s not the same structure we have in the U.S.," she said.   Holding Back Innovation Gil Luria, a payments analyst at Wedbush, says that while the current system isn't broken, it may be holding back new players in the payments space. That's because the high cost of using other payment networks, like Visa or MasterCard, have been driving more merchants, like PayPal or Target, to ACH. So there's a chance increasing demand could further tip the scales into launching reform, he said. "As these have become more prevalent the settlement period has come into focus...faster settlement is still better than slower settlement." In its paper last year, the Fed said it is now aiming for a new system within the next decade, though it's conceivable that timetable will be moved up when it publishes its update in the coming weeks. As customers put more of their lives onto the Internet and their phones, the banking system has to catch up, Robertson said. "I think it’s becoming increasingly important because of the move to mobile payments, there’s more need for faster movement," she said. Karkal said the delays are holding innovators back.   "Payment innovators — PayPal, Square, all innovators, we are all for faster payment network," he said. "The better the back-end infrastructure, the cooler stuff you can do on the front end." †Correction: We initially said 29 billion daily payments. FREE AppDownload
McDonald's France Fifteen years after farmers infamously ransacked one of its restaurants to protest its "bad beef," McDonald's has conquered France.   Le Figaro calls it the "model student": France is the suburban Chicago-based chain's most profitable country outside the U.S. Sales were up 4.8% through the first seven months of the year, and CEO Jean-Pierre Petit, who is rounding his 10th year as McDonald's France's CEO, has said 2014 will be its greatest absolute sales year ever. In 2013 sales reached 4.46 billion euros. The company now hires 3,000 workers a year and employs more than 69,000 workers in the country. Last year it announced it was going to invest 200 million Euros in expanding further. There are now more than 1,200 locations, including ones at the Louvre and Sorbonne, two on the Champs-Elysee, and all up and down the French Riviera. It has the most locations per capita in Europe and the fourth-highest rate in the world.  The success has been so exemplary that Wharton students did a study about it.  But France is supposed to have an uneasy relationship with American culture at best, and a militant disgust at worse. How did this happen? Google MapsThere are now more than 1,200 McDonald's in France. McDonald's first came to France in 1972, after a French restaurateur convinced Chicago that he could solve the firm's European growth woes. Soon after the first store opened, just outside Paris, a reporter wrote that the American chain would have difficulty catching on as it would have to persuade "the French to eat with their hands."  That correspondent would end up eating his words as the restaurateur, Raymond Dayan, had opened 14 restaurants by 1978, serving six million meals a year, according to L'Express' Benjamin Neumann. A correspondent for Le Point said the chain seemed to be "prospering," thanks, it seems, to the then-novelty of fast food and the lack of competition — "Quick," a Belgian chain and Francophone Europe's first homegrown one, didn't come to France until 1980. But sometime between 1978 and 1982, Dayan refused an offer from Chicago to buy out his group, which had licensed his franchises at 1% commission instead of the usual minimum of 5%. Chicago also began accusing his restaurants of being filthy. Dayan later attempted to sue, but he lost. McDonald's never forgave him, having been forced to shut down its operations throughout the country f0r 13 months. The company's official history now dates the first McDonald's in France to 1979. But by 1988, enough interest had returned that they were able to open the country's first drive-thru ("McDrive") in suburban Paris. The New York Times reported that the French officials had realized the key was to go after families and young adults who had spent time in the U.S. or the U.K.   As the chain slowly expanded into France's breadbasket — and the U.S. and EU negotiated lowering food tariffs — demonstrations picked up. In 1992, protesters lit a bonfire outside a McDonald's to protest the signing of the Blair House Accord, which made it easier for American agricultural products to enter the continent.   Things culminated in 1999, when José Bové, a sheep farmer and activist, lead a group of fellow growers in dismantling a location under construction in the south of France.   REUTERSFrench farm activist Jose Bové holds a cheese made from sheep's milk during a picnic lunch moments after being released from prison on bail September 7.  Bové was protesting retaliatory sanctions the Clinton administration had imposed on imported Roquefort cheese and foie gras after the EU banned American beef treated with hormones (the mutual good feeling of the Blair House Accord had not lasted). He was sentenced to three months is prison.  The stunt made Bové a star of the anti-globalization movement and cemented for some the idea that McDonald's remained intolerable to France. Even Prime Minister Lionel Jospin called the demonstration "just."  Yet even as he sat in jail, France was already approaching 1,000 locations. "The French like to be a little disruptive, provocative," Dennis Hennequin, the former chief of McDonald's France who in 2005 jumped to the head of McDonald's Europe, told The New York Times in 2006. "Yet at the same time they vote with their feet."  TV5MondeFormer ad-man Jean-Pierre Petit has been CEO of McDonald's France for 10 years. The Bové incident may have actually proved the key to unlocking McDonald's France's stunning decade-long takeoff, as it was now under more pressure than ever to correct national misperceptions as well as address valid criticisms.  So, Hennequin said, the company started explaining why it belonged in French society. It heralded items with ingredients that were locally grown, and explained its importance for young job-seekers.  "Without any cynicism, I thank Bové for helping us grow into that role," he said.  Hennequin spent 20 years with the company and helped guide the firm through the Bové incident, but another man may deserve even more credit for McDonald's recent spectacular growth. In 2004, Jean-Phillipe Petit, the founder of one of France's most successful ad agencies and who served under Hennequin through much of his tenure, took the reins after Hennequin left to run Accor hotels. Under Petit, McDonald's continued to ramp up homegrown products, including increasing volumes of Charolais beef, government-certified cheese, and potatoes grown by McCain Group's French affiliate. Petit also expanded the company's product line to include more traditional French items like baguettes and pastries. And he has brought the restaurants into the 21st century: It's possible to order online, or on one's phone, and many now have Wi-Fi.   "'McDo' has succeeded in synthesizing its American DNA with French culture," he said recently according to Le Figaro. WikimediaCharolais cows are known for their muscling, correctness and size. Last year, Petit published a book, "I Sold My Soul to McDonald's," in which he discussed his 20 years in the company's marketing department and 10 as chief, despite not even having eaten his first hamburger until age 30.  "I adapted McDonald’s system to our own society, while saying 'No' to received ideas and leading the change," he writes. "I couldn’t have done it without McDonald's own guidance and without the confidence always accorded to me by American and French shareholders, as well as franchise owners spread out over 958 French communities."  Marketing has played a key role in earning back the French psyche. Petit was able to persuade the home office to change the country's logo to green ... Google Images As well as open McCafés that serve French macarons: McDonald's France Finally, he positioned the company as a cornerstone of the lives of young people. The group says it will create 9,000 net jobs between 2012 and 2014, a pace it says it will maintain between 2015 and 2017, although most of the entry-level positions are minimum wage. Petit recently told an audience that besides school, McDonald's was now the most important source of socialization in France. Having never graduated from college, Petit also touts the chain as a stable source of employment for young adults without diplomas.  McDonald's growth is unquestionable. How it has come up with the money to do so, however, is now an open question. Earlier this year, L'Express reporter Emmanuel Paquette broke the story that McDonald's had allegedly been using a Luxembourg corporation to avoid paying French taxes. McDonald's has denied any wrongdoing and said the inquiry was routine. It did not respond to numerous requests for comment.  "There doesn't seem to be any doubt that the American firm has engaged in actions that could link to fiscal evasion, as opposed to an 'optimization of tax planning,'" David Lair, a French attorney who has studied the case, told Business Insider in an online exchange. "But the fiscal authorities will have to prove it." The Luxembourg entity reported profit of $172 million and taxes of $3.2 million, according to Bloomberg, and it has received more than $1 billion in royalties. Bloomberg also notes the company reported a 4.1 percentage point drop in its 2012 tax rate thanks to “tax benefits related to certain foreign operations.”  If found guilty, Lair said, France would have to pay back what it is owed plus a 0.4% interest rate for each month of liability.  McDonald's faces other challenges, too. Its share of France's "commercialized dining out" sector, which includes any chain restaurant as well as schools and hospitals, stands at just 12.5% and has begun to stagnate, according to Le Figaro. France's dining-out frequency, at one in seven meals, remains far below the U.K.'s one in three and America's one in two. French people average only about 60 fast-food trips a year, compared with 150 for Americans. And, according to Le Figaro, McDonald's has not released data showing what the average performance per restaurant looks like.  For now one can find evidence everywhere that McDonald's has become a highly sophisticated operation whose economic presence is not only immovable but critical to France. Demonstrators recently protested against a local town that had barred the construction of a McDonald's. This November the company became the official partner of Paris Saint-Germain, France's most important soccer team. Nor has it entirely had to shed its American attributes to achieve its status. The company actually ran a contest called "American Summer," its version of the popular Monopoly giveaway in the U.S. Certain foods came with tearaway sheets that could be redeemed for prizes like a Frisbee, headphones, a GoPro, or a Florida beach towel.  McDonald's France Flipping through the company's Facebook page, which has 1.3 million likes and more 772,000 visits, one discovers the same amusing combination of English words and "Euro" concepts first poked fun at in "Pulp Fiction." McDonald's France McDonald's Corp. needs all the help it can get. Shares have fallen sharply in the past two months after suffering its worst monthly sales drop in over a decade, and it is currently fighting through a tainted beef scandal with recalls in China and Russia, two other major markets.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of Infiniti chief designer Albaisa drawing a sketch of a car next to a quarter sized model of the Infiniti Emerg E car at Nissan Technical Center in AtsugiBy Laurence Frost and Andreas Cremer PARIS/BERLIN (Reuters) - Berlin-based PR executive Herbert Franz should be a soft target for German luxury automakers - his last car was a BMW  X3 - but he can't wait to leave them behind. "This car is hip," said Franz, 52, at the city's biggest Jaguar Land Rover  showroom, while eyeing up a British-built Evoque SUV that he fully intended to purchase. Decked out in bright red blazer and canary yellow trousers, Franz might not be the typical customer in Germany's conservative premium market. But his shifting taste in cars foreshadows less comfortable times ahead for global leader BMW, as well as Audi  and Mercedes-Benz . The German premiums have long been on a roll, producing an export-driven sales explosion and huge returns while mass carmakers struggled through Europe's crisis. But in a headlong sales race, second-placed Audi and runner-up Mercedes have both vowed to depose BMW, giving rise to heavy discounting, which sullies luxury brands and creates opportunities for the growing competition, observers say. Now a host of younger or revived premium marques are poised to follow JLR by pitching dozens of new models against the big three, whose very ubiquity is taking the shine off their prestige. "The German premiums have sacrificed some of their exclusivity by entering smaller, volume segments like compacts," said Bernd Hoennighausen, an automotive consultant. "They've pushed volume with fleet discounts of around 20 percent," said Hoennighausen, who previously managed corporate fleets for Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas. "This may open the door to newer players like Jaguar, who are starting to offer fleet-relevant products." Among others waging or planning new offensives are Fiat-owned  Maserati and Alfa Romeo, Nissan's  Infiniti, and Volvo, a unit of China-based Geely . "Our theory is that there's room for something visibly different that is styled in a more provocative manner," said Andy Palmer, the senior Nissan executive charged with achieving a breakthrough for the 25-year-old Infiniti brand. "It's particularly true for China," Palmer told Reuters. "Chinese consumers will cross-shop - and Audi only has the market to lose because they've been so dominant." For now, the Germans remain firmly on top. Their combined sales amounted to 4.7 million vehicles last year, almost 60 percent of the global luxury car market, according to consulting firm IHS Automotive. That represents a 38 percent gain since 2007, the eve of the financial crisis, when the big three claimed just over half of the market. Global car sales grew 21 percent overall, while European demand shrank by a quarter over the period.  TURNING TIDE Superior scale also brings cost advantages - from research to production and marketing - that are not going away. BMW has led the charge into new niches, launching dozens of models including SUVs in every size category, with Audi close behind. Nonetheless, some analysts believe the tide is beginning to turn against the Germans. UBS expects the same group of challengers, plus Tesla's  zippy electric cars and DS models from PSA Peugeot-Citroen, to grab 30 percent of global premium sales growth in 2014-18, raising their current 12.5 percent market share. Pressured by the increasing competition, the Germans' return on invested capital will continue falling away from historic peaks of around 30 percent in 2010-2012, the bank predicts. "There's also an inherent contradiction between premium and concentration," UBS analyst Philippe Houchois said. "Buyers of premium-branded cars are looking for some degree of exclusivity that will set them apart from less fortunate car owners." The resulting market fragmentation is "bringing the curtain down on the unprecedented growth ... that enabled premium auto manufacturers to generate outsized returns", he added. BMW shares are up 5.4 percent this year, beating the wider European auto sector's 0.4 percent slide . But Daimler is 1.1 percent lower and VW down 15 percent, hit by cost overruns. [ID:nL6N0QD5H2] A Maserati push is making headway, with first-half shipments quadrupling on new models launched under Fiat Chrysler boss Sergio Marchionne, who hopes a revived Alfa can also use its pedigree to outrun upstarts such as Infiniti and DS. "Unless you've got history, you're not going to create the brand," the chief executive told reporters recently. Tata-owned Jaguar Land Rover recorded 19 percent sales growth last year, thanks in large part to the compact Range Rover Evoque coveted by Franz, and aims to follow up with the imminent Jaguar XE sports sedan and a later SUV. Land Rover has proved that the Germans can be challenged, said Eric Neubauer, joint-CEO of France's Neubauer Group, whose Paris-area dealerships sell 19 car brands from Kia to Ferrari. The Evoque poaches clients "from BMW, Mini and everywhere else in the premium universe", Neubauer said. "The strength of Land Rover is that we win new customers who then become loyal." Luxury automakers must sell more smaller cars to meet ever-tightening carbon-dioxide emissions targets and avoid fines. Driven by this imperative and their bitter rivalry, BMW, Audi and Mercedes have been discounting as hard as many mass-market carmakers. "No other group of manufacturers has increased incentives more than the Germans," said Arndt Ellinghorst, a London-based analyst with ISI Group. BMW rebates have grown as big as 25 percent in the UK, according to data compiled by the brokerage, and price-slashing has cost the big three about 6 billion euros ($8 billion). "Steep discounts and attractive financing show how non-exclusive premium cars have become," Ellinghorst said. Left unchecked, "the race to sell more vehicles will eventually damage brand equity and profitability".  RIDING THE VOLUME TRAIN Despite their investment clout and model proliferation, a slow start in hybrids - which combine a combustion engine and electric motor - has left a chink in the German armor, especially in markets where gas guzzlers incur punitive taxes. Failure to see the potential of electrification contributed to the ouster of Audi's last research and development chief, and BMW is only now rolling out its flagship i8 performance hybrid. [ID:nL5N0EW3Q5] [ID:nL6N0HR0MV] Louis Alexandre de Froissard, a Bordeaux-based private wealth manager, gave up his Audi A8 for an Infiniti Q50 hybrid that delivers 364 horsepower while emitting 144 grams of CO2 per kilometer, comfortably below a 160 gram French tax threshold. By comparison, BMW's 7-Series hybrid gets 320 horsepower for 158 grams of CO2. Froissard also ruled out the Audi A6 Avant, which puffs a penalty-prone 190 grams for just 310 horsepower. "It wasn't powerful enough," he explained, and besides, "everybody's got an Audi or a BMW - so Infiniti was a much more original choice". BMW's sleek i8 is among belated German steps to plug the hybrid gap after a period of complacency. On the broader sales and pricing rivalry there are also some signs of circumspection. "We have to find the right balance between volume and pricing," CEO Norbert Reithofer told analysts on Aug. 5. "We (realised) in December that if you reduce your volume, you can even have a better profit," the BMW boss said on a conference call, adding that a "thinking process" was underway. CFO Friedrich Eichiner even described the new stance as a "message to the competition", but Audi and Mercedes may still be too intent on overtaking to take the hint. "Volume is indispensable," Audi boss Rupert Stadler told Reuters on July 8. "Only when you grow you have a chance to make gains on productivity." With leadership successions due within two years at all three German luxury carmakers, any deeper tactical change may have to wait, ISI analyst Ellinghorst believes. "It may be easier for those in charge today to continue to ride the volume train," he said, "leaving the more difficult and political task of improving pricing to new management teams." ($1 = 0.7541 euro)  (Additional reporting by Edward Taylor, Costas Pitas and Irene Preisinger; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHungarian forints and Euro notes are seen in this photo illustration taken in BudapestBy Gavin Jones ROME (Reuters) - The euro zone's growing fears of deflation will be stirred again on Friday when preliminary consumer price data for August is issued, with signs the European Central Bank could be looking at bolder steps to help the region's stagnant economy. Analyst polled by Reuters forecast the annual inflation rate to slip to 0.3 percent from 0.4 percent in July, falling even further below the ECB's target of below but close to 2 percent and mired deep in what the bank calls the "danger zone". The ECB cut interest rates in June and promised banks cheap long-term loans starting in September, and any new measures before those loans kick in had been considered unlikely. However, in remarks that opened the door to possible policy action at the bank's next meeting in September, ECB President Mario Draghi said on Friday that the bank is prepared to respond with all its "available" tools should inflation drop further. Speaking at a global central banking conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Draghi said he is confident that the steps already announced, helped by a weaker euro, would boost demand in the ailing economic bloc. But in stronger language than he has used in the past, he stressed the central bank stands ready to do more. "The (ECB's) governing council will acknowledge these (economic) developments and within its mandate will use all the available instruments needed to ensure price stability over the medium term," he said. [ID:nL5N0QS3ZW] The main weapon at the bank's disposal, printing money to buy bonds, known as quantitative easing (QE), is still opposed by Germany's Bundesbank which plays down the danger of deflation. In his remarks on Friday Draghi did not mention the policy specifically, but a growing number of analysts believe it is only a matter of time before the ECB follows the path already trodden by the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England. "The ECB will ultimately move to QE unless the euro weakens appreciably," said Riccardo Barbieri, chief European economist at Mizuho, adding that "in the near term stagnation and near-zero inflation in the euro zone are almost a certainty." Developments in Ukraine will continue to be a major focus for markets, with the negative headlines of recent weeks having pushed German bond yields to new lows. Investors will be closely watching the outcome of a meeting scheduled in Minsk on Tuesday between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Petro Poroshenko. The Ukraine crisis has already hurt business sentiment in Germany, which has strong trade links with Russia, and the effect will be scrutinized again on Monday when the closely watched Ifo index for August is released. Analysts polled by Reuters are predicting another fall in morale. The picture for the northern hemisphere's policymakers slowly returning from their summer breaks looks mixed, with a weaker outlook in Europe and Asia but the United States showing growing signs of economic strength. European Union leaders meet in Brussels on Saturday and with their agenda dominated by geopolitical crises spanning Ukraine, Iraq, Gaza and the Ebola outbreak in West Africa they may ignore the region's clearly deteriorating economic backdrop. Purchasing managers' surveys last week showed business growth in China and across Europe slowed in August, with European businesses continuing to cut prices in the face of weak demand and at a faster rate than in July. Two of China's largest banks, Bank of China and Bank of Communications, last week forecast a rise in bad loans this year as a result of a slowing economy. The political tensions can only exacerbate the problems, with the euro zone's stagnation in the second quarter coming even before the potential impact from Russia sanctions, disrupted Middle East oil flows or other geopolitical pressure.  U.S. GAINS TRACTION But while the euro zone looks almost moribund, surprisingly strong data last week from the United States showed buoyant job creation and falling claims for unemployment benefits in the world's largest economy. At the same time the U.S. manufacturing PMI showed factory activity expanding at its fastest pace for more than four years in August. However, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen struck a dovish tone in her Jackson Hole speech on Friday, warning U.S. labor markets remain hampered by the effects of the Great Recession. "Yellen's speech showed she's still unsure about some of the data we're getting, and as a result she could hold off from raising rates," said Central Markets trading analyst Joe Neighbour said. The Fed has held its benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008. The latest encouraging signs for the U.S. economy will be tested this week by services PMI data, consumer confidence and orders for durable goods. The PMI for Japan, meanwhile, showed the world's third largest economy is steadying after a sales tax increase led to an annualized contraction of 6.8 percent in the second quarter, the steepest since 2011. However, the Reuters Tankan survey indicated that the recovery is likely to be modest. On Thursday Japan will issue figures on consumer prices and unemployment, while industrial output for July will be an early indicator of economic strength in the third quarter. China has no significant economic data due this week.  (Reporting By Gavin Jones; Editing by Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFischer, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve System, speaks with a demonstrator at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleReginald Rounds was among those present at the Federal Reserve's high-flying monetary conference here, enjoying the chance to button hole two top officials of the U.S. central bank. The St. Louis resident is neither an economist nor a central banker. He's a 57-year-old unemployed worker, who said he is trained in the green technology field and can't find a job. He was among a group of activists who gathered on the sidelines of the Fed's annual symposium wearing green t-shirts with "What Recovery?" on the front and a chart depicting sluggish U.S. wage growth on the back. "From the world where I reside, there is no recovery. We need a boost. We need a jump start," said Rounds. "The key is jobs creation." The ten activists, most of whom were unemployed and seeking jobs, were sent as emissaries for a coalition of advocacy groups that has launched an unusual campaign from the left to press the U.S. central bank to keep monetary policy easy. REUTERS/David StubbsDerek Laney of St. Louis protests during the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.The coalition, consisting of more than 70 organizations, released an open letter to Fed officials earlier this week urging them to hold off on interest rate hikes until wages were rising more swiftly. While small in number, the activists managed to get a great deal of face time with senior officials. On Thursday, they spoke with the host of the conference, Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President Esther George, for two hours. On Friday, Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer stepped out of the conference to spend ten minutes to listen to their plight.   (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Tim Ahmann and David Chance) FREE AppDownload
