REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonA man looks at his phone as he walks out of the courthouse past a man arranging his bags in Los Angeles, California.Income inequality in America is an endlessly fascinating, albeit depressing, topic. But American cities have varying levels of inequality. The Census Bureau makes annual estimates of a standard measure of inequality for US metropolitan areas. The Gini index is a measure, ranging between 0 and 1, of inequality. The Gini index measures how much the distribution of income or wealth in an area differs from a completely equal distribution. A Gini index of 0 indicates that everyone has the same income; an index of 1 means one person has all the money and everyone else has nothing. We ranked 382 metropolitan areas with populations of at least 65,000 using Census estimates from the 2013 American Community Survey, and found the 18 areas with the highest Gini indices. We also included the income shares of the ends of the distribution: the top 5% and the bottom 20%, also from the Census Bureau. FREE AppDownload
US stocks have had a great year, with the S&amp;P 500 climbing 12% since the beginning of the year. The S&amp;P has been outperforming the world's developed markets, while lagging China and India. For global investors, the question is whether or not to crank up or scale back exposure to US stocks after the massive gains we've already seen. Charles Schwab's Jeff Kleintop thinks the US current account data can help with this decision. At a media event on Thursday, Kleintop said he'll pay close attention to the next update on the current account — which measures trade and investment flows in and out of the US — which comes on December 17. "US stocks outperformed international stocks when the US current account improved as a percentage of GDP," Kleintop noted. "International stocks outperformed US stocks when the US current account worsened as a share of GDP." "Importantly, the current account tends to lead relative market performance by about three quarters, providing investors with ample time to adjust their portfolios ahead of any change in the performance trend," he said. The current account balance as a percent of GDP has flattened recently (see the blue line in the third chart), suggesting we may be coming to an inflection point. Charles Schwab & Co., Bloomberg data as of 10/24/14."US petroleum exports are soaring," he noted. "However, the US trade balance in other goods has been rapidly deteriorating. These two factors have offset each other lately. As a result, the current account could be near a change of direction. The key to that direction in 2015 may be the dollar." While there may be change coming to these balances, Kleintop continues to favor US stocks over non-US stocks. "The current account data for the third quarter will be released on December 17," he said. "I will be watching this closely for signs of a change in direction, but for the time being the current account, relative valuations, and relative growth prospects all suggest U.S. stocks are likely to continue to outperform the broad international benchmarks." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's PM Abe raises his fist with a candidate and supporters atop a van during a campaign for the Dec. 14 lower house election in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's ruling party is on track for a landslide victory in a Dec. 14 election and could take a two-thirds majority in the lower house of parliament even without its coalition partner, a media projection showed. The result of the survey by the Mainichi newspaper was similar to previous forecasts, suggesting prospects of a landslide has not caused voters to change their minds. Abe has dubbed the election a referendum on his reflationary policies. Abe's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is set to take 303-320 seats of the powerful chamber's 475 seats, the forecast showed, indicating the LDP may grab the 317 seats on its own to hold a "super majority" needed to override votes in the upper house. The expected win would make it easier for Abe to push ahead with his "Abenomics" recipe, despite the fact that many voters say they have yet to feel the positive impact and data shows the economy slipped into recession in the third quarter through September. When Abe dissolved the lower house, the LDP held 295 seats, and together with its junior partner, the Komeito party held 326 seats. Reforms cut the number of seats in the chamber by five. News on Monday that the economy had contracted more than thought in the third quarter after an April sales tax rise was unlikely to affect the election, with many voters opting for the LDP because of dissatisfaction with the opposition rather than a positive groundswell for the ruling party, some analysts said. "This is an election without choice," said Tomoaki Iwai, political science professor at Nihon University, adding that voter turnout may be even lower than the record low hit in the 2012 election that brought Abe and the LDP back to power. The opposition Democratic Party is expected to win between 65 and 81 seats, more than the 62 it had before the election but far below the 100 it has targeted, the Mainichi survey showed.   (Reporting by Linda Sieg and Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices fell by more than a dollar on Monday to near their lowest levels since 2009 after Morgan Stanley cut its price forecast for Brent, saying oversupply will likely peak next year with OPEC deciding not to cut output. "Without OPEC intervention, markets risk becoming unbalanced, with peak oversupply likely in the second quarter of 2015," Morgan Stanley said in a report. Brent crude for January delivery dropped to a low of $67.73 a barrel, near last week's trough of $67.53 which was its weakest since October 2009. It was down 97 cents at $68.10 by 0051 GMT. Morgan Stanley slashed its 2015 base case forecast for Brent to $70 from $98 and for 2016 to $88 from $102. In its bear-case scenario, the bank sees the crude benchmark falling to a low of $43 in the second quarter of next year. Top oil exporter Saudi Arabia blocked calls from poorer members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to reduce production at the group's meeting on Nov. 27, fueling a further slide in oil prices which have lost more than 40 percent since June. "With OPEC on the sidelines, oil prices face their greatest threat since 2009, but we expect a volatile 2015 rather than a one-way trade," Morgan Stanley said in a report. U.S. crude fell 96 cents to $64.88 a barrel, after hitting a session low of $64.63. West Texas Intermediate crude dropped to $63.72 last week, its lowest since July 2009. Last week, Saudi Arabia cut its monthly prices for crude it sells to the United States and Asia, a move that analysts say show it is stepping up its battle for market share. Investors are also eyeing trade data from China during the day with further evidence of economic weakness in the world's No. 2 oil consumer likely to pile more pressure on prices. Reflecting lackluster domestic demand, China's import growth probably eased to 3.8 percent in November from a year earlier, after a 4.6 percent expansion in October, according to a Reuters poll of economists. Export growth likely cooled to 8.1 percent from 11.6 percent in October.   (Reporting by Manolo Serapio Jr.; Editing by Richard Pullin) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's imports fell unexpectedly in November while export growth slowed, adding to concerns the world's second-largest economy could be facing a sharper slowdown and adding pressure on policymakers to ramp up stimulus measures. Exports rose 4.7 percent in November from a year earlier, while imports dropped 6.7 percent - the sharpest decline since March, according to data released by the General Administration of Customs on Monday. That left the country with a record trade surplus of $54.5 billion for the month, which analysts say could increase upward pressure on the yuan even as exporters are already struggling. Economists polled by Reuters had expected exports to grow 8.2 percent, a 3.9 percent rise in imports and a trade surplus of $43.5 billion, all slowing from October. "Despite another record trade surplus, the underlying details paint a grim picture with slower export growth and a contraction in commodity imports in volume terms," said Andy Ji, senior currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Singapore. Exports have been the lone bright spot for China's economy in the last few months, perhaps helping to offset soft domestic demand, but there are doubts about the accuracy of the official numbers amid signs of a resurgence of speculative currency flows through inflated trade receipts. Dariusz Kowalczyk, an economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said over-reporting in exports may have been curbed in November, which contributed to weak exports along with base effects. But he added the import contraction was "shocking", reflecting not only lower commodity prices but poor domestic demand. "This means that pressure will rise on the government to do more to stimulate growth," he said. "We expect a reserve requirement ratio cut in December, introduction of reverse repos this week, and another (interest) rate cut in the first quarter. The yuan should rise further on the data." After saying for months that China does not need any big economic stimulus, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) surprised financial markets by lowering rates on Nov. 21 to shore up growth and help firms pay off mountains of debt. The government is due to release data on factory output, fixed-asset investment and retail sales later this week. Analysts see more policy moves in coming months if the economy continues to stumble, with many expecting both more rate cuts and reductions in banks' reserve requirement ratios (RRR). Sources familiar with China's policy-making said leaders are prepared to lower rates again and loosen lending curbs on concerns that falling prices could cause a spike in bad loans, business failures and job losses. Annual growth in the world's second-largest economy slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter - the weakest since the height of the global financial crisis - as the sagging housing market and tighter credit conditions weigh on the broader economy. (Reporting by China economics team; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
 In a new op-ed in The Financial Times, Harvard professor Larry Summers writes:  Take a walk from the US Air Shuttle in New York’s LaGuardia airport to ground transportation. For months you will have encountered a sign saying "New escalator coming in Spring 2015" ... It will take almost half as long to fix the escalator in LaGuardia as it took to build the Empire State building 85 years ago. Is it any wonder that the American people have lost faith in the future and in institutions of all kinds? If rudimentary tasks such as keeping escalators going and bridges repaired are too much to handle, it is little surprise that disillusionment and cynicism flourish. In his essay, Summers — who was considered to replace Ben Bernanke as Federal Reserve chairman last year — bemoans the state of infrastructure investment in the US, arguing that three steps must be taken to improve not just the infrastructure, but the discourse that surrounds our institutions responsible for this kind of investment.  Summers argues that first, the discussion on which infrastructure projects to pursue must shift toward those that are less sexy: maintenance and upkeep. Before "anyone contemplates spiffy new high-speed railway systems, careful consideration should be given to repairing existing rail lines and stations," Summers writes.  Summers also calls for accounting methods that show the public what deferred maintenance really is, which for Summers is "borrowing from the future." Lastly, Summers says the public and the media need to be less accepting of institutional failure.  "A vicious cycle in which governments perform poorly and so are starved of resources and so perform worse is serious threat to healthy democracy," Summers writes.  "Fixing escalators and building bridges may seem like small stuff at a time of economic crisis and geopolitical instability. But it is time we recognize the importance of what may seem small to what is ultimately important — the faith of citizens in their collective future." And so overall, just about a year removed from his famous "secular stagnation" speech, Summers calls not just for spending on infrastructure, but a new way to talk and think about what infrastructure means to the US economy. Read Summers' full piece at The Financial Times here »   FREE AppDownload
Oil affects countries around the world differently. Generally speaking, low prices are great for net importers of oil, but bad for net exporters. UBS's macro strategy team considered what a permanent $10 drop in a barrel of Brent crude would mean. "Oil-producing economies such as Russia and Norway and OPEC clearly lose out when oil prices fall, with the former seeing an impairment of its GDP of over 1 percentage point," UBS analysts wrote on Thursday. "Among large developed economies, the US and Japan are least affected. Although Japan has a relatively high dependency on imported oil the weight of energy products in its consumer price basket is quite low compared with other developed economies. That means the real income-related benefits for Japan's consumers from weaker oil prices are relatively low compared with elsewhere." For the US, the energy dependency and sensitivity story has been evolving rapidly as more and more oil has been fracked out of America's shale basins. "Prior to the shale revolution model simulations would have suggested a boost of 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points to US growth for every USD 10/bbl decrease in the price of oil," they write. "That estimate is now only 0.1%." Overall, they estimate that a sustained $10 drop in prices will add about 0.2 percentage points to global GDP. From UBS: UBS
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks stood firm and the dollar notched fresh seven-year highs against the yen on Monday after much stronger-than-expected jobs data underlined the strength of the U.S. economy. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was unchanged. Australian shares gained 0.8 percent. Tokyo's Nikkei rose 0.3 percent, poking above 18,000 for the first time since July 2007. Data on Friday showed U.S. non-farm payrolls in November surged by 321,000, easily topping forecasts for 230,000 new jobs. The Dow and S&amp;P closed at record highs in light of the robust employment numbers, although the gains were modest with increasing signs of economic strength seen drawing the Federal Reserve closer to hiking rates. The dollar was steady at 121.520 yen after touching a new seven-year high of 121.860. The dollar index hovered near a 5-1/2 year high of 89.467. A bullish dollar worked against crude oil, with the stronger greenback making commodities denominated in the U.S. currency less affordable for holders of other currencies. U.S. crude was down $1.03 at $64.81 a barrel, heading towards a five-year low of $63.72 struck a week ago, with a strong U.S. jobs report doing little to lift the bearish mood. Some observers focused on the positives of cheaper oil. "The good news is that the fall in crude oil prices will provide well over two-thirds of the world's consumers with a windfall gain, particularly, the U.S., North Asian and Indian consumer. It is of modest help to Europe as well," Sean Darby, chief global equity strategist at Jefferies, said in a note to clients. "This windfall gain ought to boost global GDP by around 0.5% for every US$20/barrel drop in oil prices (with a lag)." The dollar stood tall against the euro, which languished near a two-year low of $1.2270. The common currency was also weighed down after Standard &amp; Poors on Friday cut Italy's sovereign rating to BBB-, just a notch above junk The euro and yen are expected to remain on the defensive against the dollar indefinitely as the strong U.S. jobs data further contrasted the divergent monetary policy paths of the Fed and its European and Japanese counterparts who are mired in underwhelming easing schemes. While the Fed is seen to have moved a step nearer to hiking rates, the European Central Bank is under pressure to enhance its stimulus program while the Bank of Japan remains far from reaching its inflation target. Germany's Bundesbank halved its 2015 growth forecast for Europe's largest economy on Friday and also trimmed its estimate for this year, though its president said there were signs that current weakness would soon be overcome.   (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - The average price of a gallon of gasoline in the United States has dropped one dollar since early May, the lowest price in more than four years, according to the Lundberg survey released Sunday. Prices for regular-grade gasoline fell to $2.72 a gallon, down 12 cents since the last survey two week ago. The recent drop has been compared by many to the extreme price plunges that took place after the 2008 recession. The decline in prices was driven by slower demand coupled with dramatic growth in oil supply production, especially in North America and Canada. The strengthening U.S. dollar also played a role. "We may see a few more pennies drop before Christmas," said the survey's publisher, Trilby Lundberg. "All this presupposes that crude oil prices don't bounce up significantly in the near future." The highest price within the survey area in 48 U.S. states was recorded in San Francisco at $3.04 per gallon, with the lowest in Albuquerque, at $2.38 per gallon.   (Reporting By Michelle Conlin; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsShinjuku StreetTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economic contraction in July-September was deeper than initially expected on declines in capital expenditure, according to revised data on Monday that backs Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's recent decision to delay a second sales tax hike. The data indicated that the hit from April's sales tax hike turned out to be bigger than expected. Abe, who has called a snap poll for Sunday, hopes voters will agree that his stimulus policies and a decision to delay a second sales tax hike next year will revive a sputtering economy. The revision to an annualized 1.9 percent contraction, more than a preliminary 1.6 percent fall, confirmed the world's third-largest economy had slipped into recession with only a modest rebound expected in the current quarter. It compared with a median forecast for a 0.5 percent contraction. "The data confirmed a two straight quarter of recession so this is a harsh evidence for Abenomics," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Tame growth in wages in particular are likely to drag on private consumption and the broader economic activity." On a quarter-to-quarter basis, the economy fell 0.5 percent in July-September, compared with a preliminary reading of a 0.4 percent contraction and a median market forecast for a 0.1 percent drop, Cabinet Office data showed. The key factor behind the downgrade was a 0.4 percent decrease in capital expenditure, which was revised from a preliminary 0.2 percent fall after incorporating last week's upbeat corporate capital spending survey. REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe bows at the end of a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo June 26, 2013On April 1, Japan's sales tax increased to 8 percent from 5 percent. After that hit household spending and led to Nov. 17's dismal preliminary GDP data showing the economy was in recession, Abe postponed a second tax hike to 10 percent by 18 months until April 2017. The decision has eased concerns about the outlook for consumer spending, which makes up 60 percent of GDP. But the recession has also shown that Abe's stimulus policies have not been enough to strengthen the underlying economy - even after some two years in office. The revised GDP data could be bad news for the Bank of Japan, which will scrutinize it and other factors at a two-day rate review that ends on Friday. The central bank, which eased policy on Oct. 31, is widely expected to keep monetary settings unchanged and maintain its upbeat view of the economy. Economists expect Japan to resume moderate growth in the current quarter on signs corporate and household spending are gradually recovering from the pain caused by the April tax hike. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsShinjuku StreetTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's economic contraction in July-September was deeper than initially expected on declines in capital expenditure, according to revised data on Monday that backs Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's recent decision to delay a second sales tax hike. The data indicated that the hit from April's sales tax hike turned out to be bigger than expected. Abe, who has called a snap poll for Sunday, hopes voters will agree that his stimulus policies and a decision to delay a second sales tax hike next year will revive a sputtering economy. The revision to an annualized 1.9 percent contraction, more than a preliminary 1.6 percent fall, confirmed the world's third-largest economy had slipped into recession with only a modest rebound expected in the current quarter. It compared with a median forecast for a 0.5 percent contraction. "The data confirmed a two straight quarter of recession so this is a harsh evidence for Abenomics," said Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "Tame growth in wages in particular are likely to drag on private consumption and the broader economic activity." On a quarter-to-quarter basis, the economy fell 0.5 percent in July-September, compared with a preliminary reading of a 0.4 percent contraction and a median market forecast for a 0.1 percent drop, Cabinet Office data showed. The key factor behind the downgrade was a 0.4 percent decrease in capital expenditure, which was revised from a preliminary 0.2 percent fall after incorporating last week's upbeat corporate capital spending survey. REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe bows at the end of a news conference at his official residence in Tokyo June 26, 2013On April 1, Japan's sales tax increased to 8 percent from 5 percent. After that hit household spending and led to Nov. 17's dismal preliminary GDP data showing the economy was in recession, Abe postponed a second tax hike to 10 percent by 18 months until April 2017. The decision has eased concerns about the outlook for consumer spending, which makes up 60 percent of GDP. But the recession has also shown that Abe's stimulus policies have not been enough to strengthen the underlying economy - even after some two years in office. The revised GDP data could be bad news for the Bank of Japan, which will scrutinize it and other factors at a two-day rate review that ends on Friday. The central bank, which eased policy on Oct. 31, is widely expected to keep monetary settings unchanged and maintain its upbeat view of the economy. Economists expect Japan to resume moderate growth in the current quarter on signs corporate and household spending are gradually recovering from the pain caused by the April tax hike. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Qantas shares surged in opening trade today after the airline announced it will hit profit of between $300 million and $350 million in the six months to the end of December. The strong turnaround is being driven by rapid progress of a $2 billion restructuring program including a loss of 5,000 jobs. Qantas says all targets have been either met or exceeded. The airline is on track to realise at least $350 million in further benefits in the first half of this financial year. The lower Australian dollar against the US is expected to bring a benefit of $30 million in the first half from cheaper aviation fuel. The airline booked a record $2.8 billion statutory loss in the 2014 financial year. Qantas CEO Alan Joyce says Qantas is experiencing a more stable operating environment. “Today we confirm that Qantas is set to report its best first half result since 2010,” he said. “This demonstrates that the strategy we have outlined to transform our business is working.” The first half of 2015 will be a $550 million improvement compared with the first half last year. Qantas shares were up more than 8% to $2.27 in early trade morning. The airlines shares have gained about 60% since mid October. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The stock market has changed its tune from being bullish on for-sale housing to being bullish on rental housing. Apartment stocks are up 35% YTD, and single-family rental stocks are up 5%—while the home builders are flat. John Burns Real Estate Consulting, LLC; Thomson ONEWhile survey after survey (including our own) indicates that consumers overwhelmingly want to own a home at some point in their lives, there is a big difference between the ambition to own and the ability to own. Increasingly, it appears that financially strapped families desirous of single-family living are turning to rental housing. Professionally Managed Rental Homes People forget that it took several decades for the apartment sector to flourish from a cottage industry into a $92 billion dollar publicly traded investment class. We think the single-family REIT sector will be able to scale at a much quicker pace, due in large part to ubiquitous data and technologies that simply did not exist until just recently. Some might worry that single-family REITs will pull demand away from apartment REITs; however, the renter profile for each subsector is very different, allowing for continued growth across the entire rental universe. We believe that the single-family REIT sector is still in its infancy, especially when you consider that publicly traded single-family REITs account for less than 1% of the 14.9 million single-family rental homes that exist in the US. Our firm has been at the forefront of this emerging institutional asset class, publishing a white paper back in 2011 titled Renting REO to Stabilize Housing, where we recommended the REO to rental model as a solution to the then ongoing downturn in housing. We are very pleased to announce the development of a new recurring research report that will focus on the single-family rental market, with the aim of helping operators, lenders, investors, and rating agencies navigate this market. Please email me for more information, as we intend on providing this cutting-edge research to clients early next year. John Burns Real Estate Consulting FREE AppDownload
India’s seen a lot of economic success the past few months. The current account deficit shrank from 6.9 percent of GDP in 2012 to just 1 percent now, and stocks are on the rise. One of India’s most impressive successes, a sharp drop in inflation, is largely thanks to Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan. He’s outspoken. He’s headstrong. He’s also an author, professor, electrical engineer, and one of Paul Krugman's biggest trolls. Oh, and he called the 2008 financial crisis. So what's this guy's deal? He's got serious cred. Rajan, 51, is a tenured finance professor at the University of Chicago when he's not busy being India's central bank governor. Before taking over at the bank, he was the chief economic advisor to former prime minister Manmohan Singh's government. He's a candid critic of Indian corruption, he's written a couple of books on finance, and he also served three years as the IMF's chief economist. Some are eyeing him as a potential successor to Christine Lagarde as IMF head down the road. When Rajan took the helm at the Reserve Bank of India in September 2013, he faced a triple threat: a massive trade gap, a tumbling rupee, and a harsh economic slowdown. He aimed to increase savings, harness the power of financial markets to help the economy, and above all cut down inflation. So far he's done pretty well. Charles Platiau/Reuters He's got connections. Not only is Rajan well-sourced at the IMF, he's also a member of the Group of 30, an elite bunch of international financiers and academics. His G30 peers include Paul Volcker, Mark Carney, Mario Draghi, William Dudley, Timothy Geithner, and – awkwardly – Paul Krugman and Larry Summers. The latter two are not exactly friends of Rajan's. Back in 2005, Summers called Rajan a "Luddite" and his economic theories "misguided," when Rajan decided to be a huge buzzkill at former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's retirement party and delivered a scathing critique of the U.S. financial sector. He predicted disaster ahead for the global economy because banks were being too risky. He also said the government was covering up real supply-side weaknesses with easy credit, and advocated instead for better educating workers, encouraging entrepreneurship, and cleaning up the financial sector to make it do more good than harm. Krugman Feud Rajan's rivalry with Paul Krugman grew in the aftermath of the financial crisis, when Rajan wrote a piece in Foreign Affairs magazine arguing for fiscal austerity alongside other structural changes. Danish Siddiqui/ReutersKrugman retaliated in an op-ed and called out Rajan by name. While Rajan believed that America's economic woes stemmed from supply-side inefficiencies and workforce uncompetitiveness, Krugman said the problem was weak demand and the best solution would be fiscal and monetary stimulus. There's been a lot of back-and-forth between the two ever since. (Last year Rajan called Krugman "paranoid." The saga continues.) What's in store? In his 15 months at the RBI, Rajan has already met many of his goals. When he joined, there were serious concerns that India might need an IMF bailout. Now, it's among the strongest of the world's emerging markets. He focused chiefly on combatting India's rampant inflation and entrenched inflation expectations. But now that battle's been won: CPI is down to 5.5 percent, below next month's target of 8 percent, and even below the 6-percent January 2016 target. While the rupee remains weak, the recent drop in oil prices has helped shrink India's current account deficit, which will ease the pressure on Rajan to keep interest rates high in order to attract external financing. The next logical step for the governor is to start loosening monetary policy. He left interest rates unchanged yesterday, but will likely start easing his tight stance in February. And with this guy's track record, no one's going to challenge him. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNational flags of Switzerland fly over the entrance of the headquarters of Swiss bank Credit Suisse in Zurich(Reuters) - Credit Suisse AG &lt;csgn.vx&gt; is considering scaling down its prime brokerage business as part of already announced efforts to reduce risk in its investment banking division, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters. Credit Suisse like many investment banks is reconciling its ambitions with increased regulation. An expert panel on Friday recommended that the Swiss government require UBS &lt;ubsg.vx&gt; and Credit Suisse be subject to a higher leverage ratio. Switzerland wants its top banks to have a ratio of 4 percent or more by around 2019 which is higher than the current provisionally set ratio of 3 percent imposed by international regulators. In October, Credit Suisse said investment banking income had slid nearly a fifth and said it would was going to ramp down the rates business with the aim of lowering risky assets by $7 billion and leverage by $60 billion. "The prime brokerage business is indeed part of the risk reduction exercise announced earlier," the person familiar with the matter said. The Financial Times first reported Credit Suisse was planning to shrink its prime brokerage business. The bank aims to have businesses in its investment bank with top-three market positions that can earn a healthy return on capital, and in the past has chosen to exit or scale-back in many of the areas which did not meet the criteria, such as commodities.   (Reporting by Shivam Srivastava in Bengaluru,; Katharina Bart in Zurich and Tom Miles in Geneva, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Daniel L Smith / Shutterstock.com Turning 40 is a major milestone.  You're getting older, but you're still young enough to do something crazy, like bungee jump or take a trip on a whim. There's a good chance that you probably have more money to spend, too. We've come up with a bucket list of 40 things everyone should do before they turn 40.
Deutsche BankThis is the worst shortage we've seen since 2000.Laborers in the US energy industry are nervously watching crashing oil prices as they wonder what persistently low prices could mean for their jobs. According to a new report from The Sunday Times, energy giant BP has already begun laying off workers. The good news is that laid-off workers might find an opportunity in another industry: the homebuilding industry. There's an ongoing debate about how much slack there is in the US labor market. It's a complex topic. But one argument we hear repeatedly is that the quality of available labor is lacking. Specifically, this is something we hear a lot from America's homebuilders who say that new home sales would be higher if they could fill their job openings. Recent surveys from the National Association of Homebuilders reveal that labor shortages have only been getting worse for builders, subcontractors, and remodelers. NAHBGot any of these skills?This is a bit ironic since the housing market bubble created tons of construction workers and the bust put them all out of work. "The incidence of reported shortages is also surprisingly high relative to the current state of new home construction, which has only very partially recovered from its 2008 downturn," said the NAHB's Paul Emrath. "Averaged across 9 key trades that have been consistently covered in NAHB surveys, 46 percent of builders reported a shortage in 2014. This is the highest the 9-trade shortage has been since 2000—slightly higher even than at the peak of the boom in 2004 and 2005, when the U.S. was averaging around 2 million housing starts a year, compared to current rates that have mostly remained under 1 million." The housing market crashed during a time when major technological advances in hydraulic fracturing sparked a boom in the US shale energy business. Suddenly, places like North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Texas were booming thanks to their massive shale basins. Unemployed construction workers found that many of their skills were transferable to the energy business. And the added bonus was the pay. "In late 2008, oil and gas pipeline construction workers earned $0.46 per hour more than new home framing contractors," said Rick Palacios Jr. of John Burns Real Estate Consulting. "Today, they earn $8.15 more per hour. It's no wonder labor is tight in the new home market, especially in Texas and Denver, the closest major markets to North Dakota." John Burns Real Estate ConsultingSince the recession hit the US in December 2007, oil and gas construction jobs grew by hundreds of thousands as residential construction jobs fell be hundreds of thousands. We've yet to see any major oil-crash-related layoff announcements in the US. Indeed, many drillers actually say activity is still going up. However, should we eventually see layoffs, we can expect at least some of these folks to head to the housing construction industry, especially as low gasoline prices encourage more prospective homebuyers to buy. FREE AppDownload
 Back in October, former GLG macro fund manager Raoul Pal told Business Insider that the most important chart in the world was the long-term chart of the US dollar index.  He warned us that it was on the verge of surging, in what would be "the biggest technical break in the history of fiat currencies." Since that call, the US dollar has been on a tear, and it's surging today following the surprisingly strong US jobs report. But Pal, the founder of Real Vision Television and author of the Global Macro Investor newsletter, told Business Insider on Thursday that he thinks the "real move" for the US dollar hasn't happened yet.  "I think the most likely outcome is for a pause in the dollar rally soon," Pal said in an email. "That pause is the pause that refreshes, blows out a lot of the over-positioning before the real move starts." He expects that the move will begin in the early part of next year: "My view is that in 2015, probably in [January] or maybe [February] at the latest, the dollar is going to start its real move, which will be shocking in its velocity. It is that dollar rally that will clear break the key level in the $JPY, the Euro, the Aussie dollar, the ADXY (Asian DXY) and the RMB. I think that spills into all emerging equity markets and emerging bond markets too. Clearly this would cause the next down leg in oil and other commodities."  He continued, "The risk is for a global recession in 2015 but that is too early to give a higher probability too, although clearly most of the world is near recession or in recession anyway (thus making it very fragile to a shock)."  Pal joins DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach in flagging the activity in the dollar. Finance has noticed too. Reuters' Jamie McGeever shared the following chart today: @SaraEisen this is the chart that tells the story. One of the charts of the year: pic.twitter.com/fauMg19lw0     FREE AppDownload
© AFP Fayez NureldineSaudi investors monitor stocks at the National Commercial  Bank (NCB) in Riyadh on November 12, 2014Zurich (AFP) - The Bank for International Settlements warned Sunday that global financial markets appeared to be increasingly fragile despite bullish sentiment. The Basel-based institution, considered the central bank for central banks, also voiced concern in its quarterly report about the impact of the rising US dollar and falling oil prices, particularly on emerging economies. Claudio Borio, the head of the BIS monetary and economic department, highlighted events in mid-October when stock prices fell sharply and US Treasury bonds were "exceptionally volatile" -- even more than at the height of the crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. "And yet, just a few days later, the previous apparent calm had returned." "To my mind, these events underline the fragility -– dare I say growing fragility –- hidden beneath the markets’ buoyancy," he said. Global stocks are surging on hopes that the world's biggest economy is recovering, with a surprisingly robust US jobs report for November powering Wall Street to record highs last week. The dollar has also strengthened against the euro and the yen, as the central banks of the single European currency zone and Japan push interest rates to record lows to chase an elusive growth. At the same time, oil prices have slumped by 40 percent since June because of oversupply -- the third largest fall in the last 50 years. The prices of other commodities were also showing drops. Borio said the diverging developments are expected to "leave a profound imprint on the financial and macroeconomic scene". Emerging market economies expected to be hardest hit because "the outsize role that commodities and international currencies play there makes them particularly sensitive to the shifting conditions," he said. Emerging economies have racked up to $3.1 trillion in dollar-denominated debt by mid-2014.  A continued appreciation of the dollar would therefore increase debt burdens, Borio said. At the same time, some of these economies are dependent on commodity exports and have therefore come under intense pressure over falling prices. A stormy meeting of the 12-member OPEC cartel last month demonstrated the painful impact of the slumping prices, with Venezuela and Nigeria pleading for output to be slashed. A day after OPEC decided to maintain its output target, Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's government announced painful budget cuts. Non OPEC-member Russia has also said it is losing up to $100 billion a year because of the oil price slump.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe company logo of Gazprom Neft is seen at a service station outside the headquarters of Gazprom in MoscowKIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine expects Russia to resume supplies of gas from Monday after Kiev transferred a pre-payment of $378 million to Gazprom, its energy minister said on Sunday. Russia cut gas deliveries to Ukraine in mid-June in a dispute over prices and debts and supplies have remained suspended while the haggling played out against a background of worsening political relations caused by the separatist war in Ukraine, which Kiev says Moscow is promoting. Cash-strapped Kiev had delayed buying new supplies for as long as possible and had been drawing on severely depleted reserves to meet consumer demand as increasingly cold weather set in. But with freezing temperatures and in line with a deal signed by Ukraine's gas company Naftogaz and Gazprom in October, Kiev late on Friday transferred $378 million to the Russian gas giant as an upfront payment for 1 billion cubic meters of gas for December. Under the deal, the prepaid gas was to be delivered within 48 hours of payment. Energy Minister Volodymyr Demchyshyn, speaking on the TV channel 1+1 on Sunday night, said: "We have paid a sum for 1 billion cubic meters. From Monday we will start receiving." Ukraine, a former Soviet republic, is one of the largest consumers of Russian gas with annual imports of around 30 billion cubic meters. Russia also pumps around half of its gas exports through Ukrainian pipelines to prime markets in Europe. At the end of October Ukraine and Russia signed an agreement brokered by the European Commission to cover gas supplies over the winter months as a temporary solution to the longstanding wrangle over prices. Russia, whose relations with the former Soviet republic are politically complicated by its support for Ukraine's separatist rebellion, had insisted Kiev pay for supplies in advance. Since the start of the heating season in late October  Ukrainian gas reserves have fallen 17 percent to 13.9 billion cubic meters as of Dec. 1, according to data from Ukrtransgaz, the state-run gas transport monopoly. Apart from the demands of big industries such as the steel sector, gas is also used by household consumers across the country to power central heating in homes. Demchyshyn said on Sunday that the country was consuming more than 200 million cubic meters of gas a day, 55 million of which came from Ukraine's limited domestic production, 120 million from reserves and the rest from so-called "reverse flow" supplies from neighboring European Union countries. Ukraine’s energy ministry has said Kiev might buy an additional 1.5 billion cubic meters of gas from Russia in the first quarter of next year following the December purchase.  (Reporting by Natalia Zinets; Writing By Richard Balmforth; Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File John StillwellPhoto taken on July 2, 2014 to mark the first birthday of Britain's Prince George shows Prince William (R) and Kate, Duchess of Cambridge with George during a visit to the Natural History Museum in LondonLondon (AFP) - Prince William and his pregnant wife Kate head to New York on Sunday for a glitzy visit that marks a step up in their role representing Britain abroad, royal commentators said.  The three-day trip will see the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, both 32, mix diplomacy with supporting their favourite causes and promoting British business interests. Crucially for William, he will meet US President Barack Obama in the White House on Monday for talks about illegal wildlife trading, an issue close to the prince's heart. William, second in line to the throne after his father Prince Charles, is starting to do more of the long-haul work for the British monarchy as Queen Elizabeth II approaches her nineties. "It's a significant trip which is trying to establish William further in a diplomatic, statesmanlike role," Robert Jobson, author of "The New Royal Family" on William, Kate and their baby son Prince George, told AFP. The official visit will be only the second undertaken by William and Kate outside the Commonwealth family of nations, following a brief stop in California at the end of their 2011 Canada tour. And rather than visiting on behalf of Queen Elizabeth or touring one of her realms, this time they will be expressly visiting on behalf of the British government.  The visit will undoubtedly revive memories of the 1985 trip made by William's parents, Charles and Diana, when the princess, wearing a dazzling gown, danced with US president Ronald Reagan and Hollywood star John Travolta. Jobson said palace officials were keen to balance the spotlight better than they did with Charles and Diana. "They don't simply want it to be dominated by the Kate factor," he said. "They're trying to keep William and Kate's programme designed carefully so that she doesn't upstage him everywhere he goes, because British and other media seem to be obsessed with what Kate wears and the baby bump," Jobson said. "They've obviously got a more serious agenda, which is that this is the future king meeting the president of the United States and entering the special relationship," he added. After the meeting with Obama, William will address the World Bank on illegal wildlife trading. "It is quite a coup for William that he has been invited to the White House by Obama because this is his topic, something he has specifically raised awareness about," royal biographer Penny Junor said. It will be the first time either William or Kate will have been to New York or Washington. William, who is training to become an air ambulance pilot in his day job, is also preparing for a trip to Japan and China in late February-early March, without Kate, who is due to give birth in April. That visit is being viewed in Britain as an attempt to improve top-level diplomatic relations with Beijing. "In terms of foreign travel, I would guess that he and his younger brother Prince Harry would be the ones that do it in future because they have got huge appeal," Junor said. "He's definitely a draw, people love him the world over. They will use him, for sure," said the author, who wrote "Prince William: Born to Be King".   FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban chatted with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. Cuban, who owns the NBA's Dallas Mavericks, told us why he thought the NFL's greed would be the cause of its downfall. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook   IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
People are constantly asking me what to invest in, and I always answer the same way. I say: Do not listen to me – do not listen to anybody. The way you become a successful investor is by investing only in what you yourself have a wealth of knowledge about. Everybody knows a lot about something. Cars, fashion, whatever it is – you know a lot about something. If you do not know what it is you know a lot about, just step back and take a look at your daily life. When you walk into a doctor's waiting room, what magazines do you pick up? If you turn on a television, what kinds of programs do you watch? Soon you will probably figure out what your real interests are, what you are really knowledgeable about. Now you are ready to become a successful investor. If you are keen on cars, read everything you can about the automobile industry. You will know when something is about to happen that constitutes a major, positive change. Then start following up. Read more about whatever you find. Maybe a new fuel-injection system is being developed, one that is superior to and cheaper than what is currently in use, and you know that when it goes into production, it will take up a large share of the market. Or it could be something like a new highway. Maybe people can drive someplace where they could never drive before. Maybe new hotels or shopping centers are certain to open up there. The fundamental strategy is this: stay with what you know and expand on it. If somebody calls you up and says, oh, my gosh, there is this great new computer process...ignore it. You do not know anything about computers. Cars are what you know. Concentrate on what you know and any changes you see – you will see a major change coming long before I ever will, long before anybody on Wall Street will, because care are your passion; they are what you are sitting around reading about all the time. Learn to think in the appropriate terms; this is something new; this is something different; this is a shift in direction. Anything new or different leads to consequences down the road. You have to learn to think around corners. You will know before anybody on Wall Street when something good is happening. You will also know when to sell, because you will see before anybody else that the great change you noticed a few years ago is starting to reverse itself – someone is building a cheaper product, the competition has intensified. Let's say you have done that. After ten years you have made ten times your money. Now is when you are most vulnerable. You think: I have to find something else. I have to do it again. This is wonderful. This is so easy. It is the great mistake people make. Now and then a time comes when doing nothing is the wisest course.  Most successful investors, in fact, do nothing most of the time. You bought that stock ten years ago, and you did nothing for the next ten years – you did nothing but watch what was going on, nothing but watch for changes. That is how you make money. Reprinted from "Street Smarts" Copyright © 2013 by Jim Rogers. Published by Crown Business, an imprint of The Crown Publishing Group, a division Random House LLC, a Penguin Random House Company FREE AppDownload
The US dollar remains king.   It continues to be supported by the divergence in growth and interest rate differentials.  Even though the ECB did not take fresh action this past week, there is little doubt that it will in early 2015.  The aggressive monetary policy in Japan, where the BOJ is expanding its balance sheet by 1.4% (of GDP) a month for as long as the eye can see, also stands in sharp contrast to the US, where the market has largely priced in a hike in Q3 15.    In the coming weeks, it is difficult to envision anything that will undermine this general theme. There are three main events before the end of the year for global investors.  First, is next week's second TLTRO.  Disappointing participation (less than 125 bln euro take down) would boost confidence that the ECB will take more action early next year.  In turn this would likely weigh on the euro and underpin European bonds and stocks.   Second, on December 14, Japan goes to the polls.  There is little real challenge to Abe. The DPJ has been poorly organized, and has not been able to tap into the popular anxiety over Abenomics and the controversial political issues, like nuclear power and allowing military involvement to defend other countries.  The LDP and Komeito coalition enjoys a super-majority and polls suggest it will retain it.   Third, the FOMC concludes its last meeting of the year on December 17.  The statement could modify or remove the reference to "considerable period" in the forward guidance. This would be seen as a hawkishdevelopment, would likely lift the dollar.  The economy has performed well, which the Fed will likely recognize.  Its perspective on oil's impact has already largely been presented by Fischer and Dudley.  The Fed will see the slide in prices are positive for household consumption, and will see the downward pressure on prices as temporary.   Euro:  Look for another leg down.   The MACDs have lower after approaching levels since in October.  The RSI is turning down from 50.  The next target is near $1.2150-$1.2200, but the $1.20 level, approached in 2012, and $1.1880, the low from 2010 are more significant objectives.    Counter-trend bounces are likely to run out of steam now in the $1.2350-$1.2400 area.  The only note of caution is that the euro is trading below its lower Bollinger Band (~$1.2315), and while new lows were made in the second half of last week, the newest downticks were hard to sustain. Yen:   The dollar shot through the JPY120 level, and there appears to be only weak efforts, thus far, too slow its ascent.  The dollar is also trading above its upper Bollinger Band (~JPY120.90).  We suspect the JPY120 area should now act as support.  Initially, short-term participants may turn less aggressive as the next round figure is approached (JPY122), but many have high conviction that the dollar is on its way to JPY125 and JPY130, if not beyond. Sterling: The $1.5600 level has been frayed in recent weeks, and it finally closed below it ahead of the weekend.  Technical indicators are consistent with further losses, but the pendulum of market sentiment, pushing out rate hike expectations appear to have largely run its course.  Stronger economic data helped put in the top for the December 2015 short sterling futures, pushing up the implied rate about 10 bp lower on the week.  The place to express a bullish sterling view is not so much against the dollar, but on the crosses, especially the yen.  It is trading a little above JPY189, which is a six-year high.  There is potential toward JPY200. Dollar-bloc:  Contrasting employment data and further weakness in oil prices pushed the Canadian dollar to marginal new multi-year lows.   We continue to look for CAD1.1670-CAD1.1725 on a medium-term view.   Immediate support is pegged near CAD1.1325. Losing less than 0.1% against the US dollar in the past week meant the Canadian dollar was the strongest of the majors against the dollar.  The Australian dollar was the second weakest, losing  almost 2.2% against the US dollar. The Aussie finished last week on its lows and with a seven-day losing streak.    The $0.8400 area should act as resistance as the Aussie make its way toward $0.8200 and then $0.8000. Mexican peso:    The peso lost almost 3% against the dollar last week.  It was third worst performing emerging market currency behind the Russian rouble (-6.5%) and the Colombian peso (-4.2%).  The dovish central bank statement, falling oil prices, and skepticism over the PRI's reform agenda have encouraged foreign hedge funds and international investors to reduce exposures.  The dollar appears headed toward MXN14.60.  The dollar did finish the week above the upper Bollinger Band (~MXN14.245), which may inject a cautionary note into the activity at the start of next week,but the central banker's call for a weaker real exchange rate is likely to override technical considerations.   US 10-Year Yield:  Strong economic data is giving US bonds a bit better traction.  After starting last week near 2.15%, it finished the week at 2.32%.  The 2.40% area is key.  We remain  sensitive to the  a return of the so-called Greenspan Conundrum.  This refers to a period in which the Fed was raising short-term interest rates, but the long-term interest rates were stable or declining.  From non-dollar investors point of view, the total return may be attractive even if one anticipates somewhat lower prices going forward.  The yield is better than most other major countries, and the expected appreciation of the dollar will offset some price erosion.  S&amp;P 500:  New record highs were recorded before the weekend despite the higher US yields.  The modest pullback at the start of the week filled the downside gap we had previously drawn attention to from the sharply higher opening on November 21. While the RSI is suggesting scope for additional gains, the MACD has been flagging.  That said, the S&amp;P 500 has been moving broadly sideways for the past couple of weeks.   Since November 22, we have been warning that European stocks can outperform the S&amp;P 500.   It is working, and of course, it works better on a currency hedged basis. Oil:  The January light sweet oil futures contract broke below $64 a barrel on December 1, but generally consolidated last week.  It failed to make a new low despite Saudi Arabia's decision to increase its discount to US and Asian customers to $2 below the official price.  Technical indicators are not generating strong signals; warning of the risk of near-term consolidation before the next leg down.  Already, reports indicate that given the discounts, the price of some US shale oil is near $50 a barrel already.  Observations based on speculative positioning in the futures market: 1.  To the extent there was a pattern in the latest Commitment of Traders report for the period ending December 2, it was that there were only minor position adjustment.  Of the 14 gross currency positions we track, only two changed by more than 5k contracts.  The gross short euro position was reduced by 6.5k contracts to 216.6k.  This is about 23k contracts lower than the recent peak in early November.  The bears grew their gross short peso position by 14.3k contracts to 73.2k.  This is a record gross short peso position.  The peso fell about 3% in the three sessions since the Commitment of Traders report on the back of weak data, official comments, the drop in oil prices and the resurgent dollar.   2.  Whereas the market has marginally reduced its short euro position, it has continued to extend  gross short yen positions.  They are short 152.7k contracts.  This is a new high for the year, though still below (~4.5k contracts) the high from the end of last year. 3.  The speculative net short US 10-year Treasury futures position more than doubled over the last reporting period to 163k contracts from 73.3k the prior period.  The bulls took profits on 42k long contracts.   Recall that yield fell to 2.15% on December 1.  They are still long 344.4k contracts.  The bears added 45k contracts to bring the gross short position to almost 507k contracts.  The yield finished the week just above 2.30%.  week ending Dec 2                 Commitment of Traders     (speculative position in 000's of contracts)       Net  Prior  Gross Long Change Gross Short  Change Euro -159.0 -165.0 57.3 -0.7 216.6 -6.5 Yen -111.0 -104.0 41.5 -4.8 152.7 2.0 Sterling -31.0 -30.1 38.6 0.0 69.6 0.4 Swiss Franc -22.9 -23.4 8.6 0.5 31.6 0.0 C$ -18.4 -16.3 28.5 -3.6 46.9 -1.5 A$ -41.1 -40.1 13.6 1.5 54.7 -1.5 Mexican Peso -43.0 -32.6 30.2 3.8 73.2 14.3 FREE AppDownload
When you're the one in charge of your money, it's best to have some understanding of basic financial concepts. But where to start?  Save some Googling with this list of what to know about money by age 30, created with the help of certified financial planner Mary Beth Storjohann, founder of Workable Wealth. "Your net worth is a measure of your financial health," Storjohann says. It's the result of your total assets minus the total amount you owe. You're in good financial health if your net worth is well into the positives, and you have some work to do if your net worth is anywhere in the negatives. "Net worth can also be used to measure how far you've come over time," Storjohann says. Inflation refers to the sustained increase in the price of goods and services. As prices rise due to inflation, you'll be able to afford less and less. Storjohann points out that the historical inflation rate is 3% per year. "What's most important is whether your income is rising at the same rate as inflation," Storjohann says. If your pay is not keeping up with inflation, you won't be able to afford much a few years down the road. "Liquidity is how accessible your money is," Storjohann says. Cash is the most liquid your money can be, because you can access it immediately. While the inaccessibility of certain assets, such as your home or your retirement accounts, gives them time to gain value, there are some cases where you want money at your fingertips. "Your emergency fund should be in a cash account since it needs to be readily available in case of an emergency," Storjohann says. "Money you have invested in the stock market is not as available, because you risk losing some of it if you take it out." A bull market refers to a market that is on the rise, which is a good thing. That means that prices of shares in the market are increasing. Usually a bull market also means the economy is in a good state, and the level of unemployment is low. The US is currently in a bull market. A bear market is the opposite of bull. In other words, the market is declining. Share prices are decreasing, the economy is in a downfall, and unemployment levels are rising. It sounds like a bad thing (and it certainly isn't good), but Storjohann says the most important thing to keep in mind is that the market is a "rollercoaster," meaning it's bound to go up and down and people shouldn't panic every time the market looks a little ursine. "Millennials have time on their side," she explains, "and over time money has the ability to grow."   Remember that roller coaster we were discussing a moment ago? According to Storjohann, risk tolerance refers to how comfortable you are with these swings. "It's about whether you understand the cycle or stress out about it," she says. How high your risk tolerance is determines how aggressive you can be with your investments. Risk tolerance isn't just emotional — it depends on how much time you have to invest, your future earning potential, and the assets you have that are not invested, such as your home or inheritance. Major banks such as Wells Fargo, Merrill Lynch, and Vanguard provide online tools to help determine your own. Flickr / André BenedixYour net worth says a lot about your financial situation. Asset allocation — where you keep your money — depends on your individual needs and goals. It's also the basis of diversification.  The goal of diversification is managing the risk we touched on in point six — if you keep your eggs "all in one basket," as Storjohann describes it, what happens to your wealth if the basket falls and breaks? You're going to want some wealth stored elsewhere. "Diversification allows for balancing," Storjohann says. "You give up some upsides, but you lower some downsides."  Be aware that simply scattering your investments around might not be effective. To be effectively diversified, you have to be strategic about where you invest. Interest can work for or against you, depending on the context. When it comes to saving money, "Interest means your money is going to work for you," Storjohann says. When you put your money in a savings account at a bank, you're letting that bank borrow your money. Interest is what they pay you to borrow it; it's a percentage that can go up or down depending on the state of the economy. On the other hand, when you borrow money from someone — think your credit card issuer — you pay interest to them for borrowing that money, just like the bank paid you to borrow yours. You'll keep paying interest until you've paid that money back, which is why it's important to stay out of debt, or if you're in debt, to pay it off as quickly as possible. Compound interest is interest that you earn on a "rolling balance," and not on the initial principle, Storjohann says. Here's an example: If you start off with $100 earning 7% interest annually, after your first year you'll have $107. The next year, you'll be earning 7% interest on $107 and not $100 (you'll earn $7.49 instead of $7). It doesn't sound so impressive when we're discussing $7 at a time, but compound interest is the concept that powers the exponential growth of retirement savings. As Business Insider's Sam Ro puts it, "It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball." FREE AppDownload
Need a pick-me-up the morning after a night out? Try an intravenous injection. Clinics in cities across the country have begun offering intravenous saline drips that contain vitamins and anti-nausea medicine to help cure your hangovers.  Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of the Associated Press. Special thanks to Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thirty kilometres south of central Chennai, just out of earshot of the honking, hand-painted lorries roaring up Old Mahabalipuram Road, you seem to have reached rural India. The earth road buckles and heaves. Farmers dressed in Madras-checked dhotis rest outside huts roofed with palm leaves. Goats wander about. Then you turn a corner, go through a gate, and arrive in California. Lakewood Enclave is a new development of 28 large two-storey houses, wedged tightly together. The houses are advertised as "Balinese-style", although in truth they are hard to tell apart from any number of suburban homes around the world. Outside, the houses are painted a pale pinkish-brown; inside, the walls are white, the floors are stone and the design is open-plan. They each have three bedrooms (middle-class Tamil families are small these days) and a covered driveway to protect a car from the melting sun. Just one detail makes them distinctively Indian: a cupboard near the door for Hindu gods. A quarter of a century ago your correspondent taught in a school not far from these houses. It was a rural area; bonnet macaques would sometimes invade his shower. Now farmers are selling their small parcels of land to house builders for sums beyond previous imagining. Commuters are rushing in so that, every morning, they can rush out again. Chengalpattu, the district where Lakewood lies (see map where the new development is also pictured), now contains more than half a million people. Lakewood looks likely to be the rule, not the exception. "The force of human nature means it will happen," says Balaji Narasimhan of SSPDL, its developer. "You can't stop it."  The shift in population from countryside to cities across the world is often called the "great urbanisation". It is a misleading term. The movement is certainly great: the United Nations reckons that the total urban population in developing countries will double between 2010 and 2050, to 5.2 billion, while the rural population will shrink slightly. But it is nothing like as obviously urban. People may be moving towards cities, but most will not end up in their centres. Few cities are getting more crowded downtown; between 2001 and 2011 Chennai added just 7% more people while Chengalpattu swelled by 39%. In developed and developing worlds, outskirts are growing faster than cores. This is not the great urbanisation. It is the great suburbanisation. Suburbs are curious places, neither here nor there. They have been around since ancient Rome (which gave the world the word), but it was not until the 19th and 20th centuries that first the train and then the bus and car brought them truly into their own--the first places in human history where many people lived but far fewer worked. The idea of places with little purpose other than providing space for domestic life struck those from city and country alike as peculiar and diminished. In 1904 the Times worried that London would be surrounded by "a district of appalling monotony, ugliness and dullness". That dullness was said to seep out of the suburbs' tidily planned streets and into the minds of their inhabitants, giving rise to a condition known as suburban neurosis. To Lewis Mumford, an American urbanist writing in 1961, suburbia was: a multitude of uniform, unidentifiable houses, lined up inflexibly, at uniform distances, on uniform roads, in a treeless communal waste, inhabited by people of the same class, the same income, the same age group, witnessing the same television performances, eating the same tasteless prefabricated foods, from the same freezers, conforming in every outward and inward respect to a common mould. To observers like Mumford, suburbs were not just unfortunate urban appendages; they were anti-urban. They enabled a woman to opt out of the vibrant, sociable city, where she at least knew her local butcher and grocer, and live what he called "an encapsulated life" apart from others. Suburbs were machineries of isolation. The financial crisis of 2008 turned bien-pensant concern and disdain into a new doom-mongering. The crisis hit the suburbs exceptionally hard: many, especially newer ones, became blighted by foreclosure; their economies, which rested on building and selling houses, collapsed. In 2012 Stockton, a previously fast-growing burgh in the suburban sprawl of the San Francisco Bay Area, became the biggest city in American history to file for bankruptcy. San Bernardino, another essentially suburban city, soon followed. In parts of California an uptick in cases of West Nile virus was blamed on the many abandoned swimming pools. At this point the argument against suburbia changed. It was no longer regrettable but inevitable. It was dead. ShutterstockLeigh Gallagher's book "The End of the Suburbs", published in 2013, is not so much an attack on suburbia as a post-mortem assessment of its pathologies. Americans--especially young Americans--have turned against the car-oriented, low-rise life, she explains. They are flocking to city centres, where they live in rented apartments, take trams or walk to work, and hang out in coffee shops. The suburbs are left ever poorer and more criminal. In more subtle pieces of high-density triumphalism like "The Triumph of the City" by Edward Glaeser and "The Great Inversion" by Alan Ehrenhalt, suburbs are no longer a threat to successful cities. Instead, successful cities threaten them. American suburbs undoubtedly have their problems, as this year's riots and protests after the shooting of a teenager in Ferguson, a suburb of St Louis, show. Many suburbs are poorer than once they were, and a lot of city centres are much more attractive places to live than they used to be. Still, more than half of Americans now live in suburbs, and many of them do so by choice. The world as a whole is quickly following suit. In the 1950s Taiwanese planners toured Britain's garden cities and returned to build some of their own. Orange County, north of Beijing, is a clone of the California suburb it is named after, even down to the kidney-shaped swimming pools. In much of the world people born in cities, or who came to cities young, are moving out, and incomers from the country do not manage, or aspire, to live right in the centre of their chosen city. Even as their populations grow, the density of metropolitan areas is dropping all around the developing world. Those who argue that suburbia is dying are wrong on the facts; those who say it is doomed by the superiority of higher-density life make a far from convincing case. Cities that have sought to stop the sprawl--London is the most striking example--have achieved dubious benefits at great cost. In one sense the critics are right: suburbs are a place apart. People who live close to the heart of buzzing cities can feel themselves part of a great project. Suburbanites have relinquished that, or forgone it. What they have gained in its stead is surprisingly consistent from city to city and from country to country. Suburbs are about family, ease and quietness. Searingly ambitious people find them dull, and some become alienated in them. But many others experience a humble liberation. D.J. Waldie, then an official in the southern California city of, as it happens, Lakewood, described his suburb as "adequate to the demands of my desire". And to a great many other people's desires, it turns out. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thirty kilometres south of central Chennai, just out of earshot of the honking, hand-painted lorries roaring up Old Mahabalipuram Road, you seem to have reached rural India. The earth road buckles and heaves. Farmers dressed in Madras-checked dhotis rest outside huts roofed with palm leaves. Goats wander about. Then you turn a corner, go through a gate, and arrive in California. Lakewood Enclave is a new development of 28 large two-storey houses, wedged tightly together. The houses are advertised as "Balinese-style", although in truth they are hard to tell apart from any number of suburban homes around the world. Outside, the houses are painted a pale pinkish-brown; inside, the walls are white, the floors are stone and the design is open-plan. They each have three bedrooms (middle-class Tamil families are small these days) and a covered driveway to protect a car from the melting sun. Just one detail makes them distinctively Indian: a cupboard near the door for Hindu gods. A quarter of a century ago your correspondent taught in a school not far from these houses. It was a rural area; bonnet macaques would sometimes invade his shower. Now farmers are selling their small parcels of land to house builders for sums beyond previous imagining. Commuters are rushing in so that, every morning, they can rush out again. Chengalpattu, the district where Lakewood lies (see map where the new development is also pictured), now contains more than half a million people. Lakewood looks likely to be the rule, not the exception. "The force of human nature means it will happen," says Balaji Narasimhan of SSPDL, its developer. "You can't stop it."  The shift in population from countryside to cities across the world is often called the "great urbanisation". It is a misleading term. The movement is certainly great: the United Nations reckons that the total urban population in developing countries will double between 2010 and 2050, to 5.2 billion, while the rural population will shrink slightly. But it is nothing like as obviously urban. People may be moving towards cities, but most will not end up in their centres. Few cities are getting more crowded downtown; between 2001 and 2011 Chennai added just 7% more people while Chengalpattu swelled by 39%. In developed and developing worlds, outskirts are growing faster than cores. This is not the great urbanisation. It is the great suburbanisation. Suburbs are curious places, neither here nor there. They have been around since ancient Rome (which gave the world the word), but it was not until the 19th and 20th centuries that first the train and then the bus and car brought them truly into their own--the first places in human history where many people lived but far fewer worked. The idea of places with little purpose other than providing space for domestic life struck those from city and country alike as peculiar and diminished. In 1904 the Times worried that London would be surrounded by "a district of appalling monotony, ugliness and dullness". That dullness was said to seep out of the suburbs' tidily planned streets and into the minds of their inhabitants, giving rise to a condition known as suburban neurosis. To Lewis Mumford, an American urbanist writing in 1961, suburbia was: a multitude of uniform, unidentifiable houses, lined up inflexibly, at uniform distances, on uniform roads, in a treeless communal waste, inhabited by people of the same class, the same income, the same age group, witnessing the same television performances, eating the same tasteless prefabricated foods, from the same freezers, conforming in every outward and inward respect to a common mould. To observers like Mumford, suburbs were not just unfortunate urban appendages; they were anti-urban. They enabled a woman to opt out of the vibrant, sociable city, where she at least knew her local butcher and grocer, and live what he called "an encapsulated life" apart from others. Suburbs were machineries of isolation. The financial crisis of 2008 turned bien-pensant concern and disdain into a new doom-mongering. The crisis hit the suburbs exceptionally hard: many, especially newer ones, became blighted by foreclosure; their economies, which rested on building and selling houses, collapsed. In 2012 Stockton, a previously fast-growing burgh in the suburban sprawl of the San Francisco Bay Area, became the biggest city in American history to file for bankruptcy. San Bernardino, another essentially suburban city, soon followed. In parts of California an uptick in cases of West Nile virus was blamed on the many abandoned swimming pools. At this point the argument against suburbia changed. It was no longer regrettable but inevitable. It was dead. ShutterstockLeigh Gallagher's book "The End of the Suburbs", published in 2013, is not so much an attack on suburbia as a post-mortem assessment of its pathologies. Americans--especially young Americans--have turned against the car-oriented, low-rise life, she explains. They are flocking to city centres, where they live in rented apartments, take trams or walk to work, and hang out in coffee shops. The suburbs are left ever poorer and more criminal. In more subtle pieces of high-density triumphalism like "The Triumph of the City" by Edward Glaeser and "The Great Inversion" by Alan Ehrenhalt, suburbs are no longer a threat to successful cities. Instead, successful cities threaten them. American suburbs undoubtedly have their problems, as this year's riots and protests after the shooting of a teenager in Ferguson, a suburb of St Louis, show. Many suburbs are poorer than once they were, and a lot of city centres are much more attractive places to live than they used to be. Still, more than half of Americans now live in suburbs, and many of them do so by choice. The world as a whole is quickly following suit. In the 1950s Taiwanese planners toured Britain's garden cities and returned to build some of their own. Orange County, north of Beijing, is a clone of the California suburb it is named after, even down to the kidney-shaped swimming pools. In much of the world people born in cities, or who came to cities young, are moving out, and incomers from the country do not manage, or aspire, to live right in the centre of their chosen city. Even as their populations grow, the density of metropolitan areas is dropping all around the developing world. Those who argue that suburbia is dying are wrong on the facts; those who say it is doomed by the superiority of higher-density life make a far from convincing case. Cities that have sought to stop the sprawl--London is the most striking example--have achieved dubious benefits at great cost. In one sense the critics are right: suburbs are a place apart. People who live close to the heart of buzzing cities can feel themselves part of a great project. Suburbanites have relinquished that, or forgone it. What they have gained in its stead is surprisingly consistent from city to city and from country to country. Suburbs are about family, ease and quietness. Searingly ambitious people find them dull, and some become alienated in them. But many others experience a humble liberation. D.J. Waldie, then an official in the southern California city of, as it happens, Lakewood, described his suburb as "adequate to the demands of my desire". And to a great many other people's desires, it turns out. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Daniel WellingtonIt's never easy to pick out gifts for the women in your life. Something you think they will absolutely love might turn out to be a terrible idea. We asked the women of Business Insider what they REALLY want for the holidays and found the perfect places to find those gifts. So if you have to buy a gift for a special lady in your life, pay attention and take our advice.   FREE AppDownload
At work and at home, we want what we want. The question is, how do we get it? Watch for answers.
"Never underestimate the value of doing nothing." GMO Capital's James Montier is channeling Winnie the Pooh on how to be be careful given the current market environment: do nothing. In an interview posted earlier this week with German-language publication "Finanz und Wirtschaft" (which we were alerted to by Meb Faber), Montier talks more broadly about the state of the global markets, where sees value, and how to stay protected amid enormous uncertainty about what the future holds for markets. Montier said, "This is the first central bank sponsored near bubble. There is nowhere to hide." For Montier, a bubble is roughly defined as a market that has seen a two standard deviation move from its long-term trend. "But let’s say it in simple terms: For all purposes, this is a hideously expensive market," Montier said. "I don’t care if it’s a bubble or not. It’s too expensive, and I don’t need to own it. But because this is a central bank sponsored near bubble, it hurts to stay away." Montier notes that GMO has sold down its equity holdings from about 54% of its portfolio last year to 36% today, adding that they've been selling out of blue-chip US stocks like Johnson &amp; Johnson, Procter &amp; Gamble, and Microsoft.  "Fundamentally we still think they are very low risk businesses; they offer high profitability and low leverage," Montier said. But the valuations on these stocks — which implies a 6% real return against GMO's expectations for a 2% real return — is simply too high.  But the frustration Montier seems to have with what he calls the "central bank sponsored near bubble," is that value across almost all financial assets has been completely eroded.  In 2000, Montier says that investors could keep their holdings in cash or buy low-risk securities like Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, and still get some return. Now, cash is negative in real terms — meaning when adjusting for inflation, keeping your holdings in cash will see the value of that holding fall year-over-year — which is forcing investors to make unorthodox investment decisions or face losses.  "The question for every investor is how much do you let this negative cash rate influence your behavior," Montier said. "Some of us are willing to own more equities, because the alternatives are just appalling. Others like me are saying cash is negative, but the danger of owning equities that are way too expensive is just much worse.  "In cash, I know my downside, but equities can fall precipitously from a wildly overvalued level. I am not being compensated for that risk. The path for equities will not be nice and smooth and linear over the next seven years."  A major feature of the US stock market's run over the last two years has been what people have referred to as the "buy the dip" mentality. Basically, when the stock market falls by 4%, 6%, 8%, investors have been quick to simply throw money at the market and buy the small sell off, or the dip.  And Montier says that it is this mentality that leads to greed, making investors no longer fear losses, but fear that they will miss out on future gains. "That kind of mentality will lead to a bubble," Montier said. "The narrative is simple: We are all protected, underwritten by central banks. That’s a very tempting thought in the short term, but incredibly dangerous. The central banks will protect us up until they don’t anymore. And you don’t know when that will be." Amid this uncertainty and the unconventional state of the global market, we can even see Montier taking risks himself. Montier said that he is currently short Japanese government bonds, which is famously known as the "widowmaker" trade.  Montier said he is well aware of this moniker, adding that in 1997 he wrote a paper saying that at a yield of 3%, JGBs couldn't possible go any lower, "And I watched them halve and halve again," Montier said. Flickr / Christene S.“Don’t underestimate the value of doing nothing, of just going along, listening to all the things you can’t hear, and not bothering.“But going short JGBs, Montier said, isn't expected be a "hugely positive" investment this time around. "[T]he view of our fixed income guys is [that JGB yields] just can’t go that much lower. And unlike in 1997, they are probably right. What’s the worst that can happen? The yields won’t go to zero, so the loss is limited." And so overall, Montier said the best posture for investors is to be patient.  "Don’t take it from me, take it from Winnie the Pooh: Never underestimate the value of doing nothing," Montier said.  "Never forget: You can’t know the future. Hold a lot of dry powder now. 50% of our portfolio today is in cash or some form of short term bond holdings. If we do get a dislocation in equity markets, we will have the ability to deploy that dry powder. That’s the time to buy." FREE AppDownload
 Bloomberg News' Mary Childs has a must-read inside account of how bond king Bill Gross fell from power at PIMCO.  On Sept. 26, Gross, the 70-year-old self-proclaimed "Justin Bieber of bonds," announced that he was leaving the firm he cofounded to join Janus Capital. He was reportedly going to be fired by PIMCO for "increasingly erratic behavior." In February, Gross was the subject of an incredibly unflattering Wall Street Journal article that detailed how Gross had a nasty clash with Mohamed El-Erian in front of the other employees. El-Erian, PIMCO's CEO and co-CIO, abruptly resigned from the company in January. According to the Journal, Gross referred to himself as "Secretariat," after the legendary racehorse. The article also said that Gross didn't like it when his traders made eye contact with or spoke to him.  According to Mary Childs' inside account, Gross tried to hunt down the employees he believed were leaking these sorts of conversations to the press.  From Bloomberg: In the weeks that followed, Gross tried to close ranks. He spent more than 20 minutes before a firm-wide meeting to discuss the media scrutiny that had beset the company, a speech in which he disparaged El-Erian, according to two people. When he ended to a standing ovation from the audience, including Hodge and Ivascyn, at least one executive declined to rise. Thimons, a managing director outspoken in his objections to Gross’s leadership, disagreed with his comments and refused to stand, according to a person who was present. According to Bloomberg, Gross said he was looking for "Mr. X" — the person he believed to be the mole. Gross thought portfolio managers Andrew Balls and Joshua Thimons were the ones speaking to the media. He unsuccessfully tried to have both of them fired.   From Bloomberg:  To stop the reports, Gross set up interrogations of members of the investment committee, managing directors, and lower-ranking money managers. He carried around a three-ring binder of printed-out e-mails and hand-written notes to find out who was talking to the press. Among his suspects were Balls, a former journalist, and Thimons, the executive who had remained seated during the standing ovation and who had organized a going-away party for El-Erian. Gross sought to fire Balls, a move opposed by Pimco’s new executives. Gross gave in and agreed not to pursue the matter at that time.  Until the end, Gross pushed Balls to leave PIMCO "for the good of the firm." He continued his hunt, staged public displays of anger to intimidate others, and singled people out by seating them off to the side at meetings. Ultimately, though, it was Gross who was on the verge of losing his job, not the mysterious Mr. X. Seeing the writing on the wall, Gross jumped ship before that happened.       FREE AppDownload
Prime numbers are one of the most basic topics of study in the branch of mathematics called number theory. Primes are numbers that can only be evenly divided by themselves and 1. For example, 7 is a prime number since I'm left with a remainder or a fractional component if I divide 7 by anything other than itself or 1. 6 is not a prime because I can divide 6 by 2 and get 3. One of the reasons primes are important in number theory is that they are, in a certain sense, the building blocks of the natural numbers. The fundamental theorem of arithmetic (the name of which indicates its basic importance) states that any number can be factored into a unique list of primes. 12 = 2 x 2 x 3, 50 = 5 x 5 x 2, 69 = 3 x 23. Studying numbers, then, basically amounts to studying the properties of prime numbers. Mathematicians have, over the millennia, figured out quite a bit about the prime numbers. One of Euclid's most famous proofs shows that there are infinitely many primes. The basic idea of the proof is that if there were only finitely many primes, and we had a list of all of those prime numbers, we could multiply them all together and add 1, creating a new number that isn't divisible by any of the prime numbers on our list. That number would either itself be a prime number not on our list, or would have a prime divisor not on our list. Either way, we contradict the idea that there could be a finite list of primes, and so there have to be infinitely many. In the nineteenth century, mathematicians proved the Prime Number Theorem. Given some large natural number, the theorem gives a rough estimate for how many numbers smaller than the given number are prime. Primes get rarer among larger numbers according to a particular approximate formula. Despite all the things we know about prime numbers, there are plenty of deceptively simple conjectures about primes that have not yet been either proven or disproven. Here are some of those conjectures. Twin primes are pairs of prime numbers that have just one number between them: 5 and 7, 11 and 13, and 29 and 31. The twin primes conjecture is that there are infinitely many pairs of twin primes among the infinitely many prime numbers. Most mathematicians think that the conjecture should be true: while prime numbers get rarer as numbers get larger, number theorists' experience and intuition with primes suggests that twin prime pairs should still pop up from time to time. Despite this, the conjecture has not yet been proven or disproven. John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur FoundationMathematician and MacArthur Fellow Yitang ZhangAfter remaining a completely open question for centuries, in spring 2013, University of New Hampshire mathematician Yitang Zhang made a breakthrough in the problem, for which he was awarded a MacArthur "Genius" fellowship in September 2014. While still not proving the twin primes conjecture itself, Zhang invented a novel technique that showed that there are infinitely many pairs of prime numbers with no more than 70,000,000 numbers between them. That's a huge number, but it was the first such finite limit on distances between primes that had ever been discovered. In fall 2013, a large group of mathematicians built on Zhang's work and similar results and collaboratively found smaller and smaller bounds, eventually proving that there are infinitely many pairs of primes with at most 246 numbers between them. This is another simply stated problem. Goldbach's Conjecture says that every even number larger than two can be written as the sum of two prime numbers. This certainly holds true for smaller numbers: 4 = 2 + 2, 8 = 5 + 3, 20 = 13 + 7, but it hasn't been proven for all even numbers. Researchers armed with 21st century computers and well-designed programs have verified the conjecture for even numbers up to 4,000,000,000,000,000,000. This is pretty good evidence for the conjecture, but in mathematics, saying that a conjecture holds for all numbers smaller than some ludicrously high finite bound is not enough to say that it holds for all numbers. Palindromes in English are words or sentences that read the same forwards and backwards. The word "radar" and the phrase "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama" are both palindromes. Similarly, palindromic prime numbers are primes whose decimal expansions read the same forwards or backwards. 11, 101, and 16561 are some examples of palindromic primes. My personal favorite prime number is Belphegor's Prime: 1000000000000066600000000000001. That's a 1, followed by 13 0's, followed by a 666, followed by 13 more 0's, followed by a closing 1. Given that 666 is the "number of the beast" according to Revelation 13:18, and 13 has a slew of superstitions attached to it, this is probably the unluckiest prime number possible in the decimal number system. Wikimedia Commons"The Number of the Beast is 666" - William BlakeAs with the twin primes, it's currently unknown if there are infinitely many palindromic primes. The palindromic primes are a less active area of mathematical research than the twin primes, however. Problems like Goldbach's Conjecture and the twin primes conjecture rely solely on the structure and distribution of the primes themselves. But palindromic primes depend on the particular number system being used: binary palindromes are completely different than decimal palindromes. The prime number written in decimal as 31 is written in binary as 11111. In binary, this prime is a palindrome; in decimal, it is not.  While mathematicians do study the palindromic primes, and have come up with results like that primes are rare among palindromes regardless of the number system being used, more effort in number theory is dedicated to problems that focus mostly on the properties of primes independent of their representations. The Riemann Hypothesis is one of the Millennium Prize Problems, a set of the most important open problems in mathematics. Solving one of these problems brings with it a prize of $1,000,000. The Riemann Hypothesis involves an extension to the Prime Number Theorem mentioned above. That theorem gives a formula for the approximate number of primes smaller than some given large number. The Riemann Hypothesis gives a more specific result, providing a formula showing how accurate that estimate will be. Wikimedia CommonsBernhard RiemannThe great nineteenth century mathematician Bernhard Riemann connected that accuracy bound to a special function on the complex number plane. The actual Riemann Hypothesis states that all of the points on the complex plane where that function equals zero fall along a particular line in the plane. Should that be the case, the accuracy bound would also be true. As with the other problems on this list, there is a good amount of numerical evidence for the Riemann Hypothesis, and most mathematicians believe it to be true. Mathematicians have tested billions of the zero points of the function and found all of them to fall on that line. Also like the other problems we've looked at, there is not yet a full blown proof of the hypothesis. In each of these cases, while most mathematicians believe these conjectures to be true, and there is a good bit of empirical evidence for the conjectures, the search for a full blown proof continues.  This seemingly obsessive behavior on the part of mathematicians is partially because rigorous proof is one of the main goals of mathematics, but also because any proof of the twin primes conjecture, or of the Riemann Hypothesis, would likely involve radically new mathematical techniques and insights, potentially leading to entirely new avenues of research and ideas to explore. In mathematics, it's often the case that the journey to finding a proof is at least as interesting as the result itself. FREE AppDownload
The end of the year is a time to thank the people who make our lives easier, whether that's your building superintendent or your babysitter. But how much? We spoke with etiquette expert Patricia Napier-Fitzpatrick of The Etiquette School of New York to find out more about holiday tipping and gifting. Here's our helpful infographic on who to tip this season. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIndia's Prime Minister Modi attends the opening session of 18th SAARC summit in KathmanduNEW DELHI (Reuters) - Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a brainstorming session on Sunday on replacing Soviet-style central planning with a 'Team India' concept that would give federal states a greater role in developing Asia's third-largest economy. Although he won a huge election mandate in May, the writ of Modi's government is weak as the majority of India's 29 states are controlled by his opponents. That has led him to seek their help in implementing his growth and jobs agenda. "It is impossible for the nation to develop unless states develop," Modi told a meeting with chief ministers in New Delhi. "The process of policy planning also has to change from 'top to bottom' to 'bottom to top'." As chief minister of Gujarat, Modi objected to meddling by the Planning Commission in his state's affairs. One ally has described the body as a "parking lot" for political cronies and unwanted bureaucrats. Yet, three months after Modi vowed to replace the Planning Commission "in a short span of time", deliberations on its successor are still in their early stages and there is little sign of a consensus. The opposition Congress party, whose patriarch Jawaharlal Nehru set up the Planning Commission in 1950, said that while the body needed reorientation, its dismantling was unwarranted. Speaking after the meeting, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said the mandate of the body still had to be determined, adding that there was majority support for a structure in which both the center and states are represented. It was also unclear, Jaitley added, whether India would scrap the five-year plans introduced by Nehru. The current, 12th five-year plan, runs to 2017.   (Reporting by Douglas Busvine; Editing by Malini Menon and Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/IkarasawaI flew from New York to London the other day. All else being equal, I would rather fly Business Class or First Class than Economy Class. But all else is distinctly not equal. So I don't. Happily, with some help from a friend, I have finally figured out how to fly First Class for the price of coach. (I'm not advocating this method for anyone else, by the way.) FREE AppDownload
Jobs aren't growing in just one corner of the US labor market. Rather, they're growing everywhere. "Job growth improved across a number of industries," highlighted Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius after Friday's surprisingly strong jobs report. "Even the Federal government hired 5K," exclaimed Bank 0f Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "Not a single major jobs category experienced a decline." US companies added 321,000 nonfarm payrolls in November, which was much stronger than the 230,000 expected by economists. It was the biggest single month of payroll gains since January 2012. "Jobs gains were broadly based during the reference period, with all major segments contributing to the overall gain," noted Societe Generale's Brian Jones. "Echoing the anecdotal evidence from the latest edition of the Federal Reserve’s Beige Book, the BLS found that the breadth of job gains was extremely impressive last month." One important detail in both the jobs report and the beige book: no major layoffs in the US energy sector. Rather, the relevant sector of the job market was marked by a lack of hiring. While that's not as good as net job growth, it's certainly not as bad as net  job cuts. "Employment in mining and logging experienced no growth over the month of November," the Bureau of Labor Statistics said in a presentation following Friday's jobs report. "The lack of job growth in the sector is further supported by a decline in crude oil prices. The West Texas Intermediary Crude Oil price was $78.71 per barrel in November." BLSNo growth is better than a decline.Crashing oil prices have put the squeeze on energy company profits. For some drilling projects, the current price of oil isn't high enough to cover the costs of exploration and production. And it generally doesn't make sense to pursue money losing projects. Energy producers, however, can't just shut down a drilling project like the flip of a light switch. Conversely, they can't switch them on overnight either. Anecdotally, it appears the drillers haven't really flinched. From the Beige Book, here are some insights from the Federal Reserve's industry contacts: "We've been through wild price swings before and we take a long view on energy investments," said Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson to CNBC on Wednesday. It's likely that we haven't seen major layoffs because the energy company executives are betting prices will come back. So the real risk for energy industry jobs is if the currently low prices persist. For now, the energy gurus are feeling pretty good that prices will come back soon. Getty Images / Phillip ChambersA driller for Raven Drilling talks on a phone while drilling for oil in the Bakken shale formation outside Watford City, North Dakota."Crude oil is currently down 1.2 standard deviations for the 10-year period," wrote US Funds Frank Holmes. "This might not sound like much, but ... oil has rarely gone above or below one standard deviation during this time." Holmes further points to some complicated drilling economics that explain why drillers can't even shut down some of the money losing wells. "At $70, expect more companies, especially those involved in fracking and deepwater drilling, to cut production even further," Holmes said. "The problem is, they really can’t afford to do so. It currently takes output from four or five new wells to replace the cost of one previously drilled unconventional well, which is why companies must keep up with exploration and production." In other words, we shouldn't be surprised that there haven't been big job cuts in the energy sector. And we shouldn't be surprised if it's a while before we see major cuts. FREE AppDownload
The decline in the price of oil, Western economic sanctions against the nation following its invasion of Ukraine, and the collapse of the Russian rouble that resulted, has decimated Russia's economy. Now Russian GDP has shrunk so much it is no longer the world's eighth largest economic power, according to The Telegraph. Instead, Putin's Russia is now carries roughly the same economic weight as ... Spain: Russia has lost its ranking as the world’s eighth biggest economy, shrinking in just nine months from a $2.1 trillion petro-giant to a mid-size player comparable with Korea or Spain. For the past several years, Spain has been regarded as one of Europe's more feeble economies, with 1 in 4 Spaniards unemployed. Spain's GDP was about $1.4 trillion in 2013, according to the World Bank.  Spain was the 13th biggest economy on the planet until Putin ordered tanks into the Crimea. Now it is likely that Italy, India, Canada, and Australia are all more economically significant than Russia. Here was the World Bank's GDP ranking for 2013, before Russia went into its current crisis. The numbers are in billions of US dollars: (European Union     17,350,853)1 United States     16,800,0002 China     9,240,2703 Japan     4,901,530 4 Germany     3,634,8235 France     2,734,9496 UK       2,521,3817 Brazil     2,245,6738 Russia     2,096,7779 Italy      2,071,307 10 India     1,876,797 11 Canada     1,826,76912 Australia     1,560,597 13 Spain     1,358,263 14 S Korea     1,304,554 15 Mexico     1,260,915 It's not clear what Russia's GDP equivalent is right now because the decline of the rouble has been so swift and volatile that the calculation needs to be done anew every day. On Monday the rouble experienced its largest one-day flop since the 1998 Russian crisis. Of course, this may all be temporary. The price of oil has sunk to just above $68 a barrell (for WTI), dragging the oil-dependent Russian economy with it. If the price perks up, Russia can expect to make its way back up the GDP charts.
Amazon president, chairman, and CEO Jeff Bezos explains his importance to Amazon's operations, and how he has helped shape its culture. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook     Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Brookings/BISHere are the highlights from Shin's presentation.As the 2008 financial crisis gets further in the rearview mirror, what's the next threat to the global economy? That question was the subject of a presentation by Hyun Song Shin, the relatively new head economist for the Bank of International Settlements (the "central bank of central banks"), at the Brookings Institution on Thursday. You can listen to the full audio of the speech here. Shin laid out a couple of different global trends that BIS is looking at. The two big ones were: 1) the boom in lending that occurs via debt issued on the bond market versus conventional bank loans, and 2) the effect fluctuations in the dollar have on the global economy. There are two issues that Shin is looking at: First, the fact that so much of the credit growth in the economy is coming from capital markets, not necessarily from traditional bank lending (in particular, there was a lot of talk about large asset managers buying up corporate bonds). That's a shift from pre-2008 crises. The common wisdom is that asset managers are benign in the global economy. But Shin doesn't think that's true anymore. Brookings / BISThe corporate bond market is booming as other forms of lending shrink.The question is how and if that will affect the real economy in the event of a big shock to the financial system. On the one hand, Shin said, large asset managers aren't as leveraged as banks. On the other hand, clients of asset managers tend to be things like pension funds. A huge credit crunch that hits asset managers hard would be bad news for the retirement accounts of a lot of Americans. The second issue Shin discussed is how dollar-denominated debt ripples through the global economy. Dollar-denominated credit to non-US borrowers has skyrocketed over the last decade or so (even more so from outside of the US than from domestic lenders). When financial institutions outside the US deal with both debt in dollars and debt in local currency, fluctuations in the exchange rate have a big impact. Brookings / BIS When the dollar appreciates, on the other hand, things get tight for institutions lending in local currency. Shin thinks this may be a partial cause of the crises that occurred in Latin America in the 1980s and Asia in the 1990s.  Brookings / BISThe timing of financial crises seems to be tied to big moves in the dollar. On top of that, Shin says, there's a trend of buying corporate bonds with longer and longer maturities (the average is now about 12 years). This makes them more sensitive to yield changes. Once again, everything's fine now, but Shin thinks there's real risk here if a big disruption occurs in the dollar market. FREE AppDownload
The magnitude of this year's oil price plunge has been unusual, making it particularly challenging for investors to assess how falling prices will impact corporate earnings and ultimately the stocks they're invested in. We can certainly expect companies to say a lot when they discuss their Q4 (Oct.-Dec.) financial results in January. For now, Wall Street's stock gurus are hacking away at their earnings growth forecasts for the energy sector. "As the price of crude oil has continued to decline during the fourth quarter (to $66.81 yesterday from $91.16 on September 30), analysts have also continued to lower earnings estimates for companies in the Energy sector in the S&amp;P 500 for the fourth quarter," FactSet's John Butters writes. FactSetEnergy sector earnings don't look good.Currently, analysts expects S&amp;P 500 energy sector earnings to plunge 14.6% to $9.49 per share in Q4, which compares to the 6.6% increase to $11.94 expected in September 30. According to Butters, this represents "the largest decline in the EPS estimate for the Energy sector during a quarter since Q1 2009." The good news is that the energy sector, while big, represents just one relatively small part of the diversified collection of big US companies in the S&amp;P 500. Indeed, analysts expect 3.4% earnings growth for the index as a whole in Q4. As far as the top line is concerned, revenues are expected to dive 13.7% in the energy sector, while the S&amp;P 500 as a whole sees a 1.5% increase. FactSetEnergy sector revenues look terrible. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Sebastien NogierBlackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien.At the beginning of 2014, Blackstone Group Vice Chairman Byron Wien released his 10 surprise predictions for the markets and the economy.  Wien is a legend on Wall Street, and his predictions are widely read and circulated at the beginning of the year. But with 2014 winding down and people starting to look ahead to what 2015 holds, it is only right that we take a look back and see how Wien did this year.  Wien calls his predictions "surprise" predictions that the average investor would only assign a one-in-three chance of happening. And following form, Wien got some of these calls really right, some of them really wrong, and only a few anywhere in-between. We scored Wien's predictions simply: Zero points for wrong predictions, one point for correct predictions, and one-half point for predictions that were right down the middle.  FREE AppDownload
Moscow (AFP) - With its warm, fluffy brown grains, buckwheat is the ultimate comfort food for Russians and as sanctions hit home, it is flying off the shelves in a shopping frenzy dubbed the "buckwheat panic". Hard-hit by falling oil prices and Western economic sanctions imposed over the Kremlin's role in the Ukrainian crisis, Russia is seeing a catastrophic depreciation of the ruble and steep inflation. But while Russians grumble about the rising price of chicken, cheese or sausage, it was only when rumors spread of buckwheat supplies running low that shoppers dashed out to fill their trolleys. Buckwheat "is not just a food, it is a national idea," Russia's leading business daily, Vedomosti, wrote recently in an editorial. While in the West buckwheat is seen more as a trendy food for the health conscious, in Russia it is a traditional staple, predating potatoes. The cereal, which originates from India and Nepal, was first introduced to the Russians in the 13th century by the Mongol invaders. It was cultivated by Byzantine monks, leading to its name in Russian of "grechka," which sounds like Greek. Buckwheat can be eaten at any meal in Russia, whether simmered with milk as a porridge for breakfast, served with chopped liver for lunch, or even stuffed inside a roast piglet at a special dinner. It is ubiquitous in the cafeterias of Russian schools and kindergartens, hospitals, military barracks and prisons. This autumn as Russians began to feel the effects of sanctions and the retaliatory embargo on most Western foods ordered by President Vladimir Putin, news spread of a low harvest in Russia's buckwheat heartland -- the Altai region in Siberia. Due to a drought, Russia's buckwheat harvest fell this year to just under 600,000 tonnes, against the usual 700,000 tons. Maxim Marmur/APMoscow's St. Nikolas tower, left, and State Historical Museum, center, are barely visible through thick smoke covering the Russian capital on Tuesday, Sept. 17, 2002.That was hardly a disaster, but media reports were enough to spark panic demand among consumers with people storming shops across several regions.  "In Moscow, people see a television news report about a buckwheat crisis in Penza", a city 600 kilometres (350 miles) away, and "in just four days they buy up buckwheat stocks that would normally be enough for two months," the Moskovsky Komsomolets daily wrote. One supermarket chain in the northwestern city of Saint Petersburg even introduced a five-pack limit for buckwheat purchases. Even though buckwheat is homegrown and so little affected by sanctions or the falling ruble, the price of a packet of buckwheat rose from around 30 rubles to 50 rubles ($0.93) in Moscow and doubled in some regions. "People store up on buckwheat -- which can be kept for a long time -- because they do not know what to expect from the (Western) sanctions," said Galina, a trader at a Saint Petersburg food market. There have been "buckwheat crises" in the past, most recently sparked by a 2010 drought, said Alexei Makarkin, a political analyst with the Centre for Political Technologies. But what is different now is that "there is no question of a real shortage of buckwheat," said Dmitry Rylko of the Institute for Agricultural Market Studies. While initially there was no problem with supplies, "excessive demand sparked" the buckwheat crisis, said Alexey Alexeyenko, a senior official at Russia's food safety agency, Rosselkhoznadzor. Russian media called the phenomenon "hysteria" or even "buckwheat psychosis." A survey conducted in late November by the Levada Center pollster found that almost a third of Russians had stocked up on buckwheat in recent weeks. Buckwheat stockpiling is more a symbol of troubled times, Rylko said, calling it "a sacred food for Russians that disappears at the onset of any signs of crisis." The Kremlin's retaliatory embargo banning Western food imports has hit Russian consumers hard. Prices have gone up 30 to 40 percent for basic foods such as eggs, pork, chicken, frozen fish and sausage since the counter sanctions were imposed.   FREE AppDownload
LONDON/JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - A growing middle class in sub-Saharan Africa is enticing European and South African insurers to buy local firms focussing mainly on life insurance and pensions, in the face of mature markets and strong competition at home. Rapid economic growth in countries such as Ghana, Kenya and Nigeria has increased the number of people with money to spend on insurance to protect their wealth, while regulatory changes are encouraging the growth of domestic savings and pensions. Several major companies, including Swiss Re &lt;srenh.vx&gt;, Prudential &lt;pru.l&gt; and Sanlam &lt;slmj.j&gt;, are buying insurers in Africa, with the focus on life and pensions products in the more economically advanced sub-Saharan countries. Notwithstanding the challenges, the race is definitely on. David Hodnett, Barclays Africa's deputy CEO, told a banking conference in Johannesburg in November: "Every insurer that you look at has probably about five or six suitors." A Standard Bank report published in August said while the size of the "middle class" in sub-Saharan Africa may have been overstated in some studies, growth rates were nevertheless dramatic. Its study of 11 sub-Saharan economies concluded the "middle class" had risen from 4.6 million to 15 million since 2000 and would be over 40 million by 2030, with Africa's biggest economy Nigeria leading the way. Insurance penetration, or premiums written as a percentage of gross domestic product, was 11.5 percent in Britain in 2013 but just 0.6 percent in Nigeria. For life insurance, penetration was 8.8 percent versus 0.2 percent, according to Swiss Re data. Life insurance premium volume in dollar terms rose 18.6 percent last year in Kenya, 13.8 in Angola and 13.5 in Nigeria, compared with a 3.9 percent rise in Britain, the data showed. "The level of life products and penetration is very low," said Davinder Sikand, head of Africa at private equity firm Abraaj. "There are a lot of opportunities to develop products to fit the needs of the people." One of the latest deals was French insurer AXA's &lt;axaf.pa&gt; $250 million purchase last month of a majority stake in Nigeria's Mansard Insurance, which offers life and general insurance. South Africa-focused companies such as Old Mutual &lt;oml.l&gt; and Liberty &lt;lbhj.j&gt; are also eager to expand in the life market in sub-Saharan Africa. LeapFrog Investments, which invests in financial services in emerging markets, launched its second Africa and Asia fund in September while British insurer Prudential &lt;pru.l&gt; has bought life insurers in Kenya and Ghana this year. REUTERS/Andrew Emmanuel A general picture shows the skyline of Tanzania's port cty of Dar es Salaam, July 12, 2013.Insurance specialists say middle-class and lower middle-class customers in Africa are not as affluent as developed-world middle classes, tend to be harder to reach and can require a larger use of face-to-face agents. The numbers in the Standard Bank survey are based on households that consume more than $15 a day. A shortage of skilled insurance staff, fragmentation of the market across a large number of countries with many small insurance firms and regulatory hurdles present more obstacles. "It's quite challenging, a lot of work is required," said Frank O'Neill, head of Middle East and Africa at Swiss Re. "It's not as straightforward as if you look at Brazil: one single country." Getting regulatory approval can take more than a year for each new company bought, and frameworks differ from country to country, industry specialists say. "Wherever you go there are new regulations to learn and comply with," said Victor Muguto, head of insurance for consultancy PwC in Africa. "There are shortages of staff in some of the countries, experienced staff are not always easy to come by," he said. Would-be insurance buyers will also need to do their homework to work out which of the many local insurers offer the most value. Profits across the board in Kenya's insurance sector, for example, rose 24 percent last year, but that covers nearly 50 companies. Insurers are more likely to do well if they partner with banks, said Dudu Tembo, portfolio manager at wealth manager Citadel Investment Services, as "the challenge has been issues around distribution". Reinsurance, or sharing the burden of insurance risk, is another growth area, for instance for energy projects in countries such as Angola or Mozambique. An Africa-focused reinsurance company, One Re, launched last month. (Graphic by Vincent Flasseur; editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - From his office on the 41st floor of the gleaming new European Central Bank headquarters, Mario Draghi's view stretches far beyond Frankfurt's high-rise financial center and he doesn't like what he sees. The darkening outlook for the euro zone's flat and nearly inflation-less economy, exacerbated by tumbling oil prices, is driving him inexorably towards radical action. Bank on the ECB president to fight the risk of deflation with an expanded program of asset buying early next year, probably in March, despite deep misgivings in Germany's Bundesbank and from German public opinion. Draghi has worked for months to build support for what would be the biggest leap in the 15-year-old bank's history -- printing money to buy euro zone sovereign bonds on a large scale, so-called quantitative easing or QE. Germans are historically allergic to such a policy, which some fear could trigger 1920s-style hyperinflation, create asset price bubbles and give euro zone laggards an excuse to avoid painful economic reforms. Many believe it amounts to illegal financing of governments through the back door. Draghi confronted such concerns head-on last week, saying that to allow inflation to remain far below the ECB's target of almost 2 percent would breach its mandate. "Not to pursue our mandate would be illegal," he said, turning the legal argument on his German critics. The bank has just lowered its inflation forecast for next year to 0.7 percent and that did not take account of the latest fall in oil prices. Rebutting German concerns one by one, Draghi said quantitative easing had proved effective in the United States and Britain, was clearly within the bank's remit of ensuring price stability and did not require a unanimous decision. However, the reluctance of the ECB's biggest shareholder and its allies in the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the Baltics has forced him to move gradually. The prevailing Anglo-Saxon view is that ECB action, if it comes, will be too late and probably too little. Draghi's 2012 pledge to do "whatever it takes" to preserve the euro was a turning point that halted market turmoil during the euro debt crisis, showing the ECB to be the only federal European institution able to act. But he would have to pledge to buy "however much for however long it takes" to satisfy those critics who believe European-style QE will be too timid and circumscribed. "Mario Draghi’s penchant for seeking German approval has been his biggest mistake as head of the ECB," said Christian Odendahl, chief economist at the Centre for European Reform in London. "He should end it. If he waits until the German public comes around to looser ECB policy, it might be too late." Draghi has taken interim steps, persuading the Governing Council on which 18 national central bank governors hold a majority, to flood banks with cheap long-term funds for lending, buy bundled business loans and covered bonds. AP/Michael ProbstAfter Reuters reported criticism of Draghi by some council members, he secured unanimous backing on Nov. 4 to expand the ECB's balance sheet towards the level it reached at the height of the euro zone debt crisis in 2012 -- up to 1 trillion euros higher than today. Since then, he has kept moving the cursor forward. Last Thursday, Draghi secured agreement to say the bank would alter "early next year the size, pace and composition of our measures" if needed to combat low inflation. Central bank sources said Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann and the German member of the ECB's executive board, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, voted against hardening the reference to expanding the bank's balance sheet from an "expectation" to an "intention". ECB experts say if the bank buys bonds of all its members in the secondary market in proportion to the percentage of each country's shareholding it should be legally safe. The fact that French and German bonds, which already have negative real yields, would be the biggest share did not matter, they say, since holders would receive cash that they could invest elsewhere. With its own economy now gripped by the slowdown and falling inflation, it is harder for Germany to make a case against expanding the ECB's balance sheet. Draghi declined to be drawn on how broad a majority he would consider sufficient in the Governing Council to back QE, saying he thought the decision could be framed to win unanimity. Italian newspapers reported last week's vote was 18-6 or 17-7 in favor of bolder action. Draghi is well aware that national central bank governors are influenced by their domestic debates rather than the pan-European view from the 41st floor. Weidmann and conservative German politicians may feel obliged to represent their constituents by opposing QE, but what matters is whether the Bundesbank would go along with a majority decision or publicly denounce it. The chances of the former are rising as Draghi patiently advances his arguments.   (Editing by Mike Peacock/Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Quantum of Solace"Quantum of Solace"ZURICH (Reuters) - Sudden swings in financial markets recently suggest they are becoming increasingly sensitive to unexpected events, the global organization of central banks said on Sunday, warning "more than a quantum of fragility" underlies the current bullish mood. MSCI's all-country world stock index is hovering around multi-year highs after rebounding from sell-offs in August and October. The downturns were triggered by uncertainty over the global economic outlook and monetary policy, as well as geopolitical tensions, and the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) said the sharp and sudden dips pointed to frailty in the markets. "These abrupt market movements (in October) were even more pronounced than similar developments in August, when a sudden correction in global financial markets was quickly succeeded by renewed buoyant market conditions," the BIS said in its quarterly review. "This suggests that more than a quantum of fragility underlies the current elevated mood in financial markets," it said, adding that recent developments suggest markets are becoming "increasingly fragile". "Global equity markets plummeted in early August and mid-October. Mid-October's extreme intra-day price movements underscore how sensitive markets have become to even small surprises," it said in the report. The comments followed the organization's warning in September that financial asset prices were at "elevated" levels and market volatility remained "exceptionally subdued" thanks to ultra-loose monetary policies being implemented by central banks around the world. Since then, the U.S. Federal Reserve has brought its monthly bond-purchase program to an expected end. However, Japan's central bank has spurred global markets by expanding its massive stimulus spending while China unexpectedly cut interest rates, adding to stimulus measures from the European Central Bank. The BIS said these divergent monetary policies, coupled with the recent appreciation of the dollar, could have a "profound impact" on the global economy, particularly in emerging markets where many companies have large dollar-denominated liabilities. Separately, the BIS report said that international banking activity expanded for the second quarter running between end-March and end-June. Cross-border claims of BIS reporting banks rose by $401 billion. The annual growth rate of cross-border claims rose to 1.2 percent in the year to end-June, the first move into positive territory since late 2011.     (Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Five former employees of Bernard Madoff, convicted in March of helping the fund manager bilk investors of billions of dollars in his massive Ponzi scheme, will be sentenced this week, with prosecutors seeking prison terms of up to 20 years. Like the six-month trial, one of the longest white-collar trials in recent memory, the sentencings will take time, stretching out over a week in four separate hearings. The sentencings have been delayed for months, as defense lawyers fought the government's demand that the three men and two women should be ordered to pay billions of dollars in forfeiture they say they don't have. First up on Monday is former back office director Daniel Bonaventure, followed in the coming days by portfolio manager Annette Bongiorno, computer programmers Jerome O’Hara and George Perez and portfolio manager Joann Crupi. The five aides were convicted on all counts, including conspiracy and fraud charges, by a federal jury in March. Prosecutors said they knowingly propped up Madoff's fraud by creating fake documents and backdating trades. The government has requested more than 20 years for Bonaventure and Bongiorno, more than 14 for Crupi and more than eight for O’Hara and Perez. Defense lawyers have asked U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain to show leniency. At trial, they argued that Madoff duped their clients into believing his investment advisory business was legitimate. Mario Tama/Getty ImagesAttorneys for Bongiorno are seeking eight to 10 years, while lawyers for Bonaventure, Perez and O’Hara asked for home confinement or brief imprisonment. Cru pi's lawyers have also asked for a shorter sentence than the government requested. Prosecutors also have demanded more than $150 billion in forfeiture. While the aides are unable to pay that amount, the size of the forfeiture could affect whether their relatives must relinquish certain assets stemming from their earnings at the firm. Fifteen people have been convicted in connection with the fraud, estimated to have cost investors more than $17 billion in principal. Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty in 2009. His son Andrew Madoff died in September after a long battle with cancer. His other son, Mark, committed suicide in 2010 on the second anniversary of his father’s arrest. Both brothers, who worked at the firm, always maintained they had no knowledge of the fraud.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Noeleen Walder and David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
