Yelp announced its second-quarter earnings on Wednesday, and the results were better than expected.  Net revenue was $88.8 million in the second quarter, which is up 61% from the same quarter last year. That beat analyst expectations of $86.32 million.  Net income was $2.7 million, or $0.04 per share. That's compared with a loss of $878,000 in the same quarter last year.  This was the first time the company had reported a profit since it went public in 2012.  The company also said that reviews on the site had increased 44% year over year to 61 million. Monthly unique visitors grew 27% to around 138 million, and monthly mobile unique visitors are at 68 million, up 51% year over year. Yelp added several features to its site this quarter, including Yelp Reservations, which allows restaurants to set up free online reservations, and a new feature that allows people to add videos to their reviews.  The company offered strong guidance for the third quarter, projecting revenues between $98 million and $99 million.   FREE AppDownload
BIIBitcoin is most often discussed as a volatile digital currency, with a value that seesaws depending on the latest news — good and bad. It's beloved by some, derided by others. But where Bitcoin's real value lies is as a payments technology that has the potential to revolutionize the legacy payments industry.  Bitcoin offers merchant and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants to pay extortionate transaction fees. But, while the emergence of Bitcoin brings with it numerous advantages, it also faces incredible hurdles. In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we explain how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared with the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: FREE AppDownload
APSamsung Mobile CEO JK Shin,Samsung reported a profit decline in its Q2 earnings report Wednesday due to declining smartphone sales. The company reported operating profit of 7.9 trillion won, which is about $7 billion U.S. That's down from 9.53 trillion won a year ago. Revenue was $52.35 trillion won, or about $51 billion U.S., which is down from 57.46 trillion won a year ago. However, the report shouldn't come as a surprise. Samsung warned that its smartphone sales were declining when it provided earnings guidance for the quarter earlier in July.  Samsung blamed increased competition from other smartphone makers in China and Europe for the decline in sales. Several companies are able to make smartphones that offer similar features as Samsung phones but cost a lot less. The company also blamed increased costs in the production of its flagship Galaxy S5 smartphone. Samsung warned things won't get much better in the second half of 2014, citing increased competition from other smartphone and tablet makers. FREE AppDownload
IMDBOrlando Bloom, "Zulu"Good morning! It’s already Thursday, and Argentina just defaulted. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Big night. US GDP grew a huge 4% in Q2, a big beat on expectations for a 3% increase, and a huge snap-back from the contractionary first quarter. Some are concerned that such a significant portion of the increase was down to a rise in inventories. Chris Rupkey, chief economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, is less concerned, noting the big recent increases in consumer confidence: “Apart from the inventories issue, is it a real 4% or is it a mirage? The consumer is back… Things can’t go too far wrong if the consumer is out shopping,” he wrote in a note to clients. It underlines why we’ve been we paying so much attention to big shifts in consumer confidence here in Australia. 2. The S&amp;P500 hit another all-time high, as the Fed’s monthly statement contained no surprises on the continuing of the taper program, but in the end stocks closed largely flat in the US session, with the Dow falling 0.2%, and the S&amp;P and the Nasdaq up 0.05%. Stocks were flat in Asia yesterday too, and the ASX futures contract is up a single point as we head towards the open. Yawn. 3. Alan Greenspan’s warning on stocks. The former Fed chairman said overnight the “stock market has recovered so sharply for so long you have to assume somewhere along the line we’re going to get a significant correction“. But, he added, “I would not say that we are grossly overpriced at this point in a historical context.” 4. Another school shelling in Gaza. An Israeli artillery attack killed 15 Palestinians sheltering in a UN-run school and another 17 near a street market overnight. The death toll from the three weeks of fighting is now more than 1,300 and there’s no ceasefire in sight. 5. Argentina defaulted. Again. They’ve failed in negotiations with so-called “vulture funds” who have refused to take a haircut on the $1.3 billion owed to them for a decade – because a constitutional clause would trigger a much bigger exposure if they acquiesced. Finance minister Axel Kicillof made the announcement from New York a short time ago. “This was a situation of extortion,” he said. “We will not just sign anything that could lead to more external debt for Argentina… We will avoid it with all of our weapons.” More here. 6. There’s nothing scarier than an EMP blast. At least that’s the view of billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Singer – the guy who has led the “vulture fund” consortium of Argentinian creditors mentioned above – who writes about the risks of an electromagnetic pulse event in a current letter to clients. He says it’s a “risk that stands way above the rest in terms of the scope of potential damage adjusted for the likelihood of occurrence,” making it scarier than a nuclear exchange, he says. EMPs have been in the news lately after it emerged a naturally-occurring one from the Sun came dangerously close to enveloping the Earth a couple of a years ago. More here. 7. Snapchat’s global reach. The picture-messaging app has become the No.1 iPhone app in 13 countries and the No.2 or No.3 in 15 others. Here’s a map, with a No.1 rank shown orange, No.2 in red, and a No.3 in yellow. It hit No.2 in Australia, with this data taken from April 4. 8. Orlando Bloom and Justin Bieber punched on over Miranda Kerr. They really did – there’s video proof of last night’s battle in a restaurant in Ibiza. Bloom thinks Bieber got too close to Miranda when the pair split in 2012. He seemed to retalitate by hanging out with Bieber’s ex Selena Gomez earlier this year. And somehow they crossed paths last night, with Paris Hilton, Diddy, and Lindsay Lohan watching on. Celebgasm ensued. 9. An exciting Commonwealth Games update. Australia’s Athletics head coach was sent home after he spoke publicly about his feud with Sally Pearson. Usian Bolt denied calling the Games “a bit s..t”. An Aussie athletes was charged with assault. And the Poms are on top of the medal table, four medals behind us overall, but two gold in front. Disaster. 10. Go home winter, you’re drunk. Sydney’s expected to reach a top of 25C today, and July hasn’t even finished yet. The last time that happened was back in 1990. If the mercury passes 23C, it will be the warmest three consecutive July days in Sydney since record-keeping began. And the city is guaranteed the record of the most July days over 18C – 24 from 31. Bonus item: A CIO who reads this column told me he reads from the bottom up because he likes to “start with the video of the squirrel on waterskis” and then work back towards the markets. I don’t think we’ve ever featured a squirrel on waterskis. But here’s a bunch of cows chasing a remote control car around a field.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
In the financial markets, relative value is an important measure of value. That is, how cheap or expensive one asset is relative to another. For example, take U.S. Treasury Notes. Treasuries have been surging for around 30 years as reflected by tumbling yields. Some would argue that Treasuries are in a bubble. Many would argue that they're certainly expensive on an absolute basis. But on a relative basis, they're arguably cheap. In his chart of the week, Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd compares them to German bunds. "It is hard to argue that U.S. Treasuries are overvalued with yields around 2.5 percent compared to German 10-year bunds yielding near historic lows just above 1 percent," he wrote. "The spread between Treasuries and German bund yields, at 138 basis points, is rapidly approaching record levels. The last two times the spread was so wide it soon reversed course. Unless bund yields head higher, unlikely given accommodative ECB monetary policy, Treasury yields could fall in the near term." And falling Treasury yields mean higher Treasury prices. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Here's Why Rising Rates Can Be Good For Bond Investors (AllianceBernstein Blog)  Bond investors are antsy about the coming rise in interest rates, but Douglas Peebles at AllianceBernstein points out that rising rates have positive effects too. Peebles offers a scenario where investors "earn a 3% yield at the outset, but the very next day interest rates rise by 1.25% (125 basis points) and remain at that level for the five-year investment horizon." The 3.4% price loss in this scenario is offset by a higher growth path, according to Peebles.  "What’s the source of this higher growth? First, as you reinvest the coupon income that your portfolio pays, you’ll be able to reinvest it at higher yields. Income matters: for investors who use bonds to generate income, rising rates change from a threat to an opportunity. Second, as the bonds in your portfolio mature, their price pulls back to par, and you can reinvest their principal value in newer, higher-yielding bonds," he writes. "...After less than a year, the portfolio’s value is back to its starting point. By the third year, the portfolio has not only caught up to where it would have been had rates never risen, but it’s continuing to grow at this higher rate." "In our view, investors with a multiyear investment horizon can feel fairly confident that all but their longest bond investments will be worth more at the end of their investment horizon than they are today," Peebles writes. "And, if that investment horizon exceeds the duration of their investments, rising interest rates may actually benefit investors’ bonds over time. The challenge is to be patient enough to let time work to your advantage." How Advisors Can Retain Assets Inherited By The Next Generation (Vanguard)  Only 5% of heirs will keep the assets they inherit with the advisor the current generation uses. And that means a lot of advisors risk losing a large part of their assets, according to Vanguard. "While it may feel like a stretch to some, much of the latest research suggests that one of the best ways to achieve this is by the simple yet uncommon act of helping families openly and thoroughly communicate about their wealth and plans for inheritance," they write.  "The Institute for Preparing Heirs found that 70% failed to successfully transfer assets from one generation to the next," for three key reasons. 1.     "Lack of communication among family members." 2. "Inadequate preparation of heirs." 3. "Absence of a cohesive purpose for family wealth." Advisors should  host family meetings with the heirs. "While clearly a win for clients and their families, family meetings can be a win for advisors as well. Being privy to these highly personal conversations affords advisors a much deeper understanding of each heir and the unique opportunity to begin trusted and enduring relationships with a group of prospective clients at once." The Beginning Of Rate Cuts, Not Hikes Precipitated The Last Bear Market For Stocks (Business Insider) "For all the concern recently in the markets about prospects of Fed interest rate hikes and what it would do to the markets, a glance at history provides clues as to what might actually occur," writes John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer.  "From the end of June 2004 though the end of June 2006 the Fed raised its benchmarked rate 17 times in increments of 25 bps until the benchmark rate reached 5.25%. From the end of June 2004 through the end of June 2006 stock advanced with the S&amp;P 500, the S&amp;P 400, and the Russell 2000 rising 11.34%, 25.87%, and 22.51%, respectively… On 9/18/2007 the Fed cut its benchmark rate by 50 bps. From September 18 through the end of December 2007 the S&amp;P 500, the S&amp;P 400, and the Russell 2000 declined -0.38%, -2.63%, and -5.03%, respectively… It wasn't the beginning of rate hikes that precipitated the last bear market for stocks, but rather the beginning of rate cuts." Business Insider/Oppenheimer Advisors Are Most Concerned About Volatility (FA Mag) Market volatility was the biggest concern for advisors in the second quarter, according to survey of 200 advisors by Fidelity Advisor Investment Pulse. 26% said "market volatility, downside risks and avoiding a market meltdown were the primary issues on their radar," according to FA Mag. Meanwhile, 21% said portfolio management and investment allocation were the biggest concern. "We know that many advisors are thinking about a possible market correction, but at the same time they are looking for ways to find growth and generate income for their clients,” Scott E. Couto, president of Fidelity Financial Advisor Solutions told FA Mag. Why Clients Should Use Trust Protectors (The Wall Street Journal)  "Incentive trusts can be very useful tools for clients who are concerned about their heirs' ability to use their inheritance constructively, and want to encourage personal responsibility and accomplishment," writes Greg Young CEO of AmeriServ Trust in a WSJ column. But this can cause some resentment on the part of the beneficiary because it means they have to meet certain conditions, that will be determined by a corporate trustee, before receiving any money. "Because of that reality, I'm a proponent of clients using a so-called "trust protector."  "An arbiter of sorts, the trust protector can step in to help interpret conditions of the trust in the case of any disagreement between the beneficiary and trustee. Although the trust protector may have a closer relationship with the beneficiary, it does not mean that they are solely the beneficiaries' advocate or that their role will put them at odds with the trustee. The roles are meant to work in concert. In many cases the trust protector can help confirm that the decisions being made by the trustee are the right ones and truly in the best interest of the beneficiary." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MoirThe Fed is done basically using the unemployment rate to guide monetary policy. Last December, the Fed ditched its long-held outline that it would keep interest rates near 0% as long as unemployment remained above 6.5%. With that announcement, the Fed, said, "it will likely be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5%." And while the Fed had always said it would consider "additional measures of labor market conditions" in determining interest rates, its language change in December indicated that no specific number would "trigger" an interest rate hike.   And as the unemployment rate has fallen to 6.1% and interest rates remain unchanged, the Fed has continued to emphasize this stance.  Following today's policy announcement, and ahead of Friday's July jobs report, Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi spelled out what he sees as the Fed's thinking on this issue more fully. Rupkey: "Meanwhile, the unemployment rate, the single best indicator of the labor markets, has been further demoted as a policy guide. Looks like Yellen pulling a fast one here, delaying the exit Bernanke-style. Last meeting they said labor market indicators generally showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, though lower, remains elevated. This meeting labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." In today's policy statement, the Fed said, "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." In short, despite last month's jobs report that showed the economy added 288,000 nonfarm payrolls June as the unemployment rate fell to 6.1%, its lowest level since September 2008, the Fed isn't convinced the labor market is all that healthy.  FRED However, the labor force participation rate remains elevated, wage growth isn't outpacing inflation, and there are still 7.5 million involuntary part-time workers.  FRED The BLS is set to release the June jobs report Friday morning, but it will take more than good headline numbers to impress the Fed.  FREE AppDownload
Baz Ratner/ReutersZiv Aviram, Mobileye's co-founder and chief executive, gestures during a news conference in Jerusalem on October 24, 2012. The conflict between Israel and Hamas has sent shockwaves through the Middle East and the broader world, but the hostilities have left one aspect of life in Israel curiously untouched: the Israeli tech sector. The four weeks since Hamas members kidnapped and murdered three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank — a period which has included the war in Gaza, major protests in the West Bank, and occasional rocket fire from southern Lebanon — have been historically fruitful for Israeli tech. As Bloomberg News noted, investors pumped nearly $600 million into Israeli tech companies between June 12 and July 24, more than twice the amount as during the preceding six-week period. This week also marks the largest-ever American initial public offering by an Israeli company. Mobileye, a Jerusalem-based company that makes camera and navigational systems for cars, is expected to raise over $600 million in an IPO this week. And the company's future seems bright, considering that noted serial entrepreneur Elon Musk is planning on using some of its products in a proposed model of driverless car. Mobileye isn't the only Israeli company going public in the U.S. this week. Three Israel-based biotechnology firms are also having their IPOs, and two of them have a projected market capitalization of over $250 million each. The Gaza hostilities have had an impact on various sectors of the Israeli economy. Most notably, funders for the Leviathan natural gas project off of the Israeli coast have indicated the conflict will delay an over $6 billion investment in what is expected to become one of Israel's major industries. Over 1,000 factories and farms have lost productivity or stockpiles of perishable goods since the conflict began, with industrial losses alone calculated at around $200 million. The tech sector has thrived over the past month, even though it hasn't been totally immune to the effects of the regional turmoil. As Hillel Fuld, the CMO of the Jerusalem-based company Zula, explained to Business Insider, military call-ups have depleted the ranks of certain companies. He said he knows of one small startup in which nearly the entire staff was mobilized for army service. But the tech sector is adjusting.  "People are taking their laptops and white boards up into the bomb shelters," Fuld said. With the tech sector adapting to depleted personnel and sometimes-interrupted workdays, potential investors aren't scared off. Fuld said that this week alone, he introduced four companies to potential foreign investors.  "It was a non-issue," Fuld said of the fighting in Gaza. "It was completely not brought up in the conversation." The Israeli tech sector's adaptivity comes partly out of necessity: this is the fourth major military confrontation Israel has been involved in since 2006. During those years, the sector has managed to grow in spite of Israel's often-fragile security environment and in spite of instability in the broader Middle East. "We have this amazing ability to just mold ourselves to the situation, to deal with what's at hand," says Natasha Shine-Zirkel, CMO for the Tel Aviv-based company Rounds. That hasn't always been easy during this latest conflict: Shine-Zirkel says her company's CEO was stuck in South Korea when planes briefly stopped flying to Ben Gurion airport in Tel Aviv last week, after a rocket fired from Gaza landed near the airport perimeter. Overall, though, the tech sector is generally equipped to function even in times of heightened security risk. "We have to continue as normally as we can," Shine-Zirkel said. "What's going on [in Gaza] doesn't mean we don't have responsibilities to our employees or our investors or our consumers." There's another, more tangible reason for the sector's durability. The Israeli tech sector is no longer sustained through short-term investments, and it has largely moved past its more startup-minded phase. This week's acquisitions and IPOs are the result of a kind of natural growth process: investors are more confident in a sector that's had time to mature and entrench itself.  "Three years ago the question was, what's your exit strategy," Fuld said of the earlier wave of tech investors in Israel. "Now, it's about building billion dollar companies." The past month has apparently done nothing to change this — even though it has included some of the most intense violence between Israelis and Palestinians in recent years. On Wednesday, the U.S. issued a rare condemnation of Israel for its military's shelling of a UN school; hours later, it was reported that three Israeli soldiers were killed by a Hamas booby trap installed in a UN health clinic. Investors aren't concerned. Mobileye is expected to be the third-largest IPO on Wall Street this week. Israel's political or security reality may one day reach the point where outside money is scared off, or where the tech sector can no longer function normally. But that scenario seems very far off, even four weeks into a major round of Israeli-Palestinian violence. FREE AppDownload
EstimizeThere’s no stock on the market that sparks more debate than Tesla Motors (TSLA). Naysayers have been bashing Tesla for years calling it a bubbly cult stock. Cheerleaders on the other side have been praising the infallibility of wunderkind Elon Musk. Plenty of money has been made and lost by traders betting on both sides of the coin. If you need any proof just take a quick look at the volatile history of Tesla’s stock price.   Shares of Tesla have bounced around quite a bit, and owning the stock is not for the faint of heart. The graph above from ChartIQ Visual Earnings shows the behavior of Tesla stock over the previous 5 quarters. Quarterly earnings report dates marked by the vertical dotted line are clear catalysts for price direction. Shares of Tesla have jumped higher in all 3 of the past 5 quarters when the company beat the earnings consensus from Estimize.com. The stock price went in reverse the times when Tesla missed. EstimizeLast quarter Tesla beat the Wall Street consensus, but came up short against the consensus from Estimize. When a company misses the Estimize consensus more often than not the stock price declines over the next 3 days, regardless of how the company performs relative to the Wall Street consensus. In early May shares of Tesla fell 10% overnight when not-strong-enough FQ1 2014 earnings were announced. Although Tesla had a bit of a slip up last quarter, things have more or less been moving along according to plan. Tesla is still a relatively young company, and is producing vehicles that generate hype never enjoyed before by electric cars. So far Elon Musk’s strategy of starting with a luxury car (Model S) first, then expanding to more affordable, practical vehicles seems to be progressing without much of a hitch. EstimizeA few quarters back Tesla found excessive demand for the Model S, but couldn’t keep up with the supply constraint of producing enough lithium-ion batteries. Being the real life Iron Man that he is, Elon Musk wouldn’t let a battery constraint halt his dream of getting the world off fossil fuel dependence. In February Tesla announced it would be building a $5 billion “Gigafactory” to produce the much coveted batteries. A report Monday in the Nikkei Asian Review suggests that Tesla may have come to an investment agreement with Panasonic. It’s rumored that Panasonic will be making an initial investment between $200 million and $300 million dollars to help get construction of the facility underway. Tesla has pushed dates back a few times, but has committed to delivering the Model X crossover in the second quarter of 2015, and the planned $35,000 Model 3 sometime in 2017. As for now, Tesla is continuing to sell only one car, the Model S. Here’s what contributing analysts on Estimize.com are expecting from Tesla’s FQ2 2014 earnings report on Thursday, July 31st after the market closes. EstimizeThis quarter 86 contributing analysts on Estimize.com have come to a consensus estimate of 12c in earnings per share and $797.51 million in revenue. Meanwhile Wall Street is looking for 4c EPS and $801.82 million in revenue. The Estimize community is looking for Tesla to beat the Wall Street consensus on EPS by a hefty margin while coming up about $4 million (&lt;1%) shy on revenue. EstimizeEstimize is a completely open and free platform for anyone to contribute. The base of contributing analysts on the platform includes hedge fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, non professional investors, and students. The goal of the platform is to create the earnings consensus which best represents the market’s true expectations. Providing an earnings consensus that represents the market’s real expectations is one area where Wall Street fails miserably. Wall Street is notorious for setting the bar too low because of the perverse incentives which come from investment banking and corporate access pressures. On average 70% of companies reporting earnings beat the Street’s forecast. If Wall Street was honest with its expectations, that number would be much closer to 50%. Some contributing analysts use full earnings models in Excel to come up with their estimates. Others make estimates based on a hunch, or because they see long lines at Chipotle during their lunch break. At the end of the day it doesn’t really matter how analysts come to their estimates. A combination of algorithms ensures that the data is not only clean and free from people attempting to game the system, but also weighs past performance and many other factors to gauge future accuracy. EstimizeAs mentioned previously, the stock price movement in Tesla is highly correlated with how the company reports earnings relative to the Estimize consensus. This quarter contributing analysts on the platform are willing to cut Tesla some slack on sales, but are expecting an EPS number that is significantly higher than Wall Street is looking for. As mentioned previously, this same situation occurred last quarter and the share price of Tesla fell as the company failed to meet the real earnings consensus from investors. On Thursday investors are looking for earnings of 12 cents per share. EstimizeHead over to Estimize.com/calendar to follow the most comprehensive earnings season calendar on the web featuring consensus estimates from Wall Street and the Estimize community. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozArgentina has defaulted. Argentine Finance Minister Axel Kicillof delivered the news to the world from Argentina's consulate in New York City on Wednesday. Kicillof had just finished a meeting in which he and a delegation from The Republic failed to satisfy the demands of a group of hedge fund creditors negotiating over $1.3 billion worth of debt owed to them for over a decade. "The Argentine Republic has filed for a stay [on payment] with Judge Griesa ... The Judge decided that if the vulture funds said there could be a stay, there would be a stay," Kicillof said. "The vulture funds were not willing to grant the stay." Without the stay and without payment, Argentina is in default. "Notwithstanding any claim to the contrary, default is not a mere 'technical' condition, but rather a real and painful event that will hurt real people: These include all ordinary Argentine citizens, the exchange bondholders (who will not receive their interest ) and the holdouts ( who will not receive payment of the judgments they obtained in Court)," said Daniel Pollack, the Court's appointed mediator. Pollack also said he would continue to make himself available for more discussions. In Argentina's defense, Kicillof repeated the same argument that the administration had been making for months — that paying the "vultures" would be a violation of Argentine law. That's because there is a clause in The Republic's bond agreements called the RUFO — Rights Upon Future Offering — clause. It expires in 2015. According to RUFO, if Argentina negotiates better terms with some bondholders, all bondholders have a claim on those terms. That would open the country to up to $15 billion worth of payments. Earlier this month, the Court didn't buy that, and it refused Argentina's request for a stay on payment until negotiations could be worked out (ideally with a payment to NML due in 2015). Screenshot, TNArgentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof."This was a situation of extortion," Kicillof said. "We will not just sign anything that could lead to more external debt for Argentina ... We will avoid it with all of our weapons." The "vulture funds" are investors known collectively as NML Capital and led by hedge fund billionaire Paul Singer. They would not take haircuts on debt dating back to Argentina's default in 2001 as with over 90% of their fellow bondholders. To Argentina, that refusal made them vultures, and you don't pay vultures. Instead you sue them all the way up to the Supreme Court — and lose. What's off about all this is that the $15 billion from RUFO is chump change compared with what the country might have to pay if it goes into default. Default opens the country up to "acceleration clause" claims — in which bondholders sue for all their money at once, and immediately — worth $29 billion. That's everything in Argentina's Central Bank. Earlier Wednesday, Argentine bankers put together a last-ditch rescue package. They offered to put down $250 million as collateral — a show of good faith that the country was willing to pay (and avoid triggering RUFO) in 2015. Another option would have been for banks to buy NML's debt, and then request a stay on payment themselves. But for any of that to happen there would have had to be a stay on payment, and hedge funds would not allow that to happen. Indeed, even before Kicillof said a word, Standard &amp; Poor's cut the country's rating to "selective default" — meaning Argentina chose to renege on some of its payments. "We are ... lowering our long-and short-term foreign currency sovereign credit ratings on Argentina to selective default ('SD') from 'CCC-/C,'" the agency's release said, "indicating that Argentina defaulted on some of its foreign currency obligations. At the same time, we are removing the 'CCC-/C' foreign currency ratings from CreditWatch, where they were placed with negative implications on July 1, 2014." In his address, Kicillof said that he would not be surprised if NML held sway over rating agencies and would try to use its power to make things very uncomfortable for Argentina. But so be it. He said that the country would continue on doing what it's been doing — trying to pay "exchange bondholders" (the 92% of bondholders who did restructure their debt) without paying the "vultures." That flies directly in the face of the Supreme Court, which upheld a lower Court's ruling in favor of NML. New York Judge Thomas Griesa ruled that Argentina could not favor some bondholders over others according to a clause in Argentina's called pari passu. In Latin, it means "equal step." When Argentina tried to pay exchange bondholders earlier this month, Griesa sent that money right back to The Republic. And there it sits in a Bank of New York Mellon custodial account. "First we're not going to sign any agreement that hurts Argentina's future," Kicillof said. "Second, we're going to defend the 92% of bondholders that did restructure ... In third place, we're going to take every measure ... we have to make sure this situation is not perpetuated. Argentina is ready to talk, to come to an agreement. Let's come to a just, fair ... ruling for 100% of our investors. But do not make us do anything illegal ... Do not make us do anything unjust ... Do not make us do anything that will make us put Argentina's economy at risk ... We won't allow it." The full statement from Pollack is below. This morning and this afternoon, representatives of the Republic of Argentina, led by Minister of the Economy, Axel Kicillof, and representatives of its large bondholders held further face-to-face meetings in my office and in my presence. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in Default. Today, July 30, was the last day of the grace period for the Republic of Argentina to pay many hundreds of millions of dollars of interest to its "exchange" bondholders, i.e. those who took bonds in 2005 and 2010 in exchange for the bonds they held following the Default of 2001. In order to make that payment of interest, however, the Republic of Argentina was also required, simultaneously, to make a "ratable" payment to the bondholders who declined to accept the exchanges of 2005 and 2010, i.e. the "holdouts." The Republic of Argentina did not meet those conditions and, as a result, will be in Default. Notwithstanding any claim to the contrary, Default is not a mere "technical" condition, but rather a real and painful event that will hurt real people: these include all ordinary Argentine citizens, the exchange bondholders (who will not receive their interest ) and the holdouts ( who will not receive payment of the judgments they obtained in Court). The full consequences of Default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive. This case has been highly publicized and highly politicized for many weeks. What has been perfectly clear to me all along, however, in my capacity as the neutral Special Master, is that the laws of the United States must be obeyed by all parties. The courts of the United States (both the United States District Court and the United States Court of Appeals), after full briefings and hearings, ruled that the Republic of Argentina could not lawfully make the interest payments to the exchange bondholders unless it simultaneously made the payments due the holdouts. I have worked relentlessly, over a five-week period, to bring the Republic of Argentina and its bondholders together in an agreement that would allow the June 30 interest payment of many hundreds of millions of dollars to be made, and to be made lawfully, thereby avoiding Default. It is not my role or intent to find fault with either side. I will continue to be available to the parties to aid them in reaching a resolution which they must reach in the interests of all concerned. Default cannot be allowed to lapse into a permanent condition or the Republic of Argentina and the bondholders, both exchange and holdouts, will suffer increasingly grievous harm, and the ordinary Argentine citizen will be the real and ultimate victim. FREE AppDownload
Kim Kyung Hoon/ReutersShares of Yum! Brands were down more than 6% after hours after the company disclosed that authorities in China launched an investigation into its relations with a supplier following media reports.  In a filing with the SEC, Yum! said that a report aired on TV in China depicting improper food handling practices by supplier Shanghai Husi, a division of OSI, which lead to a Shanghai FDA investigation, which alleged illegal activity, and the company terminating its relationship with OSI.  The company said that at this point, it is too early to know how quickly sales in China will rebound, and what the full-year financial impact will be to the company.  Yum! said that if the sales impact is significant, it would have a "material effect" on its full-year earnings.  Earlier this month, Yum! reported earnings and revenue that were in-line with expectations. The company's comparable-store sales in China also beat expectations, rising 15% against estimates for an 11.4% increase.  With its earnings release, the company also said it was "well on its way" to delivering 20% full-year earnings per share growth.  This disclosure from Yum! also comes after McDonald's pulled products from its stores in China that were also supplied by Shanghai Husi.   FREE AppDownload
AP/Danny JohnstonShares of Whole Foods are tumbling after the company reported same-store sales that missed expectations.  The organic grocer report same-store sales grew 3.9% in the quarter, less than the 4.8% that was expected by analysts.  The company also cut its fiscal 2014 same-store sales outlook, saying it sees sales growing 4.1%-4.4%, down from a prior view of 5%-5.5%. Overall sales are now expected to grow 9.6%-9.9%, down from previous expectations for 10.5%-11% sales growth.  Whole Foods' bottom lines results, however, beat estimates with earnings per share coming in at $0.41, topping than the $0.39 that was expected. Revenue totaled $3.4 billion, which was in-line with expectations. Whole Foods also announced a new $1 billion share repurchase plan, which will run through August 1, 2016.  Shares of Whole Foods were down as much as 8% after the report. This marks the second straight quarter that Whole Foods shares have slumped after the company's earnings report, which the stock falling more than 12% after its quarterly report in May.  Excluding Wednesday's after hours decline, Whole Foods was the second-worst performing stock in the S&amp;P 500 this year, falling 34% year-to-date with only Coach shares suffering a larger percentage decline at 37%. More to come ... FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo SantosMarkets were mixed as GDP data came in better than expected, the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy decision had no surprises, and the situations in Gaza and Ukraine remained unsettled. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The Bureau of Economic Analysis released its initial estimate for second quarter GDP, which showed that the economy expanded 4% on an annualized basis during the quarter. First quarter GDP was also revised up to contracting 2.1%, better than the 2.9% contraction that the last reading indicated. Following the report, Chris Rupkey, chief economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ said, "Apart from the inventories issue, is it a real 4% or is it a mirage? The consumer is back... Things can’t go too far wrong if the consumer is out shopping. It was a cold winter and heating and housing expenditures added 0.7 to growth in the first quarter and now subtracted 0.4 in the second quarter... Car sales added 0.4 to the 4.0% GDP and should have with car sales shooting higher to a 16.9 million normal annual rate of sales in June. If the Fed had car sales on the dashboard they would raise rates right now." 2. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee released its latest monetary policy decision, with the FOMC taking another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases and keeping interest rates between 0%-0.25%. The FOMC's announcement, which was not accompanied by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen, showed that the Committee believes, "a range of labor market indicator suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." Following the Fed's announcement, Steven Englander at Citi said, the Fed is, for the first time, giving strong indications that it's moving towards hitting both its labor and inflation targets.  3. While the headline GDP number far outpaced the 3% that was expected by Wall Street economists, two concerns were lurking below the surface. Primarily, as BI's Rob Wile noted, a large build in inventories added 1.66% to Q2 GDP. Inventories are typically one of the most volatile components of GDP, and the BEA itself noted that buildups in inventories can signal future cutbacks in production, while inventory shortages could signal future production increases. The GDP report also contained a number of revisions to past reports, notably a reduction in GDP for the period spanning 2011-2013 to 2% growth from 2.2%.  4. Also in economic news, ADP's private payroll report for July showed that U.S. companies added 218,000 jobs in July, fewer than the 230,000 expected by economists and down from 281,000 in June. "The July employment gain was softer than June, but remains consistent with a steadily improving job market," said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi.  5. Shares of SodaStream surged 10% after the company, which makes at-home soda brewing units, reported second quarter earnings and revenue that were better than expected. SodaSteam, however, said it was lowering its U.S. soda maker sales projections for the second half of the year.  6. Former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan was in the news today after saying in an interview on Bloomberg TV that a "significant" stock market correction has to come. Greenspan also said that the economy is "running out of buffer," saying that should a major geopolitical conflict spring up, our economy doesn't have the resources to find new potential funding, specifically for the defense sector.  7. Today marks the deadline for Argentina to either pay its lenders, which include hedge fund manager Paul Singer, or face defaulting on its debt. As of the market close in New York, the situation remained unresolved.  Don't Miss: Goldman Sachs Predicts The Slow Decline Of Wal-Mart And Target » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo WhitakerRussia's President Vladimir Putin (L) shakes hands with China's President Xi JinpingOn Tuesday, President Obama announced additional, "major" sanctions against Russia due to the country's continued involvement with Ukraine and their support of pro-Russian separatist groups. The sanctions target Russia's energy, arms, and finance sectors. This is on top of existing sanctions against a series of large banks and energy firms including Rosneft, the world's largest oil company, and Gazprombank, Russia's largest private bank.  Sanctions are intended to hurt the economy of the targeted country, with the hope that businesses and workers pressure policymakers to alter their behaviour in order to restore the economic status quo. However, sanctions often come with unintended consequences. "We see a significant risk of a more fundamental shift in Russian economic policy, away from the market and global institutions in response to more serious sanctions connected to the situation in Ukraine and toward a greater focus on developing domestic markets and links with non-Western economies, particularly China," said Morgan Stanley analysts Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk. Nell and Slyusarchuk note that the recent decision by the Hague, which is calling Russia to award the shareholders of defunct oil company Yukos $50 billion, only adds to the geopolitical rifts. "The Yukos award could well strengthen Russian sentiment to further isolate itself from the West," they said Sanctions have a long history of not working. A study by Gary Hufbauer, Jeffrey Schott, and Kimberly Ann Elliot (HSE) found that only 34% of sanctions that they reviewed between 1914 and 1990 were effective. Additionally, back in March, Morgan Stanley's Russia economics and strategy team wrote that, "Typically, sanctions have been applied against much smaller countries, such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and North Korea, with significantly fewer resources" than Russia, which is a "large country, with extensive resources". Will it be different this time? FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsHedge fund managers often like to opine on various topics that are largely unrelated to investing. In his latest lengthy quarterly letter to clients, Paul Singer of Elliott Management spent some time discussing a phenomenon that caught our attention and the attention of many others. It's the danger posed by an electromagnetic pulse.  Singer writes that an electromagnetic pulse is the "risk that stands way above the rest in terms of the scope of potential damage adjusted for the likelihood of occurrence." According to Singer, threats that are more manageable than an electromagnetic pulse include nuclear war and asteroids. From Singer's letter: The risks associated with electromagnetic pulse, or EMP, represent another story entirely. It can occur naturally, from solar storms that send 'coronal mass ejections,' which are massive energetic bursts of solar wind, tens of millions of miles in a mere few hours. Or it can be artificial, produced by a high-altitude (at least 15 miles) explosion of relatively low-yield (even Hiroshima-strength) nuclear weapons. Singer references an 1859 solar disturbance, known as the "Carrington Event," that disrupted the telegraph network, and says that just two years ago, "the sun let loose with a Carrington-magnitude burst, but the position of the earth at the time prevented the burst from hitting it. The chances of additional events of such magnitude may be far greater than most people think." Singer says an artificial EMP attack would have consequences more severe than a solar storm but notes that there is no way to stop a naturally occurring EMP. These two ways for an EMP to disrupt the electrical grid make the dangers of such an event "very real." Singer concludes by writing:  What can be done about this risk? Critical elements of the power grid and essential electronic devices can be hardened. Spare parts can be stockpiled for other, less critical hardware. Procedures can be developed as part of emergency preparedness so that the relevant government agencies and emergency response NGOs are ready to respond quickly and effectively to an episode large or small. Why are we writing about EMP? Because in any analysis of societal risk, EMP stands all by itself. In introducing his concern over EMPs, Singer notes that his letters "are typically overflowing with scary or depressing scenarios." While there is certainly a tinfoil-hat-wearing conspiratorial bent lurking within Singer's discussion, his concerns should not be overlooked. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA man looks at a contaminated river in Cangnan county of Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, July 24, 2014.If you woke up tomorrow and suddenly discovered your local river had turned blood red and that an awful, caustic smell had permeated your air, you would be alarmed, right? For residents of Wenzhou, China, and millions like them in China's rapidly industrializing and growing cities and towns, it's par for the course.  Officials in Wenzhou are still trying to find the cause of the water and air pollution, but Yixiu Wu, who tracks water-pollution issues for Greenpeace, told Voice of America, “I think the water-pollution problem, it’s no longer a remote problem, only in the countryside," he said. "It’s affecting everyone. Even people in the cities.” The following photos show instances of water pollution around China dating from 2006 to the present.
Getty ImagesArgentina was in a race against time on Wednesday to cut a deal by the end of the day with holdout investors who are suing it and to avert its second debt default in a little over a decade. It was the latest crisis in Latin America's No. 3 economy, which has suffered a series of economic and political meltdowns going back to the 1930s. In the early 20th century, the South American country was one of the world's richest, thanks to its production of beef, wheat and other farm goods, plus an educated workforce made up mostly of European immigrants and their descendants. But the constant crises, often attributable to government mismanagement and fluctuating commodities prices, have plunged millions into poverty and put the country off-limits to all but the most daring investors today. Here are some of Argentina's crises through history: The Great Depression hit Argentina especially hard, as demand in Europe and United States for its farm exports suddenly dried up. As customs revenues plunged, the government had trouble paying public workers, causing unrest to grow. Fed up with the crisis, the military staged a coup in 1930 against democratically elected President Hipolito Yrigoyen, setting a precedent for throwing out governments in times of economic trouble. For the remainder of the 20th century, more generals (14) than civilians (11) would run the country. President Juan Peron, a populist who drew his support from Argentina's poor and working class, oversaw a period of relative prosperity following World War Two. Factory workers received paid vacations and unions gained unprecedented power as the economy grew at an annual pace of nearly 6 percent. However, by the early 1950s, the good times came to an end as commodity prices fell once again. Peron's nationalizations of British-owned railroads and other property antagonized business leaders and caused investment to dry up. Inflation soared to 40 percent, and real wages plunged. The death in 1952 of Peron's wildly popular first lady, Eva, known as "Evita," weakened him further. Three years later, as labor strikes paralyzed the country, Argentina's military intervened again and sent Peron into exile. Argentina's economy failed to stabilize under a succession of military and democratic governments that implemented wildly different policies. Between 1930 and 1983, presidents averaged only two years in office, while the lead minister for economic affairs was replaced at a pace of once a year. By the 1970s, many Argentines with warm memories of postwar prosperity were clamoring for the military to allow Peron to return home. The generals relented, and Peron assumed the presidency once again. But he was unable to heal either the economy or the increasingly violent fissures in Argentine society, and Peron died of heart failure just a year later. Various armed factions struggled for control under Peron's successor: his third wife, a former nightclub dancer he had met in Panama. In early 1976, as annual inflation surpassed 600 percent, the generals staged yet another coup. Ensuing years would see rising inequality and an explosion in Argentina's foreign debt, as well as the deaths of up to 30,000 suspected leftists as the military tried to snuff out dissent in the so-called "Dirty War." In 1982, the military launched an invasion of the Falkland Islands, a British colony claimed by Argentina and called the Malvinas by the South American country. Britain retaliated, and Argentina lost the ensuing brief, but bitter war. Many believed the military was using the conflict to distract from economic woes fueling political discontent. Democracy returned to Argentina in 1983 - this time to stay. With the armed forces disgraced by widespread human rights abuses, the loss of the Falklands War and poor economic management, a vast majority of Argentines deemed the armed forces unfit for power, an opinion that still prevails today. However, that did not mean stability. Under President Raul Alfonsin, public payrolls swelled while government revenues remained stagnant. In 1989, only 30,000 out of 30 million Argentines paid any income taxes. That year, inflation reached an unprecedented 5,000 percent, rising so fast that some supermarkets read prices out over intercoms rather than bothering to update price tags. As strikes swept the country and rioters looted supermarkets for food, Alfonsin decided to hand over power five months early to his elected successor, Carlos Menem. Menem spent the 1990s cultivating foreign investment, slashing import tariffs, and privatizing money-losing state enterprises. Inflation fell to single digits, and Argentina was for a time hailed as a poster child for free-market reforms by the International Monetary Fund and others. By the time Menem left office in 1999, however, rampant corruption was scaring off many investors. Contagion from financial crises in East Asia and Russia caused capital to rush out of Argentina almost as quickly as it had come in. The currency peg that Menem used to tame inflation became untenable as the government, unable to print money, borrowed it instead. In 2001, unemployment soared beyond 20 percent, and reports surfaced of widespread hunger and malnutrition in a country that had long prided itself as being one of the world's breadbaskets. When another wave of riots and looting reached the capital, Menem's successor, Fernando de la Rua, resigned. It was a period that would see five presidents in just two weeks. Before the crisis ended, the economy had shrunk by a fifth and thousands of young, educated Argentines had emigrated to their grandparents' ancestral homes in Europe. The government also stopped payment on more than $100 billion in debt, the world's biggest-ever sovereign default. Since the default, Argentina has remained cut off from foreign capital markets and is considered a pariah by most investors. But the economy has also defied doomsday predictions by Wall Street analysts and others, and has by some measures experienced its best run of growth since the 1940s. Most economists credit high prices for Argentina's soy and other commodities, due largely to demand from China. However, the economy is now paying the price for President Cristina Fernandez's populist and interventionist policies, economists say, and is set to contract for the first time on an annual basis since 2002. High government spending on social welfare programs, printing of new money and an ailing currency have fueled one of the world's highest inflation rates. In January, the government was forced to devalue the peso. If Argentina defaults once again, economists forecast an outflow of dollars that will pile more pressure on dwindling central bank reserves if it cannot extricate itself from the mess swiftly. So far, no one expects a recession anywhere near as deep as in 2002. Other hallmarks of past Argentine crises, such as social unrest and a fortified political opposition, remain absent. SOURCES: A Brief History of Argentina, by Jonathan C. Brown; Argentina, 1516-1987, by David Rock; and Reuters research FREE AppDownload
Motor AuthorityFerrari seems to have a monopoly on the world's most expensive cars. A 1963 Ferrari 250 GTO took that title last year with a $52 million sticker price. Yet it could be on the verge of being usurped... by another 250 GTO. A seller in Germany recently placed an ad on the website Mobile for a 1962 250 GTO, with an asking price of 47.6 million euros, or about $62.7 million at current exchange rates. That includes Germany's 19 percent Value Added Tax, but if someone bites it would still make this GTO the most expensive car ever sold. This particular example is one of the first of the 39 250 GTOs to have left Ferrari's factory. Each of the hand-built cars is a little bit different, perhaps creating a sense of uniqueness that could explain the recent frenzy of multimillion 250 GTO dollar sales. Before the 1963 250 GTO was sold to its mystery buyer last year for $52 million, another GTO sold for $35 million. It took the title from yet another GTO, which sold for $28.7 million in 2008. The 250 GTO isn't the only vintage Ferrari model commanding sky-high prices. A 1954 375-Plus crossed the block at $18.3 million at the Bonhams auction held at the 2014 Goodwood Festival of Speed, and a 1965 275 GTB/C Speciale could sell for at least $34 million at the RM Auctions event in Monterey, California, this August. FREE AppDownload
David McNew/Getty ImagesWith just two days left before lawmakers leave Washington, D.C. for a five-week-long recess, the House and Senate still have not agreed on how to keep funding federal highway and construction spending. As of now, the Senate and House have dueling legislative proposals to keep afloat the Highway Trust Fund, which provides federal money for transportation infrastructure projects.  The Senate offered the latest volley on Tuesday, passing a bill to extend highway and construction funding through December. House members passed their own Highway Trust Fund bill last week that would keep the money flowing until May of next year. But in addition to the different timetables, the two bills propose different methods for financing the fund and House leaders vowed to reject the Senate bill hours before it even officially passed.  The Obama administration has warned that federal transportation funding to states would slow by as much as 28% beginning Aug. 1, because the federal Highway Trust Fund is expecting a shortfall sometime next month absent congressional action. The fund finances tens of thousands of construction projects around the nation, and the administration has warned as many as 700,000 jobs are at risk. Despite the disagreements in Congress, a highway bill is still expected to get to President Barack Obama's desk by the time Congress skips town — but the competing legislation in the two bodies has increased the uncertainty ahead of what some lawmakers have dubbed a potential "construction shutdown." The sponsors of one of the Senate amendments that altered the House's bill — Sens. Tom Carper (D-Delaware), Barbara Boxer (D-California), and Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) — said they wanted to force Congress to agree on a long-term solution to shore up the Highway Trust Fund sooner rather than later. "With a December deadline, Congress has more than enough time to consider the variety of solutions available to us. I am confident this Congress can get it done and I will continue to fight to make sure we do," Carper said in a statement Wednesday night. The Senate also adopted an amendment from Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Oregon) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) that changes the way the highway-funding extension is paid for. The senators said they would instead raise revenue by tightening compliance language in the tax code, making it more difficult for individuals and corporations to claim undeserved tax deductions. Some Democratic lawmakers and groups have derided the House's method for funding the bill, an offset which is known as "pension smoothing." It permits employers to delay contributions to employee pension plans, thereby increasing taxable corporate income and generating revenue for the Treasury. However, Democrats and conservative groups have called it a "gimmick." From here, the House has a few options. Most likely, judging from House Speaker John Boehner's comments to reporters on Tuesday, they will simply strip out the Senate's amendments and send the bill back to the Senate.  "As Boehner said at stakeout this morning, I expect we’ll put our pay-fors back in and send it back," a House GOP leadership aide told Business Insider. Boehner's office released a report on Wednesday showing perhaps a fatal flaw in the Senate legislation. According to Transportation Weekly, the Congressional Budget Office told Capitol Hill sources on Tuesday that the Senate bill falls about $2 billion short of fully offsetting the new spending. "The Senate-passed highway bill contains a critical error, and is not fully offset through December 19.  The only responsible course is for the Senate to pass the original House-passed highway bill, which we will soon send back to them," Boehner spokesman Michael Steel said in a statement. With their tickets out of town already punched, analysts believe the Senate will likely blink by Thursday. "This spells a game of chicken with the potential for a summer construction shutdown affecting approximately 100,000 road construction projects around the country and the approximately 700,000 jobs associated with them," Guggenheim Securities analyst Chris Krueger said in a note to clients Wednesday. But he added, "We do not believe that the Congress will leave for their 5-week August vacation (with 97 days before the midterm elections) without resolving this issue. ... The odds for a partial construction shutdown are below 20%." This post was updated at 2:20 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceStocks are marginally higher in late afternoon trading. The Dow is up 15 points (0.0%). The S&amp;P 500 is up 5.9 points (+0.3%). The Nasdaq is up 27 points (+0.6%). Moments ago, the Federal Reserve wrapped up its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. And as expected, it stayed the course, tapering its monthly asset purchase program by another $10 billion. "Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further," they said. "However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." In other words, there's some slack in the labor markets. "The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat," they added. In other words, it looks like inflation pressures are mounting. Earlier today, we learned GDP grew at a 4.0% pace in Q2, reported the BEA. This was much stronger than the 3.0% expected by economists. With the GDP report, we learned that personal consumption jumped 2.5%, beating expectations for a 1.9% gain. Making things even better, Q1 GDP growth was revised up to -2.1% from -2.9%, and personal consumption was revised up to+1.2% from +1.0%. The Dow was up by as much as 71 points in early trading following the GDP report. Twitter is holding up the tech sector, surging 20% after its strong Q2 financial report on Tuesday afternoon. The company's Q2 financial results beat expectations across the board. Revenue surged to $312 million, beating expectations for $283.9 million. Monthly active users jumped to 271 million, beating expectations for 267 million. And amid all this, the company squeezed out an adjusted profit of $0.02 per share. Analysts were looking for a $0.01 loss. In other news, ADP reported that U.S. companies added just 218,000 new private jobs in July, missing expectations for a gain of 230,000. "The July employment gain was softer than June, but remains consistent with a steadily improving job market," said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi. "At the current pace of job growth unemployment will quickly decline. Layoffs are still receding and hiring and job openings are picking up. If current trends continue, the economy will return to full employment by late 2016.” The BLS's official July jobs report comes out at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday. Economists are looking for 231,000 new nonfarm payrolls driven by 230,000 private payrolls. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorThe taper continues. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee just announced its latest monetary policy decision, and there were no surprises.  The FOMC said it would take another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases and keep interest rates between 0%-0.25%. The Fed began paring its rate of monthly asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, last December.  In the minutes from its June FOMC meeting, the Fed indicated that it would conclude QE with its October meeting.  In Wednesday's statement, the Fed said, "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." On the inflation front, the Fed said it, "judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat." The lone FOMC member voting against the decision was Charles Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, who, "objected to the guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for 'a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends,' because such language is time dependent and does not reflect the considerable economic progress that has been made toward the Committee's goals." Wednesday's FOMC announcement, which is not accompanied by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen, comes on the heels of a better than expected GDP report this morning.  Here's the full statement from the Fed: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that growth in economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in August, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress — both realized and expected — toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Richard W. Fisher; Narayana Kocherlakota; Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against was Charles I. Plosser who objected to the guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for "a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends," because such language is time dependent and does not reflect the considerable economic progress that has been made toward the Committee's goals. FREE AppDownload
Airbus GroupSkymark Airbus A380 takes off for its maiden flight on April 8, 2014Airbus Group announced this week that it has cancelled an $1.7-billion order for six of its A380 superjumbos slated for Japanese low-cost carrier Skymark Airlines. According to Bloomberg, the order fell apart due to concerns over the 18-year old airline's ability to actually afford the double-decker jet.  The latest cancellation is a significant setback for Airbus on multiple fronts as the company struggles to gain a footing in the Boeing-dominated Japanese market. For decades American-built airliners have monopolized Japanese aviation. Due to heavy investment in local firms, companies like Boeing have built great loyalty among Japanese carriers. However, Airbus has recently made some headway in Japan. All Nippon Airlines placed a $3.3 billion order for 30 A320/321 narrowbody jets this March. JAL placed a landmark $9.5-billion order for 31 A350XWB airliners last October.  When first announced in 2011, the Airbus-Skymark partnership represented a golden opportunity for the manufacturer to forge a strong relationship with a growing Japanese airline. However, the regional carrier — whose previous claim to fame involved a controversy over the length of its flight attendant's skirts — hasn't been profitable enough to support aircraft as large as the A380 on its domestic routes, although it does fly Airbus's 271-seat A330-300 widebody jet. Western airlines generally use their big planes for long-haul or intercontinental routes. But due to the high passenger volume on certain domestic routes, Japanese airlines have long used jumbo jets like the Boeing 747. In fact, Boeing has even released special 500-seat-plus versions of its 747 jumbo jet that are customized for the Japan's domestic market. REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesAirbus sales chief with Skymark Airlines CEO at the order announcement in June, 2011Now that Airbus appears to have lost its only Japanese customer for the A380, and with none of the country's other airlines even willing to consider the aircraft, perhaps it's time to conclude that the superjumbo may be too big, even for Japan.  The Airbus A380, launched in 2007 to great fanfare, has struggled over the past few years to achieve steady sales. Although Airbus as taken more than 300 orders for the jet, nearly half of them have come from one customer, Emirates. Other buyers, such as Virgin Atlantic Airways, have wavered over the financial feasibility of the huge jet. Making things worse, Airbus has already assembled two of the six Skymark A380s that were to enter service later this year. So far, the company hasn't been able to find another airline to take the jets (the A380 has actually failed to attract a single new buyer in two years).  "It's hard to see how this ends," Richard Aboulafia, leading aviation consultant told Bloomberg. "They've got exactly one enthusiastic customer." FREE AppDownload
Steve Dykes/Getty ImagesWilliams College is the best college in America, according to Forbes' annual Top Colleges ranking, which this year placed Harvard University at number seven. Forbes — which combines liberal arts college and research universities on its list — notes that the divide between these two types of institutions reveals a "higher education in flux." As list author Caroline Howard writes, "This year it comes down to small, student-centric, liberal arts colleges vs. large, brainy, research-oriented universities closely associated with science, technology, engineering and math." Increasingly, the debate about a college degree's usefulness is less about the prestige of the institution, but rather the focus of a student's studies. However, even as the humanities get pummeled in the public discussion of higher education, Forbes' list shows that its just as good — if not better — to attend a smaller liberal arts school. Williams College and Stanford University took the top two spots on Forbes' list, with highly regarded Harvard University placing seventh, below peer institutions like Princeton University and Yale University. This is actually an improvement for Harvard, which last year placed eighth on Forbes' Top Colleges ranking. Howard writes in the Top Colleges' methodology that Forbes stresses "output" over "input," setting their sights "directly at ROI." Forbes created their ranking from five categories — student satisfaction, post-graduate success, student debt, graduation rate, and academic success. Here are the top 10 colleges on Forbes' America's Top Colleges ranking: Check out the full list here &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
BloombergA week ago Wednesday, the S&amp;P500 hit another new all-time high, continuing an incredible five-and-a-half-year run of average gains. For former Fed chief Alan Greenspan, the surge will have to end at some point. Appearing on Bloomberg's "In The Loop with Betty Liu," Greenspan warned : ...the stock market has recovered so sharply for so long you have to assume somewhere along the line we're going to get a significant correction. Where that is I do not know, but I would not say that we are grossly overpriced at this point in a historical context. Greenspan pointed to the fact that the equity risk premium (ERP), which measures the rate of return on stocks versus returns on bonds, remains below the levels we saw in the run-up to Lehman. NYU's Aswath Damodaran is known as the risk premium guru, and he has shown that with a risk premium of 5%, stocks aren't significantly overvalued, though that level is above the historical median.  "It's now come back to what I would see as closer to normal after being exceptionally high. And that means that, no, we are not yet in a stressful position," Greenspan told Liu.   Here's Damodaran's chart, with the equity risk premium in green and Treasuries in red: Aswath Damodaran/NYU One problem is that there is no precedent for current Fed policy, Greenspan said. "...None of the central banks have ever been anywhere near where we find we all are and where we have to move as a consequence of the crisis," he said. "But what we do not know, and we can guess, but it is a guess and I shouldn't - we shouldn't parade it as some great intellectual insight. We just do not know how this thing is going to work out when we begin to tighten." The S&amp;P was down 0.1% Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
It's just a little money. In his Q2 2014 investor letter, Elliott Management founder Paul Singer expressed his annoyance at the media's obsession with his decade-long public slug fest with Argentina over $1.3 billion of sovereign debt. "Elliott does not seek such publicity," Singer wrote. "Obviously, our lives would be easier if the press cared less about this particular position and/or similar positions that attract attention. The Economist ran a piece rebutting the silly and hyperbolic claim that our case will encourage lots of other investors to follow our lead, dryly noting that “There are easier ways to make money.” We think most other investors would certainly agree. As we have noted, one of the reasons that we continue to see attractive opportunities, even in the current yield-hungry environment, is that complex, labor- intensive situations are not everyone’s cup of tea." Singer's hedge fund bought Argentine sovereign debt after the country defaulted in 2001. However, unlike over 90% of the bondholders, he refused to restructure his investment and take a haircut in 2005 and 2010. For that, Argentina called him — and other hedge funds that followed his lead, known collectively as NML — "vulture" capitalists, and vowed never to pay. An ugly lawsuit ensued that went all the way to The Supreme Court with Singer arguing that Argentine could not legally favor "exchange bondholders" who restructured their debt over he and other investors that did not. Argentina lost. And unless some negotiation is reached, The Republic must pay Singer today or default. Now, to Singer's point. Of course it would've been easier for both parties if Singer had not chased Argentina's money around the world — from Belgium, to France — for the last ten years. A slew of messes that would've been avoided. Like the time Singer sued Elon Musk's Space X for a ride Argentina had purchased as collateral for the country's debt. Or the time Singer got a Ghanaian Court to impound an Argentine naval vessel sitting in its waters. The crew on board was stuck in Ghana for about 2 months in 2012 over that one. Eventually they got to leave when the International Maritime Court of the Sea stepped in. Yes, that's a real thing. And no, Singer didn't like that The Court had to step in. In fact he wrote that he doesn't like lawsuits at all, as they are "uncertain, expensive, difficult and time-consuming." Can't argue with that. "While many journalists and commentators often badly misunderstand what Elliott is all about, we understand that this publicity is occasionally the cost of adhering to our philosophy, which is to seek truly uncorrelated positions in which the key determinants of unlocking value are our own creativity and hard work," Singer continued. Uncorrelated? Creative? Can't argue with that either. FREE AppDownload
DNAinfo/Irene PlagianosYou can taste the difference between old and new money at this Financial District bar. Cedar Local, a dimly lit cocktail lounge that recently opened near Wall Street, offers two menus with eight drinks apiece: one designated "Old Money," featuring version of classic cocktails, and the other called “New Money,” offering the bar's own concoctions. “Bar culture down here is very pub-driven, but we wanted to change up the vibe with something different,” said Telly Liberatos, 31, who co-owns the bar with his family. “We want to be a more modern, after-work cocktail spot — we thought the money concept for the drinks was a fun concept.” A New Money offering that had become popular in the week the bar has been open is the Whiskey Rebellion, made from Pimm’s No. 1, High West Rendezvous Rye and lemon juice, served on the rocks. Refreshing Summer Garden — sparkling wine, Greenalls Gin, cucumber, lemon and honey — has also been a hit, Liberatos said. Drinks on the Old Money menu include Everybody Loves a Negroni and It’s a Dark and Stormy. The bar also serves a menu of “bites,” including meat empanadas with almond chipotle aioli for $13 and risotto balls with mushrooms, Roquefort cheese and truffle oil. Larger plates include the 21-spice New York strip steak, for $25. Liberatos and his family, who are originally from Greece, also own the neighboring Pita Press, a Greek takeout spot next to Cedar Local, and Koyzina Kafé, a lunch and breakfast spot that sits across the street. Cedar Local takes the place of the Liberatos family's former Greek restaurant, Koyzina Grill, which closed a couple of years ago. "We took a bit of time to decide what we wanted to do with the space," said Liberatos, who grew up in Bayside, Queens, and now lives in the Financial District. "We really want this to be a neighborhood place, with a comfortable, upscale atmosphere." The bar opens at 4 p.m. daily and is staying open until 1 a.m. on weekdays and 2 a.m. on weekends, but may stay open until the 4 a.m. closing time allowed on its liquor license, Liberatos said. "This is a quiet block, so I think we'll see how long it makes sense for us to stay open," he said. "I think the neighborhood customers will help us figure that out." FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman The fight over the reauthorization of the obscure Export-Import Bank is the perfect opportunity for Democrats to take advantage of the growing rift in the Republican Party. This is a chance for liberals to let the two wings of the GOP cannibalize each other. First, the facts about the Ex-Im Bank. It is arguably the most "Republican" of government agencies. Basically, it supports businesses that want to export goods. The Ex-Im works in a way that nearly all other countries do, with lending and insurance services that fill the relatively small gaps left by the private financial services firms. The bank turns a profit and represents the broad consensus in this country that, one, exports help create jobs, and, two, helping companies compete in the global marketplace is better than fighting protectionist trade wars. The companies that turn to the Ex-Im for help are frequently either from Red States or run by the same conservative executives and boards of directors that decry high taxes, overbearing government, and uncertain regulations. Because of this, the biggest cheerleaders for the Ex-Im Bank are the classic old-school Republican types. Considering the Ex-Im Bank's relatively simple functions and natural GOP appeal, one might think it would be uncontroversial. However, the bank is in danger of not having its charter reauthorized before its present enabling legislation expires on Sept. 30. This is a big deal if you are one of the companies and workers who have benefited from the bank or are counting on its services to sell your crops or your airplane. And there are a lot of them. Since 2009, the Ex-Im Bank has supported over 1.2 million private-sector jobs and financed more than $188 billion worth of exports. Keeping the Ex-Im Bank running seems like an obvious no-brainer, but the fight over reauthorization has become another bloody battle in Washington. Even though the bank may seem like an odd target for your father's Republican party, it is low-hanging fruit for the nihilist wing of today's GOP. It's small enough to actually eliminate the whole thing, and it's obscure enough you can really make up any story you like about the imagined "corporate welfare" it represents. Perhaps best of all for conservatives in Congress, you can kill this agency by NOT passing a law, the specialty of the Tea Party. If nothing happens, Ex-Im won't be reauthorized, and the bank will die. Voila! The government is smaller! So, as Tea Partiers try to bring the bank down, Democrats find themselves aligned in trying to save it with that quaint wing of the Republican Party that actually believes getting things done to improve our country is OK. But more and more Democrats are torn. Maybe losing the Ex-Im Bank will actually accelerate the fissure between the Tea Party and the money that sustains the national Republicans. Perhaps we have to let the village burn to the ground to save it. The GOP money machine seemed to be genuinely scared when the Tea Partiers nearly caused economic crises over debt-limit increases, hurricane relief, and transportation contracts. Losing Eric Cantor and the inability to deal with immigration reform also seemed to shake up the Republican establishment's financial arm. But maybe they need to see real casualties that they care about to persuade them that they need to turn off the fundraising spigot and bring congressional Republicans back in line. Perhaps the Ex-Im Bank needs to die. Democrats have always burdened ourselves with a sense of responsibility for keeping the government running. This refusal to let things grind to a halt has left us ill-equipped to fight as dirty as this new version of the Republican Party. We negotiate, cajole, and, ultimately, compromise. President Obama long ago decided he wanted his political epitaph to be "He Got The Best Deal He Could." So as we near the witching hour in another showdown, maybe it's time we stopped trying to keep things afloat and gave up on helping the "good" Republicans who are trying to get the Tea Party gun away from their heads. Maybe the bloodletting hasn't been full enough yet. Come on, Tea Party. Go ahead and shoot. FREE AppDownload
NintendoNintendo posted its third loss in four quarters on Wednesday.  Even though Mario Kart 8, its big first-party game released in May, shipped more than 2.82 million copies by the end of June, the Mario-themed racing game was not enough to help Nintendo’s struggling Wii U console perform in this particular quarter. The company said it lost $97 million between March and June. Nintendo shipped 510,000 units of the Wii U in the June quarter, bringing the total to 6.68 million consoles sold, according to Bloomberg. It’s a big jump from the 160,000 units it sold in the same quarter a year ago and a small improvement over the 310,000 units it sold in the March quarter, but the Wii U is still lagging behind the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles. Nintendo must also contend with mobile games available on Apple and Google’s app stores, which cost but a fraction of a Nintendo game.  Reggie Fils-Aime, the president of Nintendo for America, said the company is working on multiple ways to improve the “software droughts” between Nintendo’s first-party game releases, namely by squeezing more games out of second- and third-party developers. But for now, Nintendo can only point to its back catalogue as it looks to achieve its “pace of product launch that we need to really drive momentum for Wii U,” as Fils-Aime put it to IGN’s Jose Otero. Games like Mario Kart 8 will clearly help the Wii U achieve its goals. Consumers showed a 50% increase in “purchasing intent” for the console after the release of Mario Kart 8 and Nintendo’s successful showing at the E3 gaming conference in June, but it simply needs more games like Mario Kart 8.  Nintendo / Wikimedia CommonsAs The Guardian’s Keith Stuart points out, Nintendo has a number of big games coming, including Mario Maker, Yoshi’s Woolly World, Captain Toad’s Treasure Tracker, and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U. But until those games release later this year and next year, the mainstream schedule is “a wasteland,” as Stuart described it. As the Nintendo looks to bolster the Wii U with more titles, the company is already beginning to pivot towards a new health-related platform “that improves people’s quality of life in enjoyable ways,” according to Nintendo president Satoru Iwata.  Wikipedia Until that console comes around, however, Nintendo will keep pushing the Wii U, as well as the 3DS, its bestselling handheld console, and its new collectible figurines called “Amiibo,” which let gamers enter their purchased characters into Nintendo games with the Wii U’s GamePad controller. Nintendo hopes Amiibo can help drive revenue in the same way a similar, uber-successful platform called Infinity helped Disney.  Mario Kart 8 will carry Nintendo for the next few months until the fall rolls around, which will see the release of two new Pokemon games for the 3DS and Super Smash Bros for Wii U and 3DS in October. But if Nintendo wants to reverse its fortunes, it may want to embrace its immense back catalogue of games — even the simplest of 8-bit and 32-bit classics from the NES and SNES consoles — and make them available for mobile gamers.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevork DjansezianCustomers walk outside a Wal-Mart store in the Porter Ranch section of Los Angeles.The heyday of big box discount retailers is over.  Consumers are becoming less interested in retailers like Wal-Mart and Target, according to a recent note by Goldman Sachs.  Instead, "consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," the analysts write.  The advent of online retailers like Amazon has also contributed to the problems at Wal-Mart and Target, according to the note. Consumers are less likely to make a trip to the stores when they could get free delivery online.  Wal-Mart's sales have declined for five straight quarters, leading to shakeups at the executive level. Target's CEO left earlier this year amid disappointing sales results and a data breach that affected millions of customers.  Several sectors are benefiting from widespread lack of interest in Wal-Mart and Target, according to Goldman.  Dollar stores, drug stores, and warehouse clubs "are taking share from broad-assortment retailers," the analysts write.  While dollar stores have struggled recently, they have been a threat to Wal-Mart since the recession. Dollar Tree's acquisition of Family Dollar puts the retailers in a position to negotiate with suppliers for even lower prices.  Meanwhile, drugstores like CVS and Walgreens have spent years expanding their assortments to include groceries, high-end cosmetics, clothing, and accessories.  Costco's strategy of very low mark-ups and quality over quantity also appeals to consumers today.  Huge Wal-Mart and Target stores lack the convenience of smaller dollar chains and drugstores. They also can't offer the deep discounting of warehouse clubs like Costco.  The bank downgraded Wal-Mart's shares to "neutral" from "buy." Target remains a "buy" — but analysts still have reservations about the chain's tepid sales and steepening losses in Canada. Goldman is concerned with Wal-Mart's current strategy, which involves international growth and investment rather than the quality core customers' experiences. In the past year, Wal-Mart customers have complained about empty shelves in stores. The company has implemented a strategy to fix the problem. To improve business, Goldman says, these retail behemoths need to adapt to accommodate changing consumer habits.  That includes investing in e-commerce and smaller stores, such as Wal-Mart's Neighborhood Market concept.  Wal-Mart's marketplace-style stores, with smaller store footprints and a focus on fresh produce and groceries, are widely regarded as the future of the brand.  The company also told Business Insider it is investing in e-commerce  and omnichannel initiatives. "We’re making investments in technology and our multi-format portfolio that will give our customers the resources to shop with us on their terms," the company said. "We’re focused on further growing sales by delivering an enjoyable customer shopping experience across all channels." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comI was in the YouTube comments the other day, answering people’s questions and checking in to see what people wanted to see me create. One comment grabbed my attention. “Can you do a video for young men age 18-25 on how to dress with style but still classy?  I don’t want to follow this swaggy trend.” So here we go! Keep it simple, young man. A lot of young men, when they first decide to start dressing well, go out and invest in fancy, expensive items that are much nicer and much more formal than everything else in their outfits. That’s not a good way to start! You spend a lot of money, and you end up with an awkward mish-mash of high fashion and low fashion; of business formality and casual street wear. Take your cues from your environment and from what you already own. Unless you’ve been totally clueless all your life, odds are that your current wardrobe is at least practical for your surroundings. Your task is to upgrade, not to replace. Look for basic, sturdy pieces of clothing at a slightly higher standard of dress than the ones you’re currently wearing. Avoid items that look like nothing you’ve ever worn before. And definitely avoid mixing business and formal clothing with casual garments! Finally, be realistic about your environment. A three-piece wool suit is a nice outfit, but if you’re wearing it in Texas in the summer, you’re not going to look sharp. You’re going to look flushed, sweaty, and uncomfortable. Don’t let fashion eclipse your body’s needs — because your body certainly won’t. This is basic, practical advice for your wallet. Thrift stores are an amazing place to start building a wardrobe for a fraction of the cost that you’d spend buying new. But getting to know your local consignment and charity stores is also educational. You’ll be dealing with a mixed bag of styles. Some will be simple and timeless; others will be last decade’s fleeting trends. Sorting the presentable from the comical is excellent practice for building your own unique style. Not everything old and out-of-date is necessarily unwearable. A good, simple outfit of timeless clothing with one funky period piece thrown in there is fun. It shows people that you know what the rules are, but also that you’re not afraid to break them when it looks good. Just take it easy, and focus first on buying clean, simple looks you can mix and match easily. And get used to it taking a while — not every trip to the thrift store yields results. If you need something that looks good fast, you’ll probably have to buy new. But when you’ve got time to kill, the thrift store (or relatives’ closets, with their permission) is the way to go. There’s a pretty cool story behind most your clothing. Most details on contemporary garments are there for a reason. In high fashion the reasons get somewhat arbitrary, but in basic, everyday menswear, the history is easy — and fun — to trace. For example, the high-up pocket placement on the breast of dress shirts and work shirts? That’s a tweak that goes all the way back to the days of hand-loaded, shoulder-fired muskets, when a pouch high up on the chest reduced the time it took to reload. The high breast pocket has been an American man’s look since the days of the Revolutionary War (actually – even farther back if you look!). Not all the historical details are military. Blue denim and blue chambray workshirts are classic colors because the indigo dye used to produce them was cheaper than bleach in the early 20th century, making it easier to re-dye blue clothes with work stains than to clean white ones. These are just examples. There’s a reason for most things in men’s style. Knowing them is fun, and it’s also an effective counter when someone gives you a hard time about your clothing choices. Locate someone who dresses well, and who is willing to give you a few tips. If they’re local, or a family member, that’s ideal, though in the age of the internet it’s not strictly necessary anymore. Performers and public figures, from rock stars on down to local politicians and teachers, are often more aware of their appearances and the clothing choices they’re making than the average man. Ask around. See who’s just throwing things on in the morning, and who’s making conscious choices. Tired of listening to me speak?  Well I give you a list of over 400 other men’s style bloggers here – ranked! Forget about your budget for a minute. Hit up the best store in town, or at least the best that will let you in the door. (If you live somewhere like New York or London, then yeah, there are going to be high street designers who literally don’t let shoppers come in off the street and try things on. Go a step more mainstream than that.) Spend some time looking around a really nice store. Browse through the racks. Handle the clothing. Try on a couple outfits (full outfits, not just individual pieces) that you like the look of. And then put it all back. Don’t break the budget. The point is to get a sense for what true quality looks and feels like. In the same way that aspiring artists visit museums to see the works of the old masters, you’re looking to see how men with much more experience and money dress well. It gives you an idea of what to look for when shopping in cheaper stores and thrift stores. You learn what good fabric should feel like against your hand, what a quality cut looks like, and so on. That way, you’ll spot those rare, fantastic deals when you spot them. Just for example, a $400 suit may not sound like a cheap price to a casual shopper, especially one on a budget. But if you recognize that the suit’s made from an extremely fine and expensive tropical weight wool that usually retails for thousands of dollars, and that it’s being made to measure in your size by a talented tailor, and that it will fill a need in your wardrobe for the next decade or so — suddenly it becomes a pretty good bargain, even if it means being a little tight on cash for a month or two. Seriously, spend some time with a needle and thread. Get over any issues you have with the “masculinity” of it. Most of the master tailors in the world right now are men. More importantly, it’s a real time and money saver. If you don’t have even the most basic skills, you’re looking at ten bucks to sew a button on your shirt; twenty-five to get your pants hemmed. In terms of labor costs, that’s on a par with doctors and specialized mechanics. Save yourself the money by learning to do it yourself. It’s not hard — and, if you’re a younger man in college or a large house with lots of other guys, you can start charging those ten bucks here, twenty bucks there, sorts of rates to fix you buddies’ clothing up. It’s good practice for you, money in your pocket, and the comforting knowledge that you’ll never be dependent on finding a tailor for some quick repairs when you travel. A final tip for young men: teach other young men! That doesn’t have to be formal. Just talk about clothes, go thrift shopping with other guys, or spend some time answering questions on a menswear web forum. The more you think about how to advice other people, the more you’re thinking about advice that holds true for you, too. It’s widely acknowledged that to demonstrate mastery in a skill, the practitioner has to be able to effectively instruct someone else in the skill. If you’re not there yet with fashion and wardrobe-building, don’t sweat it — but do aim for it. You’ll know you’re a sharp dresser when other guys are coming to you for help, and you’re providing it without even thinking hard. What do you think? Did I miss anything? Let me know in the comments!  This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
APJohn Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, is out with a new research note giving a quick update on some of the major macroeconomic takeaways from second quarter earnings announcements. Overall, the reports show that things are going pretty well. And today's better than expected GDP print corroborates these observations. Stoltzfus highlights the transportation sector as having performed particular well in the second quarter, noting that the Dow Jones Transportation Average reported year-over-year earnings growth of about 22% on a more than 7% increase in sales.  "Within the transportation industry group, railroads have stood out. Norfolk Southern Corp (NSC) recorded record revenues in the quarter, citing an 8% increase in shipments. Kansas City Southern (KSU), which operates between the US and Mexico, increased volumes by 7%. Union Pacific Corp reported earnings in line with expectations, up 20.7% from a year ago on sales growth of 10%," Stoltzfus writes. "We believe increased business activity in the railroads provides evidence of healthy economic growth, increased business production as well as the sustainability of economic expansion." Stoltzfus also viewed Caterpillar's results positively, as they showed organic North American sales growth of 6%. An improvement in consumer spending was seen by management at Starwood Hotels, which beat by 2% on earnings per share, while Visa was more cautious saying that they hadn't seen, "any signs of acceleration in the pace of the economic recovery." With more than half the S&amp;P 500 having reported earnings, Stoltzfus and his team find that among components of the benchmark index, positive surprises for sales growth are outnumbering negative surprises by about 2:1, while earnings growth surprises are favoring positive results by more than 3:1. Oppenheimer This table is broken down the S&amp;P 500's sectors, which include Energy, Materials, Industrials, Consumer Discretionary, Consumer Staples, Healthcare, Financials, Information Technology, Telecommunications, and Utilities.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorThe taper continues. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee just announced its latest monetary policy decision, and there were no surprises.  The FOMC said it would take another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases and keep interest rates between 0%-0.25%. The Fed began paring its rate of monthly asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, last December.  In the minutes from its June FOMC meeting, the Fed indicated that it would conclude QE with its October meeting.  In Wednesday's statement, the Fed said, "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." On the inflation front, the Fed said it, "judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat." The lone FOMC member voting against the decision was Charles Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, who, "objected to the guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for 'a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends,' because such language is time dependent and does not reflect the considerable economic progress that has been made toward the Committee's goals." Wednesday's FOMC announcement, which is not accompanied by a press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen, comes on the heels of a better than expected GDP report this morning.  Here's the full statement from the Fed: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that growth in economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in August, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress — both realized and expected — toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Richard W. Fisher; Narayana Kocherlakota; Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against was Charles I. Plosser who objected to the guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for "a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends," because such language is time dependent and does not reflect the considerable economic progress that has been made toward the Committee's goals. FREE AppDownload
Carnegie Peru carbon mapping projectThis map shows Peru's invaluable carbon resources and where humans have already destroyed them.Stanford University scientists have produced the first-ever high-resolution carbon geography of Peru, a country whose tropical forests are among the world's most vital in terms of mitigating the global impact of climate change. Released July 29, the 69-page report to Peru's Ministry of the Environment could become a tool itself to battle rising temperatures, offering unprecedented data for the creation of carbon offset programs. It is complete with vivid 3-D maps that pinpoint with a high degree of certainty the carbon density of Peru's vast and varied landscape, from its western deserts and savannas, to its lowland forests, to its soaring Andean peaks, to its lush eastern Amazon rainforests. The maps also reveal in sharp detail what's missing: large swaths of once carbon-laden jungles now stripped bare by the extraction industry. Many of Peru's gold, copper and silver mines operate legally; many of them do not. Environmental devastation is often the result. The report represents two years of intensive aerial surveying by Greg Asner, of Stanford University, and his team which operates the Carnegie Airborne Observatory. The observatory is actually a twin-engine turboprop Dornier 228 filled with more than $10 million in the latest short-wave and infrared sensors. Those tools can scan up to 100,000 hectares (240,000 acres) a day at a density of just one hectare (2.4 acres). At that level of precision, the data reveal not only the height of the trees below, but also the individual leaves on each tree as well as the chemical activity in all those leaves. Asner's team sampled 16 million acres of ecosystems within Peru's 320-million total acreage. Those samples were scaled up to a country-wide map using field plots and existing satellite imagery. In the map below, the colors indicate how much carbon is stored above ground. The scale goes from blue — zero carbon —to dark red in the highest areas. The report found, for example, that 53 percent of all Peruvian carbon is stored in one large Amazonian region — Loreto, followed by Ucayali and Madre de Dios (26 percent combined). Carbon pockets aren't the only thing this map showed. Illegal gold mining is one of the most destructive forces in tropical regions. In this 3-D imaging example from the map, vast landscapes devastated by gold miners (the blue swatches) leave almost no forest in their wake:Carnegie Peru carbon mapping projectThe map is so detailed it can even see individual farms. The Carnegie Airborne Observatory imaged this fragmented Amazonian landscape. The largest trees, and thus the highest carbon stocks, are shown in red. Blue areas are cattle pastures harboring extremely low carbon stocks, with the small exception of the individual, smaller trees remaining in the clearings. You can see how big of an impact these cattle pastures can have on the environment: Carnegie Peru carbon mapping project Asner's report emphasizes its underlying motivation and connection to climate-change mitigation: if global markets are going to value carbon at a competitive rate as an incentive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, countries like Peru will need to know with great certainty how much carbon their forests contain when it comes to negotiating prices for carbon offsets. "Peru's minister of the environment can make very good use of this information," says Enrique Ortiz, one of Peru's leading conservationists and a senior program officer with the Blue Moon Fund in Washington, D.C., which supports global environmental projects. "It is a good proxy for creating mechanisms to reward good action, like which areas need to be protected and how to manage carbon trade. It also shows us where illegal mining is taking place, and that's important, too." Asner and his Carnegie scientists used the airplane observatory to map Panama's carbon stock a year ago. But he says his maps of Peru are far larger and more accurate with potentially a broader impact. "These maps suddenly place Peru at the very forefront of the challenge to combat climate change," says Asner, whose 2013 TED talk on his aerial research has 522,000 views. "It's a sea change in capabilities. It will enable the country to use its carbon stock as a tool for engaging the international community to slow the rate of deforestation and forest degradation through conservation." When it comes to the global environment, it is difficult to overstate Peru's importance. Its Amazon jungles are deemed among the most biodiverse on earth in terms of tree, plant, animal and bird species. It also has the world's fourth-largest store of tropical forests, behind only neighboring Brazil, the Congo and Indonesia. Critically, tropical forests soak up and store carbon emissions from industrialized countries. In doing so, they are an irreplaceable line of defense in slowing the rate of rising temperatures due to global warming. The Carnegie report also comes at a critical time for Peru. While still largely poor, Peru's economy is the fastest-growing in Latin America in part because of the prevalence of mining for minerals and drilling for fossil fuels. Those industries, which flourish as trees fall, helped put Peru at the top of another list — a leader among Amazonian countries in deforestation rates. The country lost some 400,000 acres in 2012. To keep its economic growth rolling, the Peruvian Congress stunned environmentalists by passing a law on July 11 that reduces the authority of its Ministry of the Environment. The new laws could make it easier for mining and drilling activities to increase in forested lands, and make it more difficult to add additional protected land to Peru's large inventory. "Despite making good steps in regards to both economic growth and environmental protections over the last 20 years, these new laws show a lack of consistency and add doubt regarding the direction we are going," says Pedro Solano, director of the influential Peruvian Society for Environmental Law in Lima. "Our environmental policy is still strong, but now politics will dictate more decisions." All this comes as Lima is preparing to host in December the 20th annual Conference of the Parties (COP) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The COP culminates in Paris in 2016 when the group will seek binding international agreements akin to the Kyoto Protocol signed in 1997. In Lima, policy makers at the COP will negotiate amid the pressure of another looming deadline — the scientific community's consensus view that widespread efforts to reduce carbon emissions must be implemented in the next 10 years to limit predicted global temperature increases to around 3 degrees F. If not, far worse droughts, hurricanes and sea-level rises than we're already experiencing are anticipated in the next 50 to 75 years. In such a context, the Peruvian carbon maps created by Asner and his team take on a heightened importance. He says the maps can help place a competitive value on carbon, which he believes is the best, and possibly only, hope to keep large tracts of tropical forests intact. "I'm going to the COP as a delegate and I'm going to give these maps to everyone I can," Asner says. "The negotiators need to see the truth about what they have to lose and what they have to gain." As I wrote for National Geographic NewsWatch, one of the cruel ironies of climate change is that countries that ring the equator — most of them poor and eager to develop — possess a valuable asset in fighting rising temperatures that can they only monetize if they destroy it: their tropical forests. These lush, dense woodlands are incomparably important to our lives on earth. They pull greenhouse gases from the air and store them, thus slowing the rate of global warming. They play a powerful role in the water cycle, thus creating clouds that make weather around the world. They harbor and sustain the majority of the earth's biodiversity, thus providing shelter and habitats to countless species of wildlife and plantlife. And they provide these vital ecological services to all of us on the planet for free. But these forests routinely sit atop lucrative troves of fossil fuels or minerals. Or they cover land that when cleared can be used for cattle ranching and palm-oil farming. Often, the governments in these countries, staring at high poverty and unemployment rates, chose revenue over conservation. When that happens, a double whammy occurs. What was once a carbon sponge becomes a sieve. When trees fall, they release their carbon. Global deforestation contributes an estimated 17 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions, remarkably on par with the combined fuel burned in cars, trucks, trains and airplanes, according to the EPA. Asner believes that the high-resolution carbon maps he is producing can play a crucial role in changing the economic dynamic in tropical countries. If you know how much carbon is locked up in your forests and vegetation — in Peru's case, his report estimates the amount at 6.92 billion metric tons — you can better place a value on it. And choose conservation over development. "All the data Greg (Asner) is generating is being converted into knowledge about the carbon cycle," says Miles Silman a tropical biologist at Wake Forest University who contributed field data to Asner's report. "And that knowledge is being converted into how we think about remediating global climate change. We do that by converting carbon into dollars. We allow countries and enterprises to make an investment or get paid to keep forests standing." Asner picks up the thread: "The truth is, carbon is now worth about $6 a ton on the voluntary market. That's pretty low. It's worth so little because there is a huge uncertainty based on where the carbon is and how much is there. By offering really precise details about the amount of carbon in Peru and where it's located, it has a chance of being worth a lot more." Economists speculate that when carbon returns to or exceeds its peak value in 2006 of $32 a ton, and when carbon offset policies take hold as a vital international strategy in battling climate change, countries like Peru will be rewarded for protecting their forests instead of allowing them to be plowed under. But such international strategies involving carbon offsets are far from reality. Among the best hopes appears to be REDD, the slow-moving, decade-old U.N. program of "reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation." There is both a supply and demand side to REDD. On the supply side, countries like Peru must show how much area they are saving from deforestation and prove that the land will remain protected. On the demand side, industrialized countries that exceed their annual agreed-upon carbon emissions must be ready to pay countries like Peru for the land it's preserving in return for carbon offset credits. But the financing mechanisms and national emissions caps to make REDD work do not exist. "We want to push this ahead in Lima (at the COP) this year and try to get a (global financing and emissions) agreement next year in Paris," says Chris Meyer, a expert on REDD policy with the Environmental Defense Fund. "To do this, we need to improve our ability to measure carbon stocks and density, and Asner is at the forefront of science in creating new technologies to provide these measurements." Alessandro Baccini, a remote sensing scientist with Woods Hole Research Center in Massachusetts, says that while national carbon maps have been produced before, the technology used by Asner and the Carnegie team allows for greater precision and accuracy. "What is really important is the level of information that a country like Peru now has access to," Baccini says. "It's very enabling. It helps Peru really understand its landscape and understand the very best data out there for policy purposes — if they want to use it." Ideally, Peru will use these maps to steer development and extraction away from areas of highest carbon density; ideally, it will be rewarded by the industrialized world with carbon offset investments for doing so. Ideally, Asner's high-resolution maps in Peru — which cost $1.2 million in private funding to produce — will be replicated in other countries dense with carbon-bearing tropical forests to help bolster the global carbon market and conserve more tropical forests.. "What's important now is to ask: what will they do with it?" Baccini says. "Will it change the game? Will it open the eyes of the (Peruvian) government so that they say, "Gee, we can't cut down these forests, look at how much carbon we're losing."? We'll see." Justin Catanoso is an environmental writer based in Greensboro, N.C. His reporting is sponsored by the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting in Washington, D.C. FREE AppDownload
China is the most populous country in the world, and its 1.35 billion nationals consume copious amounts of food and resources. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Research by Mamta Badkar.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
BloombergThe U.S. lacks the resources to adequately respond to external shocks like a foreign relations crisis or climate change, former Federal Reserve Chair Alan Greenspan said Wednesday. In an appearance on "In The Loop With Betty Liu," Greenspan warned that the economy has almost no room to maneuver if faced with a security threat: We are running out of buffer in the economy. We don't have the capability should, for example, we run into a major conflict in the Middle East or elsewhere where it requires a major increase in our defense budget. Our defense budget is heading in a direction where in a couple, two or three years it will be at the lowest level relative to GDP since before World War II. We don't have the physical resources to respond.  Meanwhile, the government is going to have difficulty raising revenues to adequately confront longer-term threats like global warming:  We're seeing innumerable things going on in our climate which is going to require funding in order to get to, I wouldn't say cure, but to offset. And we have no - we don't have those monies. We're already fully committed in the budget. We have no way of finding new revenues. And one thing that what concerns me is that if in the context we're going to be getting and inflating a, I should say, pressure in the fiscal system at the same time we're doing major things in the monetary system. For context, here's the chart of year-on-year percent growth in current tax receipts. They've been declining since mid-2010.  FRED Finally, Greenspan believes a correction is likely given current valuations, but it's impossible to say when it will hit. ...the stock market has recovered so sharply for so long you have to assume somewhere along the line we're going to get a significant correction. Where that is I do not know, but I would not say that we are grossly overpriced at this point in a historical context.   Greenspan also discussed the resilience of the U.S. dollar and how there's no way of telling what the outcome of the Fed's unprecedented easing will be.   FREE AppDownload
With hours until the country could default, Argentine leaders negotiating in New York City are finally putting together something of an attractive deal. Here's how it all started going down: On Tuesday night, Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicillof flew in from Caracas for last-ditch negotiations with the Special Master of the Court. At about 11:20 EST he left the meeting saying negotiations were ongoing. What he wants is a stay on a payment to bondholders due by the end of the day Wednesday, marking the end of a decades-long dispute with a group of hedge fund managers, known collectively as NML Capital. For years it refused to pay these investors over $1.3 billion in sovereign debt. The country's leaders reasoned that because they would not take a haircut on the debt they purchased after Argentina's default in 2001, like 90% of holders of the same debt, they were "vultures." So the "vultures" sued the country all the way to the Supreme Court and won. Now they must be paid like all the other bondholders. By the end of the day. Unless there's a stay on payment until 2015 (like Argentina wants), of course. On Wednesday morning, a group of Argentine bankers announced that they would try to sweeten the pot. After years of arguing and appealing, the Court has little confidence in Argentina and has so far rejected its requests for a stay on payment.  The bankers said that they would put up $250 million as collateral — a show of good faith — to satisfy the Court and NML as negotiations went on. Argentina's leaders have said that if NML is paid 100 cents on the dollar for their investment before 2015, it will trigger a clause in their contract — the RUFO, or Rights Upon Future Offers, clause. It basically says that if Argentina gives some bondholders — in this case NML — a better deal, other bondholders of the same debt can claim the same terms. Argentina says that could cost the country $15 billion. But default could cost the country even more. If no payment is made by the deadline, bondholders can sue for an acceleration of payment. That means Argentina would have to shell out everything it owes at once — about $29 billion (about everything Argentina has in its Central Bank). Another option on the table, according to Bloomberg, is for Argentine banks to buy the country's debt from NML and then ask the Court to suspend payment until 2015. Here's Kicillof entering negotiations around 10 a.m. EST. Let the games begin. Kicillof enters building w/ rest of #Argentina delegation. Says nothing but 'con permiso' #GrieFault pic.twitter.com/IQG4FXZU6Q FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Brian SnyderRunners emerge from the smoke house on the "Run for Your Lives" 5K obstacle course race in Amesbury, Massachusetts.Following the winter lull, U.S. housing data had been increasingly positive. But the momentum in the housing market seems to have come to an abrupt halt.  Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen never quite accepted talking of a housing snapback. During her semi-annual monetary policy report earlier this month she said that U.S. housing market was witnessing a lackluster recovery.  "The housing sector, however, has shown little recent progress," she said. "While this sector has recovered notably from its earlier trough, housing activity leveled off in the wake of last year's increase in mortgage rates, and readings this year have, overall, continued to be disappointing." Here's a quick recap of all the ugly data. The two positive data points we saw include a rise in homebuilder confidence to 53. With a reading above 50 showing that more homebuilders think conditions are good than bad. And, the 2.6% rise in June existing home sales to an annualized rate of 5.04 million. Existing home sales rose above 5 million for the first time since fall 2013, but the weakness in pending sales suggests that this will trend down. The two big constraints on the housing market continue to be tight supply and tight credit. "If we see a material easing in the latter, an easing in the former would not likely be far behind given the improving labor market conditions and pent up demand for housing," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. "Think of it as a modified voice from the cornfields of Iowa in Filed of Dreams: if they lend it, they will build." FREE AppDownload
APMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday that sanctions imposed by the European Union over the crisis in Ukraine will "inevitably" lead to higher energy prices in Europe. "By going on a sanctions spree, Brussels, by its own will, is creating barriers for further cooperation with Russia in such a key sphere as energy. This is a thoughtless and irresponsible step. It will inevitably lead to an increase in prices on the European market," it said in a statement.  (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin, editing by Thomas Grove) FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy of Goldman SachsTre GrinnerGoldman Sachs is helping a California teenager battling cancer live out his dream of being an investment banker. Last December, Terry "Tre" Grinner, 17, was diagnosed with Hodgkin's Lymphoma. His mom wrote a letter to the Make-A-Wish Foundation–a national children's charity that grants wishes of kids with life-threatening medical conditions–explaining how her son's dream is to work on Wall Street.  Now that he's finished with chemotherapy that dream is coming true.  Make-A-Wish teamed up with Goldman Sachs and to give Grinner a week-long investment banking internship in New York City.  "It's meant so much to me. It's something that I've always dreamed of," Grinner told Business Insider in a telephone interview. "I used to work a 40-hour work week to support my family back home. The fact they are giving me this opportunity is truly amazing."  The bank and various other Make-A-Wish partners have pulled out all the stops to give him the ultimate Wall Street experience. Grinner's itinerary includes ringing the opening bell at the Nasdaq with BlackRock, touring Yankees Stadium and meeting Derek Jeter, visiting the New York Stock Exchange and meeting floor brokers, making an appearance on CNBC's "Power Lunch" and meeting with Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein and the firm's other top executives.  Photo courtesy of Make-A-WishAs part of his internship, he also received made-to-order suits from Ralph Lauren and a pair of designer shoes.  Grinner graduated from high school this June. His favorite subjects include economics and history. He loves things that are complex and said this is what attracted him to finance.   "I have a deep interest in complicated things," Grinner told us. "So far, investing has been the most complicated thing I have ever attempted to understand – bonds, futures, IPOs, mergers &amp; acquisitions–and the way they connect to global markets and global news is amazing to me."   During his junior year, his economics teacher gave the class a project to actively trade the stock market using $50,000 in imaginary capital.  "I became obsessed with it. I started practicing different forms of analysis to perfect what I was doing."  After three months, Grinner's portfolio was up to $75,000 while most of his classmates had zeroed out their accounts. Now he's getting a glimpse into what life's like on the Street. When he arrived at Goldman's headquarters, he was introduced over the trading floor's PA system. He received a standing ovation from all of the traders. He said the people at the firm have been incredible. Photo courtesy of Make-A-Wish"The people are a lot nicer than they're put out to be in the media," he said. "They're absolutely incredible. They're willing to show me the intricate parts of this business and explain to me how this works."  Goldman managing director John Underwood, who is on the advisory council for Make-A-Wish in San Francisco, said folks at the firm have gone above and beyond. "The whole point of this was to really give Tre a feel of what it's like to be an investment banker–that's a big word that cover all the different areas," Underwood told us. "The response has been overwhelming. I've had partners who were so impressed with this young man. They've asked if they could follow up...It's gone well beyond my own expectations."  Grinner hopes to one day return to Wall Street for his career. Right now, he's leaning toward going into Fixed Income.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Thayer A home that was damaged by Hurricane Sandy, in Union Beach, New Jersey, on Nov. 12, 2012.The current economic recovery is still just so-so. As part of Wednesday's initial GDP report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the BEA also revised GDP for 2011 to 2013 down to 2.0% from 2.2%. For the period spanning the fourth quarter of 2010 through the first quarter of this year, real GDP growth remained 1.8%, the same rate as previously published. From the BEA: "The percent change in real GDP was revised down 0.2 percentage point for 2011, was revised down 0.5 percentage point for 2012, and was revised up 0.3 percentage point for 2013.  In its report following the GDP report, The Wall Street Journal said the recovery that began in 2009 was the weakest since World War II.  This chart shows how GDP growth has been inconsistent since the financial crisis. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz  This table from the BEA shows quarterly GDP through 2011 and annually going back to 2010. BEA The latest GDP report also included annual GDP revisions going back to the 1990s, seen in this table from the GDP.  BEA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusThe SEC can't keep Steven A. Cohen down. Despite insider trading charges, a $1.2 billion penalty, and the closing of SAC Capital, Cohen's new fund is up 9% this year, Bloomberg reported.  Compared to Cohen's Point72 Asset Management, other hedge funds averaged a 2.5% return this year through June. Point72 manages about $9-10 billion of Cohen's personal wealth, and has seen a profit of about $1 billion this year. SAC Capital transitioned to become Point72 Asset Management in April, after the firm was accused of running a decade-long an insider-trading scheme and shut down. Cohen, 58, turned the fund into a family office with 850 employees, down from 1,000 at SAC.  Cohen, 58, has a net worth of about $11 billion. He has a track record of impressive returns, averaging about 30% since SAC Capital launched in 1992. Read more over at Bloomberg&gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
The biggest swing in Q1's GDP report came on healthcare prices and spending. The Bureau of Economic Analysis' first estimate projected healthcare spending exploded by 9.9%, the most in more than 30 years. By the third estimate, the BEA found healthcare spending actually fell by 1.4%. The BEA released its second-quarter advance estimate on Wednesday. There wasn't much news on the healthcare spending front — it was flat at about a 0.7% growth rate. Healthcare prices grew at a 1.8% annual rate in the second quarter, lower than overall inflation.  But even those encouraged by the numbers warn that, again, they could be subject to massive revisions from the BEA. Jason Furman, the chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, included this chart in the White House's statement on the GDP estimate. It shows how the first estimate of healthcare spending in GDP is all over the map compared to the final estimate. That's because the BEA doesn't have a lot of data to work with when producing its first estimate. White HouseIf the first and third estimates matched, you'd see the dots form a straight line going from the bottom left to the upper right. A BEA spokesman told Business Insider last month that the agency used "information on Medicaid benefits and on ACA insurance exchange enrollments as well as other available data" in the first estimate. "These data sources suggested a relatively large increase in health care spending. Based on these data sources, we had assumed that ACA related effects boosted consumer spending on healthcare services by about $37 billion for 2014Q1 (in current dollars)," the spokesman said.  The eventual revision was based on a new set of data from the Commerce Department's quarterly services survey. That survey provided a few important data points: Healthcare and social assistance spending, overall, plunged 2%. Revenue for hospitals (-1.3%), medical labs (-6.4%), and outpatient care (-3.6%) all fell in the first quarter of 2014 when compared to the final three months of 2013. FREE AppDownload
Uriel Sinai/Getty ImagesThe New York Times made headlines across the country last week when it called for federal marijuana legalization. "For too long, politicians have seen the high cost — in dollars and lives locked behind bars — of their pointless war on marijuana and chosen to do nothing," editor David Firestone wrote. The debate continues to rage among the American public, and it's unlikely to be decided anytime in the immediate future. But, assuming federal lawmakers do eventually adopt a pot-friendly stance, there will be enormous financial ramifications. Colorado and Washington, the only two states that currently allow marijuana for recreational use by adults, are set to generate millions in tax revenue from legalization. In Colorado, economists project $30.6 million in taxes will be collected during this fiscal year, The Denver Post reports. An additional $17.3 million should hit tax coffers from the sale of medical marijuana during this time, the state forecasts. Washington, which saw its recreational marijuana market open up earlier this month, will likely also make eight figures annually from the move. Despite a tax rate Moody's calls "a major deterrent for consumers [who could instead obtain a medical card]," the state estimates it will bring in $51.2 million between 2015 and 2017, The Washington Post reports.  Because purchases from out-of-state customers account for a portion of Colorado and Washington tax revenue, it's difficult to extrapolate these figures. But, thanks to a 2010 report from the Cato Institute, we can roughly calculate what federal marijuana legalization would mean on a per-state basis.  According to the think tank, states (and the District of Columbia) would make an estimated $2.9 billion in tax revenue each year from legal marijuana. As seen below, California leads all states with more than $350 million in potential tax revenue, followed by Texas, New York, and Florida.  Not pictured in this graph, annual federal tax revenues from marijuana legalization would hit $5.8 billion, the Cato Institute estimates. In total, that's $8.7 billion per year, assuming $0.67 of every $1 goes to the federal government, the organization says. Worth noting is that Colorado and Washington are projected to make about $47 million and $63 million a year, respectively. Both figures are lower than what each state is currently on track to make in the near future, but why? Most likely, this differential is due to medical marijuana. In many dispensaries, it's cheaper to buy with a doctor-prescribed card than without one. In Colorado, medical purchase limits are also higher than those imposed on recreational users. "We sort of expected that the adult-use (recreational) market would cannibalize the medical marijuana market," economist Larson Silbaugh said last month, the Colorado Fiscal Institute reports. He adds: "So far, there isn't any evidence that the medical marijuana market is sort of shrinking with people going to the adult-use market."  Ultimately, this is an issue states need to solve. As The Denver Post points out, medical marijuana could shrink potential revenue because it's taxed at a lower rate. The outlet recently interviewed Larry Wolk from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. It writes:  [Wolk] is "still very concerned" that too many medical marijuana cards go out without the existence of a bona fide physician-patient relationship, as the law requires ... so long as it remains relatively easy to get certified — thanks in part to constitutional language — Wolk believes there may not be much incentive for people to get off the medical program. And if so, the long-term tax revenues from retail pot may end up being much less than promised. Legalization should also save money by eliminating the need for drug prevention. An old but useful study from the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws estimated in 1994 that total savings could be between $6 billion and $9 billion per year. Marijuana-related arrests make up more than a quarter of all U.S. drug crimes, it said. More recently, the ACLU said marijuana enforcement costs states about $3.6 billion in 2010, according to CNBC. The aforementioned Cato Institute study pegs this number at $5.4 billion. When federal costs are included, the organization implies legalization could lead to annual savings of more than $8 billion. Lawmakers in Oregon and Alaska will put the topic to a vote later this year. There's no guarantee that they and other states follow in Colorado and Washington's footsteps. But if they do, and the federal government jumps on board, outright marijuana legalization could generate billions in tax revenue. The potential savings are almost as high. Given that public opinion is radically shifting to support the drug, this scenario may be a foregone conclusion. The Pew Research Center reports 54% of Americans are now in favor of legalization, compared to just 16% in 1989. Seven in 10 millennials share this sentiment, it reports. While marijuana taxes will never balance the national debt, the list of programs that could benefit from greater government attention is almost endless. Cancer research, environmental protection, tech research and development, and education are just a handful of the areas that could gain from a greener future. It remains to be seen if other states, and the federal government, choose to follow the path being blazed by Colorado and Washington. FREE AppDownload
ESPNConnor Drinan.Connor Drinan experienced what one ESPN announcer said "might be the worst bad beat in the history of tournament poker" at a $1 million buy-in World Series of Poker tournament. He drew pocket aces and had only a 2% chance of losing the hand before the flop. But it all fell apart. ESPN ESPN ESPN ESPN ESPN FREE AppDownload
SodaStreamShares of SodaStream were up more than 8.6% in morning trade after the company reported earnings and revenue that beat estimates. In the second quarter, the company earned $0.43 per share, better than the $0.31 that was expected by analysts, on revenue of $141.2 million, topping the $140.6 million Wall Street expected.  "The second quarter was highlighted by record gas refills including unit growth in all regions underscoring the global appeal and stickiness of our home carbonation system. Our total business in our Western Europe, Asia Pacific, and CEMEA regions all posted solid increases in the second quarter as our product and marketing strategies are leading to increased household penetration and user activity." said Daniel Birnbaum, Chief Executive Officer of SodaStream. SodaStream, however, said it is lowering its U.S. sodamaker projections for the second half of the year.  Birnbaum said: "In the U.S., soda maker volumes remained under pressure as we struggled to drive consumer demand and retailers worked through excess inventory carried over from the holiday season. We are lowering our U.S. soda maker sales projections for the back half of the year while we reposition our brand behind health &amp; wellness and refine our product line and marketing message to better promote this important consumer benefit. We are confident this strategy will have a positive long-term impact on our U.S. performance. Our revised plan for 2014 also includes operating expense reductions aimed at protecting profitability until growth trends improve." SodaStream, which is one of the most heavily shorted stocks in the market, last week saw shares explode after a report from Bloomberg said the company was in talks with an investment firm to go private.  FREE AppDownload
MaseratiMaserati's Ghibli.Fiat reported second-quarter earnings today, and they disappointed. A drop in year-over-year profits was chalked up to business issues in North and South America. There were two notable bright spots, however: Ferrari and Maserati, Bloomberg reported. "Fiat’s luxury division, which includes the Maserati and Ferrari brands, posted a 58 percent jump in earnings while deliveries almost tripled," wrote Bloomberg's Francesca Cinelli. Neither brand has significant market share in the U.S., and Ferrari is selling about well this year as it did last year. Maserati, on the other hand, has seen sales rise a whopping 329% year-over-year through June, based on data tracked by the Wall Street Journal. The brand is in the midst of expanding its lineup of vehicles. In the U.S., it established a beachhead with the stylish Quattraporte sedan, which starts at around $100,000. It rolled out the more compact Ghibli in 2013 (it starts at about $67,000) and will reportedly introduce an SUV in the next few years. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersApple Operations International, a subsidiary of Apple Inc, is seen in Hollyhill, Cork, in the south of Ireland DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ireland is in the firing line from Washington again for luring U.S. companies to its shores for tax benefits, but despite contrite noises coming from Dublin, it has too much to lose to discourage U.S. firms bent on shifting their tax domiciles. Ireland's low corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent is a natural lure for U.S. companies looking to set up an overseas hub, and for Dublin the pay-off is new jobs, but in so-called inversion deals the company then switches its overall tax domicile from the United States, where the rate is 35 percent, to its new home. The surge in such deals, which are typically effected by purchasing an overseas company - which does not then necessarily create any new jobs - drew the ire of President Barack Obama last week, who singled out Ireland for criticism. Ireland's government has responded by saying it is looking at ways of stopping the transactions, but lawyers and tax advisors who work for multinationals such as Intel &lt;INTC.O&gt;, Pfizer &lt;PFE.N&gt; and Google &lt;GOOGL.O&gt; say little can be done without putting at risk a model specifically designed to lure foreign companies. Moreover, the regime has worked, accounting for one in 10 Irish jobs, and Dublin has defended it fiercely for years. It would be difficult to block inversions without jeopardizing the broader benefits. "It's a dangerous road to go down," said Kevin McLoughlin, who as head of tax at accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young &lt;ERNY.UL&gt; advises some of Ireland's largest multinational companies. "I really struggle to see how they can legislate against companies choosing Ireland as a destination in a way that's confined only to these types of situations. I think it's extremely unlikely because I just don't know what they can do."   DISCOURAGING WITHOUT DAMAGING Ireland's finance ministry says that as part of its discussions for October's budget, it is examining whether there are ways to discourage the deals. Last year it did, after all shut down another much-criticized tax arrangement used by Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; to shelter over $40 billion from taxation - but it left open an even bigger loophole that means the computer giant is unlikely to pay any more tax. And apart from the discomfort of being on the other end of Washington's finger-wagging, bare inversions can impose real costs on Dublin, too. These corporate migrations, which have ramped up since 2009, have swelled Ireland's gross national income - which determines a country's EU budget contributions - by some 7 billion euros, according to the finance ministry. That meant Ireland's 2012 EU contribution rose by 60 million euros, but the mere re-domiciling of a holding company typically adds little of economic benefit. By contrast, the more than 1,000 foreign companies who have set up an Irish base have created 160,000 jobs. "This is why even though this activity is driven by tax factors in other countries, we are looking at ways of stopping these transactions," a finance ministry spokesman said. "But it is important to ensure that, in doing that, we do not damage real investment or jobs coming to Ireland." The jobs minister, who has led over 20 investment missions abroad since taking office three years ago, many of them to the United States, said last week that the issue could only be fixed by changes to the U.S. tax code.   WHY IRELAND? Ireland is not the only home for inversions - Britain, the Netherlands and Switzerland are also popular. Pfizer made a $118 billion bid to buy AstraZeneca Plc &lt;AZN.L&gt; this year, so it could move its tax domicile to Britain, but the pharmaceutical giant was rebuffed by its target. But for tiny Ireland, the deals can be vast, such as Medtronic's &lt;MDT.N&gt; $42.9 billion takeover of Irish-domiciled Covidien &lt;COV.N&gt;, which led to a near sixfold rise in the value of Irish-based M&amp;A in the first half of the year - and almost 20 percent of all of Europe's, research by information services company Experian found this month. [ID:nL6N0PK4JL] It is not just tax that encourages inversions from the United States to Ireland. Ireland's Arthur Cox, legal advisers on deals worth 56 billion euros this year, according to Experian, lists the attractions of a legal system similar to the United States', no shareholder rights to interfere with executives' pay and limited rules on the "transfer pricing" of intercompany transactions, which can also be used to shift profits to avoid tax. However, the system was not designed for invertors. In a note published this month after meeting Ireland's prime minister and finance minister, U.S. law firm Cadwalader said they found a resounding concern that Ireland feels it will "bear the brunt of the reputational and economic impact of inversions but little of the job creation". "What would need to happen is that now they're in Ireland, some of these invertors see it as a good place to establish a real presence," said Lorcan Tiernan, a partner at Irish law firm Dillon Eustance, who advised on Perrigo's &lt;PRGO.N&gt; $8.6 billion inversion deal with Ireland's Elan last year. "If you look at what Jazz Pharmaceuticals &lt;JAZZ.O&gt; have done (after buying Ireland's Azur Pharma in 2011), they're actually building a center. That's the type of thing that will strengthen the case for inversions - real employees, bricks and mortar."   "SLIPPERY SLOPE" One Dublin-based M&amp;A banker, who declined to be named, said Ireland's Office of the Revenue Commissioners, which assesses and collects taxes, has been on red alert since late last year around any sort of structure or deal that might be seen as trying to evade tax. "It would be a lot harder for an overseas company to set up in Ireland now versus even two years ago unless they were bringing a large number of jobs with them," he said. "They are not as forthcoming or facilitative as they used to be." A spokeswoman for the Commissioners said they are always on the lookout for such structures and apply the relevant legislation fairly to all entities tax resident in Ireland. While U.S. politicians view inversions as unpatriotic, they are perfectly legal, and multinationals will continue to look to inversions to enhance shareholder value until substantial reform of the U.S tax code is introduced, partners from Arthur Cox wrote in an article for the Practical Law journal recently. With no quick fix likely as long as Republicans contend that inversion rules need to be part of a broader overhaul of the tax code, Ireland is likely just to keep taking the flak and the rewards of a system it has spent so long cultivating. "What companies want is certainty. When we visit firms in the States and elsewhere, they mightn't always be able to find Ireland on a map, but the 12.5 percent rate is nearly a mantra," Dillon Eustace's Tiernan said.     "If you start changing the message or backtrack on something that's actually not fundamentally wrong, that wouldn't be good. If Ireland is seen buckling to external pressures, that would raise concerns of whether this is the top of a slippery slope."   (Additional reporting by Carmel Crimmins; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph D. FresoWe just learned GDP climbed 4% in Q2, which was much higher than the 3% growth rate expected. There's only one problem: Growth in inventories contributed 1.66 percentage points. Inventory investment is one of the most volatile components of GDP. As the Bureau of Economic analysis notes, unanticipated buildups in inventories can signal future cutbacks in production, while unanticipated shortages in inventories may signal future pickups in production. "The change in real private inventories added 1.66 percentage points to the second-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 1.16 percentage points from the first-quarter change," the BEA said. "Private businesses increased inventories $93.4 billion in the second quarter, following increases of $35.2 billion in the first quarter and $81.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013." So a surge now may mean Q3 growth will slow. And as Neil Irwin points out, if you cut out inventories, the economy has grown just 0.7% for the first half of the year.  Or as Bloomberg reports: "...the inventory accumulation, which contributed 1.66 percent to the 4 percent gain, indicates that the Bloomberg consensus forecast of 3 percent for the third quarter may be a bit optimistic." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nir EliasThe economy snapped back in the second quarter. After a disappointing first quarter, the BEA's initial estimate for second-quarter GDP showed the economy expanded at a 4% annualized rate. Economists were expecting Q2 GDP to grow 3%. First-quarter GDP was also revised up to contracting 2.1% from a previous estimate of 2.9%. The BEA said the upward revision to Q1 GDP primarily reflected upward revisions to private inventory investment, to nonresidential fixed investment, and to PCE. The report also showed that in Q2, personal consumption expenditures increased 2.5%, compared with a revised 1.2% in Q1. Economists were expecting personal consumption expenditures to increase 1.9% in Q2.  The initial Q2 report also comes ahead of the Federal Reserve's latest policy announcement which is set for release today at 2:00 pm ET, and Bloomberg economists Joe Brusuelas and Josh Wright said that while the Q2 GDP print is encouraging, "inventory accumulation and uncertainty about household expenditures on health care suggest that policy makers won’t alter the current path of asset purchases or shorten the existing timetable for a potential policy rate increase." Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics said of the report, "Finally, for once the public sector wasn't a drag on the economy, with a 3.1% rebound in State and local government spending more than offsetting a 0.8% decline Federal government spending." Ashworth said this report supports his view that the Federal Reserve will begin raising interest rates next March.  Private inventories increased by $93.4 billion in the second quarter, and BI's Rob Wile summarizes some of the concerns that could surround a build in inventories, which the BEA said added 1.66% to Q2 GDP. The report also contained a number of revisions to prior estimates, notably for 2011-13, as real GDP growth was revised to 2% from the previous estimate of 2.2% for that period. From the fourth quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of this year, real GDP increased at an annual rate of 1.8%.  From the BEA: "Real gross domestic product — the output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States — increased at an annual rate of 4.0 percent in the second quarter of 2014, according to the "advance" estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the first quarter, real GDP decreased 2.1 percent (revised)... The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, nonresidential fixed investment, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased." This table from the BEA gives a breakdown of the GDP components. BEA FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovTrading was suspended for an hour on the Moscow Stock Exchange Wednesday. It has since resumed and will remain open until 16:30 GMT. No reason has yet been given for the outage. Here's the full statement from earlier, in English, from the exchange:  Moscow Exchange is currently working to resolve the issues disrupting Equity &amp; Bond Market trading. Trading on Moscow Exchange's other markets has not been affected. We apologise for any inconvenience caused.  Earlier, stocks had climbed 2% as traders shrugged off a fresh round of sanctions against Russian financial institutions. They're now flat.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukPeople watch a laser and fireworks show over the Neva River and the Peter and Paul Fortress in St. Petersburg, June 21, 2014. The show marks the annual school leavers day. Twitter's stock is up 26% this morning after an earnings report that demolished expectations. Twitter beat on revenue, EPS, guidance, and most importantly monthly active users.  As a result the stock has been soaring. Right after earnings, it rose as much as 35%. Since then, it's cooled slightly, and now it's up 26% to ~$48.50.  Twitter reported that it has 271 million active users, which was ahead of expectations of 267 million users.  After the company reported earnings, we talked to Twitter CEO Dick Costolo about the bump in users.  He says Twitter is getting new users because it is improving the "onboarding" process for Twitter. When people sign up for Twitter, they're more quickly getting feeds to follow that they like. Those feeds are keeping them engaged with the product.  Everyone is pretty happy with Twitter today, but we would caution some restraint for now. This quarter was great, but it was largely about beating significantly lowered expectations.  If you back up a bit, Twitter's monthly users were up 24% on a year-over-year basis this quarter. Last quarter they were up 25% and the world was writing eulogies for the company. Facebook, which is a comparable product, added 41 million users in Q2 while Twitter only added 16 million.  So, things are good for Twitter, but they're still not great. The company has a lot of work to do. Costolo knows that, though. On the call, he said, "To be perfectly frank, I think we can be a lot better." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. companies added just 218,000 new private jobs in July, says ADP. This was a bit lighter than the 230,000 expected by economists. This is down from the 281,000 added in June. "The July employment gain was softer than June, but remains consistent with a steadily improving job market," said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi. "At the current pace of job growth unemployment will quickly decline. Layoffs are still receding and hiring and job openings are picking up. If current trends continue, the economy will return to full employment by late 2016.” Good producing companies added 16,000 jobs while services providers added 202,000. Small businesses (1-49 employees) were responsible for 84,000 of those jobs. Despite the miss, Wall Street remains optimistic. "We’re not too concerned that July’s rise in the ADP was smaller than June’s 281,000 increase," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "Changes in employment always bounce around from one month to the next. The main point is that job growth improved in the first half of the year and appears to have remained strong going into the second half." "In the context of the strength in employment growth since the start of the year, this report points to further payrolls gains of 215K to 235K in July, which will mark the 6th consecutive months of jobs growth in excess of 200K," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "This will be further confirmation of the sustained pick-up in the labor market, and it will provide further confidence to the Fed in the sustainability of the economic recovery." The BLS's official July jobs report comes out at 8:30 a.m. ET on Friday. Economists are looking for 231,000 new nonfarm payrolls driven by 230,000 private payrolls. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish IsmailKashmiri Muslim women offer prayers on the occasion of Eid al-Fitr in Srinagar on Tuesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Russian Stocks Shrug. Russia's MICEX index is up more than 2% despite the announcement of further sanctions against Russian financial institutions. BI's Sam Ro explains why markets are unmoved: "... There's little doubt that Russia's economy is indeed under pressure. And Russia's MICEX index is actually down 3.5% since the beginning of the year; compare that with the S&amp;P 500, which is up 7.8% during that period. If anything, Wednesday's reaction reflects investors' expectations for the sanctions. And it would appear that the markets were prepared for worse." 2.  Europe Gas Cut Off? Morgan Stanley believes it's possible Russian President Vladimir Putin may respond to the new sanctions by cutting off gas through Ukraine and curbing oil exports, although trading in futures for both was subdued Wednesday morning. "Russia has announced that it will not respond in an ‘eye-for- eye way’ – and in any case, we think that a reciprocal approach would not be effective, given different dependencies," they say. "For instance, few G7 citizens or leaders have assets or family in Russia, and Russian banks are not an important source of finance for G7 countries. In fact, if Russia responds with economic measures, we think the most effective measures are likely to be restrictions on exports of oil (Russia exports more than 7.5 million barrels of oil equivalent a day) and gas (where Russia provides 30% of Europe’s demand)." 3.  Twitter. Twitter crushed earnings expectations after trading Tuesday, and shares were up 25% Wednesday morning before the bell. The social media site saw 271 million monthly active users (MAUs) versus expectations of 267 million monthly active users, a 24% year-over-year jump in usage, and a 6% increase on a quarterly basis. In an interview with BI's Jay Yarow, CEO Dick Costolo said his firm nevertheless still had a ways to go. "JY: What gets people to sign up and use Twitter? DC: When they are able to sign in, find the kinds of accounts that are interesting to them over time, and curate those accounts into a timeline that delivers value for them day in and day out. The work that we have to do is for the so many people that come to the platform and try to do that is to get them from the sign up to the point where they've got a timeline that delivers value to them over and over again faster and faster." 4.  GDP. The Bureau of Economic Analysis was set to release GDP data at 8:30 a.m. Consensus is for a reading of 2.9% annualized. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna, who is predicting 4.2%, has explained why he thinks it could be even higher: "Current data imply that Q1 productivity fell at an astounding -5.8% annualized rate, which would be the largest decline since Q3 1947, when productivity plunged by an all-time record amount of -11.2% in the quarter. Productivity then rebounded an even more remarkable +17.8% in the following quarter. In the context of a sharp downward revision to Q1 productivity, our estimate of just a +0.4% rebound in Q2 is extremely modest. If anything, the payback should be much larger, thereby implying even more economic output than what we project." (Emphasis his). 5.  FOMC. The Federal Open Market Committee was to release its latest policy document at 2 p.m. It's likely to be a snoozer, according to Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere. In a note this week he wrote: "The former Fed vice chairman made several key points in [a recent] PRG conference call, which is still available on playback.  Our main takeaway is that while the FOMC may tweak its statement this week to reflect higher inflation and an improving labor market, the central bankers will probably wait until September to decide on exit strategies. They'll discuss them at this week's meeting, so the minutes will be important, but they're in no rush to change their policy language, Don said." 6.  IEX May Prompt Trading Rule Tweak. Reuters reports the advent of IEX, the trading venue favorably portrayed by Michael Lewis in his latest book, "Flash Boys," may cause the SEC to relax rules that require the fastest possible execution of securities trades. IEX has a "speed bump" in order execution that would not be allowed if it were to become a full-fledged exchange. But the SEC may make an exception. "Though the commissioners will make a decision only after IEX applies to become an exchange, the SEC is likely take into consideration that the high-speed trading phenomenon and the proliferation of such firms took hold only after the rules were written in 2005, the person said."   7. Gaza On The Brink Of Humanitarian Disaster. The New York Times reports that Israel blew up Gaza's only power plant, cutting off water and sewage treatment for the territory. “'Today there is no electricity in Gaza,' said Jamal Dardasawi of Gaza’s power company. The plant would take months to fix, he said, and eight of the 10 lines that bring electricity to Gaza from Israel have been damaged by the war, leaving only a trickle coming in from there and from Egypt." 8.  ADP and Mortgages. At 8:15 a.m. we get ADP's private payroll survey for July. Consensus is for 230,000. Mortgage purchase applications, the other piece of data released this morning, fell 2.2% from last week. 9.  Earnings. Garmin, Goodyear, Humana, Lorillard, Lumber Liquidators, Phillips 66, SodaStream, and Sprint all report Wednesday morning. After the bell we get Whole Foods and Yelp. 10.  Markets. U.S. futures are up 0.2%. London's FTSE was flat, and Germany's DAX was up 0.1%. Japan's Nikkei closed up about 0.2%. FREE AppDownload
Aaron Taube/Business InsiderThree big economic events were set to occur in the U.S. on Wednesday. Here's a preview via BI's Monday Scouting Report: A veritable alphabet soup. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA "Price Reduced" sign is displayed on a home for sale in northern Virginia suburb of ViennaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages slipped last week as refinancing applications dropped, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 2.2 percent in the week ended July 25. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 4.0 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 0.2 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.33 percent in the week, unchanged from the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
This Great Graphic was tweeted by the Financial Acrobat. The charts show U.S. and euro-area GDP in log charts that also plot the pre-crisis trend. It is clear that the crisis has thrown the U.S. off its prior path, but it now appears to be on a parallel path that is lower. Marc ChandlerGrowth in the euro area has also broken down. It has yet to initiate a new expansion trend, which is in part why some think it has not really and truly exited its recession. One of the big macro views that has shaped the debate in recent months is the resurrection of the previously discredited "secular stagnation" hypothesis by Lawrence Summers. The concept was first proposed by Alvin Hansen in the 1930s. It died an ignoble death as the U.S. (and world) entered a long expansion wave. Marxists, like Magdoff and Sweezy, tried reanimating the theory in the late 1980s but offered a considerably nuanced view.   Magdoff and Sweezy generally argued that while mature capitalism was prone to stagnation, there were a number of mitigating factors, like government spending and permanent government deficits. In an essay published in the early 1980s, Sweezy wrote: "Does this mean that I am arguing or implying that stagnation has become a permanent state of affairs? Not at all." Looking at chart on the left, the idea of secular stagnation in the U.S. does not come to mind.   The slope of the GDP in the euro area is not as steep as that of the U.S. prior to the crisis, and the economy appears to have gone nowhere in the past six to seven years.  Does this qualify as secular stagnation?         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons“Diversify” “Think long-term” “Buy and hold” “Passive investing” “Stocks for the long-run” These are all common and seemingly harmless terms that are thrown about by financial people on a regular basis.  And I hate most of them because they are often used as dangerous oversimplifications of something that is in fact personal and complex.  The problem is, when we spread these terms without being specific we are often just making matters worse even if they’re spread with the right intentions. For instance, I constantly see articles about how you have to “diversify”.  Lots of smart people think that a diverse portfolio is crucial to meeting your financial goals.  But these articles almost never define what your financial goals are and they almost never define what they mean by “diversification”.  Do they mean owning lots of different types of stocks?  Do they mean lots of different asset classes?  Do they mean lots of different strategy styles?  And how true is this as a generalization to begin with?  Should a 75 year old with no risk tolerance really be that “diversified” at all?   Most definitely not.  So the vague generalization leads to even more vague implementation. My favorite terms are “think long-term”, “buy and hold” or “stocks for the long-run”.  This is all great in theory.  In fact, the concept is generally sold to investors using long-term performance data ranging from 30-200 years.  As if any of us have an investing time horizon that is actually that long.  Worse, it overlooks the fact that most of us don’t really have much of a “long-term” at all.  Much of our savings is not necessarily “long-term” at all.  It’s constructed around the need to purchase a home, send kids to college and other not-so-long-term spending needs.  So the concept of “think long-term” often results in investors thinking they can just “ride out” the stock market ups and downs which leads them to take on more risk than is appropriate for them and then when 2008 comes along they realize they made a huge mistake and that their “long-term” wasn’t really so “long-term”.  This textbook “long-term” is sold using a largely unrealistic presentation of our actual financial lives. I’ve deconstructed the marketing pitch known as “passive investing” in some detail in past posts so I won’t regurgitate my thoughts there.  Plus, I am starting to ramble.  But the point is, be wary of people who oversimplify portfolio construction to the point where they constantly rely on these vague generalizations to make their points.  They’re often coming from a good place, but that place is often so nondescript that it becomes counterproductive to a large degree. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Misha JaparidzeRussian President Vladimir Putin.The next move for Russian President Vladimir Putin could be to block the transit of gas through Ukraine to Europe, write Morgan Stanley analysts. This could cause energy prices to spike in Putin's effort to retaliate against the world for imposing economic sanctions on Russia. The U.S. and the European Union announced a fresh round of economic sanctions on Russia in their efforts to punish to the country for its ongoing involvement in destabilizing Ukraine. Policymakers are hoping that these actions will encourage Putin to help cool off the situation on the Ukraine-Russia border. But he very well could get more aggressive. Morgan Stanley analysts Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk articulate a few of Putin's potential paths. "We think Putin now faces a stark choice between a pragmatic response, supporting de-escalation in Ukraine in return for neutrality, decentralisation and the lifting of sanctions — or what we characterise as a ‘patriotic’ response, in which Putin focuses on support to the pro-Russian separatist movement in Ukraine, which could trigger a further tightening of sanctions and deepen the divide with the West," they wrote in a note to clients on Tuesday. In theory, economic sanctions should anger businesses and consumers who are getting squeezed. But in practice, sanctions often just spark nationalism, and anger is often directed toward the implementer of those sanctions. Indeed, polls show that Putin's popularity has only been increasing since earlier sanctions. It's also worth mentioning the Russian stock market is rallying. "Russia has announced that it will not respond in an ‘eye-for-eye way’ — and in any case, we think that a reciprocal approach would not be effective, given different dependencies," the analysts said. "For instance, few G7 citizens or leaders have assets or family in Russia, and Russian banks are not an important source of finance for G7 countries. In fact, if Russia responds with economic measures, we think the most effective measures are likely to be restrictions on exports of oil (Russia exports more than 7.5 million barrels of oil equivalent a day) and gas (where Russia provides 30% of Europe’s demand)." Unfortunately for Russia, if it cuts the world off from its energy, then Russia effectively shoots itself in the foot. REUTERS"We are skeptical at this stage that Russia would block oil exports, given the disruptive impact this would have on the budget (oil accounts for 44% of federal budget revenues) and trade (oil accounts for 54% of exports)," the analysts said. "Moreover, Russia did not block oil exports in the early 1980s, when the Cold War was at its height." For now, Russia's response is likely to be more targeted. "We think that Russia could block transit of gas through Ukraine to Europe, pending settlement by Naftogaz of outstanding debt and might also allow a decline in oil exports, which could add a geopolitical risk premium to the oil price," they write. Here's Morgan Stanley's scenarios for the financial markets: "In the case of de-escalation, we would expect to see the authorities stick to the current policy mix of a flexible RUB and the fiscal rule, with continued trade and investment links with the West. With a patriotic response, we would expect tighter monetary policy to support RUB; looser fiscal policy to support growth; and a focus on reducing economic links with the West to reduce vulnerability. Recently, we have seen some signs of economic policy drifting towards the patriotic policy mix." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a shop window in downtown RomeBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone economic sentiment unexpectedly improved in July while inflation expectations among consumers and companies edged up, data from the European Commission showed on Wednesday. Consumer morale rose in three of the euro zone's five biggest economies, led by Italy and followed by France and the Netherlands, while the bloc's growth engine Germany and Spain saw sentiment worsening. The monthly economic sentiment index for the 18 countries sharing the euro rose to 102.2 in July from a revised 102.1 in June. Economists surveyed by Reuters had forecast a drop to 101.8 in July. While industry confidence rose on optimism about future production, confidence in the services sector declined as demand expectations weakened. Worries about jobs and the economic outlook meanwhile hit consumer confidence, the Commission said. Consumers' inflation expectations improved marginally to 8.7 in July from 8.6 in June while companies' outlook for selling prices returned to positive territory in July for the first time in seven months. The 9.6 trillion euro economy is still struggling to get onto a solid footing after exiting recession a year ago, with the European Union's toughening of sanctions against Russia adding to risks the fragile recovery could stall. Last month, the European Central Bank launched broad measures to aid growth and avert deflation risks in the bloc, and said it could yet print money to support the economy. Measures announced by Europe and the United States on Tuesday will target Russia's energy, banking and defense sectors in the strongest international action yet over Moscow's support for rebels in eastern Ukraine. Separately, the Commission's business climate indicator, which points to the phase of the business cycle, fell to 0.17 in July from 0.21 in June, its worst reading since October 2013. Data earlier on Wednesday showed Spain's economy grew at its fastest pace since before the financial crisis in the second quarter, although monthly consumer prices fell at their sharpest year-on-year rate in July since October 2009. The Spanish inflation reading will be followed at 1200 GMT (8.00 a.m. EDT) by corresponding numbers for Germany, the biggest economy in the euro zone. German inflation is forecast to have risen 0.2 percent month-on-month and 0.8 percent year-on-year in July.     (Reporting by Martin Santa; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Marine TrafficHOUSTON (Reuters) - A high-stakes dispute over a tanker carrying $100 million in Iraqi Kurdish crude took a surprising turn on Tuesday when a U.S. judge said she lacked jurisdiction given the ship's distance from the Texas shore and urged that the case be settled in Iraq. Federal magistrate Nancy K. Johnson said that because the tanker was some 60 miles (100 km) offshore, and outside territorial waters, an order she issued late on Monday for U.S. Marshals to seize the cargo could not be enforced. She said the dispute between Iraq's central government and the autonomous region of Kurdistan should be resolved in Iraq. Overnight Johnson signed an order directing the marshals to seize the 1 million barrels of crude from the United Kalavrvta tanker anchored in the Gulf of Mexico. Tuesday she scheduled a conference to give the two sides a chance to state their case. The ship could simply sail away, though it also could offload its cargo for delivery to another U.S. Gulf of Mexico port outside of Texas, lawyers said. Baghdad's lawyers had laid claim to the oil in a lawsuit filed on Monday, saying Kurdistan sold the crude without permission from the central government. The latest dispute over exports reflects Iraqi Kurds’ emboldened steps toward seizing greater political and economic autonomy, with oil sales seen as central to Kurdish dreams of independence that Baghdad opposes. While the sides fought the legal battle in Houston, they pressed the political fight in the courtroom of public opinion. Iraq warned companies against trying to buy other shipments of Kurdish crude after it won the seizure order, while Kurdish leaders asserted their right to sell the oil but said they would face obstacles. “The Ministry of Oil in Baghdad continues to interfere directly and indirectly with KRG oil sales," said Karwan Zebari, an official with the Kurdistan Regional Government’s representation in Washington. A lawyer in Houston for the Kurds said the regional government would file its own claim of ownership for the cargo, a sign the legal standoff might continue. Meanwhile, a Kurdish government official said export plans would be hurt. "We have to acknowledge that the ruling of the U.S. court will definitely have negative consequences on the region's attempts to market its oil," he said of the order to seize the cargo. "Buyers now will start to step back and think twice before purchasing Kurdish crude." Washington has publicly opposed direct oil sales by the autonomous region, fearing they could contribute to the break-up of Iraq. It has stopped short of banning U.S. companies from buying the oil while warning them of potential legal risks. Officials from the State Department and the U.S. Marshals Service said the judge's order could only be applied if the ship entered U.S. territory. In this case, that would be 12 nautical miles from shore, said Martin Davies, a law professor and the director of Tulane University’s Maritime Law Center in New Orleans. If the oil’s owner wants to stay out of U.S. courts, “they just have to order the ship to stay out," he said. While the rulers of Iraq’s northern Kurdish enclave have long aspired to independence, their position has strengthened in recent months as Kurdish Peshmerga troops have outperformed Iraqi soldiers against Islamist militants. Kurds have also succeeded in cementing their control of land and oil reserves around the resource-rich city of Kirkuk, while Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, a Shi’ite Arab who has been an adversary of Iraqi Kurds, has fallen out of favor in Washington. At least one cargo of Kurdish crude was delivered to the United States in May to an unidentified buyer, and four other cargoes of Kurdish crude have been delivered this year in Israel. The case is Ministry of Oil of the Republic of Iraq v. Ministry of Natural Resources of Kurdistan Regional Governate of Iraq et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas, No. 3:14-cv-00249. (Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton, Missy Ryan and Tim Gardner in Washington, Isra' al-Rubei'i and Ahmed Rasheed in Baghdad, Terry Wade in Houston, David Ingram and Patience Haggin in New York,; David Sheppard and Julia Payne in London and Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Marguerita Choy and Howard Goller) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChina's President Xi waves during a visit to a housing development in CaracasBEIJING (Reuters) - Two influential former Chinese leaders gave their consent for President Xi Jinping to investigate ex-domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang, sources told Reuters, a sign the corruption probe will not open a rift in the ruling Communist Party. Xi would not have been able to investigate someone as powerful as Zhou without the agreement of senior party members and other retired top officials, political analysts said. But less clear is whether the elite is starting to get jittery over Xi's expanding corruption crackdown, which is spreading fear throughout the party and the government. Xi's predecessors Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin had approved the formal investigation into Zhou, the most senior Chinese official to be ensnared in a graft scandal since the party swept to power in 1949, two sources with ties to the leadership said. The party said in a brief statement on Tuesday that Zhou was being investigated by the party's anti-corruption watchdog for suspected "serious disciplinary violations", the usual euphemism for graft although it could also imply other wrongdoing. The statement made no mention of any laws being broken. Zhou, 71, was the security tsar within the Politburo Standing Committee - China's apex of power - for five years until he retired in 2012. "Jiang Zemin, Hu Jintao and Xi Jinping reached a consensus to deal with Zhou Yongkang for violating party discipline," one of the sources said. Former top leaders in China usually wield a lot of influence behind the scenes in a political system that prizes consensus decision-making. Both Jiang and Hu, as former presidents and heads of the party, also still have allies installed in office. The party statement did not detail wrongdoing by Zhou, but the sources said he had been accused of corruption involving family members and political allies as well as accepting bribes to promote officials. "Not all charges against Zhou would be made public," added the source, who requested anonymity to avoid repercussions for speaking to a foreign reporter without authorization. Zhou, who was last seen at an alumni celebration at the China University of Petroleum on Oct. 1, could not be reached for comment. It is not clear if he has a lawyer. WHO'S NEXT? The party statement on Zhou coincided with an announcement that its 205-member Central Committee would convene in October to "comprehensively study the advancing of the rule by law". Another source with leadership ties said Xi was considering a proposal to let the Central Committee decide whether to press criminal charges against Zhou after anti-corruption investigators detailed their case, as opposed to having the matter dealt with internally by the party. "This would be a first if Xi decides to let the Central Committee vote whether to put Zhou on trial," the source said. By breaking an unwritten rule that members of the Standing Committee would not come under scrutiny after retirement, Xi could risk antagonizing other party elders who fear that they and their families could be next if the crackdown does not ease off after Zhou's investigation, political analysts said. Xi's campaign has already sown so much fear that many officials are doing anything to stay out of trouble - from dithering over approving major projects to seeking early retirement. Some top executives under investigation at state-owned enterprises have committed suicide. About 30 senior officials at the provincial and ministerial level or above have been put under investigation for corruption since December 2012, state media has said. The People's Daily newspaper, the party's mouthpiece, said the crackdown was not about to end. "There will be no halt. Taking down Zhou Yongkang absolutely does not put an end to anti-corruption (efforts). This is only one step in a process. Going forward, whoever is corrupt will be punished," the newspaper said in a commentary. Reuters reported in early December that Zhou had been placed under virtual house arrest after Xi ordered a special task force to look into corruption accusations against him. Reuters also reported in March that Chinese authorities had seized assets worth at least 90 billion yuan ($14.56 billion) from family members and associates of Zhou. More than 300 of Zhou's relatives, political allies and staff had been taken into custody or questioned, said sources who had been briefed on the investigation. Zhou's son Zhou Bin had also been arrested, the influential Chinese magazine Caixin reported on its website after news of the investigation into his father had been made public. POWER STRUGGLE But Zhou Yongkang's case is also about power. Sources with ties to the Chinese leadership have said Xi wants to bring down Zhou for allegedly plotting appointments to retain influence ahead of the 18th party congress in November 2012, when Xi took over the party. Zhou had nominated Bo Xilai, a charismatic politician with leadership ambitions, to succeed him as domestic security chief and had tried to orchestrate the younger man's promotion to the Standing Committee, the sources have said. Bo later fell in a divisive scandal following accusations his wife murdered a British businessman in 2011. Bo's wife was convicted over the killing and Bo himself was jailed for corruption and abuse of power last year. Xi has made fighting pervasive graft a major theme of his administration and has promised to go after "tigers" - or senior officials - as well as "flies", or those of lower rank, as part of his effort to try to restore the party's tarnished image. It was unclear if Zhou would eventually be indicted. Putting Zhou on trial might risk embarrassing revelations about the party's inner workings coming to light, said another source. "It's probably too dangerous for the party," said the source. ($1 = 6.1800 Chinese yuan)   (Additional reporting by Megha Rajagopalan and Michael Martina; Editing by Dean Yates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the market's opening in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S regulators may relax rules that require the fastest possible execution of securities trades, potentially helping upstart trading venue IEX Group's plans to become a full-fledged stock exchange. IEX, described in author Michael Lewis' book "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt" earlier this year as a place for investors to place buy and sell orders without worrying that they are being "front-run" by other traders whose order transmission speeds are faster than theirs. IEX has put in place a "speed bump" – delaying incoming orders by 350 millionths of a second, or a thousandth of the time it takes to blink -- on its trading venue, letting it update prices faster than the fastest market participants can calculate them, so that high-frequency trading firms cannot use their speed advantage to front-run others. The strategy has proved popular with investors, who have made IEX the 7th most used alternative trading system in the U.S. for the week of July 7, according to data from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. However, instituting any sort of trading delay clashes with current market rules for exchanges, which is eventually what IEX has said it wants to be. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may decide to revisit the rules, keeping with its stated goal of protecting investors, while allowing IEX to keep its speed bump when it becomes an exchange, according to a person familiar with the SEC's thinking. Though the commissioners will make a decision only after IEX applies to become an exchange, the SEC is likely take into consideration that the high-speed trading phenomenon and the proliferation of such firms took hold only after the rules were written in 2005, the person said. IEX and the SEC declined to comment on the use of speed bumps and their legality under the current exchange rules, called Regulation National Market System (Reg NMS).   OPPORTUNITY AND FLEXIBILITY The regulator's willingness to consider altering the rules underscores growing worries about the potentially disruptive effects of high-frequency trading. High-speed computerized trading has been around since at least the late 1990s and has become a dominant force in the markets since then, accounting for more than half of all trading in U.S. stock markets. Supporters of high frequency trading say these firms provide essential liquidity to stock markets, as they always stand ready to buy and sell stocks. They say the ability of such firms to quickly spot and act on price differences across markets and asset classes creates a more efficient market. But critics say ultra-fast trading leads to unfair markets. In his book, Lewis said that it creates a two-tiered system, where the fastest firms can effectively front-run slower traders. IEX's speed bump was featured in the book as a way to counteract potentially harmful speed advantages. Several regulators have said they have active investigations into high-speed and automated trading, including the SEC, the New York State Attorney General, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In a June 5 speech, SEC Chair Mary Jo White questioned whether the pursuit of speed in the markets has gone beyond the point of benefiting investors and whether current rules are getting in the way of trading venues designing systems to level the playing field. "A key question is whether trading venues have sufficient opportunity and flexibility to innovate successfully with initiatives that seek to deemphasize speed as a key to trading success in order to further serve the interests of investors," White said. "If not, we must reconsider the SEC rules and market practices that stand in the way." In a statement to Reuters, IEX Chief Operating Officer John Schwall said, "We endorse SEC Chair White's recent statement that 'secondary markets exist for investors and public companies, and their interests must be paramount,' and continue to make that the focus of what we build at IEX."   AHEAD OF ITS TIME Since launching in October, IEX has said it aims to create what it sees as a fairer, less complex market, while operating within the current set of market rules. The rule in question is a section of Reg NMS about automatic quotations. It says exchanges must give trading firms the option of immediately canceling orders that are not immediately filled. The term "immediately", it says, "precludes any coding of automated systems or other type of intentional device that would delay the action taken with respect to a quotation." Further, the rule says that to qualify as "automatic," "no human discretion in determining any action taken with respect to an order may be exercised after the time an order is received" and "a trading center's systems should provide the fastest response possible without any programmed delay." About five years ago, Nasdaq OMX Group ran up against the same rule when it sought to include a speed bump in one of its trading venues, called PSX, according to a former Nasdaq employee who was involved in those discussions. Nasdaq nixed the idea after a presentation to the SEC, where the regulator directed the exchange operator's executives to the rule, which appeared to conflict with an exchange using such a device, this person said. Nasdaq declined to comment. The source familiar with the SEC's thinking on the matter said PSX may have been ahead of its time. The regulator now will likely look at the IEX case with the perspective that Reg NMS was written some 10 years ago, the source said.     (Reporting by John McCrank. Editing by Paritosh Bansal and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
emrank/flickrBERLIN (Reuters) - The success of Crocs Inc in Europe, where the U.S. shoemaker has focused on its trademark colorful foam clogs rather than branching into other products, proves the brand has a future despite difficulties at home, its European head said. Crocs, founded in Boulder, Colorado in 2002, quickly built a cult following for its springy-soled clogs, selling more than 300 million pairs of shoes. It now runs 624 stores and has expanded into accessories and more fashionable shoe styles. But profits went into decline as sales growth stalled at home and it expanded rapidly overseas. Last month, the group said it would focus back on its "core molded footwear heritage", cut 40 percent of its 350 product lines and close 75-100 stores as it trims investment in small markets. "You say 'Crocs' and a lot of people will frustratingly say 'are you still around?'" Vince Gunn, Crocs European managing director, told Reuters in a telephone interview. "We are here, we're doing pretty well. If we can get the shoes on you twice, then we've locked you in," he said. "The company is growing up again ... You have to go through changes and get fit again for the future." While sales fell 5.1 percent in the Americas in the first half of 2014, they grew 9.4 percent in Europe to account for a fifth of the total and rose 10.5 percent in Asia-Pacific, helping total group revenues climb 2.6 percent. "The European business was ahead of the game in managing the cost base," Gunn said, noting that his unit already only offered about 170-190 products of the 350 in the global range, keeping a lid on complexity. "We've tried to keep the range tight." The European business has kept a closer focus on the traditional clog rather than straying too far into other products, with clogs or derivatives accounting for about 70 percent of sales, compared with 50 percent globally. Crocs, in which a fund affiliated with investment firm Blackstone invested $200 million in January, has seen its shares jump since it announced restructuring plans on July 21 but they are still a fraction of their 2007 peak. Crocs is looking for a new chief executive officer after the departure of John McCarvel in April. Andrew Rees, who helped develop the company's new strategic plan while at management consultants LEK Consulting, joined as president in May. Europe will still be hit by the global store closure program, with 25-30 of the region's 230 stores set to go, Gunn said, but should benefit from the firm's plan to increase marketing spending by about 50 percent. Gunn rejected suggestions that part of the company's problem was the durability of its clogs as one pair can last for years. All Crocs shoes feature a trademarked material that is soft, light, non-marking and odor-resistant. "There are a lot of rip-off products out there. If we begin to dilute the quality and the strength of the product, it is a very dangerous path to go down," he said. Crocs, which makes about a third of group sales from products for children, has forecast that 2015 revenue would be hurt by store closures before growth resumes in 2016 and beyond. (Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MoirThe Bureau of Economic Analysis was set to release its first estimate of second-quarter GDP at 8:30 a.m. ET. The average economist on Wall Street is looking for 3.0% growth, after the 2.9% drop in Q1. Citi, Barclays, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, and UBS are among the big names forecasting between 2.9% and 3.1% growth. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna is sticking his neck out, predicting the figure will come in at 4.2%. In a new note, the LaVorgna explains why there's a good chance that estimate will prove low: it assumes a conservative rate of productivity.  Productivity is defined as GDP over hours worked. Recent data suggests Q2 hours climbed at a 3.8% annualized rate. Assuming a 4.2% GDP rate, we get productivity growth of 0.4%. But major declines in productivity are often followed by a snapback the following quarter. And data show productivity fell 5.8% in Q1. That could yet be revised even lower.  Here's the chart showing the yo-yo effect:Deutsche Bank"Unless Q1 GDP is revised up, Q1 productivity is poised to be revised significantly lower, thereby increasing the probability of a Q2 productivity snapback," LaVorgna writes. "While hours could be revised lower, this would run counter to the recent trend of upward revisions." A 5.8% productivity drop would be the second worst since World War II. After productivity dropped by 11.2% in Q3 1947, it was swiftly followed by an increase of 17.8% in Q4. For LaVorgna, we can expect a similar rebound Wednesday.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Wayne ParryEconomists estimate real GDP jumped 3.1% in Q2 after plunging 2.9% in Q1. They believe that the economic freeze caused by the unusually harsh winter will be reversed in a spring economic thaw. They see Q2 growth as a prelude to "3%-plus growth in the second half of the year," writes economist Gary Shilling. In a special report titled 'No Spring Thaw', Shilling warns "the herd is likely to be disappointed." Here's why: The one wild card could be inventory investment according to Shilling. "But barring a big jump in inventories, second quarter real GDP growth was probably a lot closer to 1% than 3%. It could even be a negative number." "A low second quarter real GDP number will kill the conviction that the first quarter drop was only an anomaly and it will spawn agonizing reappraisals for the rest of the year. It could put the Fed on hold at least into 2016 and be great for Treasury bonds. But for stocks, look out below!" This is a message Shilling communicated to Business Insider readers when he offered his "Most Important Chart In The World." See below. We get Q2 GDP at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovVladimir Putin.If you were expecting Russian stocks to fall Wednesday, you were wrong. Russia's MICEX index was actually up a healthy 2.2%. On Tuesday, U.S. President Barack Obama announced a fresh round of economic sanctions on Russia for its ongoing involvement in destabilizing Ukraine. "Among the targets of the new measures include the Bank of Moscow, the fifth-largest bank in Russia; the Russian Agricultural Bank, the fourth-largest; and VTB Bank, the second-largest," reported BI's Brett Logiurato. "The sanctions prohibit U.S. citizens or companies from providing new financing to the three major Russian financial institutions, thereby cutting off their access to U.S. capital markets. Along with sanctions announced two weeks ago, the U.S. has now targeted five of the six largest state-owned banks in Russia." Obama's announcement followed the European Union's announcement of sanctions on Russia. Sanctions are intended to bring economic pain, which in turn is supposed to put pressure on leaders to alter their decisions. To be clear, this is just a one-day move in the market, which doesn't mean much.  Moex.comStill, there's little doubt that Russia's economy is indeed under pressure. And Russia's MICEX index is actually down 3.5% since the beginning of the year; compare that with the S&amp;P 500, which is up 7.8% during that period. If anything, Wednesday's reaction reflects investors' expectations for the sanctions. And it would appear that the markets were prepared for worse. Elsewhere, European markets are trading in the red. Asian markets closed up. And U.S. futures are pointing up. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas HodelEuropean markets are in the red early Wednesday. Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.20%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.51%. Germany's DAX is down 0.11%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.28%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.10%. The comes after the U.S. and Europe imposed the toughest sanctions against Russia since the Cold War for its involvement in Ukraine.  Asian markets rose to a 6-1/2-year high, with Japan's Nikkei closing up 0.2% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.4%. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 19 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 3 points. The U.S. second-quarter GDP report was set to come out later Wednesday. "Following the first quarter’s surprising 2.9% decline in GDP, we are looking for a nice rebound in Q2," Wells Fargo's John Silvia said. "Perhaps even more notably, personal consumption expenditures grew at an initially reported 3.0% pace, but the figure was revised down to only 1.0%. While the decline in Q1 GDP was rather discouraging, economic indicators thus far in Q2 have been much more upbeat. While we still see net exports putting a drag on economic growth, inventory-building should provide a boost in Q2." At 2 p.m. ET, the Federal Reserve was set to publish its latest Federal Open Market Committee statement. Economists don't expect much, but they will be reading carefully for clues to when the Fed might start raising rates. FREE AppDownload
Adam Baker/FlickrLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays has cut just under 5,000 staff this year as part of its plan to streamline the bank and axe areas that are unprofitable, leaving the bank with fewer staff than at any time since 2007. Tushar Morzaria, finance director, said on a conference call after its second quarter results that the bank was on track with plans to cut 14,000 staff this year, including about 2,500 in the investment bank. Barclays said on Wednesday its underlying profits fell 8 percent in the second quarter after a drop in investment bank revenue as it attempts to streamline the business. (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Matt Scuffham) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokGood morning! Here's what people will be taking about on Friday.  1. The United States and Europe have adopted the strongest sanctions against Russia since the end of the cold war. The EU restrictions "include a measure that would prevent Russia’s largest state-owned banks from issuing stock or bonds in European markets," the Financial Times reports, while both western powers were "barring technology transfers in several parts of the energy sector, including shale gas and deep-sea and Arctic oil exploration." 2. Fifteen Palestinians were killed and about 90 injured when another UN school serving as a shelter for Palestinian refugees came under fire, The Guardian reports. The strikes follow the Israeli government's announcement that the war against Hamas was going to be long.  3. A massive pipe that burst Tuesday night spilled 8 to 10 million gallons of water near the campus of UCLA. The water line was shut down around three hours after the break, but pictures show the university campus and streets under water.  4. Twitter crushed expectations on revenue, EPS, and monthly active users on Tuesday. CEO Dick Costolo said in an interview with Business Insider that the gain in new users was the result of a better "onboarding" process. 5. A federal court blocked a Mississippi law on Tuesday that would close the last abortion clinic in the state. Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights said: "Today's ruling ensures women who have decided to end a pregnancy will continue, for now, to have access to safe, legal care in their home state." 6. Argentina is under pressure to avoid its second debt default in 12 years. The country has until the end of Wednesday to "either cut a deal with 'holdout' investors suing it or win more time from a U.S. court to reach a settlement," Reuters said.  7. The doctor credited with leading the fight against the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Sheik Umar Khan, died Tuesday after contracting the virus. Ebola can kill up to 90% of those infected.  8. Housing prices in major global cities, including London, New York, and Sydney, are soaring. For the past 12 months at the end of June, Bloomberg reported that London was up 20%, Manhattan 18%, and Sydney 5.4%. 9. British health experts warned that the Ebola virus, which has now killed nearly 700 people in West Africa, is a potential threat to the U.K. England's global health director told Prime Minister David Cameron that the deadly virus was the "most acute health emergency" facing Britain right now, The Independent reports.  10. A beach concert in the capital of Guinea turned deadly when 24 people were killed in a stampede, the BBC reports. The concert was celebrating the end of the holy month of Ramadan. And finally... Theodore VanKirk, the last surviving member of the American flight crew that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, died from natural causes at the age of 93.  FREE AppDownload
TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares touched a six-and-half-year peak on Wednesday and the dollar was steady, with investors waiting for second quarter U.S. growth data as well as a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting that some believe might yield a more hawkish policy outlook. The Fed will not be updating its economic forecasts and Chair Janet Yellen will not hold a news conference following the two-day policy meeting, leaving investors' focus squarely on a statement scheduled to be released at 2 p.m. (18:00 GMT). Ahead of that, financial spreadbetters predicted softer starts in Europe, with Britain's FTSE 100 &lt;.FTSE&gt; seen opening 2 points lower, or down 0.03 percent; Germany's DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; to open 18 points lower, or down 0.2 percent; and France's CAC 40 &lt;.FCHI&gt; to open 9 points lower, or down 0.2 percent. "Our index opening calls are shaping up for a modestly lower open, and if sanctions against Russia have caused investor outflows from Europe then the new sanctions from the EU could see this headwind continue," Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG, said in a note. Tuesday brought further EU and U.S. sanctions against Russia over Moscow's support for rebels in eastern Ukraine. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; shrugged off early losses in the wake of a decline on Wall Street to rise 0.5 percent to its highest level since January 2008, while Australian shares &lt;.AXJO&gt; climbed to their highest level since June of that year. "In the end it's really part of a global rally, it's been underpinned by the U.S., where economic growth is seen to be improving albeit slowly, and earnings growth in Australia looks reasonable at this stage," said Matthew Sherwood, head of investment market research at Perpetual in Sydney. Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; ended up 0.2 percent, as upbeat earnings offset weaker-than-expected industrial production data which cast doubts over the strength of an expected third-quarter economic recovery. Output fell 3.3 percent in June, the fastest rate since the devastating earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, as companies put on the brakes due to a pile-up in inventories. But manufacturers expect output to rise in the coming months. "Macro funds including overseas pension funds are shifting to Japanese shares from U.S. shares as valuations of Japanese shares are cheaper," said Kyoya Okazawa, head of global equities at BNP Paribas. On Wall Street overnight, a weak outlook from courier company United Parcel Service &lt;UPS.N&gt; triggered a broad selloff, pushing the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; below its 14-day moving average for a second straight day. Still, almost 70 percent of the S&amp;P 500 companies that have reported already have topped earnings expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data, which is well above the long-term average of 63 percent. More than half of companies have reported results, and over 63 percent of them have topped revenue forecasts, above the long-term average of 61 percent.  Later on Wednesday, the Fed is expected to cut its monthly bond-buying program by another $10 billion. Also later in the session, the Commerce Department is expected to report that the economy grew at a 3.2 percent annual pace in the second quarter, after it shrank 2.9 percent in the previous quarter. On Friday, the Labor Department's key nonfarm payrolls are expected to rise by 231,000 in July after an increase of 288,000 in June. The jobless rate is expected to hold steady at 6.1 percent. With U.S. unemployment dropping over the last few months and inflation firming, some believe the U.S. central bank could adjust its wording to suggest its willingness to hike interest rates sooner rather than later as the bank approaches its "full employment" mandate. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note &lt;US10YT=RR&gt; stood at 2.467 percent in late Asian trade, not far from its U.S. close of 2.462 percent on Tuesday, when it got support from German, Italian and Spanish government debt yields all hitting record lows. Ten-year German government bond yields, the benchmark for euro zone borrowing costs, sank as low as 1.12 percent &lt;DE10YT=TWEB&gt; on Tuesday. That helped the dollar rise to eight-month highs against the euro, which extended the drop as low as $1.3403 &lt;EUR=&gt; in Asian trade and was last steady at $1.3407. Against the yen, the dollar was steady on the day at 102.12 &lt;JPY=&gt; after it broke above the 102 level on Tuesday for the first time since early July. The dollar index, which tracks the U.S. unit against a basket of six major rivals, was last at 80.225 &lt;.DXY&gt;, after touching a six-month high of 81.245 on Tuesday as the euro cratered. U.S. crude edged up around 0.1 percent on the day to $101.07 a barrel after touching an intraday low of $100.37 on Tuesday, its lowest since mid-July. Spot gold &lt;XAU=&gt; was steady at $1,299 an ounce after slipping 0.5 percent and breaking below the key $1,300 level in the previous session. (Additional reporting by Thuy Ong in Sydney and Ayai Tomisawa in Tokyo; Editing by Shri Navaratnam, Kim Coghill and Simon Cameron-Moore) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersArgentine President Cristina Fernandez at a Mercosur summit in Caracas. Argentina faced a race against time on Wednesday to avert its second default in 12 years, needing to either cut a deal by the end of the day with "holdout" investors suing it or win more time from a U.S. court to reach a settlement. Argentine Economy Minister Axel Kicill scrambled to New York on Tuesday to join last-ditch negotiations, holding the first face-to-face talks with the principals of New York hedge funds who demand full repayment on bonds they bought at a discounted rate after the country defaulted in 2002. The hedge funds are owed $1.33 billion, but an equal treatment clause in an agreement Argentina made with bondholders in 2005 would cost Argentina many billions more. Kicillof emerged from talks late on Tuesday saying only that they would resume on Wednesday, but mediator Daniel Pollack said issues dividing the parties "remain unresolved," and it was still undecided whether the sides would meet Wednesday. Latin America's No. 3 economy has for years fought the holdout hedge funds that rejected large writedowns, but after exhausting legal avenues Argentina faces default if it cannot reach a last-minute deal. Argentina has until the end of Wednesday (4 a.m. GMT on Thursday) to break the deadlock. If it fails, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa will prevent Argentina from making a July 30 deadline for a coupon payment on exchanged bonds. Kicillof's unexpected appearance in New York raised hopes there was still time to avoid a default that would pile more pain on an economy already in recession, though not the economic collapse seen in 2002 when it defaulted on $100 billion in debt. "Avoiding a default is still feasible, and, even if there is a default, we believe the government could manage market expectations," Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a briefing paper on Tuesday. The Buenos Aires government has pushed hard for a stay of the U.S. court ruling that triggered Wednesday's deadline. Its chances of success were boosted on Tuesday when holders of Argentina's euro-denominated exchange bonds on Tuesday said a suspension would encourage a settlement. They also said they would facilitate a deal by waiving the so-called RUFO clause that prevents Argentina from offering other investors better terms than it offered them. Argentina has consistently argued the RUFO clause prohibits it from settling with the holdouts. "Obtaining a waiver of the RUFO clause, however, will take time," the group of bondholders said in an emergency motion for a stay filed on Tuesday. While unnerving, the debt crisis is a far cry from the turmoil of Argentina's record default in 2002, when dozens were killed in bloody street protests and the authorities froze savers' accounts to halt a run on the banks. How much pain a new default would inflict depends on how quickly Argentina could extricate itself from the mess. That would largely be determined by whether Argentina had persuaded enough bondholders it was ready to negotiate a swift settlement after the Dec. 31 expiration of the RUFO clause. Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, said an Argentine default was unlikely to prompt broader market repercussions given the country's relative isolation from the international financial system. South American leaders on Tuesday rallied behind Argentine President Cristina Fernandez, castigating the holdouts as financial speculators menacing the entire region.   (Additional reporting by Alejandro Lifschitz in Buenos Aires and Daniel Bases in New York; Editing by Simon Gardner and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Yellen testifies before the Senate Banking Committee on Capitol Hill in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve on Wednesday looks certain to press forward with its plan to wind down its bond-buying stimulus, and could offer some vague clues on how much nearer it might be to finally raising interest rates. The central bank is widely expected to cut its monthly asset purchases to $25 billion from $35 billion, which would leave it on course to shutter the program this fall. With little drama expected from the decision, and no fresh economic projections and no news conference to guide investors, financial markets will be left to scour the Fed's announcement for any hint on whether officials are growing more anxious to start to reverse their monetary accommodation. The Fed has kept overnight interest rates near zero since December 2008 and has more than quadrupled its balance sheet to $4.4 trillion through a series of bond purchase programs. However, with unemployment dropping and inflation firming, the Fed could suggest that the days of this monetary largesse are increasingly numbered. A report on Wednesday is expected to show the U.S. economy grew at a healthy 3 percent annual clip in the second quarter. "It is possible that the Fed will begin to alter its view on how much slack remains in the labor market," Paul Dales, of Capital Economics, said in a research note.  After its last meeting six weeks ago, the Fed said unemployment "remains elevated." Since then, the jobless rate has fallen to a near six-year low of 6.1 percent. JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli said in a research note that the central bank could modify the language to say "somewhat elevated." Such a change would allow the Fed "a more gradual pivot in communications toward recognizing they are making progress toward their mandate," he said. To a good degree, the health of the labor market holds the key to the Fed's decision on rates. Fed Chair Janet Yellen believes there is more slack in the jobs market than the unemployment rate alone would suggest, but she warned earlier this month that a rate hike could come "sooner and be more rapid than currently envisioned" if labor markets continue to improve more quickly than anticipated. After a stronger-than-expected reading on employment early this month, the median forecast of economists polled by Reuters put the first increase in rates in the second quarter of next year. Previously, it had been the third. [ECILT/US] The forecast is in line with the prediction offered by interest-rate futures, which imply an increase in June 2015. While less likely, officials could also acknowledge the modest uptick in U.S. prices, which has put inflation closer to the central bank's 2 percent target. But economists expect the Fed to hold fast to its guidance that a "considerable time" will elapse between the end of its bond buying and its first rate hike. (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA carpenter works on a new home at a residential construction site in the west side of the Las Vegas Valley in Las VegasWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. economic growth likely regained steam in the second quarter as activity picked up broadly, which would bolster expectations for a stronger performance in the last six months of the year. Gross domestic product likely grew at a 3.0 percent annual rate after shrinking at a 2.9 percent pace in the first quarter, according to a Reuters survey of economists. "I don't think the contraction we saw in the first quarter is reflective of what's truly going on in the economy," said Gus Faucher, senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. "We are seeing broad-based growth throughout the economy and that's going to be reflected in the GDP report." The anticipated growth pace will, however, leave output in the first half of the year flat. Earlier in the second quarter, growth estimates were as high as 4 percent, but they were cut as trade, consumer spending and business investment rebounded from the winter slump by less than expected. Growth for 2014 as a whole could average below 2 percent. "Irrespective of the precise GDP number that will print, we see no evidence to challenge our baseline view that the pace of economic growth is shifting higher to a three percent path for the balance of the year," said Anthony Karydakis, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak in New York. Employment growth, which has exceeded 200,000 jobs in each of the last five months, and strong readings on the factory and services sectors from the Institute for Supply Management underpin the bullish expectations for the rest of the year. The Commerce Department will release its first snapshot of second-quarter GDP at 8:30 a.m. (1230 GMT) on Wednesday. It will also publish revisions to prior GDP data going back to 1999. Also on Wednesday, payrolls processor ADP is due to release its private sector employment report for July at 8:15 a.m. (1215 GMT) which is expected to show a gain of 230,000 jobs, according to a Reuters poll, down from a gain of 281,000 in June. Economists expect upward revisions to output for the last three years, noting that an alternative growth measure, gross domestic income, is running above GDP. The GDP data, which will be released only hours before Federal Reserve officials conclude a two-day policy meeting, is unlikely to have much sway on monetary policy as the U.S. central bank has already dismissed the first-quarter contraction in output as a weather-related anomaly. "The Fed will acknowledge the improved economic conditions. However, we still believe the Fed will wait at least until the second quarter of 2015 before starting to slowly raise interest rates," said Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS in New York. Growth in the second quarter is expected to have been driven mainly by consumer spending and a swing in business inventories. Consumer spending growth, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity, likely accelerated to a pace above 2 percent after braking to a 1.0 percent pace in the first quarter because of weak healthcare spending. Inventories are expected to have contributed as much as one percentage point to GDP growth after chopping off 1.7 points in the first quarter. Business investment, government spending and home building likely also lent support to growth. Trade, however, was probably a drag for a second consecutive quarter as some of the increase in domestic demand was likely met by imports. Domestic demand is expected to have accelerated after almost stalling in the first quarter, which would underscore the economy's firming fundamentals. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
