Thomson ReutersThe new European Central bank (ECB) headquarters are pictured in FrankfurtWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Global central bankers, eager to see the economy stand on its own feet, faced the rude reality this week of market turmoil threatening already faltering growth and prolonging world reliance on easy money. Stocks slumped again on Wednesday pushing S&amp;P 500 losses to almost 8 percent since mid-September. The dollar fell and U.S. bond prices soared after weak Chinese inflation and U.S. producer price and retail sales data fanned fears the world economy could be even weaker than thought. When stock markets turned south last week after rallying for much of this year, many policymakers initially played that down. In fact, the sell-off could be seen bringing some healthy volatility back to markets that officials worried had become too complacent to risks ranging from tensions surrounding the conflict in Ukraine to the Ebola outbreak. But the deepening of the sell-off may have put major central banks on their heels, by raising the prospect of the market rout going too far too fast, threatening to hurt confidence and potentially triggering a pullback in spending. "It reminds me of the massive flight to quality we saw during the (2008) banking crisis, when there were fears that the whole global economy would tip into depression," said Nick Stamenkovic, a strategist at Edinburgh-based RIA Capital Markets. Economists familiar with central bank policymaking say there is no doubt that officials are worried by the markets' sharp turn for the worse. It is less clear how and when will they respond. Over the past week investors have pushed back their expected date for an initial Fed rate increase from next summer to late in 2015 or even into 2016. Ever since the financial crisis hit six years ago, central bankers have been at the forefront of a campaign to save the global economy, slashing rates to zero and pumping trillions of dollars into the world economy via unconventional policies such as buying vast amounts of government debt. At meetings of the International Monetary Fund last week, central bankers appeared content that their mission was largely over and called on governments to do their part to boost demand and job growth by investing in infrastructure.   FAMILIAR DILEMMA Central bank officials from Washington to Tokyo face questions that have dogged them in recent years: Is recent volatility just a sign of markets adjusting to a host of issues, from the potential for rising interest rates to tensions in the Middle East? Or is the world economy backsliding? Those who still have wiggle room have already been using it with central banks in Sweden, Poland and South Korea cutting interest rates over the past few days. Beijing is also expected to use its policy leeway to keep rolling out stimulus measures to keep the world's second-largest economy from cooling too much. It is a greater challenge for the Fed, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, which have long hit the limits of conventional monetary policy. Officials in Washington and London in particular were eager to start lifting interest rates in part because with rates near zero they have to resort back to unconventional policies to counter any new downturn. San Francisco Federal Reserve President John Williams told Reuters on Tuesday that he would be open to another round of asset buying if the outlook for the economy worsened significantly. But he stressed it was a distant possibility and his main scenario was that the U.S. economy would weather global headwinds and the Fed could start lifting rates in mid-2015. The ECB and the BOJ, meanwhile, are still in the thick of unconventional policies that are achieving only mixed results. They may be hard pressed to do more, even though ECB President Mario Draghi recently suggested it was European nations turn now to do their part saying that European governments with the capacity to borrow, such as Germany, should ramp up spending. The Fed's policy setting committee meets next week and plans to end its bond-buying program then. Its language will be watched particularly closely for evidence of how deeply recent world events have affected its thinking. "We have seen a lot of sizeable ups and downs in recent days and we don't know where the dust will settle," said Antulio Bomfim, a former Fed economist and senior managing director at the Macroeconomic Advisers consulting firm. "I don't think this fundamentally moves the (Federal Open Market Committee) in a different direction, (but) it does throw more caution into a committee that was already cautious."   (Additional reporting by Paul Carrel in Frankfurt, David Milliken in London, Jonathan Spicer and Anna Yukhananov in Washington; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
The US Federal Reserve has been stimulating the US economy with extraordinarily easy monetary policy. But it is preparing to tighten. The European Central Bank and Bank of Japan, however, appear to be on the verge of easing further. Meanwhile, central bankers in Russia and Ukraine are all about tighter monetary policy. To help everyone keep track, Morgan Stanley offers this guide to the monetary policy stance and bias of every major economy's central bank around the world. Morgan StanleyHere's Morgan Stanley's outlook for the five most important central banks: US - Expect First Rate Hike In Q1 2016Dollar strength and overseas economic weakness could feed disinflation bck to the US, lowering need for imminent rate hike from the Fed. Euro Area - Lower For Longer, But No QEThe chances of QE has increased (up to 40% probability in our view), but not our base-case; the need for full-blown QE will be reduced, if the ABSPP was sizeable and successful. Japan - Further Easing ExpectedPolicy response to poor data likely to be further easing of monetary policy as soon as end-October and more aggressive action on the raft of structural reforms. UK - Rate Rise Expected in Q1 2015A first rate rise in 1Q would give a few more months for the recover to settle in. We expect three 25bp rate rises in each of 2015 and 2016. However, this won't happen without higher pay growth. China - Targeted EasingIn view of strong growth headwinds, the PBOC is likely to maintain the loosening bias in monetary policy; targeted easing measures such as pledged supplementary lending (PSL) and selective RRR cuts will likely remain as the main tools to keep financial conditions loose. FREE AppDownload
Brett Bolkowy via www.flickr.com creative commons Business Insider is hiring a San Francisco-based front page editor.  We're looking for applicants who are news-obsessed, quick to learn, cool under pressure, careful, and appreciative of our approach to journalism. This is an important position that will involve working closely with top editors and journalists across our team. Responsibilities will include: The front page editor will be on shift from around 1pm to 9pm PST (exact hours TBD), working for at least part of that time alongside coworkers in our growing San Francisco office as well as colleagues in New York and London. We will consider journalists of varying levels of experience for this position. If you think you're a good fit, APPLY HERE with your resume, links to five clips, and a cover letter with no more than five sentences describing why we should hire you. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits. This is a full-time position. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomers are seen at a Wal-Mart market in Miami, FloridaSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - EBay Inc  on Wednesday joined Wal-Mart Stores Inc  in cutting its outlook for the all-important holiday season, suggesting that the fourth quarter may turn out to be weaker than some analysts predicted as recently as last week. The warnings from two of the retail industry's most influential players comes as investors re-assess the state of the global economy after weak data this week from the two largest countries, the United States and China. EBay and Wal-Mart blamed divergent factors such as food stamp reductions and unfavorable search-engine optimization for the lower outlooks. Both complained about the stronger dollar putting the skids on their forecasts, lowering the value of overseas sales once converted into the U.S. currency. But analysts say stagnant incomes are also prompting U.S. consumers to curtail spending. "EBay, especially on the marketplaces side, is actually suffering from company-specific setbacks," Wedbush Securities analyst Gil Luria said. "But overall, if e-commerce was growing faster or as fast as it was last year or a couple years ago, it would have probably helped them hide that."  DOLLARS AND CENTS EBay's fourth-quarter outlook was undercut by the strength of the dollar against the British pound, the euro and the Australian dollar, which together account for 35 percent of eBay's volume. The stronger dollar alone forced eBay to cut its fourth-quarter revenue outlook by $120 million. Coupled with slower-than-expected growth in its marketplaces division, eBay was forced to lop off $300 million from its annual revenue forecast. "As expected, (retail) sales have accelerated in the second half of the year, though economic signals remain mixed and consumers are still facing headwinds such as weak income growth," Moody's analyst Michael Zuccaro wrote on Wednesday. The more measured tone may spook investors as retailers such as Amazon.com Inc  and Target  release results over the next month. Investors and analysts had expressed high hopes for the holiday season as recently as last week. The National Retail Federation, in a press release entitled “optimism shines,” predicted strengthening consumer confidence would trigger a 4.1 percent spike in November-December retail sales, outpacing the 3.1 percent seen in the same period of 2013. But the group also warned that consumers remained uneasy about economic conditions, echoing concerns from other analysts including those at Moody's. Two-thirds of Americans are limiting how much they spend each month, according to a Bankrate.com report released this week. The top reason was stagnant incomes. eBay Chief Executive John Donahoe told Reuters he was "cautiously optimistic" about the holiday season but declined to discuss the topic further. In a sign of its cautious view on the U.S. market, Wal-Mart said it would slow store openings in the next fiscal year. Wal-Mart, which recorded $473.1 billion in sales in its last fiscal year, said it now expects sales to rise 2-3 percent in the current year to Jan. 31, 2015. It had previously estimated growth at the low end of a 3-5 percent range. Lower gasoline prices had been expected to fuel higher retail sales this winter, especially at Wal-Mart and other chains that cater to low- to middle-income shoppers, analysts said.  (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Additional reporting by Nathan Layne; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man looks at an electronic board displaying Japan's Nikkei average and the stock price indexes of various countries outside a brokerage in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - A sharp slide in Japanese stocks led Asian equities down on Thursday, as a maelstrom of concern about global growth drove U.S. Treasury yields lower and weighed on the dollar. Data released on Wednesday showed U.S. retail sales and producer prices both dropped last month, a worrisome economic signal that helped fuel a sell-off on Wall Street as it quashed expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve would hike U.S. interest rates sooner rather than later. The New York Fed's Empire State general business conditions index also plunged to 6.17 in October from September's 27.54, marking the weakest pace of manufacturing activity in New York state since April. The downbeat U.S. data came after a recent spate of weak figures from China and Europe raised fears about the health of the global economy. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was down 0.3 percent in early trade while Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; tumbled 1.8 percent. The S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; fell as much as 3 percent on Wednesday, briefly turning negative for the year, while European equities &lt;.FTEU3&gt; shed 3.2 percent to mark their biggest one-day slide in almost four years. "Investor risk preference appeared to vanish overnight with large-scale loss-cutting worldwide. In the absence of market depth, wild prices fluctuations could continue for some time with volatility itself having a further negative influence on risk assets," strategists at Barclays wrote in a note to clients. The grim mood sparked a safe-haven rally in U.S. Treasuries and pushed the yield on the benchmark 10-year note &lt; US10YT=RR&gt; as low as 1.865 percent, its deepest nadir since May 2013. It last stood at 2.128 percent in Asian trade. Only a month ago, fed funds futures had suggested traders priced in almost a 50 percent chance of a Fed rate increase as early as June 2015. But a jump in short-term U.S. interest rates futures on Wednesday implied traders anticipate the U.S. central bank would not move away from its near zero rate stance until the end of the first quarter in 2016. The dollar's index against a basket of six major currencies &lt;.DXY&gt; &lt;=USD&gt; stood at 84.903 in early Asian trade, wallowing at levels last plumbed in September and moving away from a four-year high of 86.746 touched early this month. Against the yen, the dollar sank to 105.99 yen &lt;jpy=&gt;, moving back toward a more than one-month low around 105.20 touched on Wednesday, while the euro &lt;eur=&gt; was slightly down on the day at $1.2821 after touching a nearly one-month high of $1.2835. The dollar's sharp fall overnight lent modest support to oil prices overnight, with U.S. crude futures ending just 6 cents lower at $81.78. But the contract was down more than 1 percent in Asian trade, at $80.64. Spot gold &lt;xau=&gt; was steady at $1,240.21 an ounce after marking a one-month high of $1,249.30 on Wednesday.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Giuseppe MiloHigh-achieving business women do not typically make 78 cents for every dollar their male peers earn. They make 62 cents for every dollar. That’s the finding of a new study out of Harvard, “Dynamics of the Gender Gap for Young Professionals in the Financial and Corporate Sectors” (which we wrote about previously here).  The authors studied MBAs who graduated from the University of Chicago’s business school between 1990 and 2006. They found that the further out of school people got, the more the gender gap widened.  The reason? It’s almost entirely penalty for women having children.   The study finds that recently-graduated MBAs start out with roughly the same incomes, regardless of gender ($115,000 for women and $130,000 for men at the median*). However, as time passes, income levels diverge, with men gradually pulling ahead. Nine years out, women at the median were earning $250,000. Men were earning $400,000, a 60% premium. There are three reasons the authors list for why women might make less: men tend to have slightly higher grades (and take more finance courses) when they graduate, women take more time off (hello, children!), and women work shorter hours. It is the last point that seems to be the most important: “The relationship between income and time off is highly nonlinear for those in our sample. Any career interruption—a period of 6 months or more out of work—is costly in terms of future earnings.” The authors find that 10 years after graduating, women are 22 percentage points more likely to have had one of those pay-stalling career interruptions. (Tangentially, it’s interesting to note that the wage penalty for men who elect to take time off appears to be more severe than for women, men just do it less often.) The important point here is the non-linear nature of the gaps once they begin to form. As you go up the income ladder, equal pay for equal work (per hour) ceases to exist. One of the paper’s authors, Claudia Goldin, has previously written about why these non-linear gaps come about: mostly because of the work cultures at the types of places that employ business school grads, which reward those who are available at the drop of a hat and punish those who need to do things like pick children up from school or be home by dinner. A banker who misses a late-night client conference call because she’s home with a sick child is going to see her career hurt, whether it’s explicit or not. It’s not right, but it’s currently the way the world works in finance, law, consulting — basically any high-priced service industry. And that’s what makes the pay gap at the top so huge.  FREE AppDownload
American consumers will have more buying power this holiday season. According to Morgan Stanley's Ellen Zentner and Paula Campbell, US households have about $129 billion more discretionary income —  money left over after tax payments, interest payments, and spending on necessities like food and transport — this year than last year.  That's a healthy 4.3% year-over-year increase. This chart shows the jump from last year in discretionary income. Morgan Stanley Lower gas prices have also increased discretionary income, the economists note. Gas prices at the pump have fallen with oil on concern that a slowing global economy is reducing demand. November wholesale gasoline prices fell to $2.22 per gallon, the lowest level in four years.  "If wholesale prices at that level are sustained through year-end, retail gasoline prices across all grades could average just under $3.00/gallon in 4Q this year compared with $3.37/gallon in 4Q13 - a decline of 37 cents/gallon," Morgan Stanley notes. "Such a move would free up more than $40 billion in consumer spending power in Q4 compared with Q4 2013." Even with these gains, the economists note that more cash in hand does not necessarily mean more spending. The consumer confidence reading for September missed expectations after four straight months of gains, and Fed chair Janet Yellen noted in her most recent press conference that households are not very optimistic about the prospects of higher incomes.  All this means more cautions spending. But here's what the economists conclude: "Nevertheless, the gains in income, even if much of it is saved, will likely be expressed in the form of generosity with more and/or higher-dollar gifts under the tree this year. That is what early reads on the holiday sales outlook are picking up,and that is what retailers are counting on." FREE AppDownload
It looked ugly this morning when the Dow was briefly trading down 425 points and the S&amp;P hit 1,821. It was pure panic, the very type of price action you need for a bottom – a pessimistic crescendo. Indeed, the market, for whatever reason – it depends who you ask, rallied strongly with the S&amp;P 500 rallying 40 points from the intra-day low to close at 1,862. Here is a chart which suggests traders were eyeing the trendline from the 2011 low when markets were in a panic about a European banking crisis. It is a big level and while this is a futures chart, if it was to break, the market could really accelerate to the downside. But as technical traders always say, “respect the line unless or until it breaks.” It seems last night US traders certainly did. That’s great news for the ASX. VFX Trader Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn eBay sign is seen at an office building in San Jose, CaliforniaSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - EBay Inc cut its 2014 revenue forecast to less than $18 billion on Wednesday and issued a lower-than-expected outlook for the critical holiday-dominated fourth quarter, sending shares down more than 3 percent in after-hours trading. The e-commerce company, which plans to split from its PayPal payments division next year, earned 68 cents per share for the third quarter. On average, analysts had expected 67 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. EBay said it was reducing its full-year revenue outlook to between $17.85 billion and $17.95 billion, down from its previous range of $18 billion to $18.3 billion. The company also predicted fourth-quarter revenue of less than $5 billion, falling short of the $5.2 billion expected by Wall Street. EBay expects fourth-quarter earnings per share between 88 and 91 cents, while Wall Street expected 91 cents.  (Reporting by Deepa Seetharaman; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
APEarnings look good. (Reuters) - U.S. airlines are expected to report healthy third-quarter profits as jet fuel costs keep declining, even though their stocks have plunged on concerns that Ebola will discourage travel, analysts said. Delta Air Lines kicks off earnings season Thursday with what is expected to be a stronger performance than in 2013. Earlier this month, the airline projected a quarterly operating margin of 15 to 16 percent, excluding one-time charges that would cut these numbers in half. Yet rather than applaud any third-quarter gains, investors will focus on whether the current-quarter outlook has darkened because of renewed competition and macroeconomic concerns such as Ebola. Shares of Delta, American Airlines and United Airlines have dropped more than 18 percent on average in the last month on fears that people will cut travel to reduce the chance of catching Ebola. Analysts say positive guidance coupled with jet fuel savings could reverse the stocks' downward trend. The stocks "have been very, very weak, but there's no reason for them to be," said Cowen &amp; Co analyst Helane Becker. "We think that guidance for the fourth quarter is likely to be up, not down." Buying American Airlines shares now almost guarantees gains, according to a JPMorgan report by analyst Jamie Baker published Tuesday. The stock's value has fallen 30 percent in the last 30 trading days. When shares of Continental Airlines and post-merger United have fallen by 30 percent, which has happened 28 times since 1993, they rebounded with an average gain of about 103 percent, Baker wrote. FUEL SAVINGS Jet fuel, which represents 35 percent of U.S. airlines' operating costs, has fallen about 12 percent over the past month to levels unseen since 2010, Becker said. The savings go straight to American's bottom line because it does not hedge fuel costs. But other carriers likely will see smaller potential gains. A Trefis report anticipated that Delta will incur $350 million in charges this quarter from fuel hedge settlements. Southwest Airlines said in an interview earlier this month that it is hedging less, though still actively managing fuel costs. Cheaper fuel usually leads to lower airfares and passenger revenue, Becker and UBS analyst Darryl Genovesi said. So the amount of fuel savings that airlines actually will keep remains in question. "We're in a period of elevated macroeconomic uncertainty, so there is some concern that the airlines will see declining unit revenues," Genovesi added, citing the potential for slowing global economic growth, crises in the Middle East and Ukraine, as well as to Ebola. Still, Genovesi expects a modest rise in unit revenue, or passenger revenue per available seat mile, in the fourth quarter. Despite Ebola fears, holiday travel bookings data through Oct. 5 suggest demand is close to unchanged from last year. But "it is certainly possible that demand has deteriorated over the past 10 days," he said. COMPETITION AND SURPRISES Investors also will scrutinize airlines' recent moves into new markets. Delta has announced nine daily flights from Los Angeles to Texas, continuing the Atlanta-based carrier's incursion into strongholds of American Airlines. Fort Worth-based American has since unveiled nonstop service between Los Angeles and Delta's Atlanta home. If "new flights are being added purely for reciprocation" rather than for expected profit, that is "something we'd prefer not to see," Genovesi said. United and Southwest offer the biggest potential earnings surprises. Considered a "laggard" in previous quarters, United recently revised its forecast for this quarter's passenger revenue per available seat mile to the upper limit of its original estimate, making it an industry leader by that measure, said consultant Robert Mann and Becker. Southwest is expected to gain from aggressive route expansion. It now can fly nonstop from Dallas Love Field to anywhere in the lower 48 states after a state statute banning such flights expired Monday. Southwest also is adding international destinations and transcontinental routes after regulators approved the American-US Airways merger on the condition that they open up slots at New York LaGuardia and Washington DC Ronald Reagan airports for other carriers. (Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Alwyn Scott and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Frontier Markets Are The Secret Untapped Resource (BlackRock Blog) Frontier markets — the emerging markets of tomorrow — are an untapped resource for investors, argues Heidi Richardson. "We believe these developing economies offer significant long-term growth potential as well as diversification benefits thanks to their relatively low correlation to many major asset classes, among other reasons," Richardson writes. Richardson recommends the iShares MSCI Frontier 100 ETF (FM) for three reasons: First, it offers pure frontier markets exposure. Second, it's well-diversified. And third, that index is biased towards liquidity. Clients Decide How They Feel About An Advisor In Less Than 5 Seconds (Advisor Perspective) It only takes clients "five seconds or less" to decide on how they feel about an advisor, writes Dan Richards. So advisors should be prepared to make a great — and lasting — impression within those initial seconds. The first thing that clients notice is energy level, and specifically whether or not the advisor projects a sense of confidence. "To project confidence, you have to be fully engaged and set aside all distractions. That means that you should review the prospect file beforehand, so that you aren't scrambling for a last-minute review of notes," writes Richards. Additionally, advisors should dress "to their marketplace", and when in doubt they should definitely wear clothes on the conservative end.   Passive ETFs Are Too Concentrated To Be The Key To Emerging Markets (Investment News) Many investors choose passive ETFs because they believe that they offer low-risk and inexpensive exposure to EM markets. However, there are major problems with the construction of these ETFs, "primarily based on the methods used to build the underlying indexes," argues Tim Atwill.  "First, both the MSCI and FTSE Emerging Markets indexes are quite concentrated. In both indexes, China represents close to one-fifth of the underlying portfolio, and the top five countries represent over 65% of the exposure," Atwill writes. A concentrated portfolio is risky because that concentrated position will drive the portfolio's performance. China, for example, is seeing converging economic growth — which will likely negatively affect both of these indexes. US Quality Stocks Are Cheap Because Investors Are Mispricing Them And Are Forecasting Slow Growth (Morningstar) Quality stocks are relatively cheap right now for several possible reasons. First of all, investors might be mispricing quality stocks because they aren't "appreciating their strong and persistent pricing power," writes Samuel Lee. Most investors tend to focus on earnings over the next few quarters, maybe years, but quality stocks realize their advantages over much longer time horizons. Additionally, "investors are forecasting slower per-share dividend growth for quality stocks relative to the market. Since the end of the financial crisis, lower-quality firms have been quickly raising their dividends from extremely low levels. Financial institutions have had their dividends suppressed by regulators, and this may change," writes Lee. Merrill Lynch And An Ex-Employee Are Standing Trial In Italy For A Bond Deal From 2003 (The Wall Street Journal) Bank of America Merrill Lynch and one of its former employees are being ordered by a tribunal in the Italian city of Bari to stand trial over a losing bond deal. "Prosecutors accuse the former bank employee of fraud related to the issuance of an €870 million bond in 2003 and a derivatives contract associated with it. In particular, prosecutors allege that the bank's employee didn't properly inform its client of the risks of these financial situations," writes Giovanni Legorano.  The bank itself has to stand trial because "it is accused of having failed to prevent unlawful conduct by its employee." Merrill Lynch denies any wrongdoing, and it putting "its maximum trust in the Italian justice system," writes Legorano. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAmerican Express and American Express corporate cards are pictured in Encinitas(Reuters) - American Express Co &lt;axp.n&gt;, the world's largest credit card issuer, reported an 8.1 percent rise in quarterly profit as customers spent more using the company's credit cards. Net income rose to $1.48 billion, or $1.40 per share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 30 from $1.37 billion, or $1.25 per share, a year earlier. Total revenue, net of interest expense, remained nearly unchanged at $8.33 billion. Analysts were expecting net income of $1.37 per share and revenue of $8.35 billion.   (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/SCholewiakStocks finished lower, but way off their worst levels, after a wild session that saw stocks open sharply lower as bond yields fell around the world, oil prices remained at multi-year lows, and several US economic data points came in below expectations. At their lows, stocks were down more than 2% across the board, with the Dow falling as much as 435 points and the S&amp;P 500 losing all of its year-to-date gains. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. What a day for the market. Before US stocks opened for trade, the bond market went wild, with yields on the US 10-year Treasury bond falling as low as 1.86% before settling near 2%, its lowest level since June 2013. German 10-year bunds also fell dramatically, falling to 0.75%. US stocks took their lead from markets in Europe, where stock in Germany lost 2.9%, the UK's FTSE lost 2.8%, CAC in Paris lost 3.6%, and stocks in Italy lost 4.4%. These losses, however, paled in comparison with the declines seen in Greece, which lost 6%.  2. The price of oil settled near $81.40, losing another 0.5% after Tuesday's 4% decline that sent crude to its lowest level since late 2012. The decline in oil is also seriously weighing on shares of oil drilling companies, notably midsize companies such as Nabors, Transocean, Concho Resources, and Whiting Petroleum. Even mega-cap oil companies like Chevron, ExxonMobil, and Royal Dutch Shell have seen their shares decline in the face of declining oil prices and broader market weakness. 3. It was a broad sell-off across the board on Wednesday, as seemingly every major risk of the last couple weeks popped up: softening economic data, declining oil prices, and fears of the spread of Ebola. Rich Barry, floor governor at the NYSE, wrote in an afternoon email blast that seven core factors were being blamed for the sell off at the Exchange.  4. Before the market open on Wednesday, three pieces of US economic data disappointed. Retail sales came in worse than expected, with headline sales falling 0.3% against expectations for a more modest 0.1% decline. The latest report on producer prices paid showed that prices unexpectedly fell 0.1% in September against expectations for a 0.1% increase. Additionally, the New York Fed's latest Empire manufacturing report showed that business conditions plunged more than 20 points to 6.17 from last month's 27.54 reading, and way below the 20.25 that was expected by economists. Late in the afternoon, a report from Bloomberg said that Janet Yellen affirmed her view that the US economic expansion would continue. 5. Also in economic news, the Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report of economic anecdotes showed that the economy is still growing, consistent with the last two reports. Wednesday's report showed that consumer spending in most districts saw overall growth ranging from slight to moderate, though general merchandisers in New York saw sales that were weaker on balance than prior reports.  6. A second nurse treating an Ebola patient in Dallas contracted the disease, the CDC confirmed on Wednesday. Additionally, the patient flew on a commercial flight from Cleveland to Texas on Monday. On Wednesday, shares of airline stocks took it on the chin again following Monday's sharp sell-off as concerns that governments could eventually impose travel bans related to Ebola weighed on the sector.  7. HBO announced that it would introduce a stand-alone streaming video service in 2015, and following the announcement, shares of Netflix sold off as investors initially interpreted the service as a direct challenge. After the market close on Wednesday, Netflix shares fell as much as 20% after the company reported that it added fewer domestic subscribers than expected in the third quarter.  8. One of the largest proposed "tax inversion" deals that would have seen Chicago-based AbbVie acquire Irish drug company Shire and redomicile to Ireland could be at risk after AbbVie said it was reconsidering its bid following US moves to curb inversions. Business Insider's Brett LoGiurato noted that this could be one of the first major wins for the Obama administration in its efforts to stem the tide of inversions. The news sent shares of Shire tumbling, making for an ugly day for hedge fund manager John Paulson, who was in line for paper losses of up to $782 million, according to Business Insider's Julia LaRoche.  9. Bank of America reported earnings before the market open on Wednesday, reporting a $0.01 loss per share against expectations for $0.09 on revenue of $21.4 billion. On an adjusted basis, Bank of America earned $0.43 per share in the third quarter, as the bank took $5.8 billion in legal charges related to its settlement with the Department of Justice.  10. The US Treasury Department announced that the budget deficit fell to about $483 billion in fiscal 2014, the lowest under President Obama and almost $200 billion below last year. This also marks the fifth consecutive year the deficit declined as a percentage of GDP.  Don't Miss: Europe Is Flirting With A Bizarre New Kind Of Economic Meltdown That Hasn't Been Seen Since The 1930s » FREE AppDownload
Enrique Marcarian/ReutersNetflix CEO Reed Hastings. Netflix reported that it added 980,000 domestic subscribers in the third quarter, well below the 1.37 million net adds that analysts were expecting. Netflix shares were down as much as 20% in immediate reaction in after-hours trade following the news. Netflix reported Q3 EPS of $0.96, topping expectations for earnings of $0.93, on revenue of $1.41 billion against estimates for $1.41 billion.  The company's fourth-quarter earnings-per-share guidance also came in well short of expectations, with the company saying it expects earnings per share of $0.44 against Wall Street expectations for earnings of $0.84.  In the fourth quarter, Netflix is expected to add 1.85 million domestic subscribers. In its Q3 letter to shareholder, Netflix said that, "In hindsight, we believe that late Q2 and early Q3 the impact of higher prices appeared to be offset for about two months by the large positive reception to Season Two of Orange is the New Black. We remain happy with the price changes and growth in revenue and will continue to improve our service, with better content, better streaming and better choosing. The effect of slightly higher prices is factored into our Q4 forecast." The company added: "We are forecasting Q4 US contribution margin to increase almost 500 basis points on a y/y basis, but to decrease slightly sequentially, as it did last year from Q3 to Q4, due to significant sequential increases in content and marketing expense." Netflix's latest quarterly report also comes after HBO announced on Wednesday that it plans to launch a standalone streaming video service sometime in 2015. In its quarterly letter, Netflix commented on the HBO announcement, saying that "Starting back in 2011 we started saying that HBO would be our primary long-term competitor, particularly for content. The competition will drive us both to be better. It was inevitable and sensible that they would eventually offer their service as a standalone application. Many people will subscribe to both Netflix and HBO since we have different shows, so we think it is likely we both prosper as consumers move to Internet TV." Overall, Netflix says there is "no change to our view on the long term attractiveness and US market size of Internet television, and no change to our view of the ultimate size of our US membership."    FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/GettyFormer HP CEO Carly Fiorina received her master's in management from Sloan in 1989. The Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has powerful connections throughout the world, as evidenced by the 92% of the Class of 2013 with job offers within three months of graduation.  Sloan was founded in 1914 and is named for Alfred Pritchard Sloan, the MIT grad who drove General Motors to dominance in 23 years as a CEO. The school turns out private and public sector leaders like former United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and Microsoft chairman John W. Thompson. Here are 25 of the most successful Sloan grads. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/SCholewiakStocks finished lower, but way off their worst levels, after a wild session that saw stocks open sharply lower as bond yields fell around the world, oil prices remained at multi-year lows, and several US economic data points came in below expectations. At their lows, stocks were down more than 2% across the board, with the Dow falling as much as 435 points and the S&amp;P 500 losing all of its year-to-date gains. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. What a day for the market. Before US stocks opened for trade, the bond market went wild, with yields on the US 10-year Treasury bond falling as low as 1.86% before settling near 2%, its lowest level since June 2013. German 10-year bunds also fell dramatically, falling to 0.75%. US stocks took their lead from markets in Europe, where stock in Germany lost 2.9%, the UK's FTSE lost 2.8%, CAC in Paris lost 3.6%, and stocks in Italy lost 4.4%. These losses, however, paled in comparison with the declines seen in Greece, which lost 6%.  2. The price of oil settled near $81.40, losing another 0.5% after Tuesday's 4% decline that sent crude to its lowest level since late 2012. The decline in oil is also seriously weighing on shares of oil drilling companies, notably midsize companies such as Nabors, Transocean, Concho Resources, and Whiting Petroleum. Even mega-cap oil companies like Chevron, ExxonMobil, and Royal Dutch Shell have seen their shares decline in the face of declining oil prices and broader market weakness. 3. It was a broad sell-off across the board on Wednesday, as seemingly every major risk of the last couple weeks popped up: softening economic data, declining oil prices, and fears of the spread of Ebola. Rich Barry, floor governor at the NYSE, wrote in an afternoon email blast that seven core factors were being blamed for the sell off at the Exchange.  4. Before the market open on Wednesday, three pieces of US economic data disappointed. Retail sales came in worse than expected, with headline sales falling 0.3% against expectations for a more modest 0.1% decline. The latest report on producer prices paid showed that prices unexpectedly fell 0.1% in September against expectations for a 0.1% increase. Additionally, the New York Fed's latest Empire manufacturing report showed that business conditions plunged more than 20 points to 6.17 from last month's 27.54 reading, and way below the 20.25 that was expected by economists. Late in the afternoon, a report from Bloomberg said that Janet Yellen affirmed her view that the US economic expansion would continue. 5. Also in economic news, the Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report of economic anecdotes showed that the economy is still growing, consistent with the last two reports. Wednesday's report showed that consumer spending in most districts saw overall growth ranging from slight to moderate, though general merchandisers in New York saw sales that were weaker on balance than prior reports.  6. A second nurse treating an Ebola patient in Dallas contracted the disease, the CDC confirmed on Wednesday. Additionally, the patient flew on a commercial flight from Cleveland to Texas on Monday. On Wednesday, shares of airline stocks took it on the chin again following Monday's sharp sell-off as concerns that governments could eventually impose travel bans related to Ebola weighed on the sector.  7. HBO announced that it would introduce a stand-alone streaming video service in 2015, and following the announcement, shares of Netflix sold off as investors initially interpreted the service as a direct challenge. After the market close on Wednesday, Netflix shares fell as much as 20% after the company reported that it added fewer domestic subscribers than expected in the third quarter.  8. One of the largest proposed "tax inversion" deals that would have seen Chicago-based AbbVie acquire Irish drug company Shire and redomicile to Ireland could be at risk after AbbVie said it was reconsidering its bid following US moves to curb inversions. Business Insider's Brett LoGiurato noted that this could be one of the first major wins for the Obama administration in its efforts to stem the tide of inversions. The news sent shares of Shire tumbling, making for an ugly day for hedge fund manager John Paulson, who was in line for paper losses of up to $782 million, according to Business Insider's Julia LaRoche.  9. Bank of America reported earnings before the market open on Wednesday, reporting a $0.01 loss per share against expectations for $0.09 on revenue of $21.4 billion. On an adjusted basis, Bank of America earned $0.43 per share in the third quarter, as the bank took $5.8 billion in legal charges related to its settlement with the Department of Justice.  10. The US Treasury Department announced that the budget deficit fell to about $483 billion in fiscal 2014, the lowest under President Obama and almost $200 billion below last year. This also marks the fifth consecutive year the deficit declined as a percentage of GDP.  Don't Miss: Europe Is Flirting With A Bizarre New Kind Of Economic Meltdown That Hasn't Been Seen Since The 1930s » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe Obama administration has taken on its own fight with inversions. Editor's note: This post was originally published Oct. 15. It has been updated Tuesday, as the merger proposal is officially dead. The Obama administration has scored its first major victory in its solo battle against a rising trend of corporate inversions, if the Chicago-based AbbVie follows through and abandons plans to take over drug-maker Shire. AbbVie, the research-based pharmaceutical company, said late Tuesday it was reconsidering an original plan to buy Shire, which makes drugs to combat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). AbbVie had offered to buy Shire for about $55 billion and proposed moving the merged company's base of operations to London, in a move that would allow it to pay fewer taxes under a scheme known as an inversion. The deal could have been the largest inversion in US history. But late last month, the Treasury Department announced executive moves to attempt to curb inversions. The Obama administration said it was acting unilaterally because it could no longer wait for Congress to address the growing trend legislatively. In an SEC filing Tuesday night, AbbVie specifically cited the Treasury's actions as a reason for reconsideration of the merger.  "AbbVie’s Board will consider, among other things, the impact of the US Department of Treasury’s proposed unilateral changes to the tax regulations announced on Sept. 22, 2014, including the impact to the fundamental financial benefits of the transaction," the company said in the filing. The Treasury Department is trying to limit inversions through two main strategies, administration officials said last month. It wants to make inversions less economically attractive and financially rewarding, something at which AbbVie hinted in its statement. It also wants to make it more difficult for the transactions to occur in the first place. "This action will significantly diminish the ability of inverted companies to escape US taxation," Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told reporters on a conference call last month. "For some companies considering deals, today’s action will mean that inversions no longer make economic sense."   AbbVie said its board of directors will meet next week to consider whether to withdraw or modify its recommendation that the company's stockholders vote to adopt the merger. REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays the share price for pharmaceutical maker AbbVie on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange July 18, 2014. The financial benefits of the deal that AbbVie was reconsidering weren't specifically detailed. But the Obama administration moved to make inversions less financially appealing through two main ways last month: • Preventing inverted companies from restructuring a foreign subsidiary to access the subsidiary’s earnings tax-free. This action, under Section 7701 of the tax code, will treat a new foreign parent company as owning stock in the former US parent, rather than the controlled foreign corporation (CFC). It would limit the benefits of the so-called de-controlling strategy, by which a new foreign parent could access the deferred earnings of the CFC without ever paying taxes on them. • Preventing "hopscotch" loans. The administration has moved to reduce the benefits of these loans, by which companies avoid taxes on profits of their CFCs by having the CFC make a loan to the new foreign parent, instead of the US parent. Britain was an attractive option as a potential tax base for AbbVie because the UK government recently introduced new tax breaks for research-and-development companies.  The Obama administration has said halting inversions is necessary to prevent an erosion of the US corporate tax base. But Republicans and Democrats disagree about how to legislatively fix the problem, with Democrats preferring a standalone solution immediately and Republicans preferring to wait to include a fix in a broad reform of the nation's tax code. The Treasury Department spokesperson declined to comment. But senators who have taken up inversions as a pet issue painted the new development as the first major victory for the Obama administration's new rules.  "I’m encouraged by reports that AbbVie will reconsider its decision to move its tax address out of the United States," said Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), the second-ranking Democratic senator. "When corporations choose to invert and don’t pay their fair share of taxes, they leave the rest of us to pick up the tab. That isn’t right, and I hope that more companies will see the light." "The Obama Administration has taken action to help curb this practice," he added. This post has been updated. FREE AppDownload
AP A Wal-Mart employee in Walpole, Mass. pushes a line of shopping carts.Wal-Mart management sees 'somewhat slower growth' in the years to come. This is how CFO Charles Holley characterized his outlook for the retail giant during the company's Annual Meeting for the Investment Community on Wednesday. Holley forecasted fiscal 2015 sales would reflect 2% to 3% year-over-year growth. This is down from previous guidance of 3% to 5% growth. This follows an announcement earlier today that the company would open just 60-70 supercenters in fiscal 2016, down from 120 in fiscal 2015. "It's important for us to really think about these big boxes," Wal-Mart US CEO Greg Foran said. Holley expects online sales growth to remain robust, surging a healthy 25% in fiscal 2016. Thanks to Yahoo's Jeff Macke for the headline. FREE AppDownload
Statigram/LucyBuzzzJustin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman.  For some, graduation is only a few weeks away. Whether that's a good thing or bad thing is unimportant — it's inevitable. For some guys that means it's time to dress up and work for the man, and if you do have to dress up you should definitely do it right. Here are 10 things you should look to have in your wardrobe if you're heading out into the real world. It may not be feasible to buy them all at once but in short order they can all be had. Along with each item is a list of 3-5 places to acquire it, or at least a place to start your search. Most of the places are not as well known as the places you would find walking up and down 5th Avenue. However, they all provide a better value for your money. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen According to a new report from Bloomberg's Rich Miller, Yellen told members members of the Group of 30 over the weekend that she remains confident in the durability of the US economic expansion despite slowing global growth and turbulent financial markets. Miller's report cites two people familiar with Yellen's comments who asked not to be named because the meeting was private.  The report said Yellen told the G-30 that inflation will eventually rise back to the Fed's 2% target with the unemployment rate expected to fall further.  Yellen's comments over the weekend largely echoed her most recent public comments, made on September 17 alongside the Fed's latest monetary policy decision, which said that the Fed sees the economy growing at a moderate pace going forward. This report also follows the Fed's latest Beige Book report on economic activity, which showed that the economy continues to grow at a modest to moderate pace, as it has for the last several months.  On Twitter following the Beige Book, Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna said, the Fed's Beige Book was "nothing new, it's more of the same." #Fed beige book reports "moderate" growth, "modest" wage gains and "subdued" prices. This is nothing new--it's more of the same.   On Wednesday, stocks in the US were selling off hard, with the Dow falling more than 400 points at one point as the yield on US government bonds tumbled, with the 10-year yield falling as low as 1.86% early in the morning.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Federal Reserve just released its latest Beige Book report of economic anecdotes.  The report showed, among other things, that the economy is continuing to grow at a modest to moderate pace. The report showed that in all 12 Fed districts, economic activity was described as experiencing modest to moderate growth. Consumer spending in most districts saw overall growth ranging fro slight to moderate, a pace similar to prior Beige Books. In New York, however, general merchandisers saw sales that were weaker on balance than prior reports. The report is based on information collected from each of the Fed's twelve districts. The most recent Beige Book, released on September 3, showed that for the second straight time, economic activity expanded in all twelve Fed districts. Wednesday's Beige also came amid a broad market sell off, with the Dow falling more than 400 points, and the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq down more than 2%.  Here's the full text of the Beige Book report: Most Districts reported overall growth in consumer spending that ranged from slight to moderate, at a pace that was often similar to that reported in the previous Beige Book. However, general merchandise retailers in New York noted that sales were weaker on balance since the previous report. Several District reports indicated that retailers were relatively optimistic about the remainder of the year. Meanwhile, tourism activity remained upbeat in several areas, with some reports of higher occupancy rates and solid advance bookings for travel and lodging. Several Districts reported that nonfinancial services grew at a moderate pace since the previous Beige Book. Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted growth in this sector, with a few pointing to capacity constraints in railroads, trucking, or both. Manufacturing activity increased in most Districts since the previous Beige Book; contacts in the Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts reported positive near-term outlooks. Residential construction and real estate activity were mixed since the previous report. Commercial construction and real estate activity grew in most Districts. Banking conditions continued to improve relative to the previous Beige Book. Commercial loan volumes increased in nearly all reporting Districts. However, consumer loan demand was mixed, and some Districts pointed to low or reduced levels of demand for refinancing. Credit standards generally remained unchanged, and there were no reports of deterioration in credit quality. Agricultural conditions were mixed since the previous Beige Book. Prices for some crops declined, driven in part by very strong realized or anticipated production. These lower prices for some agricultural commodities were seen as weighing on producers' incomes, but as benefiting those using the commodities as inputs. In the energy sector, coal production was mixed and oil and natural gas production generally increased from already-high levels. Employment continued to expand at about the same pace as that reported in the previous Beige Book. Most Districts reported that some employers had difficulty finding qualified workers for certain positions. A number of Districts characterized overall wage growth as modest, but reported upward wage pressures for particular industries and occupations, such as skilled labor in construction and manufacturing. Consistent with the previous Beige Book, price pressures remained subdued, with Districts reporting little to no change in price levels or modest increases. Firms generally reported that input prices were unchanged or up slightly. Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts described growth in consumer spending as slight to moderate, and at a pace roughly similar to that reported in the previous Beige Book. In particular, the Boston, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported moderate growth; Philadelphia reported only slight growth in non-auto retail sales, and retailers in the Atlanta and San Francisco Districts also cited a slight improvement in sales. General merchandise sales in the New York District were weaker on balance since the previous report. Boston, New York, and Chicago reported that inventories were at desired levels. In Philadelphia, many retailers were avoiding the need for deeper discounting; however, New York and Cleveland reported that some contacts were running more promotions than usual. Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco indicated that retail contacts were relatively optimistic about the remainder of the year. In Chicago and Dallas, retailers were expecting that sales during the upcoming holiday shopping season would be up slightly from a year earlier. Growth in auto sales varied across Districts, but was generally positive. In the New York District auto dealers reported that sales were steady to slightly stronger, while sales increased modestly in the Kansas City District. Auto dealers continued to report strong growth in the Philadelphia District. Lower gas prices spurred sales of larger vehicles in the Chicago District. Cleveland reported that new auto sales were down slightly in August from a year ago, but year-to-date sales were higher than the same period last year. Cleveland and Kansas City also reported solid sales of larger vehicles, such as light trucks and SUVs. In the Kansas City District, auto inventories fell; in Cleveland, inventory reports were mixed. Dallas reported that contacts were satisfied with their inventory levels. Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas noted that dealers were optimistic about sales prospects for the rest of the year. Tourism activity was relatively solid in several areas, with upbeat reports from the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts. In the Kansas City District, tourism fell from the previous month but was up strongly from a year ago. Growth was modest in Philadelphia. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported higher hotel occupancy rates in at least some parts of their Districts. Boston noted that restaurant revenues increased relative to a year ago. Advance bookings for travel and lodging were strong in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis Districts. In the Atlanta District, hospitality contacts maintained a positive outlook for the remainder of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. Nonfinancial ServicesA number of Districts reported that activity in the nonfinancial services sector advanced since the previous Beige Book. The Boston District reported generally higher demand for consulting and advertising services. Philadelphia noted that over three-fourths of all service-sector contacts reported expectations that growth trends will remain positive over the next six months. Richmond reported that technology firms and engineering companies noted stronger revenue growth; Dallas indicated that demand for accounting services rose further from an already-high level; and Dallas and San Francisco noted that demand for legal services picked up in some areas. Staffing services increased in many Districts, including New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas. Philadelphia indicated that staffing requests increased for both temporary and permanent positions. A contact from a staffing firm in the Chicago District reported strong orders but noted that improving labor market conditions were leading to increased difficulties in finding qualified workers. Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted growth since the previous report, with a few pointing to capacity constraints in railroads, trucking, or both. Atlanta reported increased railroad shipments and strong trucking freight demand. Contacts at trucking firms and railroads in the Cleveland District noted that insufficient capacity is a major issue that is currently confronting the industry. In the Minneapolis District, capacity constraints in freight rail have increased demand for trucking services and led to increased stockpiles at some iron ore production facilities. A trucking firm in the Kansas City District cited supply chain disruptions and new regulations as having slowed freight traffic. Dallas noted that air cargo volumes continued their upward trend, and Richmond indicated that activity remains strong at District ports. St. Louis reported some expansion plans for freight firms. ManufacturingManufacturing activity increased in most Districts since the previous Beige Book. However, New York noted that manufacturing growth had stalled, and Boston indicated that their contacts cited weaker results than in the past few reports. The outlook for manufacturing was positive in a number of Districts. Within manufacturing, growth was reported across a broad range of products. Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco noted increased steel demand. The Chicago and St. Louis Districts noted strength in the aerospace sector; however, San Francisco reported that aerospace and defense capacity utilization declined. Demand for construction materials or equipment increased in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis. Manufacturers reported continued demand from the energy sector in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts. Richmond and San Francisco noted strong demand for medical equipment. San Francisco reported that worldwide semiconductor sales were up markedly over the previous year. In contrast, a food producer in the Richmond District said that demand was flat; St. Louis and Minneapolis reported layoffs or plant closures by food producers; and Kansas City noted slower activity at some food processing plants. Chicago reported weaker demand for agricultural and mining equipment. Real Estate and ConstructionReports on residential construction and real estate activity were mixed. New York noted that single-family construction was sluggish in some areas, but that multifamily construction increased. Philadelphia reported only slight growth in home construction. In August, single-family construction starts in the Cleveland District reached their highest level so far this year, though the number of starts year-to-date remained slightly lower than last year. Richmond noted that residential construction across the District increased slightly for custom homes. Atlanta reported that multifamily construction continued to increase across much of the District, while Chicago indicated that both single- and multi-family construction continued to expand. Residential real estate contacts in the Atlanta District indicated that existing home sales and prices remained ahead of last year's levels and inventory levels were down from a year ago. Chicago noted that home sales were somewhat lower, and growth in home prices and residential rents slowed. San Francisco reported that sales of single-family homes were stable since the previous report. Commercial construction and real estate activity grew in most Districts. Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco reported increased commercial construction, industrial construction, or both. Cleveland noted that a majority of commercial contractors saw increased construction activity relative to a year ago. Commercial contractors in the Atlanta District saw an increase in construction activity across many property types. In Minneapolis, however, commercial construction activity declined. Richmond reported that commercial real estate activity improved modestly over the past several weeks. The New York District noted that the New York City office market continued to strengthen. Atlanta noted that many commercial brokers saw growth in activity. Chicago noted that commercial real estate activity continued to expand. Kansas City indicated that commercial vacancy rates declined and absorption and sales increased. Boston noted that commercial real estate fundamentals are either holding steady or improving. Banking and FinanceIn most Districts, banking conditions continued to improve relative to the previous Beige Book, with net increases in loan volumes reported in a number of Districts. Since the previous Beige Book, New York reported that consumer loan demand had leveled off, Cleveland reported that consumer lending was stable, and Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City noted that consumer loan demand increased. Chicago reported strong growth in auto lending. New York reported decreased demand for loan refinancing, Philadelphia noted negligible demand for refinancing, and Richmond reported that refinancing demand was mostly unchanged, but down in some areas. Demand for business credit expanded since the previous Beige Book. New York reported increased demand for commercial mortgages. Philadelphia noted increased loan volume for commercial and industrial loans. Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco noted increased commercial loan demand. Chicago noted that business demand for equipment and commercial real estate financing rose. Financing for mergers and acquisitions as well as for capital expenditures rose in the Dallas District. Kansas City noted slight increases in commercial and agricultural lending. There were no reports of deterioration in credit quality. New York reported that delinquency rates continued to decline, particularly for commercial loans and mortgages. Philadelphia banking contacts described steady improvement in credit quality, and San Francisco noted that asset quality has improved since the previous report. Most bankers in the Kansas City District reported that loan quality was unchanged compared with a year ago. Credit standards generally remained unchanged since the previous Beige Book. Cleveland noted that no changes were made to loan-application standards during the past six weeks, but lenders slightly relaxed terms and conditions. Some contacts in the Philadelphia District said that heated competition for loans was resulting in a slight rise in credit risks. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesPrices for many crops continued to decline since the previous Beige Book, driven in part by very strong realized or anticipated crop yields. This higher production is expected to offset some of the effect of lower prices on farm incomes. Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City reported very good crop conditions at the beginning of the harvest; additionally, Chicago and Minneapolis expect large corn and soybean harvests. Drought conditions persisted in parts of the Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted that livestock, poultry, and dairy producers had benefited from increased output prices and lower feed costs. Since the previous Beige Book, oil exploration activity increased in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Richmond and Minneapolis noted increases in natural gas production, and San Francisco reported increased natural gas and electricity sales to manufacturers. Compared with a year earlier, coal production was flat in Cleveland, mixed in Richmond, and increased in St. Louis. Recent decreases in oil prices were reported by Atlanta and Kansas City; natural gas price decreases were reported by Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City. Iron ore production in the Minneapolis District held steady since the previous report. Employment, Wages, and PricesThe pace of employment growth was about the same as that reported in the previous Beige Book. Most Districts reported that some employers had difficulty finding qualified workers for certain positions. In particular, manufacturers in the Boston District said that they continue to look for machinists; Chicago noted that difficulties in finding skilled labor have often delayed construction projects; and in the Dallas District a shortage of workers in heavy construction and engineering was causing some delays in projects for the petrochemical industry. Contacts in Richmond, Minneapolis, and Kansas City noted difficulty in filling openings for truck drivers. A number of Districts characterized wage growth as modest, though several also reported upward wage pressures for particular industries and occupations, such as skilled labor in construction and manufacturing. Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City noted upward wage pressures for transportation workers; Richmond also reported upward wage pressures for skilled engineers, managers, information technology professionals, and bankers. San Francisco noted that software developers were receiving above-average wage increases. New York reported that workers were more frequently leaving jobs for higher pay, while a contact in the St. Louis District noted increased turnover of skilled employees who were switching to higher-paying jobs. Consistent with the previous Beige Book, overall price pressures remained subdued, with Districts reporting little to no change in price levels or modest increases. Firms generally reported that input prices were unchanged or up slightly. Districts noted that several commodity prices fell since the previous report, although cattle, hog, and dairy prices remained at elevated levels. New York reported that cost pressures have largely subsided among manufacturers, but remained fairly widespread among service firms. Firms in the Atlanta District indicated that their pricing power remained relatively weak. However, in Chicago, a number of manufacturers expected to be able to raise prices, especially in the auto industry. St. Louis reported that some retail dealers of construction materials increased prices. Minneapolis noted that metals prices decreased somewhat since the previous report. Restaurant menu prices in Kansas City rose more slowly than in previous surveys; San Francisco reported that restaurant prices increased slightly in July and August. Return to top Retail and TourismRetail contacts for this round report comparable-store sales that are flat or increasing year-over-year; those with increases cite mid-to-high single digit growth from a year earlier. Spending is strong for furniture, household items, leisure and sporting goods, and apparel. Inventories are either "healthy," slightly up, or slightly down, depending on the contact. Respondents cite some modest price increases (2 percent to 3 percent) on certain items and anticipate this trend will continue. For the rest of the year, contacts continue to predict low-to-mid single-digit sales increases on an annual basis, with an outlook for the U.S. economy that ranges from "sideways growth" to "an optimistic outlook for steady growth." The Boston-area economy continues to enjoy a strong boost from travel-related spending. In August 2014, hotel occupancy rates were up 12 percent year-over-year, while average nightly room rates were up almost 18 percent from August 2013. Through August, restaurant revenues were up 3.5 percent year-over-year, while attendance at museums and other attractions was up 2.2 percent. Though the results are not yet in for September, advance activity was strong for both September and October, traditionally the peak travel months. The hotel industry is predicting a 7 percent revenue increase for 2015 over 2014, with most of this growth reflecting rising room rates. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOf the 11 manufacturing firms contacted this cycle, five report some weakness in sales, a much higher number than in any recent cycle. The reasons cited for the weakness are varied. A manufacturer of industrial motors and brakes says that August was typically slow but that sales had not bounced back in September as much as they usually do, with orders down about 5 percent year-on-year. A furniture maker cites a 10 percent dropoff in sales during the winter which continued through the summer. A firm making advertising products says that sales have been declining 10 percent per year for a while. One contact expresses caution about an "order bubble" in commercial aviation, an industry that has generally been a robust source of growth in the region. According to the contact, airlines order jet planes to make sure that if they need them, they have a slot in the queue; the worry is that at some point there could be a wave of cancellations. None of our contacts reports excessive pricing pressure from suppliers or excessive pushback on price increases from customers. One contact says it is "always a battle," albeit successful, to convince customers to accept price increases. None of our contacts is laying off, but only one reports large hiring increases. A contact in the media business says they are "very careful with headcount." The one firm to report substantial hiring, a biotech firm, cites rising costs of hiring skilled workers in New England. As usual, several contacts say they are always looking for workers with particular manufacturing skills, such as machinists. Our contacts report no significant changes in inventories. Most firms cite increased capital spending more or less in line with their plans; only the biotech firm reports major increases. In general, the manufacturing outlook is positive but very guarded. Two firms, the manufacturer of motors and brakes and a firm in the textile and chemical businesses, say that they are waiting to see how things play out in the fall. Selected Business ServicesMost contacts report that demand for consulting and advertising is up from a year ago, although the pace of growth varies across sectors and firms. Government and strategy consultants note a strong uptick in requests for proposals and eagerly await contract award decisions. A high-end economic consulting firm is still overwhelmed with work, mostly related to mortgage-backed securities (MBS) litigation, and at 12 percent growth year-over-year is now beyond capacity. An advertising merchandise firm is slightly outpacing the 5 percent growth they estimate the industry is experiencing on average; they are seeing less pushback on prices from their large clients and cite an increase in large orders. In healthcare consulting, contacted firms' revenues range from flat to up 10 percent from a year ago. Prices are increasing in a bimodal fashion for contacts in consulting: Firms with relatively flat revenue are holding price structures constant for now, even as they bid on more jobs and anticipate winning their "usual" fraction; those whose business is booming are raising prices somewhat, taking on new personnel, raising wages, and experiencing increased compliance costs, and revenue growth is still outstripping costs. An advertising materials firm that has exhibited steady growth is keeping to its 5 percent increase in staff for this year, while the better-faring healthcare consulting firms are increasing employment in the 6 percent range. These firms are generally filling client-facing salesperson roles with some ease, and developer and e-commerce related roles with greater difficulty. All contacts are hopeful about the future; they say that macroeconomic conditions are improving. Even the slower-growing firms see increases in demand and additional deals in the pipeline, and estimates for next year's growth range from 5 percent to 15 percent. The government and strategy consulting contacts' main concern is that they secure a normal percentage of the contracts for which they are contending. The business strategy contact notes strong business in the Northeast, but is concerned over a lack of new businesses being formed. The economic analysis firm continues to expect MBS-related work to dry up soon and is comfortable with the idea of throttling back growth when it happens. Healthcare consulting contacts feel somewhat at the mercy of government healthcare reforms, but generally feel that "the wind is at their backs" and growth will be sustained for the foreseeable future. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate fundamentals are either holding steady or improving across the First District. In Boston, contacts report that rents continue to rise in the popular Fort Point Channel area and have even started to increase in portions of the Financial District after several flat months. Healthy demand for office space and lack of new office construction are seen as the forces behind the latest rent increases in Boston, which are perceived as being in excess of increases in operating costs. Office leasing is also reportedly strong in Boston's inner suburbs, such as Waltham and Burlington. Construction activity in greater Boston is reportedly steady, but at a high level, with an emphasis on mixed use and "adaptive reuse" of existing structures. Labor shortages and associated high labor costs are seen as potential constraints on the growth of construction activity moving forward, in Boston and more broadly within Massachusetts. In Providence, leasing activity picked up modestly in both the office and industrial sectors since the previous report and industrial space remains in short supply in relation to demand. In greater Portland, the retail sector continues to grow, resulting in higher rental rates downtown and increased construction of small-scale retail outlets in surrounding areas. Maine's hospitality sector also remains strong, with better-than-expected occupancy rates at recently opened hotels in Portland and new hotels under construction around the state. In Hartford, leasing volume is unchanged in recent weeks and there is no significant construction activity reported. While that city's office vacancy rate has declined slightly in recent months, there has been no noticeable increase in asking rents. Also in greater Hartford, investment sales demand remains healthy and the number of properties being placed for sale is on the rise. A similar increase in supply of buildings for sale is reported for greater Boston, and contacts in both cities infer that a growing number of owners believe that prices are at or near their peak, borrowing costs are near their trough, or both. Contacts also report that demand for Boston's commercial real estate, especially from foreign buyers, remains strong and is expected to continue so for the foreseeable future. Contacts are either cautiously optimistic (as in Hartford and Providence) or optimistic (Boston and Portland) that commercial real estate fundamentals will continue to improve. In both Providence and Hartford, contacts note that uncertainty over the outcomes of upcoming state and/or local elections is contributing to uncertainty in the local economic outlook. Residential Real EstateClosed sales of both single family homes and condominiums declined in August compared with a year earlier in at least four of the New England states. In Maine, by contrast, sales of single family homes increased as condominium sales decreased. Information for New Hampshire is not available. The median sales price also declined relative to August of last year for single family homes and condominiums in at least four states. The exception is Massachusetts, where prices for single family homes increased year-over-year for the twenty-third consecutive month and condominium prices rose for the fifteenth consecutive month. Massachusetts contacts say the sales decline and price increases are driven primarily by a shortage of inventory, as demand is steady; inventories have been falling on a year-over-year basis for more than two years. Contacts say affordability is a concern: "With prices on the rise, it's becoming more difficult to save the down payment, especially with rents as high as they are. We are hearing that buyers are approaching their threshold for what they are willing to pay." In contrast, Maine is seeing inventory increases and contacts expect to be busy in the fall market. In Connecticut and Maine, contacts report a need for higher paying jobs in their states to help sell the inventory of non-starter homes. As one contact in Maine stated, "We need the middle class to feel better. Right now they question what the next few years will be like." Notwithstanding declines in closed sales and median sales prices, residential real estate contacts say they are cautious but optimistic. Return to top Consumer SpendingGeneral merchandise retailers say that sales were reasonably robust in August but mixed to weaker in September. Two major retail chains reported that sales, which were on or ahead of plan in August, softened noticeably in September and were below plan. Retail contacts at upstate malls report that sales were generally flat in both August and September, with some strength noted in back-to-school sales. Reports on inventories were mixed in September, but on balance, stocks are reported to be at or near desired levels. Prices are mostly described as steady, though some contacts characterize the environment as increasingly promotional. Auto dealers across upstate New York characterize sales as steady but fairly strong. Buffalo area dealers report that that new vehicle sales continued to increase moderately in August and September, while sales of used vehicles remained soft. Rochester area dealers report that new vehicle sales were flat in August and steady to up slightly in September; they note favorable market conditions for both new and used cars. Auto dealers in both areas continue to report that both wholesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape. Tourism activity has remained robust since the previous report. Business at Broadway theaters continued to show strength in August and September, with attendance up more than 10 percent from a year earlier and revenues up roughly 13 percent. Hotel occupancy rates in New York City have remained near record levels, while room rates have risen moderately. Hotel occupancy rates have also continued to climb in the Buffalo and Albany areas but edged back in metropolitan Rochester. Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA) slipped in September, based on the Conference Board's latest survey. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing markets have been steady to stronger since the last report, while inventories have risen from unusually low levels in some areas. Rents have leveled off in Manhattan and Brooklyn--in part reflecting extensive luxury rental development coming on line--while rents in Queens have continued to increase briskly. New York City's co-op and condo market was generally steady in the third quarter. Resale prices for apartments were little changed in Manhattan but continued to rise moderately in Brooklyn and Queens; sales volume was down more than 10 percent from the extraordinarily high levels of a year earlier but little changed from the second quarter. Northern New Jersey's housing market has continued to be mixed. Demand for single-family homes has remained sluggish, and so has new single-family construction, as builders remain reluctant to build for inventory. In contrast, a strong rental market has continued to spur multi-family construction, especially in areas easily accessible to New York City. Housing markets in western New York State flattened out in August and September, as both sales volume and prices leveled off. Multiple offers have become less common, as the inventory of available homes has increased from low levels. New York City's office market continued to strengthen in the third quarter: Office availability rates declined moderately in the Midtown and Midtown South markets and fell more noticeably in Lower Manhattan. Asking rents continued to rise and were up 5 percent to 10 percent from a year earlier. There are a number of major commercial developments under construction in Manhattan, and an industry contact in northern New Jersey notes that there has been somewhat of a pickup in commercial construction there, albeit from low levels. Other Business ActivityManufacturing firms in the District report that growth, which had been fairly robust through the summer, has stalled since the last report. Contacts in other industry sectors, however, report that business has been steady or expanding. Businesses generally report steady to modest increases in their selling prices. Reports on input costs have been mixed: Although service firms continue to report widespread increases in input prices, manufacturers generally report more that costs have leveled off. The labor market has shown further signs of strengthening since the previous report. One major New York City employment agency notes brisk hiring activity and characterizes labor demand as increasingly robust--particularly for temps, workers with people skills, and especially IT workers. A contact at another employment agency has not seen the normal seasonal slowdown in recent weeks and characterizes the labor market as fairly good, with particularly brisk demand for HR people. While one industry contact describes salaries as "pretty flat", another reports upward pressure on salaries, as people are more frequently leaving jobs for higher pay. More broadly, service-sector firms continue to add workers at a moderate pace, though more contacts than in the last report say they plan to expand staff in the months ahead. One major retailer expects to hire moderately more seasonal workers for the holidays than last year. In contrast, manufacturers say they have scaled back both hiring activity and hiring plans. Financial DevelopmentsSmall-to-medium-sized banks in the District report increased demand for commercial mortgages but steady demand for other types of loans and decreased demand for refinancing since the previous report. Bankers report that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents report narrowing spreads on consumer loans and residential mortgages. Banks indicate that average deposit rates remain unchanged. Finally, bankers report ongoing declines in delinquency rates, particularly for commercial loans and mortgages. Return to top Lending volumes continued to grow slowly, and credit quality continued to improve, while contacts continued to warn of a slight rise in credit risks because of heated competition for loans. Overall, contacts reported slight increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels that were similar to those reported for the previous Beige Book period. Contacts continued to anticipate moderate growth over the next six months. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers have continued to report modest growth overall since the previous Beige Book, but signals were somewhat mixed. A somewhat greater percentage of firms reported increases in new orders and shipments, even as a slightly greater percentage of firms reported decreases (the share reporting no change in activity declined). Gains in activity continued to reflect demand from a broad base of sectors. Except for paper products, all sectors reported overall increases in shipments and orders. Contacts specifically mentioned ongoing demand from the auto and energy sectors. Some firms reported growing demand for home construction products; however, demand remains at a low level. Some producers of construction-related materials worried that if housing starts do not soon rise further, industry shakeouts may result in plant closings to eliminate idle capacity. Other contacts mentioned that demand from defense contracts had stabilized or was growing again from lower levels. Over half of Third District manufacturing contacts expected business conditions to improve during the next six months. While this is a slightly lower percentage than was reported during the previous Beige Book period, this is the second consecutive period in which no firms anticipated deterioration of business conditions. Moreover, a somewhat larger percentage of firms now expect to increase employment levels over the next six months, to increase their level of capital spending, or to do both. RetailSince the prior Beige Book period, Third District contacts have continued to report slight growth in nonauto retail sales. Although, sales growth of back-to-school shopping items was generally described as modest. An operator of area malls reported that cooler fall-like weather has helped move fall apparel inventory, which has allowed many retailers to avoid deeper discounting, thus improving their margins. After a midsummer lull, the restaurant business picked up in August and continued growing into September. Contacts reported very strong restaurant activity in Center City Philadelphia. Overall, contacts are increasingly optimistic. While hesitant to forecast the upcoming holiday season, one contact suggested that a lot of ongoing new tenant openings may attract more shoppers. Another contact was optimistic about three significant Center City retail openings this fall. Auto dealers continued to report strong sales growth. A Pennsylvania contact described August as one of the best months ever for auto sales at dealers throughout the state; reported sales for September were also strong but were beginning to show signs of their normal seasonal slowdown. New Jersey contacts also reported strong August sales followed by lower volumes for September, as they approach the model-year changeover and typical year-end selloff in October. Dealers remain very optimistic for continued strong sales levels through 2015. FinanceThird District financial firms have continued to report slight increases in total loan volume since the previous Beige Book. Volumes increased most for commercial and industrial loans and for some consumer credit lines (though not for credit cards). Reports on demand for home mortgages varied across the region from modest growth to little change; all contacts described low levels of demand for new mortgages, and negligible demand for refinancing loans. Most contacts reported little change in the commercial real estate market. Overall, banking contacts continued to report steady improvement in credit quality; several mentioned that the financials of most small business customers had improved. However, competition remains intense for creditworthy loan prospects. Some contacts also cited risky loan terms that they would not match; one described the market as "frothy." Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders have continued to report slight growth in new home construction since the previous Beige Book period. Contacts credited lower gas prices for improving sales traffic and lower interest rates for improving contract signings. Construction activity is expected to continue at modest levels, as builders are starting some homes on spec to boost their inventory of move-in-ready homes before the end of the year. Residential real estate brokers reported little change in sales this period from the prior Beige Book period. On a year-over-year basis, sales have fallen in most major markets. Brokers noted that more deals are falling through now than prior to the recession, and bankers noted that fewer people are qualifying for mortgages. These observations have been borne out by recent monthly reports from Third District multilists that have seen positive year-over-year growth of pending contracts evolve into negative growth of contracts closed one month later. Brokers also reported that the months' supply of inventory has begun to increase again. Still, brokers remain optimistic for some improvement in 2015. Overall, nonresidential real estate contacts have reported little change since the previous Beige Book period in the pace of growth of construction and leasing activity, which remains slight. Construction activity continues to be greatest for industrial/warehouse building projects; however, some major office and residential projects have broken ground in Center City Philadelphia, and construction activity will accelerate next spring when the buildings begin to go vertical. An architecture and engineering firm reported that its business continued to exceed its plan, and it will be hiring again. Demand for the firm's services has been especially strong from energy-related sectors. Contacts also reported improved leasing activity in downtown Philadelphia and suburban Philadelphia, especially for Class A office space. Strong demand continued in Center City Philadelphia for office, residential, and retail space. In the suburban Philadelphia market, a developer noted that a "flight to quality" from older properties has driven rents higher for Class A office space and prompted ongoing renovations to upgrade older offices into Class A space. ServicesThird District service-sector firms have continued to report moderate growth in activity since the previous Beige Book. Nearly half of all firms reported increases in new orders and sales. Several contacts from banking and health-related manufacturing reported that some health-care providers had reduced personnel and expenses. These cost-cutting measures were attributed to narrower margins due to smaller reimbursements from insurance plans. The cuts occurred even though these providers have been experiencing modest demand increases as a result of previously uninsured individuals gaining access to healthcare. Staffing contacts in eastern and central Pennsylvania reported moderate increases in hiring for temporary and permanent positions. Staffing requests have come from a variety of sectors and for business expansions as well as replacements. Staffing firms remained very upbeat about prospects for this year and next. Once again, over three-fourths of all service-sector contacts reported expectations that growth trends will remain positive over the next six months; none anticipated declines. Third District tourist areas continued to benefit from great weather conditions as the summer blended into fall. Accordingly, contacts reported modest gains overall. One retail contact reported dramatic sales increases throughout the shore areas, attributing double-digit year-over-year gains to more day-tripping even as occupancy rates of shore rentals continued to rise. (These gains, which were still strong in September, were viewed as resulting from lower gasoline prices as well as from favorable weather.) Several contacts continued to report that rebuilding from Hurricane Sandy was not complete in the hardest-hit areas, where new flood insurance and building standards have slowed reconstruction plans. In the Poconos, contacts reported favorable weather, higher occupancies, and strong bookings for the upcoming fall weekends. Contacts reported that recent casino closings in Atlantic City are expected to have a large effect on the city that should be relatively localized. Reported employment losses in Atlantic City are high; however, many of the lost jobs were part time (and many of these would have ended after the summer tourist season was over). Contacts expect that the remaining casinos may pick up some of the lost business from the recent closures; however, existing staff levels should be sufficient to service any added activity. More broadly, District tourism contacts remain generally positive regarding prospects for the fall. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases that is similar to that seen in other recent Beige Book periods. Less than one-third of manufacturing contacts reported an increase in their input costs; just over 10 percent reported charging higher prices for their own products. About one-fifth of service-sector contacts reported an increase in prices paid and received--a somewhat smaller share than in the prior period. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing. Several contacts continued to report tight margins. Generally, contacts reported that hiring remains cautious--occurring when necessary for replacement or for incremental growth; however, staffing firms continued to note some increased hiring for expansion. Staffing contacts also reported a few leading signs of wage pressure: A few job prospects have turned down offers, some companies are making counteroffers to retain employees, and clients are generally less rigid about salary levels. Return to top Payrolls showed a mild increase, primarily in manufacturing, construction, and freight transportation. Staffing firms reported that the number of job openings has picked up, while placements have fallen. Several recruiters reported on a trend to replace permanent, lower-skilled employees with temporary workers. Due to perceived shortages in selected labor skill areas, upward pressure on wages is beginning to be felt by general building contractors and freight haulers. Overall, input and finished goods prices were stable. Prices for energy and agricultural commodities declined, while transportation equipment prices rose. ManufacturingMost District factories reported little change in the pace of growth of new orders and production since the previous report and that year-over-year revenues were higher. Firms seeing lower production attributed it to seasonal factors or declining exports. Our contacts remain optimistic and expect moderate to strong demand for the remainder of the year. Steel shipments improved slightly since the last report. Fourth-quarter shipments are expected to increase on a seasonally adjusted basis relative to the third quarter, and a few steel producers project volume in 2014 will be about 5 percent higher compared to 2013. One steel executive noted that his capacity utilization rate has risen to 80 percent, a rise of 10 percentage points since the recession ended. Manufacturers and steel producers reported that the strongest demand came from the construction, motor vehicle, and oil and gas industries. Auto production at District assembly plants for the first eight months of this year was more than 7 percent higher compared to the same period in 2013. Many of our contacts anticipate that their capital budgets for fiscal year 2015 will be higher than current-year spending. In general, input and finished goods prices were stable since the previous report, apart from declines in agricultural commodities and steel. A food producer remarked that prices for the major commodities that he purchases are at their lowest level in five years and he does not believe food inflation will be a major issue for the next 12 months. We continue to hear numerous reports about new hiring, mainly for production jobs. The boost in hiring has put little upward pressure on manufacturing wages. Real Estate and ConstructionSales of new and existing single-family homes showed a modest decline in many parts of the District since the last report. Year-to-date sales through August were lower compared to a year ago. Most builders expect that activity will stabilize at current levels, though some expressed concern about the impact of a potential rise in interest rates combined with continued strict lending standards. Multifamily development (market rate, affordable, and senior) was characterized as very strong, with occupancy rates greater than 95 percent. In August, single-family construction starts across the District were at their highest level so far this year. However, the number of starts year-to-date remains slightly lower compared to the same time period in 2013. New-home contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point categories, though activity in the first-time buyer category continues to slowly improve. Some builders anticipate a modest rise in new-home prices before year's end, which they attribute to rising material and labor costs. The upward trend seen in sale prices of existing homes has leveled off, but the average price remains higher than the average level for 2013 as a whole. Nonresidential builders reported continued strong pipeline activity since our last report, and a majority indicated that the level of activity has picked up compared to a year ago. A few builders noted that they are more selective about the inquiries that they respond to because they are at or near capacity. One builder commented that because his customers are not expecting prices for nonresidential construction to rise much, there is no sense of urgency to push forward with some projects. In general, backlogs were described as good or solid. Market demand is broad based, though demand for industrial space (manufacturing and distribution) and healthcare facilities is strongest. There has also been a pickup in requests for retail and office space. Leasing of vacant industrial space has increased. Most builders remain optimistic, but they are concerned about labor availability, tight margins, and capacity constraints, should a demand spike occur. General contractors are not overly concerned with rising prices for building materials; the largest price increases are anticipated for steel components, drywall, and wood products. The pace of hiring has slowed since our last report, with some of the decline in hiring activity being seasonal. Nonetheless, a majority of general contractors reported that they expect to increase their payrolls across a broad range of occupations--craft workers, laborers, management, and back office. Little wage pressure was reported, except for craft workers. Subcontractors are pushing through rate increases to cover rising costs (including labor) and to widen their margins. Subcontractors are still encountering capacity and cash-flow issues. As a result, some general contractors are turning to prefabrication to circumvent subcontractors. Consumer SpendingSpending at retail outlets during August and into early September was generally higher compared to earlier in the third quarter. Many retailers cited an extended back-to-school buying period as a contributing factor to the increase. Revenues were higher relative to the same time period in 2013 for most retailers, which they attributed to a stronger product mix and growing investment in e-commerce. In addition to back-to-school items, sales of home furnishings, athletic footwear, and food products were doing well. Fourth-quarter revenues are projected to be higher, with expected year-over-year percent gains in the low single digits. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Several retailers noted that they are running more promotions than usual, mainly to clear inventory and boost revenues. Excluding new store openings and temporary seasonal hiring, retail payrolls were stable. New motor vehicle sales showed a moderate decline in August on a month-over-month basis and were down slightly from a year ago. However, year-to-date sales through August were 5 percent higher compared to the same time period in 2013. Strong sales of SUVs and trucks continued. Inventory reports were mixed, which is attributable to the model-year changeover. Dealers believe that the level of sales will follow seasonal trends for the remainder of the year and that unit volume for 2014 as a whole will be about 6 percent higher compared to 2013. Used-car purchases showed a modest decline in August on a month-over-month basis, while year-to-date unit volume was slightly higher. We heard several reports about automakers becoming increasingly dependent on the use of incentives to boost sales. Demand for service technicians is growing, but dealers are having difficulty finding qualified applicants. BankingBankers reported that demand for business credit was stable to showing moderate growth during the past six weeks. While demand was described as broad based, it was strongest for commercial real estate and construction loans and C&amp;I lending to manufacturers. Interest rates held steady. On net, consumer credit demand was roughly stable. The number of applications for auto loans remains very high, while households are making marginally greater use of home equity lines of credit. Residential mortgage activity was flat to down slightly; some of the decline is seasonal. Purchase transactions dominate mortgage applications. Delinquency rates are stable to improving across categories. No changes were made to loan-application standards during the past six weeks. However, to gain a competitive advantage, there has been some slight relaxing of terms and conditions. Banks saw growth in core deposits from businesses and consumers. On balance, banking payrolls held steady. New hires were mainly in the areas of compliance, risk management, and commercial lending; however, in response to reduced traffic at branches, payrolls there are being reduced. EnergyYear-to-date coal production across the District is consistent with prior-year levels, with no material change in output anticipated in the near term. A production decline in eastern Kentucky is being offset by a significant increase in northern West Virginia. Spot prices for thermal and metallurgical coal remain on a downward trend. Activity in the Marcellus and Utica Shales remains at a high level. During the first half of 2014, production in Ohio's Utica Shale was more than six times greater relative to the same time period in 2013, while the number of producing wells increased by 61 percent. Wellhead prices for natural gas and oil have declined since late in the second quarter. Since the last report, equipment and materials prices were largely unchanged and energy payrolls held steady. Freight TransportationFreight volume expanded since the last report, with contacts describing year-over-year growth as moderate to robust. Although demand is fairly broad based, it is strongest from the agriculture, motor vehicle, and oil and gas industries. The near-term outlook is favorable. Contacts from trucking and railroads observed that insufficient capacity is a major issue that is currently confronting the industry and that there is concern about stress on the freight-transport system from this year's grain harvest, which is expected to be at a historic high. We heard a report about rail carriers being reluctant to contract for shipments of less than five carloads, which is hurting small manufacturers. The cost of new equipment (truck tractors and rail cars) is rising, and in some cases delivery times are lengthening. Some of the higher cost was attributed to meeting regulatory requirements. Hiring is both for replacement and for adding capacity. Projected capital spending in fiscal year 2015 is mainly for equipment replacement. Although most fleets would like to add capacity, they are having difficulty finding drivers. Return to top ManufacturingManufacturing activity increased in recent weeks, and expectations for the months ahead remained positive. Shipments and new orders grew modestly, and inventories of finished goods and raw materials rose at a faster pace relative to the previous report. A medical equipment manufacturer in North Carolina reported continued robust growth in new orders during the past six weeks and noted optimistic customer expectations for the months ahead. Additionally, a North Carolina electrical equipment manufacturer indicated that orders were up, and that his firm's increased capital spending had improved its shipment capability. A source said that in West Virginia, large manufacturing firms were hiring and investing, but that smaller manufacturers were not making capital investments. A Virginia food manufacturer reported that order volume was flat during the past month, but that he expected improvement during the holidays. However, an executive at a North Carolina textile manufacturer stated that revenues had slowed and retailers were holding back on new orders. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slightly faster pace since the last report. PortsDistrict port officials reported that activity remained strong, suggesting that the peak import season, which had begun earlier than usual, was extended rather than just shifted forward. Loaded container traffic rose further for the major ports, primarily for imports; for other traffic as well, imports continued to outpace exports. Some of the softness in exports was attributed to rail and trucking issues, such as slowdowns from bottlenecks in rail service and truck driver shortages, which have delayed movement of inland cargo to the ports. Port contacts reported strong exports of autos, as well as of containerized grain and soybeans. Imports were led by commodities related to housing and retail, such as appliances, flooring, apparel, and footwear. According to one official, shipping lines have been consolidating and upgrading to larger ships. RetailRetail sales rose on pace with our last report. Big-ticket sales grew solidly, but somewhat more slowly relative to the previous report. Sales picked up for suppliers of retail and wholesale building materials. Wholesalers of heavy equipment also reported stronger sales. A car dealer near Washington, D.C. said he expects this year's sales to be about the same as the record sales of a year ago, with dealer incentives helping to move current-year models. According to a central Virginia retail representative, current strong sales of furniture, appliances, and electronics may signal that consumers have more cash, but early big-ticket sales may leave less for discretionary spending during the later weeks of the holiday season. In contrast, the manager at a discount store in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia said that there was almost no change in sales revenues during the past six weeks, but customers were already making holiday purchases using the store's lay-away program. A grocery store manager in southwestern Virginia commented that diminishing incomes for coal mining families, together with rising meat prices, have resulted in lower sales per purchase. Retail price increases slowed since the previous report. ServicesFirms in the non-retail service sector reported moderate growth in recent weeks. Technology firms, engineering companies, and a few smaller healthcare facilities reported stronger revenue growth. According to a North Carolina hospital source, it has been a good year for revenues, and that the hospital was able to make small price increases. In contrast, an executive at a large healthcare system said that cost reductions, including hiring restrictions, were continuing and that their projections were for reduced inpatient volumes. While executives at a couple of accounting firms in North Carolina reported a pick-up in business, a CPA at a Maryland accounting firm saw little change in requests for proposals. According to our most recent survey, non-retail price growth increased slightly. The summer tourism season finished on a high note, meeting resort managers' expectations. Moreover, hoteliers in Baltimore and western North Carolina said that conventions and autumn leaf viewing were expected to support strong bookings throughout October. A source on North Carolina's Outer Banks reported a number of scheduled autumn events to draw tourists for several more weeks. In addition, many rentals were already booked for Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's. Few rate changes were reported. FinanceReports on lending activity were mixed in recent weeks. Residential mortgage demand declined in West Virginia and southeastern Virginia but rose slightly in Maryland, North Carolina, and South Carolina. Refinance loan demand was mostly unchanged except in West Virginia and South Carolina, where demand declined. Business lending was unchanged on balance. A contact in Maryland remarked that small businesses were having difficulty getting credit while larger businesses had no problems. The level of lending in commercial and industrial real estate, which had been trending up, has flattened in the Carolinas and West Virginia. Bankers in several locations characterized competition as "fierce." A lender from South Carolina reported some easing of standards; however, a contact from Maryland cited a tightening of underwriting standards. There were no reports of changes to credit quality. Lastly, slight upward pressure on loan interest rates was reported in West Virginia. Real EstateDistrict housing market activity grew at a somewhat slower pace since the previous report. Most brokers indicated that buyer traffic was steady, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Most Realtors reported a slight increase in home prices, although one South Carolina broker reported a small decrease in both single-family and condominium sale prices. A contact in the Hampton Roads region of Virginia stated that the number of condominium sales was only slightly higher; apartment rental activity remained steady. Inventory reports were mixed. Realtors in South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia saw seasonal declines in inventories, while District of Columbia and northern Virginia brokers reported steady or rising inventories. Days on the market varied by location. Average market times decreased for Realtors in Richmond, Charlotte, and Myrtle Beach, but contacts in the nation's capital and Greensboro reported no change; a northern Virginia Realtor noted a slight increase. Construction across the District increased slightly for custom homes. A South Carolina Realtor saw no new multifamily construction and a Virginia Beach broker stated that multifamily growth is slowing down because of overbuilding. In contrast, an agent in Asheville stated that multifamily construction has "ramped up." Commercial real estate activity improved modestly over the past several weeks. A broker in Charlotte reported a gradual improvement in sales and leasing, with a moderately strong office market and modest activity in industrial and retail real estate. The office market in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia was mixed. A South Carolina source reported robust leasing in both office and retail, with a slower industrial market since the last report. Retail vacancy rates were lower in Baltimore and Virginia Beach, and unchanged in Charlotte and Richmond. Office vacancy rates varied across the District. A Charlotte broker reported increased industrial construction, along with a few speculative office projects. Multiple contacts noted rising commercial sales prices. Rental rates varied across regions and submarkets. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesCorn prices declined further over the past six weeks. Soybean prices also fell, while cotton prices were unchanged. A West Virginia farmer stated that grain prices declined after seven years of above-average prices. Farmers' input prices were unchanged in South Carolina and Virginia. A grower in South Carolina reported completion of corn harvesting and the start of peanut harvesting since the previous report. In West Virginia a farmer said that crop planting, reseeding, and harvesting were on schedule, and that his compost business had increased in the past six weeks. Since the previous report, coal production and prices decreased in southern West Virginia and rose in the northern part of the state, according to a source. Natural gas production increased moderately; more West Virginia wells were brought online, and natural gas prices decreased slightly. Labor MarketsOn balance, demand for workers increased since the previous report. A textile and chemical manufacturer from Virginia reported new hiring, while a food producer transitioned several temporary employees into full-time positions. New hiring in tourism, manufacturing, and IT was noted in West Virginia; however, there were reports that WARN Act notices, indicating a planned mass layoff, had been issued in the coal industry. A central Virginia staffing agent noticed significantly stronger demand in recent weeks, especially for customer service, healthcare, and legal workers. A Maryland employment service provider said there were no notable changes in hiring, but suggested that the skills most in demand were for managers, supervisors, engineers, and IT professionals. Some transportation, banking and finance, hospitality, and retail industries continued to have difficulty finding workers. A few contacts reported wage pressures for drivers, construction workers, skilled engineers, managers, IT professionals, and bankers. According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing employment grew at a modest pace, the average workweek lengthened, and wages rose slightly; in the service sector, employment and wages increased at a moderate pace.  Return to top Retailers cited a slight improvement in sales activity since the previous report. Auto dealers continued to note increasing sales. Hospitality contacts continued to report strong activity, with increasing demand from both leisure and business travel. Residential real estate contacts indicated that existing and new home sales and prices remained ahead of last year's levels, and inventory levels were down from a year ago. Commercial real estate brokers continued to note improved demand and modest levels of construction for most property types. Multifamily construction, in particular, continued to increase across much of the District. Manufacturers indicated that overall activity expanded with new orders and production increasing since the previous report. Banking conditions improved for both businesses and consumers as loan volume increased slightly, on balance. Payrolls across the region expanded slowly and businesses continued to report difficulties finding qualified workers. Contacts indicated wages grew at a steady pace. Some contacts expressed concerns about the rising costs of specific inputs. Consumer Spending and TourismDistrict retailers reported a slight improvement in sales since the previous report. Young shoppers were described as being confident and willing to spend, while older consumers were reportedly being more cautious. The battle between online sales versus brick-and-mortar store sales continued as merchants indicated that competition from rival stores' online sales was having an adverse effect on in-store traffic. However, the outlook among retailers for the remainder of the year remains optimistic. District auto dealers not only continued to see increased consumer sales, but saw strong demand from commercial businesses as well. Reports on tourism and business travel remained upbeat. Tourism activity across the region was strong with high occupancy numbers at hotels and resorts. The development of various new entertainment venues has increased demand for leisure travel and business travel has been solid year to date. Overall, hospitality contacts maintain a positive outlook for the remainder of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. Real Estate and ConstructionMany District brokers reported growth in activity since the previous report. Most brokers indicated that home sales met or exceeded their plan for the reporting period, but a growing share of contacts reported that sales fell short of their plan. The majority of brokers indicated that inventory levels remained flat or continued to decline on a year-over-year basis and home prices were ahead of their year-earlier level. Regarding the outlook, optimism about future sales activity waned from earlier reports with most brokers expecting home sales to remain flat or decline slightly over the next three months with some of the expected decline being attributed to seasonal factors. Reports from District builders remained fairly positive. The majority reported that recent construction activity either met or exceeded their plan for the period. Many builders noted that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of their year-ago levels. Half of contacted builders indicated that their inventory of unsold homes was down from a year ago. Builders also continued to report modest home price appreciation. The outlook among builders for new home sales and construction activity remains positive. Commercial real estate brokers across the District continued to report improving demand since the previous report, though they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Commercial contractors reported that apartment construction remained robust. Contacts also noted that the level of construction activity across other property types continued to increase modestly. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remains fairly optimistic. Manufacturing and TransportationDistrict manufacturers reported that activity expanded compared with the previous reporting period. Contacts noted growth in new orders and production; in addition, they indicated that finished inventory levels rose and commodity prices continued to increase. Respondents noted that supplier delivery times for inputs were slightly shorter. Relative to the previous report, a larger share of purchasing agents polled during the reporting period expect production to increase over the next three to six months. Overall, transportation contacts reported an improvement in demand since the previous report. District railroads cited increases in total carloads, led by significant strengthening in shipments of petroleum products; grain; and military, machinery, and transportation equipment. Intermodal traffic continued to increase on a year-over-year basis. Ports in the District reported a notable increase in container traffic and substantial growth in overall cargo tonnage in September. Trucking companies continued to experience strong freight demand through the end of September. Banking and FinanceContacts described the financing environment as improving for both businesses and consumers, with a growing number of projects being financed. Competition for high-quality borrowers remained very keen and credit demand was mixed. Line-of-credit utilization at banks remained relatively flat with few requests for increased limits on short-term credit. Demand for some other loan types was up from year-ago levels. Employment and PricesWith a few exceptions, contacts reported that their staffing levels were increasing slowly. The District added 51,100 jobs on net in August and the unemployment rate rose 0.2 percentage point to 6.9 percent. Nearly all states in the District added to payrolls in August, with the exception of Mississippi, which lost 4,600 jobs on net. Businesses across the region continued to report difficulty finding qualified workers. Similar to the previous report, hiring challenges appeared to be both intensifying and broadening across the skill and occupation spectrums. In general, firms indicated that their pricing power remained relatively weak, although a growing number of contacts expect improved margins over the coming year. Contacts in some sectors, including transportation and construction, continued to report concerns about rising input costs, though a slower pace of commodity price increases is anticipated to offer some respite going forward. Respondents to the latest business inflation expectations survey indicated that, on average, businesses anticipate unit costs to rise 2.1 percent over the coming 12 months. There were some reports of upward pressure on starting salaries; however, average compensation increases for most contacts remained anchored between two and three percent per year. Natural Resources and AgricultureContacts in the oil industry reported that there was an excess supply of crude oil, with recent prices well below year-ago levels. Gulf Coast refinery utilization increased over the last year. Imports of crude oil fell; exports were slightly above year-ago levels, though some contacts expressed concern that the strength of the dollar has made U.S. oil exports more expensive for the rest of the world. Parts of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia experienced abnormally dry to severe drought conditions. Lower corn prices continued to benefit poultry and livestock producers that rely on corn for feed. The USDA announced a new financial assistance program for eligible Florida citrus growers to help with the removal and replacement of stock affected by citrus greening. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending remained moderate in September, led by continued strength in auto sales. Lower gas prices spurred sales of larger vehicles, especially light trucks, and consumers continued to take advantage of low lending rates and easing loan standards. Several auto dealers also noted that leasing activity had finally returned to pre-recession levels. Non-auto retail spending increased slightly, as growth picked up for discretionary spending categories in recent weeks. Retail contacts generally expected that sales in the upcoming holiday season would be up slightly relative to a year ago. Business SpendingBusiness spending also continued to grow at a moderate pace in September. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most retailers and manufacturers. Non-auto retailers reported adding more to their holiday season inventories than they did last year. Capital expenditures and capital spending plans steadily increased, with expenditures primarily going toward replacing IT and industrial equipment. A number of manufacturing contacts, especially auto suppliers, reported that demand was strong enough to justify expansion in the near future. Both actual hiring and hiring plans increased at a moderate pace, and many contacts reported slightly higher turnover. Many manufacturing contacts added hours to meet increased demand. Holiday hiring began, and retailers plan to hire slightly more holiday workers than last year. Demand remained strong for skilled workers, particularly for those in professional and technical occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. Contacts again mentioned expanding internal training programs to address worker shortages and an increased willingness to pay higher wages. A staffing firm reported strong order books, but noted that improving labor market conditions in the District were leading to increased difficulties finding qualified workers. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity also increased moderately over the reporting period. Residential construction continued to expand in both the single- and multi-family markets. An industry contact noted that with homebuilders beginning to exhaust their existing inventories of vacant in-fill lots, single-family construction might slow in some areas of the District until planned projects start to come online. Builders also noted improved availability of financing for new projects, but indicated that difficulties in finding skilled labor have often delayed construction. Home sales were somewhat lower, and growth in home prices and residential rents slowed. Real estate contacts expected sales to return to normal levels in the coming months, pointing to recent increases in online and open-house traffic. Nonresidential construction increased, driven in large part by demand for industrial and office buildings. Automotive parts manufacturers, in particular, remained a source of demand for industrial buildings. Commercial real estate activity continued to expand, with contacts noting strong demand for medical office buildings. Vacancies ticked down, rents rose, and leasing of industrial buildings, office space, and retail space all increased. ManufacturingManufacturing continued to grow at a moderate pace in September. The auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained a source of strength for the District. Light vehicle production increased as manufacturers built up inventories in anticipation of continued growth in sales. Demand for steel steadily increased and most specialty metal manufacturers’ order books continued to fill. Led by the U.S. market, demand for heavy machinery picked up some on net, as higher demand for construction machinery overshadowed weaker demand for agricultural and mining equipment. Slowing demand has led some agricultural machinery manufacturers to start offering incentives such as extended warranties, low interest rate loans, and special financing to help dealers sell used equipment. Manufacturers of construction materials reported a modest increase in demand, but still were disappointed in the slow pace of improvement in the housing market. Utility contacts reported that weather-adjusted load growth was flat over the reporting period. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions were mixed in September. Financial market participants noted slightly tighter financial conditions, pointing to an increase in equity market volatility and widening corporate bond spreads. In contrast, banking contacts cited looser conditions, with business and consumer lending both increasing. Business loan demand for equipment and commercial real estate financing rose, as did utilization of credit lines for working capital. Banking contacts also noted that despite elevated acquisition multiples, their clients continue to seek opportunities for mergers and acquisitions; this was especially the case for large corporations with ample cash balances. Consumer loan demand increased, with contacts citing some additional growth in credit card lending, continued strong growth in auto lending, and an uptick in mortgage lending. Prices and CostsCost pressures changed little on balance over the reporting period. Energy costs declined. Steel and aluminum prices increased. A contact noted that supply constraints in the Midwest pushed up the local price for aluminum to a new high relative to benchmark spot prices. A number of manufacturers expected to be able to raise prices, especially those in the auto industry, where capacity is increasingly constrained. Retail prices were down slightly as contacts reported more generous sales promotions. Meat and dairy prices remained elevated, though contacts did not report price pressures for other grocery items. Overall, wage pressures were modest, but a number of contacts again reported moderate wage pressures for skilled workers. Non-wage labor costs changed little from the previous reporting period. Many contacts reported passing some of their higher health care costs on to employees in the form of higher co-pays or deductibles. AgricultureOverall crop conditions were very good at the start of the harvest. The District should see record corn and soybean harvests. Early results indicated yields for corn and soybeans would range from above-average to record-high levels. The huge anticipated harvests pushed down corn and soybean prices. Crop income was lower than a year ago as higher yields were insufficient to offset lower prices. Crop insurance will cover some of the lost income, but farmers already are planning to trim costs for next year, particularly spending on farm equipment and other capital purchases. Corn farmers helped bid up cattle prices, with the intention of using the abundant harvest as feed for their own cattle production rather than selling it. Hog and milk prices were higher as well, contributing to expansions in output of these commodities. Return to top Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been largely positive since the previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of contacts reported plans to reduce employment. Producers of construction materials, tools, consumer goods, and aviation equipment announced plans to hire new employees and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, a metal products manufacturer and a food manufacturer reported plans to lay off workers and close facilities. Reports from automobile and auto parts manufacturers were positive, with District contacts reporting plans to expand operations and hire new workers. Reports of plans in the District’s service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in freight, insurance and financial, and communications services reported new hiring and expansion plans in the District. In contrast, firms in animal health services and firms in news media services announced plans to lay off employees. Reports from healthcare services firms were mixed. Anecdotal reports from retailers were mostly positive. Contacts in Memphis noted new openings or expanding operations in retail and grocery establishments. In contrast, a major nationwide retailer announced two store closures in the District. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales decreased in the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2013, August 2014 year-to-date home sales were down 3 percent in Little Rock, 2 percent in Louisville, 8 percent in Memphis, and 5 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction declined in the majority of the District’s metro areas. August 2014 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District’s metro areas compared with the same period in 2013. In particular, permits decreased 29 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Louisville, and 3 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits increased 2 percent in Memphis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions were mixed throughout the District. A contact in Louisville reported an increase in prospective commercial tenants in the downtown area. A contact in Memphis noted that the Germantown commercial real estate market remains strong. A contact in Little Rock reported robust demand for commercial real estate space. Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District since the previous report. A contact in Memphis reported plans for a large-scale mixed-use development in the downtown area. A contact in Louisville reported the construction of a building in an industrial park in southern Indiana, with tentative plans for the construction of additional buildings. A Little Rock contact reported the redevelopment of vacant commercial real estate space in Fayetteville. Contacts in St. Louis reported the expansion of a commercial real estate development in Chesterfield and multiple plans for speculative industrial development projects across the area. Banking and FinanceTotal loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks increased 1.9 percent from mid-June to mid-September. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72 percent of total loans, increased 1.1 percent over this period. Commercial and industrial loans, which account for 16 percent of total loans, increased 2.0 percent over the period. Loans to individuals, which account for 5.3 percent of total loans, increased 4.6 percent over the period. All other loans, which account for 7.2 percent of total loans, increased 7.7 percent over the period. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.2 percent. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAs of late September, about 75 percent of the District’s corn, rice, and soybean crops was rated in good or excellent condition. Similarly, about 60 percent of the District’s pastureland was rated in good or excellent condition; Kentucky’s pastureland, in particular, has improved significantly since the previous report. Harvest completion rates across the District have lagged behind their five-year averages. District coal production for August was about 1.5 percent higher than a year ago. Employment, Wages, and PricesAnecdotal information suggests that employment in the Eighth District grew moderately since the previous report, while wages and prices grew modestly. A contact in Louisville noted increased turnover of skilled employees who are switching to higher-paying jobs. Contacts also noted increases in the cost of lumber and other building materials, and indicated that increased demand has allowed some retail dealers of construction materials to increase prices to consumers. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased moderately overall since the previous report. August and early-September same-store sales at a mall in North Dakota were up about 2 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. Recent sales and traffic at a South Dakota mall were relatively flat compared with last year, while August sales were flat relative to a year ago at a Minnesota mall. An apparel retailer noted that recent sales were up slightly from a year earlier. Recent vehicle sales at Montana dealerships were doing well with particularly strong sales in the northeastern part of the state, according to a representative of an auto dealers association. Tourism activity was up from last year. This year's record attendance at the Minnesota State Fair was 5 percent higher than a year ago. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that recent leisure travel bookings were about 10 percent higher than last year, while another travel agency reported that leisure bookings in August and September were strong. Compared with last year, August visits to Glacier National Park were up 8 percent and visits to Yellowstone National Park were up 7 percent. According to a survey of lodging and camping properties in Minnesota, 48 percent of respondents reported that summer occupancy was up from a year ago, while 25 percent reported that it was down. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity decreased since the previous report. Commercial permits in Billings, Mont., were down significantly in value in September from a year earlier. In Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of August commercial permits decreased from a year ago. Residential construction decreased from last year. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of September residential permits decreased 16 percent compared with September 2013. The value of August residential permits in Sioux Falls decreased 40 percent from the same period last year. The value of August housing permits decreased significantly in Bismarck from a year ago. However, September residential building permits in Billings increased in value from last year. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the previous report. Several commercial real estate transactions were announced around the District, including both purchase and lease transactions in retail, hotel, office, and industrial real estate. However, a retailer announced that it would vacate three of its stores in Minnesota this year. Residential real estate market activity decreased since the previous report. In the Sioux Falls area, August home sales were down 8 percent, inventory increased 11 percent, and the median sales price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. August home sales were down 5 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for sale increased 13 percent, and the median sales price rose 4 percent. Several Minnesota real estate professionals and investors recently noted that out-of-state investor groups are paying above-market prices for single-family rental properties in Minneapolis. Meanwhile, August home sales in western Wisconsin were up 8 percent from a year ago; the median sales price was flat. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased at a modest pace since the previous report. Contacts from architectural firms noted some increases from a year ago in bidding activity for government and industrial projects. Contacts from accounting and legal firms noted steady activity since the previous report. Several contacts noted that capacity constraints in freight rail have increased demand for trucking services. ManufacturingManufacturing activity grew moderately since the previous report. A manufacturing index released by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) increased in September from the previous month in North Dakota; the index fell slightly in Minnesota and South Dakota, but remained at levels consistent with expansion in activity in all three states. An agribusiness firm announced that it will move ahead in building a $3 billion fertilizer plant in North Dakota. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector increased, while mining was steady since the previous report. Late-September oil and gas exploration activity increased in North Dakota and was level in Montana from a month earlier; production remained at record levels. A partnership announced plans to build a 450-mile pipeline from the Bakken oil fields to a hub in Wyoming. A crude oil storage facility in North Dakota announced a $5.5 million expansion. Production at District iron ore mines appeared steady in August compared with a month earlier. It was announced that construction will resume on a $1.8 billion ore production facility that was delayed due to financing. Freight rail congestion was leading to increased stockpiles at some ore production facilities, as locomotives and crews that move ore to port were in short supply. AgricultureAgricultural conditions were mixed since the previous report. The most recent USDA forecast calls for substantially increased production of corn and soybeans this year in District states compared with 2013. Livestock and dairy producers continued to benefit from lower feed costs and high output prices. Most of the district's crops were in good or excellent condition despite late planting; however, an early frost damaged soybeans in some parts of Minnesota and South Dakota. Relative to a year earlier, prices received by farmers in September were lower for corn, soybeans, and wheat; prices increased for hay, cattle, hogs, poultry, and milk. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets continued to show signs of tightening since the previous report. In Minnesota, a firm is hiring 1,000 seasonal workers to fill a variety of positions, a medical device manufacturer announced plans to add over 200 jobs, a window manufacturer will add 100 jobs, and a heating and air conditioning plant announced plans to add 95 jobs over the next three years. According to a survey of Minnesota businesses by an employment services firm, 19 percent of respondents expect to hire more employees during the fourth quarter, while 6 percent expect decreases in staffing. In last year's survey, 17 percent expected staffing increases, while 7 percent expected decreases. According to surveys conducted by four technical schools in South Dakota, almost all graduates were employed or continuing their education six months after graduation. Some contacts noted continued difficulty finding truck drivers to fill open positions. In contrast, a food manufacturer recently announced plans to eliminate up to 800 positions companywide. Overall, wage increases were modest since the previous report. However, according to a recent survey of central Minnesota businesses by St. Cloud State University, 54 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, up from 43 percent in last year's survey. Price increases generally remained subdued. End-of-September Minnesota gasoline prices were down about 10 cents per gallon both from mid-August and from a year earlier. Metals prices decreased somewhat since the previous report. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending grew at a solid rate, and contacts were more optimistic about future sales growth than in previous reports. Retail sales grew moderately, at a similar pace of growth as in the previous survey. Several retailers noted stronger sales of home improvement and building materials, though sales for some higher-priced items were characterized as weak. Expectations for future sales remained strong, and inventory levels were expected to rise somewhat. Auto sales were up modestly from the previous survey. Dealer contacts anticipated some increases in sales in the months ahead and noted solid sales for mid-sized vehicles and small SUVs. Auto inventories fell further, with one contact noting a considerable rise in the cost of inventory. Restaurant sales weakened in late August and September but remained well above year-ago levels, and contacts expected sales to improve in coming months. Many restaurants reported a reduction in employment, and one restaurant owner said they would be adding a health care surcharge of 3 percent to each check. District tourism activity fell from the previous month, but was up strongly from a year ago. Expectations for future tourism edged down somewhat but remained solid. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityDistrict manufacturing and other business activity rose modestly in late August and September. Factory production increased, primarily at durable goods producers, though several nondurable-goods producers also reported modest gains. However, activity at some food processing plants continued to decline in the face of higher beef prices. Contacts reported solid gains in factory shipments and employment, with new orders up slightly. Expectations for future factory activity held steady at overall favorable levels. Manufacturers' capital spending plans increased slightly and remained well above year-ago levels. Growth in wholesale trade sales increased, with contacts expecting continued solid growth in the next few months. Transportation, professional, and high-tech firms reported smaller gains than the previous survey, although sales remained considerably higher than year-ago levels and many contacts expected solid improvement heading forward. One trucking firm cited supply chain disruptions and new regulations as having slowed freight traffic for both shippers and distributors. Real Estate and ConstructionOn balance, District real estate activity increased slightly in late August and September with residential real estate activity flat and commercial real estate activity increasing moderately. Residential home sales were unchanged compared to the previous survey period and were similar to year-ago levels. Sales of low- and medium-priced homes continued to run ahead of sales for higher-priced homes. Home prices increased modestly, and inventories continued to rise slightly. Most residential real estate contacts expected home sales to decrease in the coming months primarily reflecting typical seasonal declines. Housing starts and construction supply sales edged down since the previous survey period. Residential construction activity was expected to pick up slightly as builders anticipated a slight increase in traffic of potential buyers. Commercial real estate activity increased moderately relative to the previous survey period as contacts continued to report a decline in vacancy rates, an increase in absorption, higher sales, and increased construction activity. The commercial real estate market was expected to strengthen at a moderate pace over the coming months. BankingBankers reported steady overall loan demand, a modest improvement in loan quality, and mostly steady deposit levels in late August and September. Loan demand was slightly improved for agricultural loans, consumer installment loans and commercial and industrial loans. Demand for residential real estate loans was slightly weaker compared to the last survey. Even with the recent modest improvement in loan quality, most bankers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a year ago, and many expected it to remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged for all major loan categories, and deposit levels were stable for most banks. EnergyEnergy activity continued to expand in late August and September. District contacts reported steady growth in drilling activity, primarily for oil, and expectations for future drilling were solid, though somewhat lower than the previous survey. Oil prices declined in late August and September, as global demand failed to keep up with supply. Most respondents expected oil prices to decline marginally in the coming months, yet most producers anticipated that drilling would remain profitable across the areas where they are active. Natural gas prices continued to decline but remained slightly above year-ago levels; most contacts expected these prices to start to rise modestly as the winter heating season approaches. Energy firms' overall capital expenditure plans remained solid. AgricultureDespite expectations of above-average yields, further declines in crop prices weighed on farm income prospects in the District. However, crop insurance and some pre-selling of this year's crop at higher prices earlier in the year may help mitigate the effect on overall farm incomes of recent spot price declines. The corn and soybean crops were mostly rated in good to excellent condition as harvest began. Cattle prices rose since the last survey period while hog prices fell with increased production resulting from higher dressed weights. The demand for farm operating loans has risen substantially from last year as more crop producers borrowed to pay for operating costs. Bankers also reported a rise in requests for agricultural loan renewals and extensions and noted that loan repayment rates have edged down from the high levels seen the past few years. Despite the sharp drop in crop prices, farmland values were typically holding at high levels. Wages and PricesRelative to the previous report, prices rose at a slightly slower pace in most industries, and while most firms reported only modest wage pressures, in some cases wage pressures were more pronounced. Retail price growth was minimal, likely because retailers' input costs rose more slowly than in previous surveys. Restaurant menu prices also rose less than in previous surveys despite persistent growth in input costs. Manufacturing selling prices rose slightly, while raw materials prices continued to increase at modest rates. Transportation input prices fell and fewer transportation firms raised their selling prices. Construction materials prices were up in late August and September, and many builders expected further increases. Contacts in most industries expected prices to rise moderately going forward. Increased wage pressures were noted in a few industries, particularly manufacturing, restaurants, transportation, and energy. Some contacts continued to report a short supply of workers, particularly for drivers, construction, and skilled manufacturing positions. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices held steady over the last six weeks, with fewer reports of firms raising prices than in the previous report. Professional business services firms said rates were unchanged over the reporting period (though higher than a year ago), and retailers and auto dealers also noted steady prices. Changes in selling prices in the manufacturing sector were mixed. Prices for construction materials such as fabricated metals, concrete, brick, and glass rose, while prices for primary metals, transportation equipment, and high-tech products held steady and lumber prices fell slightly. Food producers continued to note selling price increases due to rising input costs. These contacts said selling prices will likely level out before raw materials prices do, and companies will try to cut costs elsewhere. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell over the course of the reporting period, as global supply growth met softer international demand. The price of natural gas stabilized at just under $4 per MMbtu over the past six weeks after falling during the prior reporting period. Retail gasoline and diesel prices continued to fall. Labor MarketEmployment at responding firms held steady or increased, and labor market tightness continued to be mentioned by numerous contacts. Reports of hiring came from staffing and transportation services firms and construction-related manufacturers (such as fabricated metal, cement, and brick producers). Legal firms noted a seasonal increase in headcounts from adding new fall associates. A retailer noted difficulty in hiring in the areas of the state where the energy sector was booming, and an auto dealer said they were losing mechanics and technicians to energy companies in the Eagle Ford region to repair oilfield trucks. A shortage of specialized heavy construction workers and chemical engineers was causing some delays in announced construction projects in the petrochemicals industry. Residential construction contacts also noted persistent labor shortages; one contact saw some easing while another said that in Houston, a few builders were placing cameras and armed guards at their construction sites to prevent poaching of workers. Energy contacts saw no relief from the tight labor market, especially in West Texas. Several contacts continued to report upward wage pressures. Staffing services firms said candidates were often receiving multiple offers, which caused some firms to increase wages to stay competitive. Some primary and fabricated metals manufacturers noted higher wages; increases as high as 30 percent over the last six months were seen in some trades, according to contacts. High-tech manufacturers said wage pressures remained elevated for some higher-skilled workers. ManufacturingMost manufacturers noted an increase in demand since the previous report and outlooks were largely positive. Primary metals producers said demand grew but at a slower pace, possibly due to seasonal factors. Demand for fabricated metals strengthened and was up notably from last year, with contacts pointing to increased demand from a number of segments of the construction industry. Demand was mostly flat for lumber, cement, glass, and brick manufacturers, although a couple of contacts noted a pickup in demand for these products in the Dallas area. Contacts in high-tech manufacturing reported demand was stable or higher over the past six weeks. Respondents expect strong demand growth for the next three to six months, primarily due to expansion in capacity by cloud and mobile computing providers. Food producers said demand increased somewhat over the reporting period, mostly due to seasonal factors, but was largely unchanged from a year ago. Petrochemical producers reported slightly lower production as various repairs and upgrades to existing facilities had fallen behind schedule. Firms in this sector noted some delays in announced construction projects because of worker and materials shortages as well as delays in securing permits. Refinery utilization rates along the Gulf Coast were strong, and outlooks through year-end remained positive among refiners and chemical producers. Retail SalesRetail sales increased at about the same pace as during the prior reporting period. A continued boost from back-to-school shopping was the most-noted driver of recent sales growth, and demand was also up year-over-year. Contacts' outlooks for the remainder of the year were optimistic, and they expect demand during the holiday shopping season to be slightly stronger this year than in 2013. Automobile sales continued to increase, at a pace similar to the prior reporting period. Demand was up year-over-year. Contacts were satisfied with inventory levels and said they had plenty of vehicles. Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive, although one contact noted that an increase in interest rates could drastically change the landscape of their industry. Nonfinancial ServicesMost nonfinancial services firms reported demand was up from six weeks ago, and outlooks were optimistic. Staffing firms generally noted demand increases, with one contact saying the past two weeks were the company's strongest all year. Contacts said all skill levels were in high demand, and that demand for low-skilled workers had increased. Direct hiring led demand growth, although one contact said contract and temporary worker demand will likely increase as the Affordable Care Act's effects continue to be felt. The accounting sector continued to operate at high levels of activity and demand for these services increased further over the reporting period. Demand for legal services increased as well, with particular strength coming from corporate work. Transportation services firms said overall cargo volumes increased slightly since the previous report. Small-parcel cargo volumes increased, with retail trade (led by e-commerce) remaining the strongest source of growth. Railroad contacts noted a rise in petroleum and motor vehicle shipments. Air cargo volumes continued to trend upward as increased international air cargo demand outpaced a decline in domestic demand. Outlooks were cautiously optimistic. Airlines reported passenger demand fell over the reporting period due to seasonal factors, but was up from a year ago. Domestic demand remained stronger than international demand. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing sector remained solid overall. Single-family home sales were flat to down over the reporting period. Land prices continued to trend upward at the same pace; however, the pace of home price appreciation slowed, with one respondent noting a slight pushback in pricing from buyers. Contacts said a few homebuilders were expanding production of more-affordable high-density housing. Robust apartment demand kept occupancy high and rent growth solid despite elevated levels of multifamily construction activity. Single- and multifamily housing contacts were optimistic in their near-term outlooks. Office leasing activity increased in Dallas and Austin and held steady at high levels in Houston. Contacts noted moderate growth in rents. Demand for industrial space remained strong and vacancy rates remained tight in most major metro areas. Construction activity stayed elevated, and outlooks were mostly optimistic. Financial ServicesDemand for loans accelerated slightly since the last report. Financing for mergers and acquisitions as well as capital expenditures rose in recent weeks. Lending to medium-sized businesses continued to grow, and financing activity for commercial real estate development remained robust. Mortgage lending grew slightly, but contacts noted that a low supply of housing was constraining growth. Contacts noted increased optimism among clients. EnergyDemand for oilfield services in the District continued to grow, although activity in the Permian Basin in September was muted temporarily by flooding. Growth in Texas drilling activity was again concentrated outside of the major basins. Outlooks for the rest of the year remained optimistic and were largely unchanged from the prior reporting period. AgricultureDistrict drought conditions eased slightly over the past six weeks, although more than half of Texas remained in a drought that has plagued the state since the end of 2010. Harvesting of row crops like cotton and corn continued, and crop conditions were slightly better than last year. Cattle prices continued to be at a record high while feed prices fell, boosting profitability for cattle producers. Domestic and export beef demand remained strong despite retail beef prices reaching a record high in August. Improved moisture conditions overall have increased optimism for winter crops and expanded prospects for cattle herd rebuilding. Return to top Prices and WagesOverall price inflation remained modest during the reporting period. Contacts reported that consumers are very price conscious. A shortage of cattle drove up beef prices, and the California drought boosted nut prices. Although operating costs, commodity costs, and packaging costs in the wholesale food industry increased slightly, contacts reported that competition prevented these cost increases from being passed on to retail prices for most food items. Electric utility input prices increased modestly during the reporting period. Prices in the technology sector decreased for both businesses and consumers, driven by competitive pressures and technological advances. Prices of certain building supplies, including wallboard, wood, cement, and insulation increased a bit. Contacts reported that restaurant prices increased slightly in July and August in some states in response to minimum-wage increases. Las Vegas hotel room rates for August were higher than in any August since 2007. In general, wages continued to increase at a modest pace. Most contacts reported that wages and salaries were up about 2-1/2 percent to 3 percent compared with last year. Wages for software developers, for workers in skilled trades, and, in some areas, for experienced construction workers increased faster. Declines in defense spending led some aerospace manufacturers to institute greater employee cost-sharing on benefits. Retail Trade and ServicesOverall retail sales grew slightly during the reporting period. Sales of higher-end clothing picked up, but somewhat less than respondents expected. Food sales increased a bit, and contacts reported that grocery inventories were stable. However, the droughts in California and other parts of the West resulted in lower-quality produce. Revenue at hobby game stores showed strong growth. Contacts characterized consumers as still cautious in their spending habits but expect retail demand to strengthen further soon. Demand for business and consumer services increased moderately. Demand for legal services picked up in some areas, in connection with rising real estate activity. Demand for advertising services declined, but businesses increased spending on cloud computing services. Contacts reported that industry leaders expect information technology spending to accelerate in 2015, driven by spending on big data and security services, as well as on cloud computing. Casual dining picked up in August, the first monthly increase in sales in that segment this year. Contacts expect continued slow growth of casual dining in the coming months. Las Vegas year-to-date visitor volume increased moderately over 2013. Total occupied room nights and occupancy percentage at Las Vegas hotels climbed. ManufacturingOverall District manufacturing activity picked up during the reporting period. Worldwide semiconductor sales were up markedly over the previous year. Recent sales of manufactured steel and recycled metals also were up over the same period a year earlier. Revenue for biotech and pharmaceutical manufacturers grew notably since the previous reporting period. Industry contacts detected stronger demand for pharmaceuticals stemming from the increase in the number of insured people, and they expect healthy earnings growth to continue. Demand for medical equipment was also very strong. Aerospace and defense capacity utilization declined since the prior reporting period. In contrast, contacts reported that capacity utilization among commercial aircraft producers increased to record levels. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesAgricultural conditions in the District were mixed during the reporting period. Continuing droughts in California and parts of Washington and Idaho elevated water costs and depressed harvests of cotton and various grains, vegetables, nuts, and legumes. Farmers increased the number of acres lying fallow and reduced herd sizes. However, low corn prices and stable fertilizer and machinery prices benefited dairy and feedlot operations. Milk prices increased, and export demand for hay from the West Coast reached an historical peak. Sales of electricity and natural gas to the manufacturing sector have increased markedly since the beginning of the year. Agricultural land prices remained relatively high. Real Estate and ConstructionReal estate activity in the District advanced, but growth trends in the residential sector were uneven across the District. Contacts reported that in a few areas, prices of single-family homes accelerated, while in other areas the pace of price increases declined. In a few areas, year-to-date single-family housing starts were down compared with the same period in 2013. Sales of single-family homes were stable during the reporting period. Overall, multifamily construction and development activity remained strong. Commercial office demand was robust in San Francisco and Silicon Valley, and rents increased compared with the previous reporting period. In Los Angeles, commercial real estate construction picked up. Financial InstitutionsOverall loan demand increased moderately since the previous reporting period. In some areas where lending activity had been stagnant for a long time, demand for commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans picked up. Other areas that had already been experiencing growth in loans showed continued expansion. Asset quality improved since the previous reporting period, and contacts reported that current overall loan performance was comparable to that seen before the recession. Competition among lenders for customers with high-quality credit remained intense. Contacts reported that this competition had depressed interest rates on loans, reducing net interest margins and profitability. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidWednesday's 400-point plunge in the Dow has investors a bit freaked out. So what's behind the sell-off? Rich Barry, an NYSE floor governor, identified seven catalysts in an email he just blasted from the New York Stock Exchange floor: 1. A shockingly weak Retail Sales report that hit the tape at 8:30 a.m. ET. (Expect Q3 GDP growth to be revised downward.) 2. News that the $54 Billion Shire-Abbvie deal was falling apart also weighed on stocks. 3. A September drop in PPI that had trading desks mentioning the dirty "D" word. (Deflation concerns — see the price of oil.) 4. A report on October manufacturing activity in New York that was poor too, slowing worse-than-expected after posting its strongest pace in nearly five years last month. 5. A second hospital worker contracted Ebola and flew in a plane recently. 6. The stock market in Greece came close to a full-blown crash. 7. ISIS. This isn't intended to be an exhaustive list. But it pretty much addresses every category of risk: economic slowdown, corporate profit slowdown, falling prices, geopolitical turmoil, and unknowns like Ebola. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Lewis Krauskopf (Reuters) - Investors who have endured a four-month selloff in shares of large U.S. manufacturers will be looking for solid revenue growth and order trends in third-quarter earnings reports starting on Friday to help allay fears that a soft global economy will derail the outlook for diverse industrial names. Concerns over weak economic growth in Europe and stagnation in emerging markets have dented shares of these large industrial companies, which depend on sales outside of the United States, according to portfolio managers and analysts who follow the stocks. "As far as the diversified industrials, the big bugaboo the last month is if you have a higher concentration of sales in China and Europe," said Charlie Smith, chief investment officer at Fort Pitt Capital. Stocks of diverse manufacturers have underperformed the broader U.S. market this year, to the point that Morgan Stanley analyst Nigel Coe said on Monday they were in "official correction territory." The stronger dollar reduces the value of foreign sales, while worry over slowdowns in some industrial markets such as energy also could be dampening expectations. "It’s time for companies to prove they’re worth paying up for, and hopefully we’ll see that in demand," said John Heslin, who follows industrial companies as vice president at Tradition Capital Management. Third-quarter reports for large diverse manufacturers kick off on Friday with General Electric  and Honeywell International . At an investor meeting last week, GE Chief Executive Officer Jeff Immelt, whose company is often viewed as an economic bellwether, said GE was seeing healthy orders despite global volatility. "I still think we’re kind of in the same world recovering from the financial crisis that’s got slow growth and volatility," Immelt said. Barclays analyst Scott Davis forecast 4 percent quarterly core sales growth for diverse manufacturers, saying in a research note that 3 percent "would be a concern." Although companies such as GE and United Technologies  are not due to forecast 2015 results until later in the year, investors certainly will look for clues. Sales and earnings were likely to be "notably lower" next year compared to 2014, William Blair analyst Nick Heymann warned in a research note this week. He expects organic revenue growth of 1 percent to 3 percent on average in 2015, versus 3 percent to 5 percent this year. "The question a lot of people have is where is '15 going to be," said Scott Lawson, vice president at Westwood Holdings Group, who follows industrial companies. "You tend to see industrials rally in November and December as investors look toward the growth for next year." While the stocks at the start of the year may have looked expensive after a big run in 2013, "the valuations have pulled back, so we’ve found a few opportunities lately," said Kevin Toney, senior portfolio manager at American Century Investments. Toney cautioned: "We're still nibbling around the edges, as opposed to finding lots of juicy opportunities in this group."  (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMembers of the public scamper at the scene of a twin explosion at the Gikomba open-air market for second-hand clothes in NairobiNAIROBI (Reuters) - Shaded by ragged squares of canvas, amid choking dust and the noise of hawkers, shoppers in Nairobi's Gikomba market can turn up Tommy Hilfiger jeans or a Burberry jacket for a fraction of the price in London's Regent Street or New York's Fifth Avenue. But there's a catch: the clothes are all secondhand, discarded as worthless at charity shops or thrift stores in Europe or the United States and then shipped thousands of miles to another continent, occasionally in such pristine condition that an original price tag is still attached. Kenya imports about 100,000 tonnes of secondhand clothes a year, providing the government revenues from customs duties and creating tens of thousands of jobs. It also offers quality clothes to Kenyans, many of whom earn less in a month what a pair of new Ralph Lauren khakis costs in the West. To critics, the business raises the perennial problem of how Africa can build its own industry when it is flooded with cheap imports. But traders in Gikomba do not see it that way. "It’s a source of employment," said Clement Shuma from behind a pile of secondhand trousers - his specialty - that includes British high-street makes like Topman and Next, and sometimes more internationally well-known labels like Levis or Benetton. "Even that person who’s not well, who’s earning little, at least can afford a piece of cheap (clothing), at a lower price instead of buying new," he said, adding prices ranged from 400 to 1,000 shillings ($4.50-$11.20) per item, depending on quality and brand. It is a common scene across Africa, with Ghana, Tanzania, Benin, Uganda and Kenya among the biggest markets. They provide clothing to many on a continent of 1 billion where economies may be growing many Africans struggle to get by. “Before, if you see our people, the knees are torn ... you can see the thighs,” said Regina Wanjiku, a used clothes importer and wholesaler at Gikomba, describing the sartorial challenge before the business took off two or three decades ago when Kenyans depended on more expensive local products. How the trade has grown, in part, reflects the economic changes that have swept the continent. Until the 1980s, high tariffs protected home grown garment and other businesses. Then economic liberalization programs, backed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, started taking hold in Kenya and elsewhere. Tariffs were lowered and local factories had to contend with new competition. Many failed and shut. Some industrialists say importing secondhand clothes, known in Swahili as "mitumba", undermines Kenya's own garment makers. REUTERS/Noor KhamisPeople go about their secondhand shopping at the busy the Gikomba market in Nairobi.“That has hurt badly the domestic market,” said Rajeev Arora, executive director of the African Cotton &amp; Textile Industries Federation. He said 85 percent of Kenya’s textile plants had closed since the early 1990s, while cotton output was a tenth of 1990s levels. Other experts say it was not the used clothing imports that drove factories out of business, but inefficient production. Dorothy McCormick, a University of Nairobi professor who has researched Kenya’s textile trade, said locally produced clothing was highly subsidized by the government and had always been too expensive to supply the domestic market. "Mitumba" filled a gap in the market, cheaply, she said. Kenya, a nation of 44 million people, is now building up a new garment-making business, but the focus this time is on exports. Kenyan factories exported garments worth $335 million in 2013 and the business employed 40,000 people, says Jaswinder Bedi, a Kenya-based director of the International Textile Manufacturers Federation. In part, the export business has grown because of a trade pact between the United States and Kenya, was well other African states, giving them duty free access to the U.S. market. Nairobi City Council estimates that about 65,000 people work in Gikomba, Kenya's largest "mitumba" market, with some people sharing stalls or working on different days of the week. In addition, there are a dozen or so smaller markets in Nairobi, and other markets around the country, creating more employment. The informal nature of much of the trade makes it difficult to estimate precise numbers, though researchers and officials suggest it may employ hundreds of thousands. Banks have spotted an opportunity and, since 2007, several have opened branches next to Gikomba to serve the traders. “We actually follow the customer, from maybe a hawker to an importer,” said Benjamin Karanja, a spokesman for Family Bank, which operates at the market. “So as they grow, we also grow.” He estimated the market's turnover was $1.1 million a month. The route from donor to new owner, described by officials, exporters, wholesalers, traders and academics, takes the used clothes halfway around the world with the money made at each point racking up to a multi-million dollar global business. “It creates new livelihoods and it creates new value in a commodity, which otherwise would have been dumped,” said David Simon, a geographer at the Royal Holloway, University of London. Charity or thrift shops in the West sift donated items, often keeping just a quarter of the items. The rest are sold to exporters for up to 90 U.S. cents a kg, then wrapped in 45-kg bales and packed in containers - a standard 40-foot container holds about 550 bales, equivalent to about 25 tonnes of clothes. At Kenya's Mombasa port, customs agents collect duties of 1.2 million shillings or more per container, officials and traders say. Although officials did not have total revenue figures, the state statistics agency said imports amounted to 100,000 tonnes worth about $90 million in 2013 alone. This would mean at least 4,000 containers and potential duties amounting to 4.8 billion shillings ($54 million) a year, according to a Reuters estimate. At market, Nairobi City County profits by charging a 50 shilling fee each day from informal hawkers. Bigger shacks or shops pay 4,000 to 15,000 shillings a year. Experts estimate there are about 10,000 shops and stalls in Gikomba. "Many families depend on Gikomba,” said Wanjiku, the Gikomba wholesaler, sipping tea in her warehouse as porters unloaded bales from a delivery truck outside. Many people start with as little as 1,000 shillings, she said, enough to buy a clothes bundle that will earn a small profit. "And then he has food for his children," she said. (1 US dollar = 89.0500 Kenyan shilling)   (Editing by Edmund Blair; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
Via Patek Philippe $2.5 million for a watch may seem like a pretty hefty price tag, but this limited-edition Patek Philippe is arguably the most complex wristwatch that has ever been made.  For its 175th anniversary, the luxury Swiss watchmaker invented a collection of limited-edition commemorative timepieces called The Grandmaster Chime with 20 complications, two dials, and 214 parts. The watch measures 47.7 mm in diameter and has 1,366 individual components. It took a whopping eight years and 100,000 man hours to develop, 60,000 of which were spent just on the watch's movement.  Patek Philippe calls the Grandmaster Chime an “intelligent watch” with features such as a minute repeater, instantaneous perpetual calendar with a four-digit year display, and a second time zone. It also has two deluxe features that are a world-first for chime watches, including an acoustic alarm that strikes the alarm time and even a function that chimes the date. Via Patek Philippe The Grandmaster Chime is the first double-face wristwatch to be presented by Patek Philippe, meaning that it can be worn with either dial facing up — one shows the time, while the other shows the calendar. The “swivel case,” which enables the watches smooth reversal, took an astounding four years to perfect. Both sides are equally stunning. The 18k rose gold 16.1 mm thick clasp was fully engraved by hand. Even the strap is meticulously designed — hand-stitched and made from alligator. Via Patek Philippe Only seven of the Grandmaster Chimes will be produced, and Patek Philippe will keep one in the company’s museum in Geneva where it can be admired by the public.  And for those who want to purchase the remaining six, it's not enough to have $2.5 million in the bank. Lucky customers must also be interviewed by Thierry Stern, the chairman of the watchmaking brand. "I would like to chat with the client and make sure he's a watch lover and make sure he's going to enjoy the watch for many years," Stern told CNBC. Via Patek Philippe FREE AppDownload
The excellent investor and commentator Barry Ritholtz recently published a long-term stock market chart. The chart shows what most students of market history quickly learn: Stocks move in distinct "bull" and "bear" phases that often last for decades: Barry Ritholtz The big argument among market pundits these days is whether the market is still in the middle of the "bear" phase that began in 2000 (14 years and counting) ... or in the middle of a new "bull" phase that started at the financial-crisis low in 2009 (five years and counting). The bulls look at the chart above and point out that we moved sideways for 10 years after 2000, say that was plenty, and predict that stocks will now obviously forge ever higher for years as the new bull market continues: Business Insider Bears, meanwhile, look at the chart and see a temporary, Fed-fueled spike in the middle of a long bear market that they believe will see at least one more big downtrend and correction (likely lasting years) before it is done: Business Insider So who's more likely to be right? Well, let's add a bit more information to that chart.  Throughout history, stock prices have loosely gravitated around the "fundamentals" of the underlying companies — namely, earnings. Specifically, stocks have traded in a range of 5X cyclically adjusted earnings (at bear-market lows) to 44X earnings (at the peak of the biggest bull market in history — the one that ended in 2000). The "average" P/E ratio over this period, meanwhile, has been about 15X. When you add P/E ratios to the charts above, you quickly notice a pattern: Sustained bear-market periods have begun when the P/E is very high (~25X+). Sustained bull-market periods, meanwhile, have begun when the P/E is very low (5X to 9X). Business Insider In other words, sustained bull markets begin when investors are so disgusted by stocks — and so pessimistic about the future of stocks — that they'll pay only 5X to 9X earnings for them. And sustained bear markets begin when investors are so giddy with excitement about stocks and the prospects for stocks that they'll happily pay 25X earnings or more for them. So how about the recent period? Well, it began as history suggested it would: With a stratospheric P/E ratio (44X) and widespread investor jubilation and excitement. Back in 2000, investors were wild about stocks and the prospects for stocks, and most people (including, sadly, me) believed that stocks would keep going up. Then, after a crash (2000 to 2002) and one failed recovery (2003 to 2007), stocks hit a crushing low in 2009 that was down more than 50% from the 2000 peak. At that moment, March 2009, many investors were scared to death of owning stocks, and many analysts expected the market to drop much farther. At that moment, the PE ratio also hit 13X. This was a below-average P/E, finally, but it was also considerably higher than the P/E ratios that had marked previous bear-market bottoms. Then, when the world didn't end, for five years, stocks rocketed straight upward, until the market had nearly tripled off the 2009 low, as investors overcame their fear and gradually fell in love with stocks again.  As recently as a month ago, with the market setting new highs, investors were once again very excited about the future of stock prices. So excited, in fact, that they were willing to pay 26X earnings for them. So, what does this tell us? Nothing conclusive, unfortunately. No one knows the future. But we can make a couple of observations: Unless something has changed that makes the past 115 years of market history irrelevant (always possible, but probably not likely), it would not be surprising if the biggest bull-market peak in market history was followed by one of the biggest bear-market workouts in history — one that, perhaps, might last as long or longer than any major workout period to date. As a long-term investor, I thankfully don't have to make short-term market calls, and I have eventually learned (the hard and expensive way) to limit my stock exposure enough so as not to be particularly bothered by volatility. I own some stocks, so if we're in the middle of a new bull market, great. I also own some cash and bonds, so if we're still in the middle of a long bear market, fine. If stocks tank from here, I'll trade some of that cash for bonds and hope that the world doesn't end. But my guess, for what it's worth, is that we're still in the middle of a long bear market. If you made me draw what I think is the most likely future for stock prices, therefore, I would draw it like this: Business Insider SEE ALSO: Here's My Disaster Scenario For Stock Prices ... FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APJohn Paulson.Hedge fund billionaire John Paulson is getting whacked on his hedge fund's largest equity investment, the biotech company Shire. Shire plunged 23% in London. Late Tuesday, the Chicago-based pharmaceutical company AbbVie said it was reconsidering its $55 billion takeover bid of the Ireland-based Shire, Reuters reported. In the deal, the US company would relocate to take advantage of a lower corporate tax rate. However, the US government has been trying to clamp down to make it more difficult for companies to do these so-called tax inversions. Following the news, shares of Shire plunged 23%, or down 1,215.82 pence ($19.35 USD), on the London Stock Exchange on Wednesday. US-listed shares of Shire were most recently down about 29%, or down about at about $72.38. According to regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg, Paulson most recently held about 27.89 million shares of Shire, or a 4.7% stake, that's trading on the London Stock Exchange. The data also shows that he last held about 3.36 million of the company's American Depository Receipt shares that trade in the US. According to our calculations, he has suffered about $782.8 million in paper losses on the investment Wednesday alone. A Paulson spokesperson declined to comment on the fund's P/L.  Regardless, Paulson still wants AbbVie to pursue its takeover of Shire. He owns 13 million shares of AbbVie. "We believe this transaction creates enormous value for AbbVie shareholders. The combination is both strategic and accretive regardless of the tax considerations," the fund said in a statement emailed to Business Insider. "As a large AbbVie shareholder we hope the Abbvie Board reaffirms its commitment to the transaction after its review." Merger arbitrage is Paulson's main specialty.  Paulson &amp; Co. manages $22 billion in assets. Paulson has four main strategies (Merger, Credit, Advantage, and Recovery). His Merger fund, which invests in merger-like situations, is the oldest and biggest, with approximately $10 billion in assets.  While the paper losses look dismal, Paulson's merger fund is hedged. According to a quarterly report that came out Tuesday and was reviewed by Business Insider, Paulson explained how he used sector-based ETFs to hedge out market risks for the merger fund. "While the risks in these investments are higher than the risks of announced deals, we attempt to mitigate the downside by choosing targets that trade at discounted valuations and that could rise even if no takeover occurs, as well as by either partially or fully hedging the market exposure by shorting sector ETFs and/or individual stocks against the longs. Although the risk is greater and the outcomes are less certain, the rewards can be high," Paulson wrote.  Here's Wednesday's chart of Shire's selloff.   Google Finance FREE AppDownload
The economic synergies between energy-rich Russia and resource-hungry China may appear obvious, but mutual suspicions have long kept them apart. But now, amid Western sanctions blocking Russian access to European and US capital markets, Russia and China have agreed to new deals that go beyond traditional energy and arms sales – giving Moscow some economic relief at a sweetheart deal for Beijing. During a three day visit to Moscow that ended Tuesday, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang signed 38 new deals with Russia, including a big expansion in Russian gas sales to China. Russian President Vladimir Putin sealed a huge $400 billion gas contract with China in May, but the fresh deal would reportedly double that. Moscow also reportedly agreed to sell some of its most advanced weaponry to Beijing. China-Russia trade has grown from around $40 billion to $90 billion in the past six years, but Mr. Putin said Tuesday that it's set to jump to $100 billion next year and $200 billion by 2020. By comparison, Russia's trade with the European Union in 2012 totaled around $340 billion. It's a golden opportunity for China to leverage Russia's political problems with the West and nail down long-term oil and gas contracts at knock-down prices, say experts. "The fact is that China needs energy, and we have it. Russian negotiators are not fools, they know what the bottom line means," says Alexander Salitsky, a China expert with the official Institute of World Economy and International Relations in Moscow. "What we see is a long-term mutually complementary relationship taking place here, at an accelerated pace." In addition, the Chinese are taking advantage of Russia's limited access to Western capital. New Chinese projects include a reported $10 billion commitment to upgrade Russia's railroads, a "strategic partnership" between Russia's state oil company Rosneft and China's CNPC, and a proposed joint development of a long-haul passenger jet. Sanctioned Russian state companies may also find some relief, though it's not clear that Chinese banks can compensate for their loss of Western capital markets. China's Export-Import Bank agreed to provide extensive credit lines to two heavily sanctioned Russian banks to buy Chinese products. In the most politically charged deal, the two countries have agreed to a $24 billion yuan-ruble currency swap between their central banks, which will be used to finance bilateral trade using local currencies rather than US dollars. Russia's immediate political need is allowing China to "realize its ambitions on the world stage," says Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of Russia in Global Affairs, a leading Moscow foreign policy journal. "China is not interested in allying with Russia against the West. But Chinese strategic concerns are growing rapidly," he says. "They don't care about Ukraine, but they are learning that military and political power counts as well as economic might."  And while China remains on the sidelines in Ukraine, the deal with Moscow allows Beijing to signal its sharp disapproval of Western sanctions as a political tool to force Russia to change its policies. "The Chinese have always been against sanctions on principle. They perceive that if the West can use this method to successfully pressure such a big country as Russia, then might not China be next?" says Mr. Salitsky. "So, they're happy to join with Moscow to expand business in defiance of Washington." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hans DerykIt's not worth it to buy a fake.Collecting luxury watches is an expensive hobby. With some brands costing upward of $1 million, it can be tempting to try to find the best deals out there. But collectors have to be very careful — counterfeit watches are not only flooding the market, but they keep getting more and more convincing. “The prices of counterfeit watches seem to be getting more expensive all the time,” Timothy Gordon, a generalist appraiser and a consulting expert for the global online marketplace Lofty, told Business Insider. “As with anything fine, if there’s money involved, the counterfeiters are certainly on the trail.” Gordon has been in the appraisal business for 25 years and even runs his own company, Timothy Gordon Appraisers. Below are his top tips for spotting and avoiding counterfeit luxury watches. REUTERS/Keith BedfordLook up past auction records to see what your watch model should look like.Before you even think about buying a luxury watch, you need to do ample research on the brand and the models you’re interested in buying. “When you’re looking at potential counterfeit watches, you have to inform yourself as to what a real one is like,” Gordon told Business Insider. “You need to know what it feels like, looks like, how much it weighs, and what it sounds like.” You can easily search top brands and models online to get a feel for the watch, but another great resource is the records from top auction houses, whose bread and butter is spotting fake watches.  “When you look at the records of Christie’s, Sotheby’s, Heritage Auctions, or Bonhams, those people have been in the business for decades and decades,” Gordon said. “Go into their auction result databases because you’re going to find past watch models that you can familiarize yourself with alongside photos and pricing. That will give you an accurate idea of what to expect from the real thing.”  Gordon advises buyers to be ready to match and identify these five factors: REUTERS/Enrique Castro-MendivilKnow whom you're buying your watch from.Obviously if someone leads you into a dark ally and tries to sell you a Rolex, chances are that watch is a fake. But it can be harder to spot a shady deal from seemingly trustworthy sellers. Not only do you have to research the watch itself, but it’s imperative that you research your dealer, too.  “Look for an established dealer with a good reputation,” Gordon said. “Buying a watch from a reputable business that’s more expensive is always better than buying a cheaper version from an untrustworthy merchant.” At the end of the day, it’s the seller’s guarantee that matters. REUTERS/Denis BalibouseA rare pink gold perpetual chronograph by Patek Philippe is displayed alongside its paperwork.Not every vintage watch will come with a certificate of authenticity, but you’ll feel a whole lot better if it does. “When watches don’t have paperwork, that could be because in the past buyers of watches have separated the paperwork from the timepiece,” Gordon said. “But I always like to see watches with certificates, matching serial numbers, and boxes.”  Not only does the paperwork provide a tangible history of the piece, but it can quantify the value of the watch and make it worth much more in the long run, too. Business Insider VideoEvery vintage watch has a history.Speaking of the watch’s history, if your seller doesn’t know the vintage watch’s provenance (history of ownership), that’s a bad sign.  “Check into the history of the watch’s ownership,” Gordon said. “If it’s coming from a private dealer or collector, is it an estate piece? Ask who had it before, or where it was located. Some dealers will want to be confidential, but every authentic vintage watch has a past.” REUTERS/Denis BalibouseIf it's too good to be true, it probably is.Low Prices: "Let’s say that you’re being offered a watch, and the price is way below what those auctioneers are getting,” Gordon told us. “Ask yourself, 'Why is it so low?' If a beautiful Cartier sold at an auction house for $100,000 and you’re being told $50,000, question why you're getting such a good deal." Quick Deals: Don't ever feel rushed into making a luxury watch purchase. If a seller seems in a hurry, that's a bad sign. "You don't want to go buy a watch from a Saturday night liquidation sale without doing your due diligence," Gordon said. "Slow down and don't just pull the trigger without doing any research."  And as always, when it seems too good to be true, it probably is. "Sure, there's a one and a million chance that you might walk into an antique mall and find a super valuable watch just sitting in there, but buyer beware," Gordon said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Rebecca Cook Who cares? You might ask yourself. Aren't we seeing sales of new cars go off the charts? We are, and according to Jonas, that's potentially a big problem for used-car prices: I've been covering the auto industry for a decade and, before that, spent a stint on the advertising side, working fairly closely with dealers. I've never heard anyone on a car lot use a term like "moment of osmosis" to describe a new-car sale — so kudos of Jonas for pushing the envelope, as he habitually does, on how we talk/write/think about the transportation economy. Turns of phrase aside, he's making a key point: Financing drives sales of new cars — most consumers buy with a loan — so tempting financing options means that more consumers will jump into the market, trading in their old car for a new one. Or more accurately, trading in their old car loan on a new car loan — or swapping out a paid-off vehicle for a vehicle that will have to be paid for. This is all pushing new-car sales to a pace of 16.5 to 17.5 million for 2014 — a huge recovery from the Great Recession. FREDNew-car sales are surging this year. There isn't any supply of used cars if carmakers aren't selling new cars. When new-car sales cratered after the financial crisis — and when consumers couldn't afford to buy new — prices of used cars spiked. Additionally, many potential buyers of new cars slipped out of the usual trade-in cycle and hung on to their old car. The upshot is that the overall age of the US auto fleet is now 11 years — an all-time high. (For what it's worth, a not insignificant contributing factor here is that cars are much better made than they used to be, so it often makes sense to keep an old, paid-off car and simply absorb yearly maintenance costs — as long as you don't need or want the latest technological bells and whistles.) The used-car market has cooled off, but as Jonas notes, prices have held up. He doesn't think this can last, as all the new cars now being sold and leased must logically hit the used-car market at some point. All new cars are destined to become used cars. Or as Jonas expresses it: "[Y]ou can't unmake a car. Unless you take it out to the desert with a blowtorch or crush the units they just ... exist." The used-car market can't evade this core existential quandary — it can only grapple with, at the level of price. Jonas foresees a market with used cars thick on the ground, where there is no recourse but to mark these depreciating assets to market. Supply and demand kicks in and undermines pricing on the used front. According to Jonas, this "alignment of forces" could "drive the largest decline in second-hand vehicle prices in US history." Be afraid. Be very afraid. Of future prices of used cars.    FREE AppDownload
ReutersA man reaches out to grab a flag as he slips off the "gostra", a pole covered in grease, during the celebrations for the religious feast of St Julian, patron of the town of St Julian's, outside Valletta August 31, 2014Right now, it seems like the entire world is getting routed in the market. U.S. stocks are crashing, China is slowing, Argentina and Venezuela are failing. Japan is in a rut and Europe is a deflationary mess. It's disheartening for certain, and Deutsche Bank has good news and bad news for you on that. There is hope for the global economy, but it's currently out of reach. "...a revival of infrastructure investment in the US is key to a sustained revival of global economic growth," analyst Sanjiv Sanyal wrote in a recent note. "This would lead us back to a period of large symbiotic imbalances – which we dub as “Bretton Woods Three”. Far from decrying this as a failure of global policy co-ordination, economists should accept imbalances as the natural state of being and try to manage the accompanying distortions. However, if Bretton Woods Three fails to take off for whatever reason, we should reconcile ourselves to a long period of mediocre growth." The way Sanyal sees it, as China rebalances from an investment driven economy to a consumption driven economy that money — about 25% of the world's total investments — will have to go somewhere. The IMF has said that countries should use it for domestic infrastructure development. That will create jobs, something we desperately need in a world where what's truly lacking is demand. The country in the best position to do this is the United States of America, where investment as a percentage of GDP has been on the decline for years. It fell from 20.5% in 2008 to 14.5% now. Credit Suisse The problem is that the current political climate in the U.S. makes investment in infrastructure next to impossible. The country has needed this kind of investment for some time, but it has completely collapsed since the financial crisis. "...the problem of global investment is really a not about the world as a whole, but about developed countries. Their share in global investment has been declining not just because of their falling share of theworld economy but also because of the fact their investment effort has been falling as a share of their own economies,"  But in an election year, you can bet that the last thing conservative deficit hawks are going to want to do is look like they're rolling over and spending more money. Plus, it looks like the Democrats are going to get crushed in the House of Representatives, effectively blocking any hope for increased spending unless Republicans change their mind about it.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersA Gazprom worker is seen at a facility.The Ukraine crisis caused relations between Russia and the EU to fall to their lowest point since the Cold War. But despite the bickering and outright conflicts, both still need each other: Europe relies on Russian gas to keep warm, and Russia in turn needs revenues. With winter on its way and capital flight from Russia reaching dangerous levels, the outlook should draw the EU and Russia back together. Gazprom is the only supplier of Russian natural gas to Europe. In 2013, it exported 161.5 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas to the rest of the continent (Germany, Turkey and Italy were the biggest recipients). That works out to around 30% of Europe’s consumer market. This in turn means European consumers are responsible for around 40% of Gazprom’s annual revenues. Russia currently exports gas to Europe through five routes: via Ukraine (supplying Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and feeding into western Europe, as well as to south-eastern Europe and Turkey); via Belarus to the Baltic states, Poland and Germany; via the Blue Stream pipeline directly into Turkey; and via Nord Stream directly to Germany and Finland. via The Conversation UKRussia’s major gas pipelines to Europe Both parties are interdependent and should pull together an action plan for cooperation to gain from their relationship. However, dependencies vary from country to country. Most nations in eastern Europe rely heavily on Russian gas, while others, such as Spain, Portugal, Ireland or Denmark, don’t import any at all. The most precarious countries are those which rely totally on imports of gas from Russia specifically via Ukraine. Bulgaria, for instance, is particularly at risk. It has very small conventional gas reserves (5bcm per 2010 statistics) and imports 94% of its domestic consumption, it has very little storage capacity, and relies heavily on Russian gas imported through Ukraine. Moldova is highly vulnerable too. After disruptions to the supply of gas from Russia in 2006 and 2009, the EU aimed to wean itself off Russian gas. Connections between national gas grids were put in place, giving countries a back-up plan in case of further disruption. New suppliers were also sought to replace Russia. In 2013 Europe imported 48.5 bcm of natural gas from North Africa, 13 bcm from Iran and Azerbaijan, and 46 bcm in liquefied natural gas (LNG), mainly from Qatar. But to put these numbers in context, this year alone Gazprom plans to sell 157 bcm to Europe. All of Europe’s various options for new energy supply have their own problems. The US' large shale gas reserves could end up heating Europe homes, however LNG terminals must be built on both continents before large amounts can be shipped across the Atlantic. This is unlikely to happen in the near future. It means high investment costs, which would be passed on to European consumers and industries – the EU might not like Russia, but it still likes cheap energy. Gas from Africa and the eastern Mediterranean could help, but this would require billions to be spent on new drilling, refining, ports and security. A proposal to bring gas from the Middle East and the Caspian Sea region to Europe via Turkey will become a reality by 2018-2020. This southern corridor is another option, but again there are lots of logistical and security hurdles to overcome. In reality, Europe’s options are limited. A more diversified supply is still some way off. The EU’s supply contracts are long term, and this doesn’t allow to make short-term changes that may account for political factors – Russia is guaranteed stable gas sales until at least 2022. Individual countries can’t even do much about it by themselves as a 1998 EU directive restricts the power of national governments. Italy couldn’t suddenly sign a big deal with Namibia, for instance, without first going through EU channels. REUTERS/Dmitry Lovetsky/PoolRussia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin looks on during a visit to the Solitaire construction ship in the Gulf of Finland, some 200 km (124 miles) west of St.Petersburg, September 20, 2010. Putin said on Monday that construction work on the Nord Stream undersea gas pipeline is on schedule and may begin operations in 2011, according to local media. The pipeline will ship gas from Russia under the Baltic Sea to Germany and onwards to Europe. Since the USSR broke up, Russia has wanted to diversify its own exports, reducing its reliance on gas sent to Europe through the Ukraine. Thanks to new pipelines across Belarus and under the Black Sea, this is already happening: in the 1990s around 90% of gas exports from Russia to Europe went through Ukraine Pipelines. This was down to 70% in 2007 and to 50% in 2013. Once the South Stream pipeline through Bulgaria is built, reliance on exports through the Ukraine will decrease even further, but will still remain significant. For Russia, the obvious long-term solution is to find alternative gas buyers elsewhere in the world. This explains the recent Russia-China energy deals. However, Europe still demands more energy than emerging economies and has better connections with Russia. For the moment, despite Russia’s best efforts, Europe is the main source of Gazprom’s revenue and profits. Russia’s efforts to diversify away from Euros and Dollars are unlikely to take off in the short run. The EU and Russia therefore need to get together in the short and medium future – before new suppliers or supply routes can be developed – to safeguard energy security for Europe and revenues for Russia. This mutual interdependency could eventually draw Europe and Russia back together, despite all the political rhetoric.  Catalina Spataru receives funding from British Council. Raimund Bleischwitz does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload
Airline stocks are rolling over. In late morning trade, shares of airline operators including United, American, Delta, and Southwest were falling after news broke that a second Texas nurse diagnosed with Ebola virus flew from Cleveland to Dallas on October 13. United, American, and Delta shares were down 4%, as were shares of Republic Airways, which is the former parent company of Frontier Airlines.  Southwest shares were down about 2%.  According to the CDC, the 29-year-old healthcare worker, Amber Jay Vinson, flew on a Frontier Airlines flight from Cleveland to Dallas earlier this week, and currently the CDC is trying to get in touch with all passengers that were on that flight. On Monday, amid a broad market sell off, airline stocks were among the worst performers, and are following a similar pattern on Wednesday. Here's the intraday chart showing the sell off in airline stocks on Wednesday. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking The company plans to open between 60 and 70 supercenters in fiscal 2016, down from 120 new locations in fiscal 2015, the company said Wednesday during a presentation to investors.   "It's important for us to really think about these big boxes," Wal-Mart US CEO Greg Foran said, referring to the supercenter stores.  He said Wal-Mart is putting a new emphasis on "quality not quantity" when it comes to their biggest stores. "We know that we can do better with the [supercenters]," he said. "We're going to lean in there, and we're going to get that right. We're being thoughtful." Wal-Mart's supercenters suffered a .3% same-store sales decline in the second quarter compared with last year. During the same period, foot traffic for Wal-Mart's U.S. stores fell by 1.1%. By comparison, Wal-Mart's smaller-format stores, or Neighborhood Markets, generated same-store sales growth of 5.6% and traffic increased by 4.1%. "I'm encouraged by the positive [same-store sales] I am seeing in the Neighborhood Markets," Foran said. "Customers love the convenience." As a result, Wal-Mart is accelerating the growth of its Neighborhood Market stores from 105 new locations in fiscal 2014 to 170 new locations in fiscal 2015 and up to 200 additional stores the following year. The Neighborhood Markets are about one-fifth the size of Wal-Mart's supercenters, and they are located in urban centers — where incomes tend to be higher — while supercenters are typically located on city outskirts.  Wal-Mart Groceries account for 56% of Wal-Mart's sales, and research shows that consumers no longer buy all their food and beverages at supersized retailers. "In the 1990s and the beginning years of this century, the greatest threat to supermarkets and grocery stores came from supersized 'one-stop shopping' venues like supercenters and warehouse clubs," the market research firm Packaged Facts wrote in its most recent annual report on emerging grocery trends. "Today the threat is spread out among all retail channels, including drugstores, dollar stores, limited assortment chains, and — the elephant in the room — e-commerce." On average, consumers shop at five different types of stores to fulfill their grocery needs, according to Deloitte's 2013 American Pantry report. Consumers are carrying this shopping behavior over to other product categories, as well. Instead of relying on a single retailer to give them the best value and assortment, "consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a recent research note predicting the slow decline of big-box retailers like Wal-Mart and Target. That doesn't mean Wal-Mart is going to start shutting down its supercenters, however.  "Supercenters still have one of the highest returns of any [store] format in the company," Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said on a call with reporters in August. "It would be silly to close a lot of stores with good returns." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThumbs up.The US budget deficit fell to about $483 billion in fiscal year 2014, almost a $200 billion drop from the previous year and the lowest level of President Barack Obama's six years in office. The US Treasury Department released the official figures on Wednesday, generally confirming figures released by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office last week. It's the smallest deficit recorded since 2008. FY2014 was the fifth consecutive year the deficit declined as a percentage of GDP. It is now an estimated 2.8% of GDP, a percentage that puts it below the average of the past 40 years. The Treasury's figures chalked up the shrinking deficit to increased revenues from taxes and slowed growth in government spending. "It's really a rise in revenues because of economic growth, because of the policies the president pursued, that we've made progress on the deficit," said Shaun Donovan, the director of the Office of Management and Budget. The deficit has fallen sharply over the past few years, despite constant brinksmanship in Washington over raising the US debt ceiling. But concern about deficits has virtually disappeared from the campaign trail ahead of the 2014 midterm elections after being a central theme of 2010's elections. "Politicians campaigning this fall have rarely raised the subject, not to mention the difficult prescriptions that are required to deal with red ink," said Greg Valliere, the chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group, in a recent note. "No one wants to talk about the deficit." A Treasury official told reporters on Wednesday that Obama will unveil his fiscal-year 2016 budget next February. The official said it will include a plan to undo some of the cuts contained in sequestration. FREE AppDownload
Reuters Villagers carry police shields taken from police injured during clashes at Fuyou village in Jinning county, Kunming, Yunnan province, October 15, 2014. BEIJING (Reuters) - Eight people have died in a clash between construction workers and villagers in southwestern China over a land dispute, the government and Chinese media said on Wednesday, in the latest bout of rural unrest in the world's most populous country. The government of Jinning county near Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, said on its official microblog that a fight broke out between workers building a trading and logistics center and the residents of a village. Six of the dead in Tuesday's incident were workers and the other two villagers, while 18 people were injured, one of them seriously, the government said. Pictures on the popular microblogging site Weibo, which Reuters could not independently verify, showed what appeared to be bodies lying in the street and construction workers tied up, along with a large number of riot police. The government said the police would carry out a "legal, objective, fair and just" probe and punish lawbreakers. The respected Chinese magazine Caixin said a previous clash in June saw villagers accusing the government of illegally seizing the land for the project. The report said some villagers had told the magazine that people in "black uniforms", some with shields bearing police markings, had attacked them, and the villagers had fought back. Land disputes are one of the main causes of the tens of thousands of protests across China each year. Most go unreported, though some, such as a revolt in the southern village of Wukan in 2011, have attained a high profile and prompted promises of action by Beijing. China's slowing economy has reduced tax revenues for local governments at a time when the cooling property market has also dampened land sales, an important source of government income. The unrest in Yunnan comes as the ruling Communist Party meets next week for a conclave to discuss how to strengthen the rule of law, in hopes of damping instability that is greatly feared by the party. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images LatamShares of Netflix are getting crushed in morning on Wednesday after HBO said it will launch a new standalone streaming service in 2015. HBO shares were down more than 4% following the news. Time Warner shares were reacting positively to the news, gaining more than 3%. Speaking at an investor meeting on Wednesday, HBO CEO Richard Plepler announced that the company will offer the service in 2015, saying: "It is time to remove all barriers to those who want HBO. So, in 2015, we will launch a stand-alone, over-the-top, HBO service in the United States. We will work with our current partners. And, we will explore models with new partners. All in, there are 80 million homes that do not have HBO and we will use all means at our disposal to go after them." Here's the intraday chart showing the rise in Time Warner shares (in red), and the drop in Netflix shares (in blue).  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Frederick M. Brown/Getty HBO CEO Richard Plepler made the announcement at an investor presentation hosted by Time Warner, HBO's parent company, on Wednesday.  Plepler said the company would launch a "standalone, over the top" version of HBO in the next year, but wouldn't provide further details. Here's what he said in HBO's official statement: "So, in 2015, we will launch a stand-alone, over-the-top, HBO service in the United States. We will work with our current partners. And, we will explore models with new partners. All in, there are 80 million homes that do not have HBO and we will use all means at our disposal to go after them." Plepler's comments come just after Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes said that a standalone HBO service was being "seriously considered" in September. Right now, the HBO GO app is available only to those who subscribe to the premium channel. The company hasn't revealed how much HBO's standalone service will cost when it launches, but it'll give the company more of a chance to compete with services like Netflix and Hulu.  The news comes at a time when online streaming services are beginning to pull consumers away from traditional cable TV. In fact, households with a Netflix or Hulu subscription are three times as likely not to have a cable subscription compared to the average household, according to a report from consumer-data company Experian Marketing Services published in April. Read the full press release from HBO below.  FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 15, 2014 HBO CHAIRMAN AND CEO RICHARD PLEPLER ANNOUNCES HBO TO OFFER A STAND-ALONE HBO STREAMING SERVICE IN 2015 Speaking at the Time Warner Inc. Investor Meeting today, Richard Plepler, chairman and CEO,HBO, announced that the company will offer a stand-alone HBO streaming service in 2015. Following a portion of his presentation focused on HBO’s domestic business, during which he cited significant growth opportunities inside the pay-TV universe, Plepler then turned to the current ten million broadband-only homes, which is projected to grow. Plepler then added: “That is a large and growing opportunity that should no longer be left untapped. It is time to remove all barriers to those who want HBO. “So, in 2015, we will launch a stand-alone, over-the-top, HBO service in the United States. We will work with our current partners. And, we will explore models with new partners. All in,there are 80 million homes that do not have HBO and we will use all means at our disposal to go after them.”  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVDavid Rosenberg.Markets have been very turbulent Wednesday, and it might be tempting to many investors to sell everything and get away from the chaos. However, if you have a longer window for saving, holding off on the panic might be a good idea. While things are hectic at the moment, and even if a major correction is in progress, in the long run it's extremely likely that stocks will eventually recover and keep gaining value. Consistent, steady, calm investing, without worrying about trying to figure out market tops and bottoms, is often a winning strategy. Gluskin Sheff chief strategist David Rosenberg had similar comments in a note on Tuesday: Rosenberg continues by giving examples of market fluctuations that, at the time, looked like disastrous collapses but in hindsight were temporary fluctuations. He points out that the Dow dropped 7% early this year but that investors who continued holding stocks still saw gains this year. If you're investing for the long run, it's important to keep a long-run view and not overreact to every bump in the road. FREE AppDownload
ReutersA dancer performs during Imperador do Ipiranga samba school's parade at the sambodrome during Carnival celebrations in Sao Paulo February 17, 2007. On Tuesday Brazil was up, now on Wednesday it's getting spanked. Lets run through the numbers: Yahoo Finance Petrobras is weighted in the Brazil ETF. It's a massive company. As economist Dr. Claudio Loser of research firm Centennial Group once told Business Insider: "A few years ago I said this was the best run oil company in Latin America, but it has collapsed under the political pressure of the government. They're wasting a great opportunity in the way they're managing their oil resources. I'm not saying 'as goes Petrobras there goes Brazil' but it is very very important." On Wednesday the country's finance minister said that despite the fact that global oil prices are super low right now, Petrobras still may have to raise fuel prices this year. That announcement came after the company took center stage in the Brazilian Presidential debate between incumbent Dilma Rousseff and Aecio Neves Tuesday night. Neves brought up the company's current corruption scandal. Rousseff's party, the long-ruling Brazilian Workers Party (PT), is accused of skimming $0.03 off the top of every Petrobras dollar. Despite that, Rousseff gave a good showing at the debate by all accounts. You can see that in the market's response. For the last month Brazil has gone up or down based on Rousseff's success or lack thereof. The market wants her out. It wants to see expensive social programs cut. It wants to see tighter interest rates. And Neves is offering that. He has said he wants to tighten monetary policy, reform Brazil's tax system, cut government programs and encourage investment. The market loves this.So today, the market is unhappy. Brazil is a whipsaw. Be careful out there. FREE AppDownload
Harrison Jacobs/Business InsiderA selection of still-good items in dumpsters outside Trader Joe's. Last week, we headed to major grocery retailers in the New York City area with a couple of “dumpster divers” and saw the food waste first-hand. It turns out food waste may be built into the business model of supermarkets. Doug Rauch, the former president of Trader Joe’s, laid out the dilemma plainly in a study by Jose B. Alvarez and Ryan Johnson at the Harvard Business Review.  “The reality as a regional grocery manager is, if you see a store that has really low waste in its perishables, you are worried. If a store has low waste numbers, it can be a sign that they aren’t fully in stock and that the customer experience is suffering,” wrote Rauch, who recently founded The Daily Table, a supermarket that re-purposes expired food.   Business Insider/Harrison JacobsPerfectly good produce pulled out of the trash from New York City supermarkets. However, there are other reasons grocery stores let so much good food go to waste. The National Resources Defense Council did a study in 2012 identifying some of major factors that contribute to supermarket food waste.  Most grocery stores operate under the assumption that customers are more likely to buy produce if it's from a fully stocked display. This assumption leads to overstocking, as well as damage to items on the bottom of those perfectly constructed produce pyramids.Business Insider/Harrison JacobsWhat happens to the overstocked produce when it doesn't sell. Customers have been trained to expect perfect, identically shaped produce. Retailers stock their produce according to that expectation — even if the shape, size, and color have nothing to do with quality. This preference leads farms to avoid selling the so-called “B” stock to supermarkets. Whatever does make it through the cracks to store floor is taken out of stock.  Thankfully, organizations like Feeding America, Food Finders, and CityHarvest have been trying their best to take over this “B” stock and provide it to those in need.Business Insider/Harrison JacobsYogurts thrown out because they are approaching their "sell-by dates." Most consumers have no idea what expiration dates, sell-by dates, use-by dates, or best-by dates mean. Consumers (and many sellers) wrongly assume that food is no longer good after these days. Instead, sell-by dates are guidelines for sellers to indicate peak freshness. Most foods are good long after the sell-by date.  Fearing consumers will either not buy the food or think the stores are carrying old products, most grocery stores pull the items out of stock several days before the sell-by date. Often, product packaging gets damaged during shipping, leading supermarkets to toss products even though the food hasn't been compromised. The stores assume, perhaps rightly, that no consumer is going to buy a dented box of cornflakes if a pristine one is right next to it.  In addition, items that fail to sell like overstocked holiday foods or unpopular new items are often tossed. As you may have noticed, not all of these explanations are the grocery stores’ fault. A lot of the problem lies with consumers, whose picky tastes dictate what grocery stores sell. These issues have parallels in consumers' homes. In general, consumers buy too much food, throw it away too quickly, and pay little attention to waste. Food waste on the consumer level is double that of the retail level (90 billion pounds of food versus 42 billion pounds). A lack of education of both consumers and sellers on food safety and food waste has led to bad habits and wasteful selling practices. A huge percentage of food waste could be mitigated if more Americans were willing to buy bananas with brown spots, or if they understood they can eat yogurt two weeks after its sell-by date. French supermarket chain Intermarchè recently started an advocacy campaign to fix perceptions about misshapen fruit. The program has been a huge success, selling millions of tons of the weirdly shaped fruit.   In the US, grocery giant Stop and Shop ended its practice of overstocking displays in a trial to mitigate waste back in 2008. Customer satisfaction actually rose in response to the reduced stocked displays, as did sales. Many customers reported that produce was three days fresher than before. 
Pascal Rossignol/ ReutersGreece's famous riot dog, Loukanikos, barks at police officers in Athens.The Athens Stock Exchange is down 6.25% Wednesday and 23.24% since January. There are two factors absolutely tearing into Greek markets this week. One of those factors is the seemingly unstoppable rise of Syriza, Greece's anti-establishment and anti-austerity radicals. The group is establishing a solid lead in the polls, and given the unpredictable nature of Greek politics, it could upset the market in a massive way. But there's another major factor. Despite Greece's pretty grim economic state, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras wants to end the country's international bailout early, without taking the €8.2 billion ($10.44 billion) still left in the package. In a note, Capital Economics' Sarah Pemberton explains the government's logic:  There may also be a hope that an early exit would further boost market confidence in Greece’s economic and fiscal outlook. After all, Ireland and Portugal’s exits from their programmes appeared to have positive market effects. Greece's 10-year bond yields beg to differ with the government, as they are definitely not seeing any positive market effects. Investing.com Bond yields are climbing way back up above 7%, the highest level in six months. The Greek government has already tentatively experimented with going back to the bond market, issuing small amounts of debt. And though yields are way down from where they were during the euro crisis, it’s paying far more interest on that than other European finance departments. Government bond yields (the most common measure of how much it costs for a state to service its debt) are still far above those of Portugal or Ireland when those countries exited their bailouts. Capital Economics There's also a vicious cycle here. A plan to exit the bailout early sends bond yields upward, making the prospect of Greece going it alone increasingly scary. So bond yields go up some more.  Wednesday morning, a Fitch report came out saying the “large amounts of unreserved problem loans leave the four major banks' balance sheets vulnerable to developments in an improving but still very weak economy.” Greece's big listed banks are right in the middle of Wednesday's brutal sell-off, with share prices of the National Bank of Greece, Alpha Bank, Pireaeus Bank, and Eurobank all dropping by more than 10% during the day. The problem is, if even Germany is flirting with recession, it seems increasingly unlikely that we’ll be able to call Greece’s economy “improving” at all in a few months. So what Samaras is talking about could be extremely dangerous. Greece’s economy is shattered in a way nowhere else in Europe has seen: It’s nearly 30% smaller than it was in 2008, and it is barely out of a recession that’s lasted almost seven years.  Given what's happening today and the slump the eurozone seems to be heading into, people might soon wonder what on earth Samaras was thinking.  FREE AppDownload
The stock market has already had a crazy day on Wednesday.  Minutes after the market open, the Dow fell as much as 385 points while the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq were both down more than 2%. But the craziest move came in US Treasury bonds, with the 10-year falling to 1.86% and the 30-year falling to 2.67%.  Near 10:30 a.m. ET, the Dow was down 150 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 16 points, and the Nasdaq was down 33 points. In the stock market, people are always looking to find ways to measure market sentiment. One classic contrarian indicator is when folks who normally don't talk about finance start talking about finance. For example, consider the taxi driver who quotes the Dow or the barber who says he's worried about his pension. These types of anecdotes are considered signs of panic and capitulation. In other words, this is a good time to buy. Just after 9:45 a.m., I got a couple of text messages in a GroupMe chat, which I typically use for making after-work plans and trash talking about fantasy football, that almost perfectly bottom-ticked the day's action. My Cell Phone Here's the intraday chart of the Dow on Wednesday, with my friends' texts almost perfectly bottom-ticking the market. FreeStockCharts The US market still has more than five hours of trading left. Should be fun.  FREE AppDownload
Eric Gaillard/ReutersItaly is no longer in a recession, thanks to its black market.  Because the European Union changed the way it calculates GDP to include illegal revenue from things like underground alcohol sales, drugs, and prostitution, Italy found out Wednesday that its 0.1% GDP decline in the first quarter of 2014 was actually flat— or 0.0% — bringing the economy officially out of recession.  The new data confirmed a 0.2% decline in the second quarter, but GDP needs to contract in two consecutive quarters to be in recession. According to AFP, "Black, or undeclared, market revenues are also expected to help reduce Italy's debt to GDP ratio, which stands at a 132 percent, more than twice the EU ceiling of 60 percent."  FREE AppDownload
401K Calculator via FlickrIs your current healthcare plan costing you more than it should?This post is sponsored by Lincoln Financial Group. Every year, like clockwork, you probably get an email from your company's HR department telling you it's "open enrollment" time and you're able to change your healthcare plan. And there's a good chance that you, along with many of the rest of us, ignore that email. Open enrollment only happens once a year, and if you're defaulting to your current plan because picking a new one seems like too much work, you could be making a mistake. It's important to adjust your health plan to your lifestyle, and it's not just about picking the plan with the lowest deductible. You'll need to think about potential out-of-pocket expenses, any medical procedures you'd like to get done, and prescription coverage, among other things.  Most large companies in the US offer healthcare plans with an annual open enrollment period. We're told to select our plans during the first few weeks of work, but starting a new job is always a whirlwind of to-dos, and many of us choose a plan quickly without really understanding what we're committing to. Open enrollment is the only other opportunity we get to reevaluate our health benefits. During this time, employees can either choose a new plan, or do nothing and let their previous plan roll over to the following year. Some places require you to pick a plan during each open enrollment period, so be sure to find out what your work's policy is. Depending on the company, open enrollment lasts anywhere from one week to one month and usually takes place at the end of the calendar year (between September and December) so that the new plan will begin on Jan. 1. Plans change — and so do you. By not acting, you could potentially lose your insurance if it's not in your company's policy to roll plans over automatically. Even if that's not the case, your premium might have gone up, or your needs might be different now. Maybe you're considering getting LASIK. Perhaps you've had some problems with your back and you know you'll be making frequent trips to your doctor. The bottom line is that aside from a "qualifying life event" like getting married or having a baby, the open enrollment period is your only chance to adjust your health plan, so you may as well use this time to reevaluate your priorities and options. Before or during open enrollment, ask yourself these three questions to help you decide which plan you want to go with. If you decide to explore other plans, don't be overwhelmed. Break the process down into steps and cross them off as you go. Here are some checklist items to help you get started. Learn more about employee benefits and insurance plans at Lincoln Financial Group's website. Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley added Apple to its "Best Ideas" list for stock investments. In a note, analyst Katy Huberty argues that Apple shares are "set for significant upside."  Her main reason for turning bullish on the stock is that she sees Apple's margins growing. As you can see in the chart above, she says that when Apple's margins grow, so does the stock price.  Apple is set for improved margins thanks to the iPhone 6 and the iPhone 6 Plus. Apple changed the storage tiers on the iPhone 6. Previously, Apple had 16 GB/32 GB/64 GB storage tiers. Now it's 16 GB/64 GB/128 GB. For each tier an iPhone owner bumps up, Apple charges $100. But the extra storage only costs a fraction of that. Similarly, the iPhone 6 Plus costs $100 extra, but only costs a fraction of that extra to build.  A variety of surveys show that people are paying the extra $100 for the mid-tier storage, which is adding money to Apple's bottom line. Likewise, lots of people are paying for the 6 Plus in the mid range, which is adding even more to Apple's bottom line. Those things are going to expand Apple's gross margins. Beyond the iPhone, Huberty says she thinks the Apple Watch will have "a gross margin to skew toward iPhone (40-50%) rather than iPad (20-30%) levels."  This group of charts from Credit Suisse illustrates how Apple's iPhone mix is going to drive profits.  Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Megan Willett/Business InsiderBill Gates, Christy Walton, Harold Hamm, and Warren Buffett all made this year's list. Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Larry Ellison all grabbed the top spots for their home states of Washington, Nebraska, and California, respectively — no big surprise, considering they're three of the wealthiest men on the planet and were on the list last year, too. Of the 50 states, nine did not have a single billionaire living there, including Utah, New Mexico, Mississippi, Maine, Delaware, Hawaii, South Dakota, Alaska, and Wyoming. There were also a few shake-ups this year. T. Denny Sanford of South Dakota lost over half of his wealth, dropping from $1.3 billion to $580 million. Christy Walton was one of six women to make the list in 2014, ousting her brother-in-law Tim Walton as the wealthiest person in Arkansas.  FREE AppDownload
Crude oil is now within a hair's breadth of $80. On Wednesday morning, crude oil was down almost another 2%, and it is seriously flirting with breaking $80 for the first time since 2012. This follows Tuesday's more than 4% decline in oil, which just can't seem to catch a bid and has been in free fall over the last couple of weeks. The latest leg lower in oil prices comes after a slew of terrible economic data, including retail sales that disappointed, producer prices that unexpectedly declined, and New York manufacturing data that fell by the most since November 2010. In morning trade on Wednesday, stock futures were sharply lower, and US government bonds were going crazy, with the yield on the US 10-year falling as low as 2.05%.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierProglio has long looked for a second term, but his hopes were unattended.Henri Proglio, CEO of Energie de France (EDF) and the man who last week called Germany's energy sector "a disaster," is set to be replaced by Jean-Bernard Lévy, the Financial Times reports. Lévy is currently the CEO of Thales Group, a French multinational company that operates in aerospace, defense, and transportation. Proglio was nominated as the boss of EDF, the world's biggest nuclear power provider, on Nov. 22, 2009, and his term expires the same day this year. His term will not be renewed and the company's board is expected to officially appoint Lévy on Thursday, according to the French newspaper Le Monde. The decision comes at the end of a long lobbying process from Proglio, who was looking for a second round, Le Monde notes. The newspaper says that Proglio fell into disagreement with the French government, EDF's biggest stakeholder, despite positive results for his company. EDF is now the UK's largest electric provider, as well as France's. Proglio was nominated by former French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who was always perceived as a man of the right. But Proglio's support for nuclear energy clashes with the current government's policy, under socialist president Francois Hollande who would like to reduce France's nuclear power to 50%, down from a current 75%. According to a government spokesman, the decision "is due to the energy transition launched by the government," the newspaper Le Figaro reports. Proglio, now 65, is also just three years away from the retirement age of 68, while his potential replacement is six years younger. FREE AppDownload
As if the world didn't have enough to be worried about (ISIS, Ebola, slowing China, Ukraine, slowing Germany, Fed tightening, etc.) now look what's back: Greece. And in a big way. The stock market is down over 9% on Wednesday, which is about as big as crashes come. And the banks are getting absolutely smashed. Greece, which had been calm for a while, is now being wracked by two separate but related things. One is the rise in the political popularity of left-winger Alexis Tsipras, the leader of the Syriza party, who if he ever got elected to power would take a much more confrontational stance with the rest of the eurozone with regards to austerity. Meanwhile, a rift is growing between the current Greek government and the rest of the EU as Greece is keen to exit its bailout program. The EU is not so sure. So now the Greek market is getting crushed.  Here's the chart showing the nosedive. And this is before Wednesday's move. BloombergThe Athens stock market has been getting crushed all summer. And it's not just stocks. Here's the deteriorating bond situation.   FREE AppDownload
The Credit Suisse Research Institute has released its fifth annual Global Wealth Report, which finds that from mid-2013 to mid-2014 aggregate global household wealth increased by 8.3% in current dollar terms to USD 263 trillion, despite an ongoing challenging economic environment. The richest nations, with wealth per adult over US $100,000, are found in North America, Western Europe and among the rich Asia-Pacific and Middle East countries. Switzerland is the country with by far the highest wealth per adult, followed by Australia and Norway. Denmark and the UK have moved up two places and now rank 8th and 9th respectively in terms of wealth per adult. Singapore has lost three places, but is still among the top ten. Business Insider Australia The rankings of the richest economies change when looking at median wealth per adult, which is more representative of the average person. Under this more egalitarian measure, Australia ranks as the top economy while Switzerland drops to number eight. And the US also drops off the list. Business Insider Australia This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Paramount Pictures Retail sales in September fell more than expected, producer prices unexpectedly fell, and the New York Fed's Empire manufacturing report came in way below expectations. Following these reports, the US dollar is falling against the Japanese yen, tumbling back below 107, while US stock futures are sharply lower. Dow futures are down 145 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are down 22 points, and Nasdaq futures are down 38 points. Retail sales in September fell 0.3%, or 0.2% excluding autos. Expectations were for sales to show a decline of 0.1% month-over-month and growth of 0.2% when excluding auto sales. Last month, retail sales grew 0.6% and rose 0.3% excluding autos. Following Wednesday's retail sales report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: Slightly disappointing, but expect much better Q4 numbers ... Overall we had hoped for slightly better core numbers, but it is hard to worry about these data given the sustained strength of chain store sales and the massive windfall from plunging gas price." This chart from the Census Bureau shows the decline in September sales on a month-over-month basis.  Census Producer prices fell 0.1% in September, below expectations for a 0.1% increase, and on a year-over-year basis producer prices rose 1.6% against expectations for a 1.8% increase. Producer prices reflect the prices received for domestic producers of goods, services, and construction. Following the report, Deutsche Bank economist Joe LaVorgna said: #PPI is soft, down -0.1% and flat at the core. Financial markets are likely to worry further about deflation risk The New York Fed's latest Empire manufacturing report came in way below expectations at a reading of 6.17 against expectations for a 20.25 reading. This is also down from 27.54 the prior month. The Fed's latest report said: "After reaching a multiyear high last month, the general business conditions index plummeted twenty-one points to 6.2, pointing to a substantial slowing in the pace of growth in business activity for New York manufacturers." This chart from the NY Fed shows the steep drop-off in this month's report. NY Fed FREE AppDownload
FlickrThe producer price index unexpectedly fell by 0.1% month-over-month in September. Excluding food and energy, prices went nowhere. Economists expected PPI and core PPI to climb 0.1%. On a year-over-year basis, PPI and core PPI rose by just 1.6%. All of this confirms that inflation risks remain low. This gives the Federal Reserve room to keep monetary policy loose for a very long time. In an interview with Reuters on Tuesday, San Francisco Fed President John Williams suggested that low prices could warrant a fresh round of monetary stimulus. "If we really get a sustained, disinflationary forecast ... then I think moving back to additional asset purchases in a situation like that should be something we should seriously consider," Williams told Reuters. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartOil prices are still falling. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Greek Stocks Are Getting Hammered Again. Markets are spooked following a rift between the Greek government and other EU states and the rise of the far-left SYRIZA party.  BlackRock’s Third Quarter Profit Rose 26%. The world's largest money manager reported net income of $917 million, or $5.37 per share, up from $730 million, or $4.21 per share, a year earlier. A Saudi Prince Is Warning About Falling Oil Prices. Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al-Saud has published a letter expressing his "astonishment" at reports that the Saudi oil minister is comfortable with collapsing oil prices. The US Military Has Admitted That ISIS Has "Tactical Momentum."  Islamist militants in Iraq and Syria are still making advances.  UK Unemployment Is Back To A Pre-Crisis Low. Unemployment in the UK has fallen to 6%, the lowest rate since 2008, right before the economic crash. Retail Sales Are Coming. US retail sales figures for September are out at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists are expecting a 0.1% decline between August and September.  Scotland Knows Who Its New First Minister Will Be. Scotland’s nationalists have a new leader, Nicola Sturgeon, who will be the country’s new first minister, and a key figurehead for the independence movement. Toyota Has Recalled 1.67 Million Cars Worldwide. Toyota Motor Corp. said Wednesday it was recalling more than 1 million vehicles for there seperate defects, including leaking break fluid.  European Markets Are Slumping. The FTSE 100 is down 0.93%, Germany's DAX is down 0.85% and France's CAC 40 is down 0.87%. Asian markets closed up, with a 0.92% boost for the Nikkei and the Hang Seng closed up 0.40%. Bank Of America Made A Third Quarter Loss. The second-largest US bank reported a quarterly loss due to a huge mortgage settlement with the US government. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLONDON (Reuters) - Chicago-based AbbVie said it was reconsidering its $55 billion takeover of Shire weeks after the U.S. government moved to curb deals designed to reduce tax, wiping $13 billion off the London-listed firm's stock price. AbbVie said late on Tuesday it was responding to the U.S. proposals which aim to make it harder for American firms to shift their tax bases out of the U.S. and into lower cost jurisdictions in Europe. AbbVie's move for Shire, a leader in drugs to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), was announced in July amid a spate of similar takeover deals within the U.S. and European pharmaceutical sector. It proposed creating a new U.S.-listed holding company with a tax domicile in Britain, where the government has also introduced tax breaks designed to encourage research and development. The news hammered shares in Shire, sending them down 27 percent and back to where they were before the deal talks emerged in June. Shares in larger rival AstraZeneca, which had rebuffed its own takeover deal by U.S. group Pfizer fell 4 percent while replacement knees and hips maker Smith &amp; Nephew, which had also been touted as a target, slipped 3 percent. AbbVie had recently said it was still committed to the deal, which would have reduced the reliance on its Humira drug, the world's top selling arthritis medicine which loses U.S. patent protection in 2016. Were AbbVie to renege on its recommendation for the deal to shareholders it could have to pay a break fee of around $1.6 billion to Shire. "AbbVie's board will consider, among other things, the impact of the U.S. Department of Treasury's proposed unilateral changes to the tax regulations announced on September 22," AbbVie said. The U.S. firm said its board would meet on Oct. 20 to consider whether to withdraw or modify its recommendation on the deal with Shire. Shire, which said its trading had remained strong, urged AbbVie to push ahead with the deal. "The board of Shire believes that AbbVie should proceed with the recommended offer on the agreed terms in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement," Shire said on Wednesday. Panmure Gordon analyst Savvas Neophytou said the board of AbbVie had a responsibility to its shareholders to consider new facts relating to any ongoing event that impacts shareholder value. "Ultimately we expect the deal to go through," he said. Shire said that it had not been provided with a detailed analysis of AbbVie's tax assumption.                             (Writing by Kate Holton; editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBill FleckensteinBOSTON (Reuters) - The stock market's long-suffering short sellers finally have something to smile about. Investors who make a living betting that stock prices will fall are in a position to profit handsomely as the U.S. equity market sinks, with its biggest weekly plunge in more than two years last week and continuing to decline so far this week. After lean years in which short-biased funds tracked by eVestment have posted double-digit losses every year since 2008, some were able to post among the investment industry's best returns in September and may well have done even better in the first two weeks of October. "Short-selling is the worst way to make money but recently I've had a change of heart and I think there are enough valuation obscenities to create an opportunity," said prominent bear William Fleckenstein, who shuttered his short-only fund in 2009, but continues to invest money through another portfolio. "It felt like putting on an old, comfortable leather jacket." The short funds - who borrow shares and then sell them in hope of buying them back at a lower price - are hopeful that the bull market that has lasted more than 2,000 days, and has not experienced a 10 percent correction in three years, may be coming to an end. And that's potentially bad news for names that shorts have had in their crosshairs for ages - the likes of electric car company Tesla Motors Inc &lt;tsla.o&gt; or online video company Netflix &lt;nflx.o&gt; - stocks some investors see as overvalued. Equity markets now look vulnerable, thanks to the winding back of U.S. Federal Reserve easy money policies, concerns about weak global economic growth, a plunge in the oil price, and fears about the spread of the Ebola virus. Fleckenstein, who along with other notable short sellers, such as Jim Chanos, Doug Kass, and David Tice, built a reputation for successfully betting against companies that crumbled, said he put on aggressive short positions recently for the first time in five years. Kerrisdale Capital's Sahm Adrangi, who presented his long-researched short bet against Globalstar Inc &lt;gsat.a&gt; last week and sent the satellite communications company's stock price tumbling 42 percent, said it was easier to get others in the market to listen to short selling ideas when the whole market was sliding. "When short sellers play a more activist role there are times when markets just shrug it off but then there are times like now when people pay more attention," he said. He has also shorted Tesla, which has fallen 17 percent in the last month, and personal camera maker GoPro &lt;gpro.o&gt; which has tumbled 20 percent in the past five days. Short-biased mutual funds tracked by Lipper climbed 7.13 percent in September while hedge funds that focus exclusively on selling stocks short inched up 1 percent last month, Hedge Fund Research data show. Some hedge funds fared more poorly than mutual funds because the hedge funds were not fully invested, analysts said. Most other funds, be they stock mutual funds or hedge funds, were knocked lower in the last few weeks as the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index has plunged about 7 percent in less than a month. For example, Robert Citrone's Discovery Global Macro hedge fund was off nearly 3 percent in the first week of October, an investor in the private fund said. Claren Road, the hedge fund owned by private equity giant Carlyle Group, lost roughly 5 percent in the first week of October, hurt by its bet on housing finance companies Fannie Mae &lt;fnma.ob&gt; and Freddie Mac &lt;fmcc.ob&gt;, added an investor. "If you were just outright short almost anything during the past week, you've done well," said Nicholas Young, a portfolio manager at Conventus Capital, "But many hedge funds are long some names and short others with their net market exposure near neutral," he added. One popular short position among hedge funds is General Motors &lt;gm.n&gt;, according to Goldman Sachs. The company has been plagued by vehicle recalls after a number of deaths were linked to faulty ignition switches, and shares are down 27 percent on the year. Kass, who runs hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management, is shorting GM and rival Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt;, whose shares have slipped 12.2 percent in 2014 even as auto sales figures have been strong. Kass said he has been increasing his auto industry shorts because of the deterioration of the European car market coupled with his view that U.S. auto production is reaching a peak. Blue chips like General Electric Co &lt;ge.n&gt;, which has been building its oil and gas equipment and services arm, and oil major Exxon Mobil Corp &lt;xom.n&gt;, are also among names that some hedge funds are betting against. Those names tend not to fit a short-seller's profile, but they've worked - both have posted double-digit losses in 2014. The recent slump in oil prices has hurt their shares. Names investors associate with big short bets like Tesla and Netflix have only recently suffered reversals. Netflix is still up 22 percent on the year, and Tesla has gained 51 percent so far in 2014 – though it is down nearly 20 percent in the last month. With prominent investors bracing for the selling to continue, additional evidence of weakness in the European economy, the widening of the Ebola outbreak or more declines in oil prices, could further sap buying interest. Whether another dose of gloom will benefit so-called short-sellers by triggering new asset flows remains to be seen. Among the world's roughly 10,000 hedge funds, there are only about two dozen dedicated short sellers and most are small with the entire group overseeing only about $2.8 billion in assets, a small fraction of the hedge fund industry's $3 trillion. Among the short-focused mutual funds is the $450 million Federated Prudent Bear Fund , which gained 6.33 percent in the last month and Leuthold Weeden Capital Management's $81 million Grizzly Short Fund which climbed 11.42 percent in the last month. These funds, which have a history of taking in fresh money during tough times, have already seen $250 million in new inflows between April and the end of August, said eVestment's head of research Peter Laurelli. Other hedge funds, which can hold significant short positions, also adopted a more cautious stance. Net long positions, for example, were cut to 48 percent at the end of August from 58 percent in December 2013, eVestment data shows. Credit Suisse data shows funds have sharply reduced their long exposure as the market has slumped. (with additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan and David Gaffen; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
ReutersBank of America reported its third-quarter earnings on Monday, with a net income of $168 million and a loss of $0.01 per share. Revenue came in at $21.4 billion. Analysts expected a loss of $0.09 a share with the bank's trading and investment banking business declining in the previous quarter. Trading revenues, however, came in 9% higher from the prior quarter, surprising analysts. Investment banking revenue rose 4% over the same period. What really made a negative impact on this report was the $5.8 billion fine Bank of America paid to the Department of Justice. The bank says that it shaved down earnings per share by $0.43. Bank of America “We saw solid customer and client activity and improved profitability in most of our businesses relative to the year-ago quarter,” chief executive officer Brian Moynihan said. “We remain focused on streamlining and simplifying our company and connecting customers and clients with the real economy, an approach that is paying dividends for them and for our shareholders.”   Check out the release here. FREE AppDownload
On Wednesday, crude fell below $81 a barrel, its lowest level since 2012 and more than 20% lower than it was this past summer when it was trading above $105. There are numerous possible reasons for and repercussions from this decline, but one sector of the market has really been taking it on the chin as crude has tumbled: oil drillers. Almost the entire sector is in a bear market, or has seen stock prices fall at least 20%, over the past couple of months. Over the previous quarter, some of the notable losers include Nabors, down 42%, Seadrill, down 40%, Whiting Petroleum, down 33%, Transocean, down 33%, Concho Resources, down 34%, and Helmerlich &amp; Payne, down 32%.  And while these might not be megacap companies like ExxonMobil or Chevron, these aren't microcaps either: all of the above companies have market caps above $5 billion. Here's a chart showing the declines in each of these stocks, which has really been stunning. Google Finance And here's the decline in crude oil that has really weighed on the sector. FinViz Numerous dynamics are weighing on the oil market now, but analysts are largely centering their focus on two main triggers: excess supply and weak demand. In a note to clients, Citi's Ed Morse writes: Crude oil markets have moved rapidly into surplus, not because of the growth in new production from the US and other, but equally importantly because of the rapid collapse of demand. As a result, there is an emerging surplus that should weigh heavily on prices through next year. Morse writes that Saudi Arabia has currently signaled it has no intention to cut production in spite of this oversupply, which could make US shale the "balancer" to this supply. He adds that US shale production could start to be affected around $80 but that "a noticeable drop in oil-directional drilling would require a much lower price." Citi ResearchThe US shale boom has been a game changer.Citi analysts call the global oil environment a "game of chicken" scenario and said that while OPEC — or, Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, an international oil cartel that includes Saudi Arabia, Iran, Kuwait, and Venezuela, among other nations — "has been dismissive" of shale production and its effect on global supply, it "is now paying close attention.  "The danger for [OPEC] is that they are underestimating the resilience of the US capital markets and overestimating the price at which cuts in capex and opex would be meaningful in the US, where much of the oil play is now based on half-cycle cost requirements that are largely at the level of $45 per barrel or even below," Citi writes. But away from some of the larger political and economic dynamics weighing on the oil market right now, many traders are recalling the rout in oil prices that accompanied the 2000 bear market.  Stock market blogger The Fly, who has an aggressive way of presenting his arguments, makes a succinct case that oil stocks haven't seen the worst of their declines yet.  In a post on Tuesday, The Fly wrote that in 2000, oil fell all the way to $10 before finally bottoming. And further, The Fly notes that if oil being exported by the Gulf States — basically OPEC members – is priced in dollars, then a dollar that has been strong against essentially all currencies is still hedging the nominal price declines in oil.  (The oversimplified math would be: I price my oil in dollars, not my home currency. The price of oil falls 10% in dollar terms. But the dollar rises 10% against my home currency, so net-net, I'm neutral.)  And the damage in oil-related stocks isn't just limited to the drillers.  Oil giants like Chevron, BP, Shell, and ExxonMobil (which is the second-largest company in the world), have seen huge declines in their stock prices over the previous quarter. Exxon shares are down 11%, while Chevron, Shell, and BP are down more than 15%.  Google Finance Ultimately, this is all very complicated. Many would argue that away from any geopolitical or broader economic concerns, crude oil is simply a "broken chart," where technical levels are being breached and traders are selling as they get stopped out of positions. It's clear that there are dozens of stocks that have seen huge price declines; it's not clear is where the bottom might be. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone Siu Inflation is crumbling across Europe. In fact, in several countries, it's already negative. Economists are increasingly worried that the whole continent is going to drop into deflation. Most people don't know what deflation means. We're familiar with its opposite, inflation. That's the condition in which prices keep rising, the value of money keeps falling, and people end up having to pay huge sums for small amounts of goods — as they are in Venezuela right now. For most people, deflation will be a scary and rare kind of economic meltdown. And it can be far more difficult to fix than inflation. It means that prices will start to fall. While that sounds great — everything is getting cheaper! — it's actually a disaster because in deflation no one wants to buy anything, demand plummets, and economic growth grinds to a halt, bringing employment with it. Here is how we got into this mess. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England both target 2% inflation, like the US Fed. That rate keeps prices basically stable, and people are encouraged to be productive because they know in the future their money will be worth a little bit less. But that "less" isn't too catastrophic in the short term — it allows people to plan ahead, in other words, and plan for growth. But Europe is nowhere near that level of healthy-but-minimal inflation. It is way below it, flirting with deflation. Here are the latest deflation figures from Europe, for September.  That's making economists extremely worried about deflation, when prices go completely into reverse. The International Monetary Fund's latest world economic outlook (WEO) has put the probability of deflation in the eurozone at 30%, up from 20% earlier this year. IMF So prices are falling. Who cares? When the price of goods falls, isn't that a good thing? It seems completely counterintuitive to be annoyed about deflation. Economists seem to get wound up, but when was the last time you heard a normal person complain about spending less on their shopping? Of course, that's true. There's such a thing as benign deflation. Take, for example, smartphones. The phone in my pocket has more computing power than several slightly older devices put together, so the price of that computing power has clearly dropped. That's good, supply-driven deflation. Productivity and technological development mean with that the same amount of money, I can now afford a far superior product.  That sort of deflation isn't the kind that economists are getting wound up about. Prices aren't grinding lower in Spain because workers there are suddenly massively more productive. In fact, falling prices are a symbol of a lack of demand. In a recession, demand drops significantly, and so companies cut prices to offload what they're making. That's the negative type of deflation, and if it sets in, it can be pretty harmful. Economist David Beckworth wrote a great, longer explanation about the difference between benign and malign inflation. Let's take Italy as an example. Italy is still running a deficit and accumulating a national debt. When deflation sets in, tax revenues from sales decline, because prices fall. If property prices decline, income from property taxes decline, and so on. When your public debt looks like this, that's a concern: Capital Economics They could cut government spending, but if deflation continues, they'll have to keep cutting forever, going into a sort of permanent austerity.  Falling prices also discourage business investment. Why spend money on machinery today, when you could buy it in two years for a lower price? For normal consumers, why spend today when I could just hang onto my cash? It'll be worth more in a year's time. Over the long term, wages also have to fall or unemployment will rise. Companies taking a decreasing amount of income from what they make and sell will eventually have to cut their wages or lay people off. Nobody likes taking a pay cut, so this usually means a lot of people being laid off. Feel-good effects from lower prices aren't likely to last very long if you lose your job.  And that's the nightmare scenario that Europe is gazing at right now: Long-term deflationary unemployment, in which no one works because no one is buying anything. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Leo HidalgoMillennials, the cohort of Americans born between 1980 and the mid-2000s, are the largest generation in the U.S., representing one-third of the total U.S. population in 2013.  With the first cohort of Millennials only in their early thirties, most members of this generation are at the beginning of their careers and so will be an important engine of the economy in the decades to come. The significance of Millennials extends beyond their numbers. This is the first generation to have had access to the Internet during their formative years. Millennials also stand out because they are the most diverse and educated generation to date: 42 percent identify with a race or ethnicity other than non-Hispanic white, around twice the share of the Baby Boomer generation when they were the same age.  About 61 percent of adult Millennials have attended college, whereas only 46 percent of the Baby Boomers did so. Yet perhaps the most important marker for Millennials is that many of them have come of age during a very difficult time in our economy, as the oldest Millennials were just 27 years old when the recession began in December 2007. As unemployment surged from 2007 to 2009, many Millennials struggled to find a hold in the labor market. They made important decisions about their educational and career paths, including whether and where to attend college, during a time of great economic uncertainty. Their early adult lives have been shaped by the experience of establishing their careers at a time when economic opportunities are relatively scarce. Today, although the economy is well into its recovery, the recession still affects lives of Millennials and will likely continue to do so for years to come. This report takes an early look at this generation’s adult lives so far, including how they are faring in the labor market and how they are organizing their personal lives. This generation is marked by transformations at nearly every important milestone: from changes in parenting practices and schooling choices, to the condition of the U.S. economy they entered, to their own choices about home and family. However, in many cases, Millennials are simply following the patterns of change that began generations ago. Millennials are also the generation that will shape our economy for decades to come, and no one understands that more that the President. It’s why he has put in place policies to address the various challenges their generation faces. This includes policies such as: making student loan payments more affordable; promoting digital literacy and innovation; pushing for equal pay and paycheck fairness; supporting investments and policies that create better-paying jobs; connecting more Americans to job training and skills programs that prepare them for in-demand jobs; supporting access to credit for those who want to buy a home; and increasing access to affordable health care. And it’s why the President will continue to act with Congress and on his own where he can to build on this progress to expand opportunity for Millennials and all Americans. Millennials now represent the largest generation in the United States, comprising roughly one-third of the total population in 2013. What’s more, the largest Millennial one-year age cohort is now only 23. This means that the Millennial generation will continue to be a sizable part of the population for many years (Figure 1). Figure 1 US Population Distribution by Age, 2013 via Medium Aside from their numbers, Millennials’ diversity sets them apart from other generations. Many Millennials are immigrants or the children of immigrants who arrived in the United States as part of an upsurge in immigration that began in the 1940s. The share of people age 20 to 34 who were born in a foreign country is now around 15 percent – much higher than it was in 1950 and near the peak of almost 20 percent seen in 1910 during the last great wave of immigration to the United States (Figure 2). Figure 2 Share of Population Aged 20 to 34 that is Foreign-Born Medium This influx has contributed to the large size of the Millennial generation and helped make it the most diverse generation in the post-war period. As Figure 3 shows, the share of those age 15 to 34 who identify as non-Hispanic white fell 20 percentage points from 1980 to 2012, while the share reporting Hispanic ancestry tripled. Figure 3: Race and Ethnic Group, 15 to 34 Year-Olds  Medium The past few decades have witnessed astounding advances in technology and computing. Since personal computers were introduced to schools in the late 1970s, technology companies have innovated at startling speed, often rolling out a groundbreaking new platform or computer model every year. Because much of this period of innovation coincided with Millennials’ childhoods, it has shaped the ways that Millennials interact with technology and seems to have affected their expectations for creativity and innovation in their own work lives. Millennials are more connected to technology than previous generations and a quarter of Millennials believe that their relationship to technology is what makes their generation unique. While all generations have experienced technological advances, the sheer amount of computational power and access to information that Millennials have had at their fingertips since grade-school is unparalleled. Computational processing power has roughly doubled every 2 years, and storage prices continue to drop. In 1980, IBM’s first gigabyte hard drive weighed 550 pounds and cost $40,000. Today, consumers have access to 3 terabyte hard drives<U+200A>—<U+200A>3000 times the size<U+200A>—<U+200A>that weigh under 3 pounds and cost around $100. Under these trends, Millennials have come of age in a world in which the frontiers of technology have appeared unlimited. At the same time, the costs of creating and distributing all kinds of digital content – from books to music to software – have fallen dramatically. This creates opportunities for this generation to be pioneers in production, as well as consumption, of technology. One study found that more than half of the Millennials surveyed expressed interest in starting a business. And although several Millennials became well-known entrepreneurs in their 20s, this generation is just beginning to reach the peak age for entrepreneurship, which generally occurs in one’s 40s or early 50s. In addition to creating opportunities for entrepreneurship, advances in computer processing power, along with widespread access to cell phones and the Internet, have changed how Millennials communicate and interact with one another. Millennials use social media more frequently and are even more likely to sleep near their cell phone. Three-quarters of Millennials have an account on a social networking site, compared with only half of Generation Xers and less than a third of the Baby Boomers. The impacts of these practices have extended beyond Millennials’ peers to their families. For instance, the Wall Street Journal reported that this is the first generation to also have tech savvy parents, and that some Millennials use texting or online chat to have running conversations with their parents throughout their day. Millennials are not just virtually connected via social networks; they value the role that they play in their communities. For instance, high school seniors today are more likely than previous generations to state that making a contribution to society is very important to them and that they want to be leaders in their communities. This community-mindedness also includes a strong connection to family.  Millennials have close relationships with their parents, and as high school students, roughly half say that it is important to them to live close to their friends and family, compared with 29 percent of Baby Boomers and 40 percent of Generation Xers. Figure 4 Percent Reporting Life Goals as Being “Quite or Extremely Important” Medium A 1997 Gallup survey found that 9 in 10 children (a population comprised entirely of Millennials that year) reported high levels of closeness with their parents and were personally happy with that relationship. Their tight relationship with their parents extends to work, where some companies report establishing relationships with parents of their Millennial employees. The Millennials’ close relationships with their parents might be related to the greater time they spent with their parents growing up. MediumAccording to Pew (2014), hours spent parenting have increased for both fathers and mothers, tripling for fathers since 1985 and increasing by 60 percent for mothers, as shown in Table 2.  Ramey and Ramey (2010) show that these increases have been particularly pronounced among college-educated parents, with college-educated mothers increasing their childcare time since the mid-1990s by over 9 hours per week, while less educated mothers increased their childcare time by only over 4 hours per week. When it comes to work, Millennials are mostly similar to previous generations: they want to be successful, and they want the type of prosperity that means that their children will be better off. They are somewhat more likely than previous generations to report that they consider creativity to be a very important job feature. Perhaps this is no surprise for a highly-connected generation for whom technology was a key part of their upbringing. On the other hand, they are less likely to report that having an interesting job, or one where they can see results or have advancement opportunities, is very important. Figure 5 “Very Important” Job Characteristics Among High School Seniors Medium While many Millennials report that earnings are very important to them in a job, breaking the data down by gender reveals that this change is driven primarily by young women. Each cohort of young women is more likely than the last to name earnings as a key job feature, while the importance of earnings has been stable for men. The result is that Millennial women have aspirations that are similar to their male peers. In sum, quality of life appears to be a focus of this generation: Millennials value staying close to family and friends, having free time for recreation, and working in creative jobs. However, they also want to make a positive social impact on their own children and communities, as well as on society as a whole. More Millennials have a college degree than any other generation of young adults. In 2013, 47 percent of 25 to 34 year-olds received a postsecondary degree (associates, bachelor’s, or graduate degree) and an additional 18 percent had completed some postsecondary education, as Figure 6 shows. Also, because the rate of young workers with some post-secondary education but no degree has been flat while the share with a degree has risen, more students are completing the degrees they start after high school. Figure 6 People Ages 25 to 34 By Educational Attainment Medium Increasing college enrollment is in part a response to decades of rising returns to education for workers and heightened income inequality between the college-educated and the less-educated. Millennials’ commitment to higher education is therefore a rational response to a labor market that confers large rewards on more educated workers. Moreover, during recessions, young people tend to enroll in school in greater numbers and also tend to stay in school longer. This cyclical pattern reflects both a lower opportunity cost of schooling, as well as a stronger incentive to make one’s skills competitive in a tough job market. Millennials are also more likely to attend graduate school than previous generations. Among 18 to 34 year-olds, college enrollment stood at 19 percent in 2010, up from 15 percent in 1995. Graduate school enrollment for the same age group has increased at an even faster rate, jumping from 2.8 percent in 1995 to 3.8 percent in 2010 – a 35 percent increase. With so many Millennials enrolling in college, there has been an unprecedented expansion of higher education to lower-income and underrepresented minority students. Figure 7 shows that enrollment of all students in degree-granting institutions has increased over time, but more recent gains have been greatest among black and Hispanic students. Since 1995, enrollment for blacks ages 18 to 24 increased 9 percentage points and enrollment for Hispanics ages 18 to 24 increased 17 percentage points. These represent larger increases, in percentage terms, for blacks and Hispanics than for whites. Research has also found that enrollment of students from low-income families is higher among Millennials than previous generations. Figure 7 Enrollment rates of 18 to 24 year-olds in degree-granting institutions Medium Millennials are more likely to study social science or applied fields<U+200A>—<U+200A>like communications, criminal justice, and library science<U+200A>—<U+200A>that do not fit into traditional liberal arts curricula, but correspond more directly to specific careers (Figure 8). Figure 8 Major Field of Study, by Generation Medium There has also been a significant decline in the share of students majoring in education since Baby Boomers were in college, as shown in Figure 8. This decrease is mostly explained by a sharp move away from education degrees among female college students. About 35 percent of women graduating from college in the early 1970s earned a degree in an education-related field, but only about 12 percent did in 2011. Business degrees have become more popular among women over the same period, increasing from 9 percent of the class of 1970 to 16 percent of the class of 2011, after peaking in the mid-1980s for both men and women. Millennials are also somewhat less likely than previous generations to major in fields like business and health (which includes pre-med and nursing). The share of Millennials studying STEM fields is slightly lower than that of past generations; however, the absolute number of majors in these fields has increased over time as college enrollment has expanded, just not as fast as the number of students in other majors. Perhaps surprisingly for a technologically-connected generation, the share of Millennials choosing computer and information science majors has fallen over time, and this decline has been most pronounced among women. In 1987, 2.9 percent of women graduating with a bachelor’s degree received a degree in computer and information science, and women comprised 36 percent of all computer science graduates. In contrast, in the class of 2011, only 1.1 percent of women graduated with computer science degrees, and women comprised only 18 percent of all computer science graduates. Over the same period, the share of men graduating with such degrees fell only slightly, from 5.7 percent to 5.4 percent. This trend in computer science stands in stark contrast with other highly- compensated fields, such as medicine, dentistry, and law, where women’s participation has increased over this period. Total student outstanding loan debt surpassed $1 trillion by the end of the second quarter of 2014, making it the second largest category of household debt. In part, this increase in the aggregate level of outstanding student debt is due to greater enrollment among Millennials and to the changing composition of students, including a larger share of students from lower-income families who need to take out more loans, as discussed in Fact 4. Other contributing factors include: rising tuition as state governments have cut funding; parents’ impaired ability to use the equity in their homes to offset some portion of their children’s college costs; and the fact that students are taking longer to repay their loans. Consistent with these factors, average real per borrower debt increased from $24,000 in 2004 to $30,000 in 2012. Since 2012, total originations have fallen, and since 2010, originations per borrower have fallen; however, the fraction of students borrowing remains high from a longer-term perspective. Around half of students borrowed student loans during the 2013–14 school year, up from around 30 percent in the mid-1990s. Figure 9 Sources of Change in Student Loan Debt Medium With the gap in earnings between college- and high school-educated workers both large and growing, college-educated Millennials are more likely to earn higher wages and be employed than those without a college degree. A four-year degree yields approximately $570,000 more in lifetime earnings than a high school diploma alone, while a two-year degree yields $170,000 more. Importantly, research finds that the earnings gains from attending college are broad-based, as both lower-skilled students attending basic college programs and higher-skilled students attending elite colleges stand to benefit. However, one concern with rising average student debt levels is that a non-trivial minority of borrowers might face financial difficulties managing and paying down their debt. Recent increases in the prevalence of delinquent student loans point to some of the challenges that borrowers face. In addition, the defaults appear to be concentrated among borrowers who do not graduate from a four- year institution and those attending for-profit institutions. Since borrowers may also receive lower returns to their education from such institutions, the burden of paying back their loans may present an even greater financial challenge. Figure 10 Percentage of Borrowers Who Defaulted on Their Loans up to Six Years after Initial Post- Secondary Enrollment Medium  With college enrollments at historic highs there has been a corresponding decline in labor market participation among 16 to 24 year-olds. As Figure 11 shows, about 90 percent of young adults are either enrolled in school or participating in the labor market. This share has been flat since the late 1980s, while labor market participation itself has been declining for this group since the late 1970s. Much of the decline in participation has occurred among students, as students have become more likely to focus on school alone rather than combining school and work. Figure 11 Labor Force Participation of 16 to 24 Year-Olds, 1960–2013  Medium Millennials, in particular, have been less likely to work while enrolled in high school. Since 2000, labor force participation rates among high school and college students have fallen more sharply than those who are not enrolled, as shown in Figure 12.The result is that more students are focused exclusively on their studies during school years. On the other hand, labor force participation has been relatively stable for 18 to 24 year-olds who are not in school. Although participation has also declined somewhat for very young non-enrolled individuals ages 16 to 18, this group is very small and shrinking over time as fewer students are dropping out of high school. Figure 12 Labor Force Participation by Enrollment Status, 1989–2013  Medium Focusing exclusively on school enables students to invest more time building skills that will be highly rewarded in the labor market later on. Moreover, research suggests that the returns to working during the school year, particularly while in high school, have declined over time. These trends in participation make economic sense. As Millennials enter the labor market after finishing school, these investments can also start to pay off for the economy as a whole. As a result of the Affordable Care Act, Millennials have much better health insurance options during their young adult years than past generations. Since September 2010, young adults have generally been eligible to remain on a parent’s health insurance policy until they turn 26. Previously, young adults frequently lost access to a parent’s plan when they turned 19 or graduated from college. In addition, as of the beginning of 2014, many young adults newly qualify for tax credits to purchase health insurance coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplaces or Medicaid in States that have accepted Federal funding to expand their Medicaid programs. From the time the Affordable Care Act’s dependent coverage provision took effect in 2010 through the first quarter of 2014, the uninsurance rate among individuals ages 19 to 25 fell by 13.2 percentage points, a 40 percent decline. In the first quarter of 2014, the share of young adults without health insurance coverage was 20.9 percent, the lowest young adult uninsured rate recorded since the National Health Interview Survey began using its current design in 1997.  Other analyses using private survey data show that overall insurance coverage continued to expand during the second quarter of 2014, so these estimated gains are likely to grow in the coming months. Moreover, analysts predict that coverage will continue to expand in the years ahead. Figure 13 Uninsurance Rate Among 19 to 25 Year-Olds Medium Having health insurance has been shown to improve access to health care, health outcomes, and financial security. Research focused on the Affordable Care Act’s dependent coverage expansion has found evidence for similar effects. Researchers have found that in tandem with the sharp increase in insurance coverage following the law’s enactment, young adults became less likely to delay or entirely forgo care due to cost and markedly less likely to face large out-of-pocket medical expenditures. Several studies have also concluded that these newly-insured young adults are more likely receive several types of inpatient and outpatient care, while another found that they are more likely to report being in excellent health. Greater access to health insurance coverage outside the workplace during young adulthood may also generate important labor market benefits by allowing workers to obtain additional schooling or choose the jobs that best match their career goals. Research examining the Affordable Care Act’s dependent coverage expansion has documented increased school enrollment among young adults, and earlier research examining similar state laws found significant gains in ultimate educational attainment as well as higher wages later in life. Other research has similarly found that the Affordable Care Act’s dependent coverage expansion reduced employment lock and increased labor market flexibility, allowing workers to change jobs without the fear of losing health insurance. Millennials are also poised to benefit from another important development in our nation’s health care system: the striking slowdown in the growth of health care costs. From the time the oldest Millennials were born through when they turned age 25 in 2005, private employers’ costs for health benefits grew at an average annual rate of 5.4 percent, adjusted for inflation. But in recent years, the growth of real health benefit costs has fallen dramatically, averaging just 1.1 percent over the last two years, about 80 percent lower than the prior average (see Figure 14). Economic theory and empirical evidence demonstrate that higher benefit costs are ultimately borne by workers in the form of lower wages and salaries. As a result, if the dramatic slowdown in the growth of health benefit costs persists in the years ahead, it will help drive faster growth in wages and salaries for Millennials relative to their predecessors. Figure 14 Growth in Employer Health Benefit Costs, 1981–2014 Medium Millennials are currently about a third of the labor force and, as a generation, they have faced substantial challenges in entering the workforce during the most pronounced downturn since the Great Recession. The overall unemployment rate for young workers between ages 18 to 34 peaked at over 13 percent in 2010, on a seasonally-adjusted basis. Since then it has come down 4.7 percentage points to 8.6 percent in September 2014. While it remains elevated, the labor market recovery and decline in the unemployment rate has recently been faster than any time since the early 1980s. Between June 2013 and June 2014, the unemployment rate of Millennials declined by 1.8 percentage points, the largest reduction in unemployment for this age group also since the early-1980s. During this period of rapid decline in the unemployment rate, the number of employed Millennials increased by 990,000, a noticeable acceleration from the 786,000 Millennials that found work during the year- earlier period. Examining the twelve month averages of various measures of unemployment, allows us to look at how much different indicators of unemployment have recovered for this age group compared to their prerecession averages. The 12-month average of the unemployment rate as of August 2014 for Millennials is roughly three-quarters of the way back to its pre-recession average, broadly in line with the extent of recovery for other groups.[39] The recent improvement in labor market conditions for Millennials broadly mirrors that of the broader population, as do the outstanding challenges. The fraction of Millennials unemployed for less than 26 weeks has recovered more than the fraction of long-term unemployed, just as is the case for the population as a whole. Long-term unemployment remains a challenge for Millennials and for the country in general, as we work to get more of the long- term unemployed back into employment. Figure 15 Labor Market Indicators in the Recession for Millennials, All Data as of August 2014 Medium Other indicators tell a similar story<U+200A>—<U+200A>while Millennials have made a substantial labor market recovery, that recovery is not complete and is slightly lagging that of other age groups, consistent with prior recessions. Broader measures of joblessness also indicate that the recovery is making progress. For example, measures of unemployment that account for people who are discouraged from looking for work or are only available for work under certain conditions were roughly 70 percent back as of the 12-month average ending in August 2014 to their pre-recession average, while those that include people who are working part-time, but would prefer full-time hours were 55 percent recovered. The unemployment rate has recovered similarly among Millennials regardless of education, however, this similarity masks big differences in the levels of unemployment by education. The unemployment rate of 25–34 year old Millennials with a college degree was 3.7 percent in 2013, compared to 13.5 percent among those less than a high school education. The pace of the recovery for younger age groups is in line with the pattern we typically see after a recession, as shown in Figure 16 yet more work remains to be done to ensure a full recovery. Younger workers have less experience and more tenuous connections to employers than older workers, so they are often laid off in greater numbers and have to compete against more experienced workers for new jobs once recovery begins. They therefore tend to be among the last groups to recover fully from a recession. Figure 16 Unemployment Rate of Workers Ages 16 to 24 During Recoveries Medium The Great Recession likely will have important implications for Millennials’ future labor force outcomes, since research finds that macroeconomic conditions in childhood and young adulthood are important determinants of future earnings and financial behavior. Early career economic conditions have large and lasting impacts on lifetime wages, particularly for college graduates. Research shows that entering the labor market during a recession can result in substantial earnings losses that persist for more than a decade, with negative effects lasting longer for college graduates. Workers who start their careers in a recession earn 2.5 to 9 percent less per year than those who do not for at least 15 years after starting a career. Research further suggests that one reason for these lower earnings is that new entrants take jobs that are a worse fit for them when they start their careers in a recession. However, research also shows that perhaps the single most important determinant of a person’s income is their level of education. And as the most educated generation in history, this will tend to boost earnings for Millennials over the course of their lifetimes<U+200A>—<U+200A>and help to offset any longer-term harms from the Great Recession. Millennials themselves remain largely optimistic about their ability to move up socioeconomically, with over half agreeing that people like them have a good chance of improving their standard of living. While this number has been trending down in the wake of recent economic turmoil, following a more long-standing decline that began in 2000 (Figure 17), Millennials, like all young people, are more optimistic than older respondents. Figure 17 The Way Things are in America, People Like Me and My Family Have a Good Chance of Improving Our Standard of Living: Do You Agree or Disagree? Medium Overall, these economic conditions may affect adult financial behavior and beliefs about success and the role of institutions in society. Individuals who experienced the Great Depression invested less and pursued more conservative investing strategies throughout their lives. More recent economic turmoil has bigger impacts on behavior and that these impacts are most pronounced for younger savers. This suggests that the Great Recession will impact early savings and investment behavior among Millennials, but at this point, it is still too soon to know how large these impacts will be. Recent college graduates continue to out-earn individuals with only a high school diploma, a gap that has been increasing over time. The college premium, the difference between median earnings for college versus high school graduates, increased from 60 percent in 2004 to roughly 70 percent in 2013. Holding a college degree (associates or bachelor’s) results in a much lower probability of having earnings in the lowest income tax bracket<U+200A>—<U+200A>16 to 28 percent for college degree holders versus 37 to 41 percent for those with no college degree (Figure 18). Bachelor’s degree holders are also 6 times more likely to have earnings in the top income tax bracket than those with only a high school degree.  In addition to earning higher wages on average, individuals with a college degree are less likely to be unemployed. As of September 2014, the unemployment rate for those with a bachelor’s degree is around 3 percent, compared with over 5 percent for high school graduates. Figure 18Earnings Distribution of Workers Ages 25 to 34 in 2013 Medium Returns to education are 5 to 10 percent per year of schooling, with most estimates in the 7 to 10 percent range. The gains from a college education are high, both for lower-skilled students attending basic college programs and for stronger students attending selective colleges. Median real hourly wages for 21 to 25 year-old college graduates are even higher than median real hourly wages for 26 to 34 year-old non-college graduates, who have had more time in the labor market. College therefore remains a strong investment for most students<U+200A>—<U+200A>and will raise income levels for Millennials for decades to come well above where they would have been without those investments. While education remains a good investment, Millennials still face challenges associated with several decades of slow wage growth – compounded by the Great Recession. As a result Millennials have seen slower wage growth than earlier generations of young adults. The typical employed college graduate who entered the market in the mid- to late-1990s saw his or her wages increase by around 50 percent between the ages of 23 and 28. This indicator of wage growth for young workers declined to 24 percent in 2001 and 2002, then recovered somewhat to exceed 30 percent before falling again to under 25 percent for college graduates who entered the labor market at the start of the Great Recession. Figure 19 Wage Growth for College-Educated Workers Between Ages 23 and 28, by Cohort This article originally appeared at Medium.  Copyright 2014. Follow Medium on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe BlackRock logo is seen outside of its offices in New York(Reuters) - BlackRock Inc , the world's largest money manager, said on Wednesday that its third-quarter profit rose 26 percent. The New York-based asset manager reported net income of $917 million, or $5.37 per share, up from $730 million, or $4.21 per share, a year earlier.    (Reporting by Jessica Toonkel in New York; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Speaking at the IAB UK's annual Engage conference in London today, Sorrell said the days when the West assumes Chinese companies merely "copy" the strategies of established businesses are over. If they do steal at the beginning, they "certainly get to the stage when they don't," he added. People in the West need to wise up to the fact that companies like Alibaba, which has a market cap of $213 billion (more than Facebook at $188 billion), and creeping up on Google ($367 billion), are now "powerful companies on the world stage," fuelled by the country's strong recent economic growth. He also made reference to four-year-old Chinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi, which has grown rapidly in the region to overtake Samsung and Apple in terms of market share in the second quarter of this year.  This week, a spotlight was cast on Xiaomi after Apple's chief designer Jony Ive accused the company of "theft" by copying the design of the iPhone and selling cheaper versions in China.  Sorrell noted the shift in power to China has been highlighted by the news that last year the Xiaomi recently hired high-profile Google executive Hugo Barra to take the brand into India and other regions, who has in turn hired another ex-Googler — Jai Mani — to help lead the push. However, some observers say Chinese companies' international growth will be stunted because of their close ties to the Chinese government. Sorrell referenced a Business Insider interview with PayPal co-founder and billionaire investor Peter Thiel, who said Chinese companies "are protected behind the great firewall of China ['s government], and investment in Alibaba is good as long as Jack Ma stays in the good graces of the Chinese communist party." Sorrell retorted that while that might be true to some extent now, "don't underestimate [Chinese companies'] ability and dedication to moving the model outside of China." The influence of the Chinese government over companies entering the region can also be of benefit to companies based in China when it come to warding off rivals. One of the "two big threats to Google" — which Sorrell also said are now a "more friendly frenemy" than in recent years to WPP — is regulation (the other was that as companies grow in size, so do the number of problems it has to deal with). Sorrell said this threat to Google particularly pointed in China where the government maintains tight control over the internet, nipping in the bud any signs or dissent or challenges to the ruling party's leadership. As such many of Google's services - including search, its most lucrative business in terms of revenue - are frequently disrupted and most of the time inaccessible. YouTube has been blocked in China for several years. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil Hall Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al-Saud has published an open letter on his website expressing his "astonishment" at reports that the Saudi oil minister is comfortable with collapsing oil prices. The famously eccentric billionaire investor Alwaleed (who has allegedly tossed dwarves at parties) took issue with recent media reports suggesting Ali bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, was telling market participants that the kingdom would be comfortable with oil under $90 a barrel. Oil prices continued their seemingly unstoppable slide, with Brent crude falling to $86 a barrel on Tuesday from a recent high of over $110 in June. Alwaleed's opinion is taken seriously because of his investments in Apple, Time-Warner, and News Corp. He also has a massive stake in Square. In his letter he warns that 90% of the Saudi budget is still reliant on oil revenues and that if prices are allowed to continue their slide, it could be a "catastrophe": http://www.alwaleed.com.saPrince Alwaleed bin Talal al-Saud's open letter. Analysts had been suggesting that Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest member, was happy to allow the oil price to slide to make exports of the commodity competitive with the shale boom in the US. The country will also be looking for new sources of demand with the Chinese economy decelerating and the ongoing eurozone crisis dragging down the oil consumption outlook. On Tuesday the International Energy Agency cut its demand forecast for 2015 by 300,000 barrels per day (bpd) and its 2014 forecast by 200,000 bpd. The energy agency reported that prices would remain under pressure because of increased global production. Significantly the IEA warned that OPEC may not be able to hold back the price slides as it has been able to in the past. Chief analyst Antoine Halff said that, given the US shale oil boom, "we should not expect OPEC to necessarily play its traditional role of swing producer." However, some OPEC members have expressed their concerns over the price slide. Reuters reports Venezuela's foreign minister Rafael Ramirez has been warning against a race to the bottom on oil prices, saying "it doesn't suit anyone to have a price war, for the price to fall below $100 a barrel." FREE AppDownload
AP Photo / LM OteroA hazmat worker cleaning outside the apartment building of a hospital worker found to have Ebola. The worker, a nurse, cared for Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan, who later died.A second healthcare worker at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital has tested positive for Ebola, the Texas health department said Wednesday.  The worker, who cared for the first patient found to have Ebola in the United States, Thomas Eric Duncan," reported a fever Tuesday and was immediately isolated at the hospital," the department said in a statement. Duncan died at Texas Health Presbyterian last week, and the 26-year-old nurse who cared for him, Nina Pham, learned she had Ebola on Sunday.  "Health officials have interviewed the latest patient to quickly identify any contacts or potential exposures, and those people will be monitored. The type of monitoring depends on the nature of their interactions and the potential they were exposed to the virus," officials added.  The news comes just a day after National Nurses United, the largest US organization of nurses, released a statement criticizing the treatment response to Ebola in US hospitals, including the training and protective equipment provided to workers. “Nurses and other frontline hospital personnel must have the highest level of protective equipment, such as the Hazmat suits Emery University or the CDC themselves use while transporting patients and hands on training and drills for all RNs and other hospital personnel,” RoseAnn DeMoro, executive director at NNU, said in a media release.  The union will host a national call-in conference call on Wednesday at 3 p.m. ET to discuss concerns about hospital readiness in the US.  In a press conference on Wednesday, Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins that more Ebola cases in Texas were a "very real possibility." Officials are working to decontaminate the apartment and car of the newest Ebola patient and those who live in the apartment complex have been notified.   Meanwhile, the World Health Organization said on Tuesday that as many as 10,000 people in West Africa could be infected each week if efforts to control Ebola were not stepped up within the next two months.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a Banco Bradesco branch in downtown Rio de JaneiroBy Guillermo Parra-Bernal SAO PAULO (Reuters) - Brazil's economy has stagnated and will remain weak well into 2015 but its big private-sector banks are poised to safely weather the downturn thanks to a cautious business model that keeps a lid on risky lending and costs. Latin America's largest economy is in its fourth year of disappointing growth and slipped into recession in the first half of the year. Weaker consumer spending, a cooling labor market and a slide in investor confidence mean 2015 is also likely to be tough. Modest credit growth and higher default rates may also persist next year regardless of who wins this month's presidential election - the leftist incumbent, Dilma Rousseff, or the centrist favored by investors, Aecio Neves. All of those problems typically drag on bank earnings, but giants like Itaú Unibanco Holding SA , Banco Bradesco SA  and state-run Banco do Brasil SA  could all buck the trend. By streamlining costs and focusing lending on the most creditworthy borrowers, private-sector banks look well-positioned to navigate any choppy waters ahead, said Saúl Martínez, a senior analyst at JPMorgan Securities. "The question here is, if there's a shock in unemployment or an abrupt downturn in economic growth, how each player in the banking sector will act, how their asset quality indicators will perform," he said. "Private-sector banks look relatively well-prepared to face that situation." State-run banks, on the other hand, look more exposed to a weak labor market that may spark an uptick in defaults and force them to make additional loan-loss provisions. In that group, analysts said the risks look greater for Caixa Econômica Federal [CEF.UL], an unlisted government lender that has aggressively increased lending and charged lower interest rates since 2009, than for Banco do Brasil, the nation's largest bank by assets. Earnings at Itaú and Bradesco, Brazil's top-two private-sector lenders, could expand 10 percent or more next year as their strategy of growing credit in low-risk segments like payroll-deductible lending and mortgage loans will help keep a lid on provisions, Deutsche Bank Securities' Tito Labarta said. There's another reason to be optimistic about Brazilian banks. Because Rousseff's attempts early in her term to strong-arm banks into lowering interest rates and increasing lending ended up backfiring, investors are betting on less state intervention in the financial sector going forward, even if the president is re-elected. She is running neck-and-neck in polls with Neves, the investor favorite, ahead of the Oct. 26 runoff. Hopes of less state intervention, regardless of who wins the election, have helped drive up banking shares since the start of August. Itaú has gained 10 percent, Bradesco 12 percent and Banco do Brasil 24 percent, compared with the benchmark Bovespa stock index's  3.7 percent rise. During the same period, the shares of these three banks have traded between 7 and 10 times price-to-earnings, the most volatile such range in 2-1/2 years, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Multiples could hit 11 times earnings if whoever wins the election embraces a pro-market reform agenda for the sector, according to Barclays Capital analyst Cristina Marzea. There is mounting optimism that the next administration - regardless of its political orientation - will face pressure to implement more business-friendly policies. That would trigger  an investor re-rating of the financial sector, a decline in risk perception, funding costs and, eventually, in interest rates. Marzea raised Itaú's earnings estimates for 2015 by 5 percent on Monday and kept them broadly unchanged for Bradesco and Banco do Brasil, regardless of how badly the $2.2 trillion economy does next year.  PRUDENCE Unlike in the past, investors are picking bank shares as a way of protecting the value of their portfolios during this year's recession. In general, the view is that lenders are poised to post strong returns on equity, control loan-loss provisions and continued generous dividend payouts even if activity slows further. Itaú, for example, posted a record profit and return on equity near a five-year high in the second quarter. Banking executives, however, are sounding a slightly more cautious note in case the road ahead is rockier than expected, hoping to temper investor optimism by stressing that earnings are not immune to the economic slump. The correlation between economic growth and earnings will only increase going forward, Marcelo Kopel, Itaú's senior vice president for risk and compliance, said in August. Itaú is Brazil's largest bank by market value. The sluggish economy should drive margins at Bradesco down somewhat before year-end, Chief Financial Officer Luiz Carlos Angelotti said in July. At Banco do Brasil, revenue gains hinge more on faster loan disbursements for farmers than, for instance, extending credit to debt-laden consumers and cautious businesses, CFO Ivan Monteiro said. But there might also be another reason to cheer for Brazil's top three banks. They face no immediate pressure to raise capital, bolstering share prices in the short run, said Pedro Fonseca, an analyst at BES Securities. In his view, 2015 will be a "transitional year" in which lenders must adapt to a potentially tougher outlook in the second half of the decade - namely lower interest rates and more competition. Fonseca expects domestic rates to start declining again in 2016, hindering banks' ability to charge more for loans. As a result, he sees lenders doubling down on controlling costs, boosting sales of financial services and, as Itaú has done, expanding outside Brazil.  (Editing by Todd Benson, Kieran Murray and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
tma/flickrEuropean equities are selling off early Wednesday. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.77% Spain's IBEX is basically flat, down 0.52% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.69% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 1.11% Germany's DAX is down 0.75% In Asia, it was a good night for the Nikkei after several bad ones, closing up 0.92%. The Hang Seng also closed up 0.61%. US futures are mixed and effectively flat: Dow futures are up 0.02%, and S&amp;P futures are down 0.07%. From the US, the two big scheduled events are the released of retail sales data for September, which will be out at 5 a.m. ET, and the Fed's beige book at 1.30 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Tom FitzsimmonsDavid Greenglass, one-time Los Alamos atom bomb project employee, is shown in Federal Court in New York in handcuffs, March 12, 1951. He testified against his sister and two others accused of passing atomic secrets to Russia. Greenglass has pleaded guilty to same charges. Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Wednesday.  1. Fresh protests in Hong Kong coincide with a video taken by a local television crew that allegedly shows police officers in plainclothes kicking a protester while his hands are tied.  2. The World Health Organization warned Tuesday that there could be 10,000 new Ebola cases in West Africa each week if efforts to combat the virus are not increased within the next two months.  3. A New York Times investigation reveals that the US government kept the discovery of abandoned chemical weapons in Iraq secret and that many soldiers were exposed to the munitions between 2004 and 2010.  4. A US-led coalition has ramped up airstrikes against Islamic State militants in Syria over the last two days. 5. Oil prices continue to slide, posting their "biggest one-day drop in nearly two years Tuesday as a U.S.-led wave of crude has crashed into weak global demand," The Wall Street Journal said.  6. Mexican authorities said that the bodies found in mass graves last week do not belong to the college students who have been missing for almost three weeks.  7. The Spanish nurse infected with Ebola is showing signs of improvement, while highlighting issues in response and treatment of the virus.  8. David Greenglass, a spy for the Soviet Union during the Cold War era whose testimony famously led to the execution of his sister, Ethel Rosenberg and her husband Julius, has died.  9. The US Supreme Court has sided with abortion rights advocates in blocking parts of a 2013 Texas law that would have closed all but eight abortion facilities in the state. 10. A report led by London's former health commissioner calls for a ban on smoking in the city's public parks as well as Trafalgar and Parliament squares.  And finally ... Michelle Obama made a "Turn Down For What" parody vine.  FREE AppDownload
Megan Willett/Business InsiderBill Gates, Christy Walton, Harold Hamm, and Warren Buffett all made this year's list. Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Larry Ellison all grabbed the top spots for their home states of Washington, Nebraska, and California, respectively — no big surprise, considering they're three of the wealthiest men on the planet and were on the list last year, too. Of the 50 states, nine did not have a single billionaire living there, including Utah, New Mexico, Mississippi, Maine, Delaware, Hawaii, South Dakota, Alaska, and Wyoming. There were also a few shake-ups this year. T. Denny Sanford of South Dakota lost over half of his wealth, dropping from $1.3 billion to $580 million. Christy Walton was one of six women to make the list in 2014, ousting her brother-in-law Tim Walton as the wealthiest person in Arkansas.  FREE AppDownload
