Thomson ReutersIndiana Pacers' Sam Young and teammates celebrate after Paul George made a game-tying three point shot to end regulation time during Game 1 of their NBA Eastern Conference final basketball playoff against the Miami Heat in Miami(Reuters) - A former securities broker whom regulators said took part in a multi-million dollar fraud must pay $2 million to a former NBA player, an arbitration panel ruled on Monday. Sam Young, whose professional basketball career has included stints with the Indiana Pacers and San Antonio Spurs, was among dozens of investors who lost their money after buying fraudulent privately-issued securities sold by the now defunct brokerage, Success Trade Securities. The ex-broker, Jinesh “Hodge” Brahmbhatt, was found liable in the case, in which Young had alleged civil fraud and negligence, among other things, according to a ruling by a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) arbitration panel. Efforts to locate Brahmbhatt were not immediately successful. (Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Generic drugmaker Actavis Plc is planning to cut employees and expand in China, a Bloomberg report said citing an interview by Chief Executive Officer Brent Saunders on Bloomberg Television. However, the report did not say how many positions will be eliminated. Earlier in November, Botox maker Allergan Inc accepted a $66 billion takeover bid from Actavis, ending a seven-month hostile pursuit by activist investor William Ackman and Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. Brent Saunders had said in the interview that there are overlaps in corporate functions, including human relations and finance, the report noted. (http://bloom.bg/11QY3dX). Actavis was not immediately available for a comment.           (Reporting By Krishna Chaithanya) FREE AppDownload

 Over the weekend, Yale professor and Nobel laureate Robert Shiller was on Barry Ritholtz's Masters in Business program on Bloomberg Radio.  Shiller discussed the stock market, the housing market, and a host of other topics. But Shiller also gave a short, simple explanation of what finance really is.  "This is one of the messages of my financial markets course," Shiller said. "There's an important technology that finance represents, and it is the technology of financing activities ... so that people can undertake activities that would have otherwise been too risky for them." "Finance and insurance are about an uncertain future," Shiller said. "It's about managing it, sharing your risks, hedging your risks. People forget that. "[Finance] is not about beating the market, necessarily. It's about managing risks in such a way that we can be a productive society and we can achieve our goals." Shiller brings up this discussion of finance as his conversation with Ritholtz had drifted from the free online finance course Shiller teaches online to changes in the music industry. But the thread tying this bit of the conversation, and really the whole discussion, together is the idea that the future is unknowable and that whether we are investors or not, the best we can do is manage our risks against the uncertainty our futures necessarily hold. The example Shiller uses to elucidate how finance "really works" is venture capitalists, who are invested in dozens of firms, most of which will fail, but the winners will make up for the losers. And from the losers potentially comes the groundwork for a future winner. A future, of course, that remains unknown.   FREE AppDownload
Nike is about to get even bigger thanks to the habits of millennial shoppers.  Athletic apparel and footwear is set to outperform the industry for the next five years, according to a recent report by Morgan Stanley.  That means that Nike, which leads the industry with $28 billion in annual sales, could see business boom. Other brands that could benefit include Under Armour, Foot Locker, and Finish Line.  Here are a few consumer trends that are contributing to industry-wide success.  The number of people participating in running events has grown an average of 9% every year since 2005, according to Morgan Stanley. Data also shows that millennials believe exercise is essential for health, while their parents only focused on diet.  "Increased activity leads to increased athletic apparel and footwear spending," the analysts write. "We see athletic footwear and apparel as more than a fashion trend." Nike is facing competition from companies like UnderArmour, New Balance, Adidas, and Lululemon. The arms race has led to a rush of innovation, and products that consumers can't resist.  For instance, Nike's Flyknit shoes have been wildly successful.  The Flyknit material, which debuted two years ago, is lightweight, minimalist, and fits like socks. Nike uses "automated, high-tech knitting [technology] to 'weave' the shoe's upper" half into one piece, instead of several pieces that are stitched together, according to a recent research note by Deutsche Bank.  Nike While the popularity of yoga pants and sneakers is often cited as a fashion trend, Morgan Stanley analysts believe that shoppers are hooked on casual comfort.  The analysts believe that shoppers will continue to choose this kind of apparel over denim.  This bodes well for Nike, which just opened its first store for women.  As this trend continues, the company could continue to expand assortments — and rake in profits.  The rising middle class in regions like China and Latin America are increasingly demanding athletic apparel. These largely untapped markets could provide big opportunities for companies like Nike.  "As the GDP per capita rises the consumer has more discretionary income to spend and we broadly see sport participation rising," the analysts write.  FREE AppDownload
The world's super-rich spend $22 billion on yachts every year, according to UBS and Wealth-X's annual World Ultra Wealth Report for 2014. A yacht is the pinnacle of luxury and decadence. But more so, a personal yacht offers something you can't get with most large vessels: privacy. Here's more from the report: "For ultra high net worth (UHNW) individuals, many luxury items and experiences are part and parcel of their lifestyle and are not necessarily considered a “luxury”. For example, UHNW individuals with private jets use their aircraft not only for leisure, but also for business purposes. On the other hand, while yachts, and particularly superyachts, are usually a non-necessity, many UHNW individuals lead very public lives, and the privacy of a family holiday on a yacht is a very special treat." On average, each of these UHNW individuals, or people with net assets worth $30 million and above, spends about $1.1 million on luxury items every year. Combined, they make up about 19% of the global luxury market. But their spending on yachts takes a whopping 88% of the luxury market.  The report says that luxury spending is increasingly experiential, meaning that the super rich are spending more money on intangible things like privacy. Private jets also take a chunk of the share of the luxury market for UHNW individuals, at 82.1%. In September, a Wealth-X report showed that Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich owns the world's most expensive yacht called Eclipse. It's a 536-foot long boat with two helipads, a cinema and a restaurant. It is worth $1 billion. The global population of UHNW individuals is a record 211,275 people. Here's the breakdown of everything else they spend their money on. Wealth-X/UBS FREE AppDownload
Sports psychologist Dr. Jonathan Fader helps professional athletes overcome adversity using techniques that rely on various types of imagery. One method incorporates elements of the approach used by the ancient Samurai warrior. Dr. Fader also uses the concept to motivate bankers and traders working in high-pressure environments where millions are at stake.Produced by Graham Flanagan Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
American Farm Bureau FederationThanksgiving inflation is flat this year. The average cost of a Thanksgiving Day dinner for 10 people this year is $49.41, an increase of $0.37 from last year's $49.04, but still a tiny bit lower than 2012's $49.48, according to the American Farm Bureau Federation. The price of turkey has actually seen a little bit of deflation. "The big ticket item – a 16-pound turkey – came in at $21.65 this year. That’s roughly $1.35 per pound, a decrease of less than 1 cent per pound, or a total of 11 cents per whole turkey, compared to 2013," says the AFBF's report. This is despite soaring prices in beef, veal, and pork, and other kinds of poultry this year.  Turkey deflation is offset by rising butter costs: it's up almost 30% this year, according to a note from Wells Fargo's economics group. Here's how much a dinner costs at the average hourly wage over time, as calculated by the American Enterprise Institute's Mark Perry. AEI FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesStocks are at all-time highs, but gas prices haven't fallen this far, this fast since 2008.The S&amp;P 500 and Dow both made record highs to start the holiday-shortened week on Monday, marking the 45th time this year that the S&amp;P 500 has recorded a new record. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. It's a busy week for the economy, with a rash of data expected on Tuesday and Wednesday morning, but Monday saw a calmer flow on the data front. The flash reading on US service sector activity from Markit showed growth in the service sector in November was at its lowest since April. The flash PMI reading came in at 56.3, missing expectations for a 57.3 and down from 57.1 in October. Following the report, Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said, "A fifth-consecutive monthly slowing in growth in the service sector adds to signs that the economic upturn has lost considerable momentum." Williamson added that, "it's important to note that the pace of expansion remains robust by historical standards." 2. "Bond King" Jeff Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital appeared in an interview with CNBC's Sara Eisen on Monday, and among other topics, Gundlach discussed his (at the time) contrarian call that US Treasury yields would fall, not rise, in 2014. After starting the year at 3%, the 10-year yield was around 2.3% on Monday. Gundlach said that relative to corporate and municipal bonds, Treasuries remain "slightly cheap," and while Gundlach declined to give a forecast for rates in 2015, he said that with Spanish 10-year bond yields below 2%, "It seems almost unthinkable that rates would go up."  3. Gundlach also talked about a Tesla, a company he's discussed in the past, and reiterated his view that the success of that company will not be determined by the sales of its cars, but its ability to build and sell lithium-ion batteries. In September, Tesla announced a deal with Nevada to build its gigafactory that will manufacture the batteries. "I think they could almost change society if they pursue battery technology that can get houses off the grid," Gundlach told CNBC.  4. Wall Street strategist Rich Bernstein, who back in July told Business Insider that investors become "visibly upset" when he tells them that municipal bonds are his best investment idea, told Reuters that this asset is again his favorite pick for 2015.  5. Oppenheimer strategist John Stoltzfus is out with his 2015 prediction for the S&amp;P 500, and sees solid returns again for the benchmark index next year, putting a year-end price target of 2,311 on the S&amp;P, 12% above Friday's close. Stoltzfus writes: "We expect the market to reach our target level on a combination of: sustained economic growth, corporate revenue and earnings growth (on the back of US expansion and process of international recovery), as well as further multiple expansion justified by the continued relative attractiveness of US equities on valuation, dividends and buy backs." 6. Gas prices have fallen for 60 straight days, the longest streak since late 2008, when gas prices fell for 87 straight days. The difference this time? In 2008, we were barreling towards recession in the wake of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and the bursting of the housing bubble.  7. OPEC, or the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, is set to meet on Thanksgiving, and some in the market expect the cartel to announce production cuts to curb the decline in the price of oil, which has been attributed to a supply glut and a broad global economic slowdown. A report from Reuters on Monday, citing oil market participants, said that if OPEC fails to announce a production cut on Thursday, oil prices could plunge to $60 a barrel.  Don't Miss: We're Witnessing Some Really Great Improvements In The US Job Market » FREE AppDownload
A surge in capital expenditures and leverage in the energy industry could end badly for some companies and their creditors. While select opportunities exist, we think bond investors should think carefully before they blindly bankroll today’s North American energy revolution. Energy-sector high-yield bonds have been at the epicenter of recent volatility in the global high-yield market. Between late August and mid-November, the US high-yield energy sector is down 6.2%, compared to a 1.7% decline for the broader US high-yield corporate-bond market. So does this volatility represent a buying opportunity? Or is it an indicator of problems to come? In our view, it might be trouble—at least for many small, highly-leveraged companies involved in oil exploration and production—and that’s reason for investors to tread carefully. Since 2000, energy companies have invested some $1.5 trillion into operations—mostly exploration and production—and they’ve taken on a hefty share of debt to do it. Debt issued by energy firms today comprises more than 15% of the Barclays US High Yield Index, compared to less than 5% a decade ago (Display). AllianceBernstein BlogIt’s hard to find a historical example of so much money chasing an opportunity that ended well. Typically, such ambitious investment leads to bubbles, and the bubbles eventually burst. Consider the US telecom industry, which saw its share of debt as a percentage of the overall market increase by a similar margin in the years leading up to the early 2000s, when the sector ran into trouble. Energy Boom Does Not Guarantee Profits There’s no doubt technological advances and shale-gas discovery in the US and Canada have reshaped North American oil and gas markets. US natural gas production hit a record high in 2013 and oil production has reversed a prolonged decline. This progress is thanks largely to horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing—or fracking. But not every segment of the energy industry stands to benefit. Oil prices are now below $80 a barrel—in part a result of the supply glut caused by the North American production boom. Small companies that have levered up to fund exploration and production will see their margins squeezed—with bankruptcy a distinct possibility in some cases. As a result, many firms no longer have access to capital markets. But we think investors should think carefully before deciding to snap up their existing debt at a discount. Companies involved in exploration and production—known as “upstream operations”—are vulnerable simply because they’ve earmarked too much capital for production. While fracking has helped increase capacity, the cost of developing production capabilities isn’t likely to be fully recovered. The Struggle to Recoup InvestmentTo understand why, let’s again turn to telecoms at the turn of the century. The investments many companies made to lay high-speed network cables proved a boon for internet users. But investors suffered sizable losses because they miscalculated the true cost of those investments. Like telecoms in the early 2000s, the money being spent on oil and gas field development in recent years may prove poor investments in the long run—even as the lower cost of energy benefits consumers. And the lower the price of oil goes, the more likely it is that companies will struggle to recover their costs. Onshore service firms that support the energy sector will suffer from any resulting reduction in fracking activity. Meanwhile, an oversupply of drilling rigs that’s already squeezing offshore service providers could get worse. Opportunities Exist, But Selectivity Is KeyNone of this means the energy sector is devoid of opportunities. But the most promising ones, in our view, are likely to be focused on other segments of the industry. Companies that maintain pipelines and oil-storage providers, for instance, typically have less exposure to oil prices because they enjoy long-term contracts. For them, a decline in prices would be a good thing, boosting demand for oil and likely increasing the amount of oil moving through the system. Likewise, downstream firms—particularly North American refiners—are living in a golden age. Cheaper oil prices reduce their cost of business, allowing them to maintain or even increase margins even as cheaper energy prices boost demand. Even in the upstream segment, some firms that control attractive oil and gas fields will emerge as winners. But finding these gems won’t be easy, particularly if overall industry turmoil increases. In our view, significant losses for creditors of the least profitable exploration and production companies are a real risk. When it comes to the high-yield energy sector, investors should proceed with caution. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AB portfolio-management teams. Ivan Rudolph-Shabinsky is a Portfolio Manager of Credit and Petter Stensland is a Research Analyst, Credit, both at AllianceBernstein, L.P.   This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
University of Virginia's Student Council President and the Inter-Fraternity Council respond to sexual assault allegations described in a recent Rolling Stone article. The University of Virginia is suspending activities at all campus fraternal organizations until Jan. 9 amid an investigation into a published report in which a student described being sexually assaulted by seven men at the Phi Kappa Psi house in 2012. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of the Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Jim Young/ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  St. Louis Financial Firms Have Plan Bs Ready In Case Protests Break Out After The Ferguson Decision (Wealth Management)  "Federal officials have warned that a grand jury decision related to the police shooting of Michael Brown could lead to violence in the areas  near Ferguson, Mo. As a result, financial services firms in the area, including Benjamin F. Edwards, Wells Fargo Advisors and Edward Jones are preparing contingency plans in case rioting breaks out," reports Megan Leonhardt. One firm has decided that a remote office will become its main office in case of riots. It is also limiting the number of in-person meetings. Another firm is simply planning on having its employees work at home. "Given what we saw over the summer, it would be imprudent to take this lightly," Dan Haynes, the director of compliance at Buckingham Asset Management, said. EM Export Growth Looks Mostly Stable Thanks To Improving US Consumer Confidence (Advisor Perspectives)  "Though eurozone demand remains weak, the positive trends in the US consumer spending should help emerging countries in Asia and Latin America that export manufactured goods. China, South Korea, and Taiwan in Asia, as well as Mexico in Latin America, have seen healthy export growth in recent months. These gains are likely to be sustained as US consumer confidence has seen further improvement," write analysts at Thomas White International. However, there's some bad news for EM export growth. Because the euro and the Japanese yen are so week, emerging-market exports may no longer be the competitive choice. It could be cheaper for US consumers to import from Japan and Europe, particularly in the capital goods and electronics sectors. A New Computerized System Will Let States Share Data From Financial Firms More Easily (Financial Advisor Magazine)  A new computerized data system called NEMO is being established across the US, and it will allow state security regulators to share information about financial organizations more easily. The purpose of this system is to "help securities officials uncover troubled brokerage firms or financial advisory firms ... [and] it will also help pinpoint what issues the regulators need to focus on and what types of firms have the most problems," reports Karen Demasters. NEMO will not have direct access to individual employees. It will only allow access to the firm level. Schrosch's Empire Is Now Under Fire Because It's So Incredibly Tangled And Complex (Investment News) Recently, American Realty Capital Properties logged a $23 million accounting problem — and now Schorsch's entire empire is under fire for being so entangled and complex. "And calling the Schorsch empire complex is putting it mildly," writes Bruce Kelly. Excluding ARCP, "it includes dozens of nontraded real estate investment trusts and other illiquid alternative investment funds such as business development companies. Mr. Schorsch also controls traded REITs, mutual funds, broker-dealers" and RCS Capital Corp And because everything under Schorsch's domain is entangled, that single accounting mistake has hurt other facets within the empire. "Major broker dealers have temporarily halted sales of nontraded REITs he controls under the ARC or Cole brands. That potentially hurts future earnings at RCS Capital Crop," writes Kelly. A Texas Firm Has To Pay 19 Exxon Retirees $3.8 Million (The Wall Street Journal) The Texas advisory firm US Capital Advisors LLC has to pay a total of $3.8 million to 19 Exxon retirees. Allegedly, the firm described a strategy to "protect [the investors] from stock-market downturns." The investors were told that they would profit $3 million; instead, they lost $1.25 million. "Finra arbiters usually don't explain the reasoning for their decisions but in this case they did, saying they found 'egregious, recurrent, and willful violations of a fiduciary relationship' between US Capital Advisors and the investors," reports Matthias Rieker. However, the US Capital Advisor's CEO is staunchly defending his firm. Regarding the ruling, he said, "We certainly don't understand it." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid TepperHedge fund manager David Tepper will return between $2 and $4 billion to clients this year, according to a report from Institutional Investor Alpha's Stephen Taub. Taub's report, citing people familiar with the firm, said Tepper will return 10%-20% of client assets at the end of the year. Tepper started the year with $19.4 billion in assets under management, Taub reports. The report adds that this is a "somewhat regular occurrence" for Tepper, who seeks to keep am amount of assets under management that, "enables him to trade faster and to maximize returns." The full report from Institutional Investors can be found here. FREE AppDownload
The last time gas prices fell this far, this fast, we were in a recession. Or actually, closer to a depression.  According to a tweet sent out this afternoon by Bespoke Investment Group, the average price of gas in the US hasn't risen in 60 days.  This is the second longest streak in a decade, and the longest since an 87-day streak in late 2008. Average price of a gallon of gas has not risen for 60 days. Second longest streak in last ten years behind 87 day run in late '08. In late 2008, you may recall, the economy was reeling from the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and the bursting of the housing bubble, with the stock market in the midst of a huge sell off and the economy plunging into a recession that would last through most of 2009. This year's decline in the price of gas comes as crude oil has fallen about 30% since its highs in June as a glut of supply comes to the global market and concerns abound about a global economic slowdown. Later this week, OPEC is set to hold its annual meeting, with some on Wall Street expecting the cartel to announce a production cut this year to reduce global supply and bolster prices.  Here's the chart of gas prices over the last three years. FRED And gas prices over the last 10 years, with only that enormous drop in 2008 outpacing the recent declines. FRED FREE AppDownload
On Charlie Rose this week, Felix Salmon made a good point about market volatility: It is impossible to know the value of a company like Apple or Goldman Sachs to within a half a percent either way. But that's what you wind up doing when you look at the stock price. You say, "Oh it went up a percent! Or down a percent!" That is pure noise in the distribution of roughly, more or less, where we think [the price] should be. How true. And this is something that private companies handle better than public companies. When a private company wants to know how much it is worth, management hires an investment bank, or a valuation consultant, which provides a "fairness opinion." Analysts look at the company's financial statements, do some wizardry in Excel, and come up with a reasonable estimate for what the company is worth. But when an investment bank presents a private business owner with a fairness opinion, you will almost never see this: We think your company is worth $18.16 per share. Instead, you'll almost always see something like this: We think your company is worth between $17 and $19 per share. Valuations are given in a range, not an exact value. There's a good reason for this. All valuation estimates are just that -- estimates. They're an attempt to predict a future that, in reality, cannot be known. To value a company, I have to know what future interest rates will be, for example. But I don't. And I can't. I can, however, come up with a reasonable range of possibilities. I can't look at you with a straight face and say 10-year Treasuries will yield 4.21% in January 2017. But if I said there's a good chance 10-year Treasuries will yield somewhere between 3% and 5% in January 2017, that's more realistic. (The range could still be off, but it has a better chance of being more or less right.) Same goes with earnings growth, capital spending, cost of goods sold, and dozens of other variables. The future is thought of in a range of probabilistic outcomes, so current valuations are presented in a range, too. But the stock market doesn't. As I write, I can see Apple is worth $116.45 a share. There's no range of possibilities -- not "between $100 and $125 a share." The exact value, right now, is $116.45. That's what the market estimates Apple's future cash flows are worth, discounted back to today. But not even the market, which aggregates millions of opinions into a single price, can know exactly what the future holds. We can only make reasonable estimates about a range of outcomes. The reality is that, even if Apple (just to use an example) is priced at $116.45 a share, there's a range of prices that would be reasonable to pay. It might be reasonable to pay $110 a share, or $120. Either probably makes sense given the range of potential future outcomes. Thinking of values this way should change how you react to short-term volatility. When a stock goes up or down, even by a few percentage points, there's a tendency to think the market is trying to tell you something. That it's signaling your company is worth less, or more, than it was a day ago, or a few weeks ago. But that's rarely the case. The majority of stock movements are just random wobbles within a reasonable valuation range. Apple shares falling from $116 to $112 might not mean anything at all. It might just mean that shares are probably worth something between $110 and $120, and anything within that range means more or less the same thing. "But nobody thinks about markets that way," Salmon said. "Although they should." FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Tony RobbinsTony Robbins, multimillionaire life coach.We all do things we aren't proud of with our money. Whether that's selling stock in a company right before its value skyrockets, shrinking away from negotiating our salary, or simply dragging our heels on opening a retirement savings account, even the best of us are prone to mistakes. Successful people are no exception. We spoke with seven CEOs, executives, and multimillionaires to find out exactly which of their financial choices over the years made them cringe. Read on to find out how these highly successful people answered the question, "What's your biggest financial regret?" Jacquelyn Smith, Jenna Goudreau, and Richard Feloni contributed reporting to this story. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Mark ZuckerbergMark Zuckerberg created Facebook in his Harvard dorm room. College isn't for everyone. Between tests, papers, and classes, there's a lot of stress, and plenty of students don't make it through. But that doesn't mean these students are doomed to failure. We put together a list of the most successful Harvard dropouts.  Some left the prestigious Ivy to pursue their passions, while others were forced to leave after partying too much. Either way, they all found extraordinary success after leaving the university. FREE AppDownload
Flickr The holidays are coming, and while it is great to spend time with family and friends, it also means traveling on some of the busiest days of the year.   Insider Picks and Stack Commerce have put together unique deals for some items to help you breeze through baggage check and weather those delays. Stack CommerceThe Handheld Luggage Scale Don't get caught paying overweight bag fees. This handy digital scale will make sure you're coming in at or underweight before you leave for the airport, so no ugly surprises once you get there. It's got an easy-to-read LCD screen that measure in kilograms, grams, pounds, and ounces to keep you honest in every country. The scale measures weights up to 110 pounds, powers off automatically, and alerts you when your bag is overweight or when the battery is low.  Get 41% off The Handheld Luggage Scale ($17.00). Stack Commerce The Smart Travel Router serves two primary functions, charging and networking. Both are key to staving off boredom while waiting for the next leg of your journey.   Charging: The Router fits electrical outlets in over 150 countries including the US, Canada, Mexico, England, and China. It works for any electronic device, and can charge two devices simultaneously. Everything retracts to make it easy to store. Networking: The Router has  four different networking modes: This tool was built for the sole purpose of making sure your devices stay alive and connected anywhere your life takes you.  Get 30% off The Handheld Luggage Scale ($34.99 + Free Shipping). Full specs: Get 30% off The Handheld Luggage Scale ($34.99 + Free Shipping). Stack Commerce10ft Apple-certified Lightning Cable The worst part about having to charge up at the airport is that you're stuck sitting by the outlet. Pair your new charger/router with this Apple-certified Lightning Cable, and you'll triple your tether and be able to reach a real seat.  Get 52% off The 10 ft. Apple Certified Lightning Cable ($18.99 + Free Shipping). Stack Commerce Travelling is loud. These TOCCs Feather Buds have a noise-canceling outer shell, which will let you trade that screaming baby for your favorite playlist. They're light, and because they don't need to connect to your device, there's less cord in your pocket and less opportunity for tangles. The bluetooth transmission is clear, crisp, and works up to 30 feet away. They also have a built-in microphone, so you can take that last-minute call and stay hands-free.  Get 58% off The 10 ft. Apple Certified Lightning Cable ($24.99 + Free Shipping). Full specs below: Get 58% off The 10 ft. Apple Certified Lightning Cable ($24.99 + Free Shipping). Stack Commerce Shaving while travelling can be frustrating, especially if you use a razor at home. The ShaveTech Electric Razor is USB-chargeable, so if you have a phone charger, you can use it. It's the same size as an average smartphone, so it won't take up much room, keeping you travelling light.   Get 36% off The ShaveTech Electric Razor ($18.99 + Free Shipping). Full specs below: Get 36% off The ShaveTech Electric Razor ($18.99 + Free Shipping).  Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Great powers and empires are, I would suggest, complex systems, made up of a very large number of interacting components that are asymmetrically organized, which means their construction more resembles a termite hill than an Egyptian pyramid. They operate somewhere between order and disorder – on “the edge of chaos,” in the phrase of the computer scientist Christopher Langton. Such systems can appear to operate quite stably for some time; they seem to be in equilibrium but are, in fact, constantly adapting. But there comes a moment when complex systems “go critical.” A very small trigger can set off a “phase transition” from a benign equilibrium to a crisis – a single grain of sand causes a whole pile to collapse, or a butterfly flaps its wings in the Amazon and brings about a hurricane in southeastern England. "Not long after such crises happen, historians arrive on the scene. They are the scholars who specialize in the study of “fat tail” events – the low-frequency, high-impact moments that inhabit the tails of probability distributions, such as wars, revolutions, financial crashes, and imperial collapses. But historians often misunderstand complexity in decoding these events. They are trained to explain calamity in terms of long-term causes, often dating back decades. This is what Nassim Taleb rightly condemned in The Black Swan as “the narrative fallacy”: the construction of psychologically satisfying stories on the principle of post hoc, ergo propter hoc." – Niall Ferguson, “Complexity and Collapse” I see a bad moon arisin’, I see trouble on the way. I see earthquakes and lightnin’, I see bad times today. I hear hurricanes ablowin’, I know the end is comin’ soon. I fear rivers overflowin’, I hear the voice of rage and ruin. Don’t go ’round tonight, well, it’s bound to take your life. There’s a bad moon on the rise. – “Bad Moon Rising,” John Fogerty, Creedence Clearwater Revival, 1969   As a college student, I reveled in the sounds of the Creedence Clearwater Revival and its lead singer and songwriter, John Fogerty. Fogerty supposedly wrote “Bad Moon Rising” after watching the 1941 movie classic The Devil and Daniel Webster. The movie is a paean to freedom, the American dream, and the ability of a man, even one who has sold his soul, to find redemption. There is a scene involving a hurricane that supposedly inspired the song. Fogerty claims that the song was about “the apocalypse that was going to be visited upon us.” Barry McGuire had sung “Eve of Destruction” only a few years earlier. A generation that had grown up with the Cold War, the growing conflict in Vietnam, the Free Speech Movement, and a nuclear arms race was increasingly distrustful of adults and government. “Don’t trust anyone over 30” was the maxim first uttered by Jack Weinberg, a leader of the Free Speech Movement in Berkeley. In a small bit of irony, the founders of that movement recently gathered to celebrate its 50th anniversary. As a side note, I find that Boomers are far more susceptible to talking apocalypse than our kids are. Well, it’s a beautiful night here in Dallas, and there is no bad moon rising; but over in the Land of the Rising Sun, I do see a bad yen falling. As we will see in a minute, the recent yen price chart looks like a frozen rope (in the words of Jared Dillian). Understand, my bet (to use the word forecast would imply a level of precision in modeling that I have not attained) is that the yen goes to 200 against the dollar, so breaching 120 is not exactly a shocker to me. What is a little unnerving is the rapidity of the recent move. In this week’s letter we’re going to explore some of the ramifications of the currency war that Japan is precipitating. It is more than just Germany, Korea, and China having issues and needing to contemplate their own competitive devaluations. If the yen goes too far too fast, there will be geopolitical repercussions far beyond the obvious first-order connections. As Fogerty ended his song: Hope you got your things together. Hope you’re quite prepared to die. Looks like we’re in for nasty weather. One eye is taken for an eye. I’ll try to see if I can help you “get your things together” … and help you prepare your hedges. We may indeed be in for nasty weather. Bad Yen Falling As I write on a Saturday morning, the yen is 117.8 to the dollar, having fallen modestly from the mid-118’s yesterday. Shinzo Abe was nominated to be Japanese prime minister for the second time on September 26, 2012, and it was clear that he would win. He implemented a program that has since come to be called Abenomics. Japan was suffering from a 35% loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis their most important trading competitor, Germany, because of a rather steep rise in the yen (for reasons we will examine later). For the first time in generations, Japan’s trade deficit had gone negative. The interest-rate market was beginning to bounce around, which was a death knell for Japan. Abe made no bones about it: he would replace the controlling members of the Bank of Japan with members who agreed with him that massive quantitative easing should be undertaken. In the graph below, notice that as it became clear that Abe would win, on cue the yen began a nosedive from 75 to the dollar to slightly over 100 to the dollar and then went sideways for about a year and a half. The Halloween 2014 announcement by the Bank of Japan to double down on its quantitative easing started the recent frozen-rope-like plunge, taking the yen almost straight down to 118 and on its way to 120 in very short order. Goldman Sachs has forecast that the yen will be at 130 by the end of 2015, 135 by the end of 2016, and at 140 by the end of 2017. That rhymes with the prediction of my friend Kiron Sarkar, whose target is 125 in the first half of 2015.  Make no mistake: the Japanese are not at all concerned that the yen is going to 130 or 140 or 150. While we tend to see the recent move as precipitous, it may be helpful to walk in the other man’s shoes, so to speak, and see the currency move from the long-term Japanese perspective. A little over 40 years ago the yen was at 350 to the dollar. Less than two decades ago it was at 150. Then it strengthened all the way to the mid-70s. Even if the yen were to eventually fall to 200, as I predict it will, that’s not even a 50% reversal.  Japanese industry has had to suffer the yen’s rising almost fourfold over the last 40 years. If the dollar were to rise as much, there would be much weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, and the usual suspects in the Senate would be up in arms about currency manipulation. Japanese businesses just cut costs and improved quality and competed heads up. Oh yes, it’s been nasty for the last two decades as their nominal GDP has been flat, but their corporations are still some of the most competitive in the world. You put a currency devaluation wind at Japanese corporations’ backs and watch how competitive they become. Cue serious worry from businesses located in Germany, Korea, and China. For new readers, let me briefly describe what is happening in Japan. Japan’s debt-to-GDP ratio is roughly 250%. If interest rates were to rise by 2%, it would take 80% or more of their tax revenues just to pay the interest. That is not a working business model. Therefore they can’t allow interest rates to rise. The only way they can accomplish that is for the Bank of Japan to become the market for Japanese government bonds (JGBs). And that in fact is what has happened. When the Bank of Japan momentarily withdraws from the ten-year JGB market, nothing trades. The Bank of Japan is the market today. The strategy for dealing with the Japanese debt is threefold: If you live in Japan, you really should be taking precautions. If you don’t live in Japan, you should be anticipating what this is going to do to you. This is not Zimbabwe or Argentina printing money; Japan is important to the global economy. What they do affects everything. With the recent increase in quantitative easing, the Bank of Japan is now monetizing more than double the amount of the deficit that the government is producing. That means they are slowly moving the debt onto the books of the Bank of Japan, perhaps in the range of 7 to 8% per year. If they can actually begin to reduce their fiscal deficit, then, at the level of quantitative easing they are currently doing, the amount of actual debt monetization will begin to rise slowly, to perhaps as much as 10%, rising to 15% a year over the very long haul. This would get them to the point where they could withdraw from their QE program and allow the market to set interest rates. This is something you must understand: this process is going to take many, many, many years. They are not going to stop quantitative easing next year or the year after or the year after that. If they don’t get the inflation they need, we will get another “shock and awe” announcement from Haruhiko (“just call him Colin” [Powell]) Kuroda, which will have every bit as much impact as the original shock and awe campaign did in Iraq in 2003. And while it won’t be as physically destructive, let us be clear: this is central banks at war. And there will be collateral damage. And most central banks, especially those of the emerging markets, only have a knife to bring to a gunfight. Why would the Japanese people tolerate the value of their currency dropping by more than half, increasing the cost of energy and other imports? The answer to that is a point that my friend Louis Gave makes time and time again, as he did in a missive this week: With Japan in the middle of a triple-dip recession, and Japanese households suffering a significant contraction in real disposable income, it might seem at first that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has chosen an odd time to call a snap election. But that conclusion would ignore the two iron-clad rules of investing in Japan that we never tire of repeating: Rule #1: Never underestimate the amount of pain that the Japanese will willingly bear, as long as the pain is taken together, and is seen to be borne for the good of the community. Rule #2: Never underestimate the willingness of Japanese policymakers to test Rule #1. The Obvious Impacts I’ve been on the phone a lot this week talking with economists and analysts trying to figure out some of the immediate impact of Japan’s moves. Jack Rivkin (at Altegris and one of the smartest observers of the economic scene I know) pointed me to a blog post from his old friend Bob Barbera (another brilliant economist and an alumnus of Lehman Research). Jack thought so much of Barbera that while he was running Lehman he fired a very famous economist (whose name will go unmentioned) in order to hire Barbera. Barbera argues rather forcefully that the outperformance by Germany vis-à-vis the rest of Europe is an illusion based upon fortuitous economic circumstances that are getting ready to change. He argues that there is no German exceptionalism. The article provides such important insights that I’m going to quote liberally: The German economy, in stark contrast to most of the rest of Europe thrived, 2010-2012. German successes emboldened their policymakers. Merkel, her finance minister and a succession of Bundesbank members all sternly lectured their European partners. Embrace Germany’s magical approach, or continue to suffer, has been the message. The good news for the rest-of-Europe is that Germany’s mansion on the hill has always been a sand castle. Two tsunami waves are about to hit. And Germany’s economic exceptionalism will be swept away in 2015. Everyone agrees that Germany’s strength is tied to its export machine. To understand how Germany did so well 2010-2012 one needs to appreciate that two powerful developments in Asia gave Germany a giant gift over the years immediately after the Great Recession – and that gift is now being taken back. The first and most obvious? China embarked on a frenzied infrastructure and real estate build out, in an effort to insulate itself from the contractionary forces that the Great Recession foist[ed] upon the world. This created a booming market for German capital goods exports. The second, and often overlooked, is the insane appreciation of the Japanese yen. The global financial market collapse engendered a powerful unwind of the so-called carry trade. As yen denominated debts were paid off, the yen rose by an astounding 35% versus the U.S. dollar and the euro! In combination these two developments created a bonanza for German exporters. A market for their capital goods was booming. And their biggest competitor in that market, Japan, was suffering from a near 35% loss of competitiveness, due exclusively to the swing in their bilateral exchange rate. And as a bonus? Germany’s motor vehicle exports to the U.S. compete mightily with Japan’s car offerings. In the U.S. as well, Germany saw their competitive position leap, as the yen soared versus the euro. In combination, these developments allowed for a storyline of wunderkind German exporting companies, thriving due to home grown virtues. But the world has radically changed over the past year. More to the point, both of the powerful currents supporting German growth have changed direction and the Tsunami is about to hit. How so? China’s construction boom was meant to be a bridge. A three year commitment, to allow healthy developed world growth to resume, and thereby engender a resumption of growth for China’s export machine. China thought they were building a bridge. As it turns out, they have been building a pier. Investment excesses in China now require a sharp curtailment of growth. German exports to China are bound to fall. In addition, Japan, after suffering brutal economic performance at the hands of a soaring yen, is on a mission to sharply devalue its currency. The yen/euro cross peaked at 1.05, in late 2012. At that level the yen had appreciated by 35% versus the euro. Late 2012 through mid-2013 the yen plunged amid the first round of aggressive bank of Japan QE, erasing the lion’s share of the climb. And over the past few weeks, with the BOJ surprise announcement of a second larger commitment to QE, the yen has resumed its swoon versus the U.S. dollar. And it is threatening to move lower still versus the euro. Thus Germany now faces a world in which its locomotive, China boom, has been derailed. And its competitive edge has been blunted by a plunge for the yen. It could well be that Germany, in the quarters immediately ahead, will underperform the rest-of-Europe. Spanish and Italian exports to China are quite small. And Italy and Spain do not see Japan as a major competitor for markets. The End of German Sanctimony? What might this portend for European policy? Angela Merkel has stood her ground on the value of fiscal austerity. Bundesbank and finance minister proclamations call into the question the legality of a more substantial version of European QE. Belt tightening exhortations warmed the heart of folks in the hinterland – amid good German growth and with the jobless rate at an astoundingly low 5%. How firm will German officialdom sound, if German economic circumstances go south? Perhaps Germany will finally sound more like its southern neighbors, when its economy begins to look similarly distressed. This week we saw Mario Draghi finally lose the inexplicable timidity he has shown in not instituting a European version of quantitative easing. (For whatever reason my speech recognition software always wants to interpret Draghi as “Druggie” – maybe because he’s getting ready to push €1 trillion into the European blood system?) I maintained in Code Red that as the yen fell Germany would eventually have to allow the European Central Bank to monetize, or they would see their export economy fall apart. Goldman Sachs now forecasts that the euro will be at $1.15 to the dollar by the end of 2015 and then weaken to parity by the end of 2017. It is at $1.24 today. Back in 2002, when the euro was at $.88, I was forecasting that the euro would rise to $1.50 and then fall all the way back to parity over a decade or more. And while my forecast is not quite as precise as Goldman Sachs’, we are on the same page. Every Central Bank for Itself The Chinese central bank cut its interest rates this week in what will be a process of continual cutting, as they have to respond to the fall of the yen. My friend Joan McCullough speculates they would be better off going the route of Mexico in 1994 and simply devaluing their currency, catching everybody off guard and making it too late to exit. Whatever the process, this is going to create massive problems in China, which we have touched on in past letters and which my associate Worth Wray will deal with in depth next week. The Bank of Korea recently cut its benchmark interest rate and lowered its economic forecast. Central banks all over Asia as well as the rest of the world have got to be having long meetings trying to decide their policy options. While the situation varies from country to country, most have no good choices, and that’s before the unintended consequences kick in. I would really like to be a fly on the wall at the monthly meeting and dinners of the major central bankers in Basel at the Bank for International Settlements. Besides good food and wine, I would expect there would be some low-key fireworks served with the main course. What we see starting is a cascade of competitive devaluations by central banks all over the world. This is like some old grade-B Japanese movie where Godzilla wreaks havoc. Eventually we’ll have sequels in which Godzilla is portrayed as the good guy and battles all sorts of other monsters from around the world. Cue the Chinese dragons and European bears. King Kong anyone? Seriously, the Fed Is Doing What? As cynical as I am, and as much as I read, I manage to find new things that both surprise and disturb me on a regular basis. Joan McCullough sent me a link to a very insightful piece that appeared in the Financial Times a few weeks ago, which commented on the speech by Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer at the recent IMF meeting. Ousmène Mandeng writes in an opinion piece entitled “The Fed has built a thorny central bank divide” (emphasis mine): Top Federal Reserve officials were careful to be seen to be understanding of the plight of lesser central banks during the International Monetary Fund’s meetings in Washington last month. However, they may have unintentionally made things worse. By confirming their reluctance to assume greater international commitments, they underlined the divide between central banks that have access to the Fed’s dollar swap facility and those that do not – in other words, between those with and without a Fed backstop. In an environment of record-low government bond yields, an indication of a scarcity of safe and liquid assets, it is likely to make a big difference whether or not a country has access to an unlimited source of dollar liquidity. Fed Vice-Chairman Stanley Fischer focused on the international transmission of monetary policies and the Fed’s responsibility to the global economy. This appears to have been in response to repeated complaints, in particular from emerging markets, that highly accommodative monetary policy has caused a surge of capital inflows to their economies and made them unduly vulnerable to sudden reversals. The Fed acknowledges there may have been adverse spillovers from changes in its policy stance (such as the “taper tantrum”), and that a normalisation of monetary policies may bring further volatility. There is therefore a considerable premium on access to dollar liquidity. Mr. Fischer merely offered that the Fed will “promote a smooth transition by communicating our assessment of the economy and our policy intentions as clearly as possible”. At the same time he stressed that the Fed is not a “global central bank.” The Fed is effectively a global central bank, but only for some. Recognising the importance of adequate dollar funding beyond its borders, the Fed extended temporary dollar liquidity facilities to 14 central banks during 2008, including to the central banks of Brazil, South Korea, Mexico and Singapore. Those expired in February 2010. In May 2010, amid renewed short-term dollar funding strains, the Fed reauthorised dollar liquidity swap lines with the central banks of Canada, the euro area, Japan, Switzerland and the UK; in October 2013, the Fed converted those into standing arrangements. This suddenly established a segmented dollar liquidity sphere. Fischer’s remarks echo a similar speech from a few years back by Ben Bernanke, which a number of the world’s emerging-market central banks interpreted as saying, “Kiss off. We have our own problems to worry about.” (My co-author Jonathan Tepper and I laid out the very scenario that is playing out today in Code Red. In it we predicted that the developing currency war would start with Japan. We had laid out the rationale for that theme four years ago in our book Endgame, but then we were focused on Europe. Both books will help you understand the current environment. Seriously, I make very little when you buy a book on Amazon, but a lot of people think Code Red is a perfect primer for understanding our times. If nothing else, go buy a cup of coffee at Barnes &amp; Noble and read the two chapters on Japan.) The upshot of Fed policy is that we are likely to see a continued move into the dollar as a safe-haven currency, causing the dollar to strengthen against other emerging-market currencies and creating problems for dollar-denominated debt around the world. Shades of 1998. The demand for dollars at a time when the Federal Reserve is putting fewer dollars into the system (appropriately so) is only going to increase volatility in the currency markets. But a global currency war is just the most obvious impact of what the major central banks of the world are doing. Complexity and Collapse Okay class, for those who want a little extra credit, I’m going to give you some extra reading and viewing. Lacy Hunt encouraged me to listen again to our friend Niall Ferguson’s speech entitled “Empires on the Edge of Chaos” (Note: the introduction is 10 minutes long and can be skipped. You know who Niall is. And there is considerable Q&amp;A at the end, so the speech itself is roughly 40 to 45 minutes. But the Q&amp;A has lots of laughs, which makes it worth it.) Or you can read this article by Niall in Foreign Affairs, which has much of the same content. I want to repeat the two quoted paragraphs that opened this letter, along with one more from the Foreign Affairs article. (Again, all emphasis mine.) Great powers and empires are, I would suggest, complex systems, made up of a very large number of interacting components that are asymmetrically organized, which means their construction more resembles a termite hill than an Egyptian pyramid. They operate somewhere between order and disorder – on “the edge of chaos,” in the phrase of the computer scientist Christopher Langton. Such systems can appear to operate quite stably for some time; they seem to be in equilibrium but are, in fact, constantly adapting. But there comes a moment when complex systems “go critical.” A very small trigger can set off a “phase transition” from a benign equilibrium to a crisis – a single grain of sand causes a whole pile to collapse, or a butterfly flaps its wings in the Amazon and brings about a hurricane in southeastern England. Not long after such crises happen, historians arrive on the scene. They are the scholars who specialize in the study of “fat tail” events – the low-frequency, high-impact moments that inhabit the tails of probability distributions, such as wars, revolutions, financial crashes, and imperial collapses. But historians often misunderstand complexity in decoding these events. They are trained to explain calamity in terms of long-term causes, often dating back decades. This is what Nassim Taleb rightly condemned in The Black Swan as “the narrative fallacy”: the construction of psychologically satisfying stories on the principle of post hoc, ergo propter hoc. Defeat in the mountains of the Hindu Kush or on the plains of Mesopotamia has long been a harbinger of imperial fall. It is no coincidence that the Soviet Union withdrew from Afghanistan in the annus mirabilis of 1989. What happened 20 years ago, like the events of the distant fifth century, is a reminder that empires do not in fact appear, rise, reign, decline, and fall according to some recurrent and predictable life cycle. It is historians who retrospectively portray the process of imperial dissolution as slow-acting, with multiple overdetermining causes. Rather, empires behave like all complex adaptive systems. They function in apparent equilibrium for some unknowable period. And then, quite abruptly, they collapse. The single most commented-upon letter that I have written was called “Fingers of Instability.” Longtime readers know it well, and I would suggest new readers take the time. It contains extremely important concepts for understanding why financial markets can advance smoothly for so long, and then all of a sudden there is chaos. The fingers of instability distributed throughout the sand pile of the global economic system end up getting triggered by some event that may in itself be quite minor. Yes, there are many factors contributing to an unstable global sand economic pile (think massive global debt, wanton overleverage, mischievous central banks with immoderate views of their importance, etc., etc.), but it only takes that fateful final grain of sand, dropped on just the right spot in the pile, to bring the whole thing cascading down. What Niall is talking about is something that goes far deeper than another financial crisis like the one we recently experienced. What he is pointing out is that countries in financial distress are more constrained than normal in their actions. They have less ability to respond to crises. And some countries in crisis react in very unpredictable ways. Let’s talk about a second-order problem stemming from the fact that Japan is doing what it feels is necessary to keep from suffering a deflationary collapse. Understand, I’m not being critical of the Japanese for taking the actions they have, because I simply don’t know what other choice they have. That’s what makes their situation so difficult. Japan’s major economic competitors – Germany, Korea, and China – will all have to respond, or their businesses will lose competitive advantage. Okay, we have seen large-scale currency movements all our lives. We adjust. That’s what businesses do. Except, China and Russia have just signed an agreement for Russia to export rather massive amounts of energy to China, and they will take payment in yuan rather than dollars. A yuan that is going to be falling in value against the dollar as China responds to Japan. In an ideal world for Russia, the Russian central bank would simply take the Chinese currency and add it to their reserves. But that would trigger a rather large “oops” that was not in the equation when they signed that deal. The yuan they are going to get is going to be losing value on the international market, and Russia is going to need hard currency (i.e. dollars) to pay down its large dollar-denominated debt and buy equipment to maintain and increase its ability to produce energy. And that equipment is generally sold in dollars and not in renminbi. Couple that situation with the real potential for oil to go below $70 and Russia would have significant budgetary problems. And as David Hale pointed out recently in a private letter, if the US and Iran actually settle their differences over nuclear armaments later this month and sanctions are lifted, that could bring another 1–1.5 million barrels of oil a day onto the world energy markets. (He suggests it would have the same effect as a $400 billion global tax cut.) Mexico is committed to increasing its output, as are other countries, including the US. Sub-$70 oil is not out of the question, and in a global recession we could touch $50 easily. And while that would be good for consumers everywhere, it would certainly put a strain on Russia and other oil-producing countries. In fact, the scenario portends a major crisis for Russia. And while we’re not as worried about Venezuela or other smaller oil producers, Russia is a potential problem, simply because it is so unpredictable. As noted above, the Japanese population is willing to take a great deal of pain. I don’t think we can say the same thing about the Russians at this point. There are some geopolitical thinkers I respect who argue that all this could trigger a regime change in Russia. And others who argue that it will make Vladimir Putin even stronger and that he will want to double down on his policy of destabilizing Ukraine sooner rather than later. Putin does not strike me as being willing to step aside in the manner of a Boris Yeltsin. I doubt he will go gently into that good night. He is a wildcard on the geopolitical stage. Russia has been willing to let the ruble fall rather precipitously rather than supporting it with their dollar reserves, which they are saving for other purposes. Even though the Russian economic situation is deteriorating due to sanctions, the Russian people have so far seemed to tolerate the downturn. As noted in last week’s Outside the Box, the West in general and the US in particular are blamed for Russia’s woes multiple times daily in the Russian media. Given the unpredictability of the current Russian leadership, there is simply no way to guess the outcome. That should make you nervous. The Fragile Eight The 2008 crisis demonstrated that the global economic system is far more connected than most imagined. There has been no real deleveraging since that time as nations everywhere have doubled down on deficits and debt. European banks are just as leveraged to sovereign debt as they were before the crisis hit. The recent Geneva Report on global deleveraging highlighted what the authors termed the “fragile eight” countries of Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Turkey, India, Indonesia, Russia, and South Africa as an “important source of concern in terms of future debt trajectories.” China and the “fragile eight” could find themselves in the unwanted role of hosts to the next phase of the global leverage crisis, it warned. The accumulation of household, corporate, and government debt in both the emerging and developed worlds has been made all the more troubling by stubbornly low and slowing growth rates. The global capacity to take on more debt is rapidly diminishing because of the combination of low growth and low inflation, if not outright deflation, that we are beginning to see in major countries. There seems to be a stubborn unwillingness on the part of authorities to recognize the problems that come along with swelling sovereign debt. We are coming ever closer to the point at which countries are going to have difficulty raising debt at interest rates that makes sense, absent the ability to create a shock and awe campaign like Japan’s. And few countries (actually, none come to mind) have the ability to monetize their debt to the tune of 200% of GDP, as Japan is setting out to do, without causing a dramatic currency collapse. I have this argument all the time with fellow analysts. I get that “austerity” in a deflationary or even disinflationary environment is not exactly pro-growth. And if a country’s debt is low and there is growth, then you can get away with increasing debt. But there is a limit to the amount of debt that a country can take on, and we are approaching it in country after country. This trend is not good for global economic growth or stability. The second-order unintended consequences, such as those Niall describes, are very difficult to contemplate. The world is not going to come to an end. I will be writing this letter and hopefully you will be reading it in 10 years. But economies and markets are going to get more fragile and volatile in the meantime. This is not the time to be a full-throated bull in the equity markets. And given the potential dollar bull market, there is going to be pressure on most commodities. Corporate debt, especially high-yield debt, is priced for perfection. When I look out over the horizon, I simply don’t see perfection. At a minimum, you should not be long high-yield debt. And if you’re running a business, you should get all the debt you can, even if you bank the cash, at today’s low rates for as long a term as you can get it. Take advantage of this unbelievably forgiving debt environment. Let’s close by singing along with the last few lines of Fogerty’s song again: Hope you got your things together, Hope you’re quite prepared to die. Looks like we’re in for nasty weather, One eye is taken for an eye. Well, don’t go ’round tonight, It’s bound to take your life. There’s a bad moon on the rise. It may be slightly more hopeful to say, “Hope you got your hedges together, hope you’re quite prepared for a bear market.” Until next week… Home for the Holidays Here comes my favorite holiday of the year, Thanksgiving. Last year some 50 friends and family gathered as I spent the day cooking for everyone. I even made cakes and other sundry items the day before. Sadly, I can’t do pies or decent yeast rolls. The good news is, there are plenty of bakeries that will supply me. Along with prime rib and turkey and lots of other stuff, I generally cook between 7 to 10 pounds of mushrooms (with two different sauces), and it is a rare year when there are any left. So here – for the first time, and I know you have been patient! – I shall reveal the secrets of one of my mushroom recipes. I start with perhaps 4-5 different types of mushrooms, depending on quality and availability, but I try to find baby portobellos and shiitakes to add to the mix. While it is heresy to some, I remove the stems. I slice the mushrooms in large pieces, leaving the small mushrooms whole. I chop up a large sweet onion and simmer it in a stick (or two) of butter in a very large frying pan. If you can get Kerry Gold butter (salted) from Ireland, it really does make a difference. When the onions are soft, start adding the mushrooms along with a very high grade of olive oil. Don’t use the cheap cooking stuff. Seriously, we’re talking gourmet here. Since I am working with a very large frying pan of mushrooms, I typically add another stick of butter in the process. Somewhere in the process I add whipping cream. (No, this is not heart-healthy. Your arteries will clog just watching me cook it.) Then I add a generous portion of a good Chardonnay (don’t do cheap wine!). I probably use about half a bottle. Try to find a very buttery, oaky Chardonnay. I like to chop up a generous amount of fresh rosemary and toss it in, and I add lots of fresh-ground black pepper. The “secret” seasoning is Cavender’s Greek Seasoning. (Cavender’s is my all-purpose seasoning for just about everything.) Depending on your taste, brown sugar can give the mushrooms a little extra flavor. Last year, for some reason, we didn’t have brown sugar, so I used real maple syrup, not the imitation kind. I’m talking the purest stuff. I may go with that again. The crowd seemed to like it. Add garlic to taste. And of course salt. Depending on what I am serving the mushrooms with, I might add a little Worcestershire sauce or Liquid Smoke. Whatever excess sauce the mushrooms have not soaked up makes an excellent gravy for the prime rib or smoked turkey (on holidays I serve both). This makes a relatively sweet and savory pan of mushrooms, whose sauce is distinct from the other brown sauce I prepare (with red wine, aged balsamic vinegar, LOTS of garlic, etc.). Both pans disappear quickly. Sorry, I don’t have exact measurements. I cook sort of like I do economics – I just go with what feels right. Over the years my cooking, at least, has improved. I’m not so sure about my economics. It’s time to hit the send button. I’m taking some of the family out to my friend Monte Bennett’s ranch in East Texas this afternoon, where we will enjoy seeing the variety of exotic game he has, and some of the kids will go wild pig hunting. While that may sound a little brutal to some, feral pigs are a serious and very destructive pest in much of Texas. There are some 2.6 million of them. They can destroy a farm or golf course almost overnight. They cause an estimated $500 million a year in damage in Texas alone – about $200 per pig. To say they breed like rabbits is an understatement. A sow can have 20 to 25 piglets a year. Some counties have semiannual pig hunts. Even if you kill 70% of the pigs in a region, the remaining ones can have piglets fast enough to replace all those lost in just 2½ years. It’s a constant battle, and lately it seems the pigs are winning. They are wily creatures and come in all sizes and shapes. As big as they are, it is hard to find them. This article from Scientific American will give you a little color on the issue for those who might object to killing pigs. As you can see from the picture below, we are not talking Bambi or cute little Babe from the movie.  This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Politics of PrettyKara Manos of Politics of Pretty Today's Insider Picks is from guest writer Kara Manos, creator of Politics of Pretty, a DC beauty blog dedicated to helping Washington women look their very best.  She’s covered numerous NYC Fashion Weeks and is a frequent host for beauty trend and education events. As a senior marketing consultant for OutMarket by day, Kara balances a busy schedule between weekly manicures. Think wearing makeup in the workplace doesn’t matter? Think again. Wearing makeup is just as important as the outfit and shoes you pick out. In fact, studies have shown that wearing makeup (but not an absurd amount) increases people’s perceptions of a woman’s likability. Plus, makeup helps you look more polished and professional. From long-wearing eyeshadow to moisturizing lip color, I’ve rounded up the best work-appropriate makeup products. Dark eye makeup can yield many touch-ups and not-so-pretty meltdowns, and it can be distracting in a business meeting. If you have fair skin, sweep a long-wearing glimmering champagne shadow like Stila Eyeshadow in Kitten across the lid and blend up to the crease. If you have a medium to dark skin tone, try Estee Lauder Pure Color Eyeshadow in Sizzling Copper, a metallic brown that brightens without being too sparkly.AmazonStila Eye Shadow Go easy on the mascara by focusing on defining and lengthening lashes with CoverGirl Clump Crusher Extensions Lashblast Mascara. Start by rolling the wand from the base to the tip of your lashes to help separate lashes. Tame your brows with Benefit Gimme Brow, a volumizing fiber gel that fills in where needed and shapes arches for a polished look. Wearing concealer is important because it conceals blemishes and discoloration around the eye area so you look more awake. I tested a bevy of products to find the best drugstore concealer on my blog, and to this day I’m still using Maybelline Age Rewind Eraser because of its ability to conceal dark circles and brighten my under eye area. Apply product in the shape of a piece of pie (not a crescent) for a natural finish. Foundation isn’t necessary unless you feel like you need more coverage than a tinted moisturizer or BB cream. Personally, I love NARS Pure Radiant Tinted Moisturizer with SPF 30, which keeps skin hydrated and helps improve complexion over time.AmazonNARS Pure Radiant Tinted Moisturizer As for bronzer, it’s OK to add a little faux color with a matte finish like The Body Shop Honey Bronze Powder. Using a bronzer brush, create the number “3” on both sides of your face, starting at the top of your forehead, dusting it along your cheeks and sweep it across your jawline. Don’t forget to blend it into your neck for a natural finish. For blush, I prefer sheer, buildable coverage in a creamy formula. Laura Mercier Crème Cheek Color in Blaze is equal parts natural looking and long-lasting. It adds warmth to medium-deep complexions and a sun-kissed touch to fair-to-medium tones. AmazonTom Ford in Blush Nude Lip color isn’t necessary, but a sheer finish can enhance your overall appearance. At the very least, use a light tinted lip balm like AERIN Beauty Rose Lip Balm. You can add color to your lips without overdoing it by sporting a dreamy nude-pink lip color. Bobbi Brown Lip Gloss in Buff is pretty and non-sticky with a beige pink hue. I believe a red lip is no longer reserved for date night—just make sure you apply in moderation. For example, eye makeup should be neutral and light if you wear MAC Lipstick in Russian Red, which is universally flattering on all skin tones and undertones. Using a lip brush, apply the color, starting at the center of the upper lip and moving outward toward each corner. Not a fan of red lipstick? Opt for a barely there hue from Tom Ford in Blush Nude. You can visit Kara's website here for everything from extensive drugstore guides to salon reviews and industry tool breakdowns. Her insider tips and tricks help determine the type of products best-suited for your specific needs. She’s been featured in Washingtonian Magazine, People StyleWatch and Byrdie.com as a top ten beauty blog to bookmark. Follow Kara on Twitter: @politics_pretty. Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Felix Arvid Ulf Kjellberg also known as "PewDiePie" is a foul-mouthed Swedish video-game commentator. With over 32 million subscribers he's by far YouTube's biggest star.  Produced by Devan Joseph Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
Thomson ReutersRichard Bernstein Capital Management LLC.'s CEO Bernstein speaks at the Reuters Investment Outlook Summit in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Longtime Wall Street strategist Richard Bernstein hasn't quite gotten used to investors' reactions when he tells them his favorite asset class for 2015 is the same as in 2014 - high- yield municipal bonds. "A lot of times when people ask me that question, they're physically disappointed when I tell them," said Bernstein, chief investment officer at Richard Bernstein Advisors LLC, which he founded in 2009. "'That's the best you can come up with?' That's the response." Nevertheless, Bernstein said on Monday he sees high-yield munis as an undervalued asset class, with yields in some cases rivaling or exceeding the most risky of emerging-market sovereign yields, even in war-torn Iraq, which are seeing flows as well because of investor interest in emerging-market debt. "I don't care what you think is going on in Michigan and Illinois. It ain't Iraq," he said. He told a panel of Reuters journalists that the firm's All-Asset Strategy Fund with $455 million in assets has 15 percent to 20 percent of the fund in high-yield muni ETFs. The State Street SPDR Nuveen S&amp;P High-Yield Municipal Bond ETF &lt;hymb.k&gt;, which the fund holds, was up 14.6 percent year to date as of the end of October. He also holds the Market Vectors High Yield Municipal Index ETF &lt;hyd.p&gt;, which is up 13.5 percent on the year. Overall, Bernstein's fund, which he sub-advises for Eaton Vance &lt;ev.n&gt;, is up 3.14 percent for the year through October, compared with a 4.34 percent gain for the Morningstar Conservative Allocation Strategy. His strategy has outperformed over a three-year stretch. Bernstein still expects outperformance in U.S. markets as well, with a focus on domestically oriented companies, specifically in mid-cap and small-cap financials and industrials. He's not a fan of social media stocks, calling them the "silliest thing I've ever seen" because social media is entirely free. Right now he's less enamored of U.S. multinationals, particularly those with big exposure to Europe, because of what he sees as the European Central Bank's weak response to the poor economic fundamentals. In addition, he's shying away from mid- and small-cap European stocks. "The ECB is desperately trying to be the worst central bank ever known to mankind," he said.   (Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
Torsten Slok/Deutsche BankThe US economy might finally be getting itself together. Six years after the financial crisis, net job growth is solidly above 200,000 per month, the unemployment rate is down below 6%, and wage growth is finally starting to show up. Earlier today, Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok sent out this chart (right), which shows job growth by level of wages. Here's what he has to say: "...over the past year we have seen a significant acceleration in the number of medium-wage jobs created. The bottom line is that the labor market continues to tighten and it is not a surprise that we are beginning to see wage pressure..." In addition to that, wages for the lowest paid workers (the bottom 10th percentile) are edging up. From a Bloomberg report on wage gains: RBS via @BloombergNewsAs Conor Sen points out on Twitter, wage growth at the lowest end of the income spectrum, it doesn't add to overall measures of wage growth much, but it does really help those workers seeing a little bit of extra money in their pockets.  When $10/hr workers get a big raise it's understated in aggregate measures of wage growth, but the multiplier is huge for those workers. But we're not quite to fully healthy yet. There's one reason to continue to despair: The number of people who are long-term unemployed is still way higher than it should be. FRED FREE AppDownload
After seeing the S&amp;P 500 surge 210% from its March 2009 low, Wall Street's stock market strategist have become increasingly conservative with their forecasts. Most see single-digit returns in 2015. Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus isn't one of those strategists. "We initiate a target for the S&amp;P500 at the end of 2015 at 2,311, which is 12% above the market’s close on Friday, November 21," Stoltzfus wrote on Monday. "Our forecast projects earnings of $126 per share." This is in contrast to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, who last week forecast the S&amp;P 500 would go no higher than 2,100 next year. Even UBS's Julian Emanuel, who's 2015 outlook report was titled "Roll Tide, Roll," sees the S&amp;P going to 2,225. So, what's behind Stoltzfus' call? From his note: "We expect the market to reach our target level on a combination of: sustained economic growth, corporate revenue and earnings growth (on the back of US expansion and process of international recovery), as well as further multiple expansion justified by the continued relative attractiveness of US equities on valuation, dividends and buy backs." Importantly, Stoltzfus believes that investors have yet to get excited about this market. From his note (emphasis ours): It’s not so much that the bull is tired or that the proverbial “Wall of Worry” has fallen away but that excepting the occasional bursts of excitement after pullbacks and announcements investors have proven to be more thoughtful about “what could go wrong” than in any bull market we’ve experienced in more than 31 years on Wall Street. It’s no secret that “animal spirits” and “irrational exuberance” have been in measured if not short supply this bull market. We think that’s really a good thing and likely to carry stocks higher toward our target in 2015. Stoltzfus likes cyclical stocks over defensive stocks in this environment. In particular, he recommends going overweight industrials materials, technology and consumer discretionary stocks. For some more context, here's a chart from Stoltzfus that shows how strong this current bull market has been. Oppenheimer & Co. FREE AppDownload
The PLA will work to institutionalise mechanisms to ensure the ideological purity of the army and ensure its absolute loyalty to the Communist Party. A lengthy article published by the General Political Department on front page of the PLA Daily today said the army would step up vigilance when deciding on promotions and placement of personnel to guarantee the long-term viability of its anti-graft campaign. Officers who prove they stand shoulder to shoulder with the party leadership on “major issues of principle” would have a better chance of promotion, the department said. Those who try to create their own power bases through nepotism or corruption would either be demoted or dismissed, it added. The remarks came as anti-graft inspectors pledged to broaden their investigations into possible malpractices within the army, while wrapping up the case against the disgraced former general Xu Caihou. The General Political Department, one of the four general headquarters of the PLA, is responsible for disciplinary affairs and human resources. It said officers would be evaluated based on their “implementation of [President] Xi Jinping’s directives”, “stances on major issues of principles” and “attitude towards wealth and fame”. “In this way, we can ensure the gun is always in the hands of those who are loyal to the party,” the department said in the PLA article. Xu’s case was mentioned three times, underlining the urgency in strengthening party leaders’ control over the military and to “purify the military leadership”. Earlier this month, Xi, who is also chairman of the Central Military Commission, held a two-day conference with PLA’s top brass in Gutian, where Mao Zedong held a historic congress in 1929 that established the principle of the party being in control of the military. Today’s article was an interpretation of Xi’s speech during the conference, the PLA Daily said. In its earlier report on Xi’s speech during the conference, the PLA Daily said the army must “grasp the initiative in the ideological struggle and rebuild its military spirit” to fight corruption and other ideological struggles, including the influence of “colour revolutions”, a reference to the recent turmoil and revolts in eastern Europe and the Middle East. Military analysts said the Gutian meeting showed Xi’s determination to reaffirm his full control over the military amid his ongoing anti-graft campaign. FREE AppDownload
CNBCJeffrey GundlachJeff Gundlach on Monday spoke with CNBC's Sara Eisen, and among the topics Gundlach discussed was his call on US Treasury bonds. "Treasuries are still slightly cheap," Gundlach told Eisen, despite 10-year and 30-year bond yields having fallen significantly during 2014. At the beginning of the year, the consensus call on Wall Street was that bond yields would rise — not fall. But after the 10-year yield started the year at 3%, yields have steadily fallen, going as low as 1.86% during the wild morning of October 15 that marked the stock market's most recent bottom. Gundlach reiterated his view to Eisen that 2.2% remains a "line in the sand" for the 10-year yield, and said that discounting that wild morning of October 15, that level has just about held this year.  On Monday, the 10-year yield was about 2.32%.  Reflecting on his contrarian call that US Treasury yields would fall, not rise, during 2014, Gundlach said, "Treasuries being overvalued was a strange opinion to have. By our work, at the start of the year Treasuries were the cheapest bond sector, and today they are still slightly cheap." Gundlach singled out the value of Treasuries against corporate and municipal bonds in particular. And while Gundlach's call that Treasury yields would fall during 2014 has been right, what is even more remarkable to Gundlach is how Treasuries got there.  Bloomberg.comOutside of the wild swing lower in October, 10-Year Treasury yields have had a fairly orderly decline in 2014."The story of 2014 is not just that rates fell," Gundlach said, "but that the 10-year and 30-year almost never went up." Back in 2012, the 10-year yield fell from about 3.75% to 1.75%, but Gundlach said that decline saw brief periods where yields rallied sharply, rising as much as 0.8% or 0.9% quickly, before going lower again. In 2014, by contrast, yields have been steadily grinding lower will almost no pauses.  And while Gundlach didn't give a specific forecast for Treasury yields in 2015, he said that rates won't go up because they can't.  "It seems almost unthinkable to me that rates would go up against a backdrop of Spanish 10-year yields that are less than 2%," Gundlach said. "It's a sad state." Regarding Fed policy, Gundlach again said that there is no reason for the Fed to raise rates, though he expects that at some point in 2015 the Fed will raise rates, "but not for fundamental reasons." Citing the declining price of commodities and oil, Gundlach said it's likely that inflation in the US may well be 0% year-over-year next year. The Fed's current inflation target is 2% year-over-year.  "I think the Fed might raise rates just to see what happens," Gundlach said. "The Fed doesn't want to raise rates, but they don't want to be at 0. They're in a bit of a conundrum," Gundlach said.  Back in his September webcast, Gundlach said that Janet Yellen and the Fed have no interest in raising rates, citing both the lack of inflation and the lack of wage growth. And while there have been a few signs of improving wage gains and a tightening labor market, inflation is still nowhere to be found.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul HackettTake your hat off to these guys.Britain's top five fund managers control a colossal amount of assets.  Between them, the five have £108 billion ($169.3 billion) in assets under management: slightly more than the GDP of Morocco. The ranks are based only on assets that are available to UK investors. The list has been put together by the fund analysts over at Citywire, and there's a snippet below about each of the five from Frank Talbot, deputy head of research at Citywire. From 5th to 1st, here are the fund managers with the biggest funds available to UK investors. Funds: PIMCO Global Investor Series (GIS) Credit Absolute Return, PIMCO GIS Global Investment Grade Credit, PIMCO GIS Low Duration Global Investment Grade Credit, PIMCO GIS Total Return Bond "Kiesal has been consistently rated by Citywire over the past three years, which is no mean feat. His bond funds are diverse from the most plain vanilla of investment grade corporates, to the most sophisticated absolute and total return bond funds." Funds: Aberdeen Asia Pacific &amp; Japan Equity, Aberdeen Asia Pacific Equity, Aberdeen Global - Asia Pacific Equity, Aberdeen Global - Asian Smaller Comp, Aberdeen Global - Chinese Equity, Aberdeen Global - Indian Equity, Aberdeen Japan Equity  "Hugh Young has built up his considerable assets in Asian investments through a disciplined approach to the risks he exposes his fund to. This has led him to have one of the sector’s best long-term track records. Recent performance in Asian equities hasn't’t been his best, but it would be hard to bet against him turning that around." Funds: Invesco Perpetual High Income, Invesco Perpetual Income  "Mark Barnett had the unenviable task of recently taking over the portfolio of the UK’s best known fund manager, Neil Woodford. However, he is no unknown himself, having built up an impressive track record and currently holds the top AAA rating from Citywire." Funds: Templeton Global Bond, Templeton Global Total Return, Templeton Emerging Markets Bond, Templeton Asian Bond, Templeton Emerging Markets Balanced "Hasenstab is bizarrely unknown to UK investors, with most of his assets coming from overseas. However, his funds are available here and now that Gross has left PIMCO he is the biggest player in fixed income markets. His Global Bond fund in particular is large enough to move markets and makes large concentrated bets. The bias to emerging markets adds to its volatility but his long term performance remains compelling." Funds: M&amp;G Optimal Income, M&amp;G Corporate Bond, M&amp;G Strategic Corporate Bond  "Chesterfield born Richard Woolnough is the largest fund manager available to UK investors by quite some way. The bond manager has skilfully navigated the post-credit crisis period, fully utilising the capabilities of M&amp;G and the flexible privileges in his Optimal Income fund to generate exceptional returns that have brought with them large assets." FREE AppDownload
A Russian capsule carrying three astronauts from Russia, the United States and Italy has arrived at the International Space Station.   The Soyuz capsule arrived just after 3 a.m. Monday (2100 GMT Sunday) from the Russian manned space facility in Baikonur, Kazakhstan. Aboard the capsule are Russian Anton Shkaplerov, NASA's Terry Virts and European Space Agency astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti of Italy.Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of Associated Press.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
 DoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach just spoke with CNBC's Sara Eisen, and in a wide-ranging interview, Gundlach discussed, among other things, Tesla. Gundlach said that Tesla was not about the cars, a view he shared with Bloomberg's Barry Ritholtz back in July.  "Tesla is all about the batteries," he said Monday. "I think they could almost change society if they pursue battery technology that can get houses off the grid." Tesla CEO Elon Musk is also chairman of the solar energy company Solar City. Gundlach said this potential is particularly strong in the "sun states" like Arizona and Nevada. In September, Tesla struck a deal to build its $5 billion gigafactory in Nevada, where the company plans to build lithium-ion batteries for its electric cars.  And while Tesla will be its own battery supplier once the gigafactory goes online, the real benefit that Gundlach thinks the company could reap from this operation is the ability to sell the batteries to other companies.  Back in July, Gundlach said: "If I was Elon Musk, I might go to all the other auto companies and say, 'I'll make you a deal: I'll get out of the car business, but let's set up a long-term deal on you buying my batteries.'" On Monday, Gundlach said Tesla had the ability to be a "major leader" but again reiterated that his bullish view on the company was about the batteries and the company's technologies, not its cars.  Regarding the stock, Gundlach didn't take a strong view, as Tesla stock has been perhaps the most volatile and talked about in the market over the past couple of years.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiIt's been tough being short in this stock market that only seems to be going up. However, the big hedge funds nevertheless see plenty of stock with more downside than upside. In its latest quarterly Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report, Goldman Sachs analysts identify the 50 stocks that make up their "Very Important Short Positions" for hedge funds list.  These are the most heavily shorted stocks based on the dollar value of the short interest as of Oct. 31, 2014. The top five stocks are AT&amp;T, Intel, Gilead Sciences, Disney, and ExxonMobil. FREE AppDownload
If New Yorkers thought that construction during Michael Bloomberg’s tenure as Mayor was frantic, then what’s coming next might be quite a shock: courtesy of CityRealty, these images show the New York skyline in 2018, when many of the city’s current projects will be complete. Produced from building models by TJ Quan and Ondel Hylton as a marketing ploy for Jean Nouvel‘s 53 West 53rd street which recently (finally) began construction, the images include all of Nouvel’s illustrious future neighbors: the “Billionaire’s Row” including 111 West 57th Street, 220 Central Park South, 225 West 57th Street (Nordstrom Tower) and One57; new Midtown developments such as 432 Park Avenue, 520 Park Avenue, 425 Park Avenue, One Vanderbilt, 610 Lexington, 15 Penn Plaza, and the Hudson Yards towers; and even the latest financial district towers,1WTC, 30 Park Place, 125 Greenwich, and 225 Cherry Street. However, beyond just showing the individual buildings, these images display the new urban form taking shape in New York: where hundreds of tall buildings previously combined to give a sense of undulating uniformity to (most of) New York’s skyline, by 2018 this will have given way to a more attention-seeking skyline, with a handful of super-tall, ultra-slender towers piercing the clouds.  What’s more, peeling back the glazed surface of this new urban order reveals a stark reality about the lives of the people way down on the ground: with the majority of these new supertalls providing luxury residential properties in a city in desperate need of more affordable housing, these are images of gentrification taken very literally to a higher level.  Indeed, “Billionaire’s Row” is even nicknamed for those residents who are ousting the lowly millionaires from their prime spot near Central Park.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Denis BalibouseLeft to right: RZA, Cappadonna, and Method Man of rap band Wu-Tang Clan. In multiple interviews with the website Hip Hop DX ahead of the release of their new album "A Better Tomorrow," Wu-Tang Clan members confirmed that there was a tiered system of payment within the group. It seems to have created some friction among members. The blurbs, from various video interviews, are summarized by Jay Balfour. The upper tier is Raekwon The Chef, Method Man, GZA, The RZA, and Ghostface, according to Wu member Cappadonna. He says: It’s a system that was developed within our system to bring a certain status to individuals. That was the most stagnant part of the building and structuring of this album. We had to deal with that. Even until the last minute, brothers had to overcome our differences in order to make it work. But there’s still an upper tier. I don’t know if that’s gonna affect anything in our future plans, but that’s what it is.  RZA says in a separate interview, though, that he is not in the upper tier and that he's not very happy with the system: I think it came from a third party, one of our solo managers maybe. But when it penetrated I was like, 'Yo, that really don’t make no sense.' In that case just give me the most money ... But as far as me going along with it, I was like, 'Yo, I'll put myself on a lower-tier and y'all could try it for a year if y'all want.' ... So, we actually tried it for a year and I think we're gonna have to vote on that again. That has to be talked about. Wu's membership is notoriously fluid (roughly 10 members, but it has changed over the past two decades). Given the list of members in the upper tier named by Cappadonna, the lower tier would then probably include him, Inspectah Deck, Masta Killa, and U-God, according to the list of group members on the website.  (h/t Ryan McCarthy and MusicREDEF)  FREE AppDownload
Yale Law SchoolThis year Yale topped our list of the best law schools in AmericaWe recently published a list of the Best Law Schools In America. To create this list, we surveyed more than 300 American legal professionals to determine the best law schools in the US with the help of SurveyMonkey. This year Yale replaced Harvard as the No. 1 school. Our survey asked participants to select the top 10 law schools in terms of how well they prepare students to land their ideal job. We recorded the percentage of respondents that ranked each school in the top 10. Approximately 52% of survey participants said they have a law degree, while 3.5% reported that they had a partial degree, meaning they're either still in law school or dropped out. We balanced our industry survey with objective incoming metrics — acceptance rates from U.S. News and World Report — and outgoing metrics — employment rates reported from the American Bar Association. The results of our survey composed 50% of our final "Legal Insider" rating, while employment rates from the ABA and acceptance rates from U.S. News and World Report each composed 25% of our final rating. We took each metric and with these numbers we came up with a total score, which we then scaled out of 10 to come up with our Legal Insider rating. Yale, our winning school, received a Legal Insider rating of 10, while the other schools followed. Below is a spreadsheet showing our calculations (click to enlarge): Andy Kiersz/Business Insider See the results of our survey on our list of the 50 Best Law Schools In America. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderIf you go to the right law school, you've got a direct line to high-paying and prestigious jobs. If you go to the wrong one, you may come away with too much debt and too few opportunities. We've ranked the 50 best law schools based primarily on a survey of more than 300 legal industry professionals, produced with help from SurveyMonkey Audience. Our ranking also factors in data on acceptance rates and post-graduated employment rates. The top-ranked school was Yale Law School, an extremely elite institution recognized as a launching pad for almost any post-graduate job. It was followed closely by Harvard and then Columbia and Stanford — elite schools with strengths in different areas. Click here to read more about our methodology. FREE AppDownload
 Three of John Paulson's funds within his hedge fund, Paulson &amp; Co., made HSBC's list of the worst-performing funds of 2014. Now that we're in November, you're going to start seeing a lot of these. All three funds — Paulson Recovery, Paulson Advantage, and Paulson Advantage Plus were among the 10 worst performers. We got the list via @LadyFOHF on Twitter; you can check it out below. Paulson runs a $19.1 billion fund overall, and the funds on this list make up only $4.5 billion of that — so it could be worse. But while Paulson's other funds may not have made the list of worst performers, they're not doing that great this year either. Last month, Paulson's biggest stock holding, the pharmaceutical firm Shire, crashed when it announced that it would not complete a merger with AbbVie, another pharma. The stock fell 22% in one day. HSBC via @LadyFOHF Betting on this deal was a huge part of Paulson's merger strategy, and his $9.2 billion merger fund fell 14% in October, Bloomberg reported. Paulson's other strategies include credit and gold. There is about $5.1 billion in the credit fund, which lost 6.8% in October. The rest of Paulson's money (about $1.1 billion) is in his gold fund. The commodity is down slightly, starting the year at $1,201 and currently sitting at $1,196. It peaked on March 13 at $1,392. Last year, Paulson told investors that he may not add to his gold fund.  So there's that.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiA stockbroker speaks on phone while trading at a terminal during the Diwali special trading session celebrating the annual Hindu festival of lights at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in Mumbai.The world market rally continued last week with six of the eight indexes on my watch list posting gains. Europe led the pack, with Germany's DAX up 5.18%, France's CAC 40 up 3.44% and the UK up 1.45%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng was the big loser with its -2.70% loss. The other negative performer was Japan's Nikkei 225. It's fractional -0.76% decline snapped not only a four-week string of gains, but also four weeks as the top performer. China's Shanghai Composite remains the only index on the watch list in bear territory -- the traditional designation for a 20% decline from an interim high. The index is down 28.36% from its August 2009 peak. See the table inset (lower right) in the chart below. Here is a look at 2014 so far.   Here is a table highlighting the year-to-date index performance, sorted from high to low, along with the 2014 interim highs for the eight indexes. At this point, seven of the eight are positive YTD, up from five last week, with the three European indexes in the red. India's SENSEX and the US's S&amp;P 500 both ended the week with record highs. A Closer Look at the Last Four Weeks The tables below provide a concise overview of performance comparisons over the past four weeks for these eight major indexes. I've also included the average for each week so that we can evaluate the performance of a specific index relative to the overall mean and better understand weekly volatility. The colors for each index name help us visualize the comparative performance over time.  The chart below illustrates the comparative performance of World Markets since March 9, 2009. The start date is arbitrary: The S&amp;P 500, CAC 40 and BSE SENSEX hit their lows on March 9th, the Nikkei 225 on March 10th, the DAX on March 6th, the FTSE on March 3rd, the Shanghai Composite on November 4, 2008, and the Hang Seng even earlier on October 27, 2008. However, by aligning on the same day and measuring the percent change, we get a better sense of the relative performance than if we align the lows.  Click for a larger image A Longer Look Back Here is the same chart starting from the turn of 21st century. The relative over-performance of the emerging markets (Shanghai, Mumbai SENSEX and Hang Seng) up to their 2007 peaks is evident, and the SENSEX remains by far the top performer. The Shanghai, in contrast, formed a perfect Eiffel Tower from late 2006 to late 2009.  Click for a larger image Check back next week for a new update. Note from dshort: I track Germany's DAXK a price-only index, instead of the more familiar DAX index (which includes dividends), for constency with the other indexes, which do not include dividends.  All the indexes are calculated in their local currencies.  This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
We discovered that the Facebook app for the iPhone is taking up way too much space on your phone. The video above explains in much more depth and tells you how to solve the problem, but it's still annoying. Update: Facebook sent us additional information on how it's addressing the problem: "Photos and videos account for most of the data we store, and we made a recent update to get smarter about when to delete old photos from the device that aren’t being used anymore. We also made an update in v18 of our app to clear out cached web pages after the web page cache reaches 25 megabytes." Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
John Moore/GettyThe market is open and stocks are at all-time highs. In early trade on Monday, the Dow was up 27 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 5 points, and the Nasdaq was up 26 points. On Friday, the S&amp;P 500 made an all-time closing high for the 45th time this year.  Its a shortened holiday week for the market, with the market closed on Thursday and only open for a half day on Friday.  In a morning note on Monday, Dave Lutz at JonesTrading said that traders are looking for volumes to deteriorate through the week as Wall Street looks to get a jump on traffic ahead of Thursday's Thanksgiving holiday.  Floor legend Art Cashin of UBS said in his morning note on Monday that Thanksgiving week has about a 70% bullish bias, with potential upside of about 1%-1.5%. Nothing crazy, but be alert. Tuesday and Wednesday are busy days for economic data in the US, though Monday was quiet with Markit's latest flash US service sector PMI showing expansion in the services sector coming in at its slowest pace since April.  And while the US market is closed on Thursday, all eyes will be on the latest OPEC meeting in Austria, with the market closely watching for any news regarding production cuts from the oil cartel.  FREE AppDownload
Hundreds of financial journalists spent their Friday evening at the "Financial Follies"—an annual black tie gathering at the Marriott Marquis in Times Square.  The Follies, which is hosted by the New York Financial Writers Association, always includes a staged musical show that pokes fun at some of the year's big business news stories. The program also includes some videos put together by various news outlets.  TheStreet.com always puts together a high quality production. This year, they did a "TheStreetDotComedy Roast of Bill Ackman" written by Gregg Greenberg. The film stars Gregg Greenberg (Roastmaster), Dan Freed (Bill Ackman), David Marcus (Larry Kudlow), Donna Sickles (Marissa Mayer), Antoine Gara (Preet Bharara), Mark Sugarman (Carl Icahn), Jonathan Marino (Tim Cook) and Ross Urken (Sergey Brin). Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, is constantly in the business press whether it's his infamous Herbalife short or his failed attempted takeover of Allergan that resulted in a $2.2 billion windfall for his hedge fund. His fund is also up more than 30% so far this year, while most other funds are getting hammered.   Here's the video:   FREE AppDownload
On Thursday, Americans will take off of work, sit around with family, and eat turkey to celebrate the Thanksgiving holiday.  But there's something way more important happening in Austria: OPEC is meeting. And with crashing oil prices threatening the budgets of the oil-producing nations, this will be one of the most important OPEC meeting in years. OPEC, or the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, is an international cartel comprised of 12 members that coordinate oil prices among its members.  OPEC's members include, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Venezuela, Qatar, Libya, the UAE, Algeria, Nigeria, Ecuador, and Angola.  At its Thursday meeting, OPEC is expected to announce a "modest reduction" to its current production rate, according to a note from Goldman Sachs analyst Damien Courvalin.  Courvalin writes that, "we believe it is in OPEC's interest to share the burden of balancing the oil market surplus with US shale oil production." Over the last several months, the price of Brent crude oil, which is typically cited as the global benchmark, has fallen more than 30% from more than $105 a barrel in early summer to less than $80 of late.  West Texas Intermediate crude prices have also fallen nearly 30% over that period. The decline in the price of oil has been attributed to a number of factors, including slowing global demand and a glut of global oil supply as US production has ramped up over the last several years, as we highlighted in our "chart of the year." In his note, Courvalin writes that OPEC can likely only begin to balance global supply through a modest production cut at first, as OPEC needs low prices to be sustained to allow for US production to slow.  Deutsche BankUS oil production has been exploding in the last couple of years, increasing global supply and weighing on prices. "[A]ny large [production cut by OPEC on Thursday] that would lead to a large price rally would be self-negating as it would enable US producers to hedge 2015 production and sustain elevated production growth," Courvalin writes.  Courvalin notes that communications from Libya, Iraq, and Iran have indicated that these countries will not be reducing output, while OPEC's broader communications indicate the potential for only a modest production cut.  But with this split, Courvalin notes that the odds of coordinated action from OPEC have been lowered, adding that past actions for reduced production have only been loosely implemented.  And while Courvalin writes that a larger-than-expected cut could prove a upside surprise for oil prices, sending Brent crude prices back towards $90/barrel, a report from Reuters early Monday said that some oil market players see a downside risk for prices if OPEC cannot come to an agreement on a production cut.  Per Reuters' Claire Milhench: "The market would question the credibility of OPEC and its influence on global oil markets if there was no cut," said Daniel Bathe, of Lupus alpha Commodity Invest Fund. That could send Brent down to around $60, Bathe said. Goldman SachsThe options market expects Thursday to be a volatile day for oil. "Herding behavior and a shift to net negative speculative positions should accelerate the price plunge," he added. And a report from Bloomberg on Monday, citing comments from former Qatari oil minister Abdullah Bin Hamad Al Attiyah, said that Russia, Mexico, and Norway, who are not OPEC members but are major oil exporters with government budgets that rely on oil prices and production, must come to the table and discuss coordinated action to balance supply in the global oil market.  "OPEC had been enjoying easy meetings, and decisions were taken without a sweat. Now the situation is different," Al Attiyah told Bloomberg. And so while the US markets will be closed Thursday, and only open for a half day on Friday, the rest of the world will still be working, and the biggest market story of the last three months — oil — will not be in a food-induced coma to end the week. Via Goldman Sachs, here's a quick primer on everything OPEC members have said about production cuts over the last several weeks.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian / Getty ImagesUS service sector activity slowed in November.  Markit's flash US service sector PMI came in at 56.3, missing expectations. Expectations were for Markit's flash reading to come in at 57.3, up slightly from last month's 57.1. This is the lowest reading for the index since April.  Commenting on the report, Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said, "A fifth-consecutive monthly slowing in growth in the service sector adds to signs that the economic upturn has lost considerable momentum." Williamson added that, "it's important to note that the pace of expansion remains robust by historical standards." In its release, Markit said, "Weaker service sector output growth largely reflected a moderation in new business gains during November. The latest rise in incoming new work was the slowest for seven months and slightly less marked than the average seen since the survey began in October 2009." Markit added that, "Some survey respondents commented on weaker client confidence and associated delays to the launch of new projects." Williamson also added that firms took on staff at a pace consistent with payroll increases of roughly 200,000 in November.  "The worry is that any hiring intentions could rapidly deteriorate if firms' order book inflows fail to pick up again soon," Williamson said. Here's the chart from Markit showing services sector activity. Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
As 2014 winds down, Wall Street's research departments have been publishing their 2015 outlooks for the markets and the economy. In the past week, Goldman Sachs laid out its forecast for the US stock market and US economy. It also identified its best trades and market themes for the year. But if you don't have time for all of that, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin sums up pretty much everything on one slide in his new Weekly Kickstart note. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
TEL AVIV (Reuters) - An Israeli company says it has developed technology that can charge a mobile phone in a few seconds and an electric car in minutes, advances that could transform two of the world's most dynamic consumer industries. Using nano-technology to synthesize artificial molecules, Tel Aviv-based StoreDot says it has developed a battery that can store a much higher charge more quickly, in effect acting like a super-dense sponge to soak up power and retain it. While the prototype is currently far too bulky for a mobile phone, the company believes it will be ready by 2016 to market a slim battery that can absorb and deliver a day's power for a smartphone in just 30 seconds. "These are new materials, they have never been developed before," said Doron Myersdorf, the founder and chief executive of StoreDot, whose investors include Russian billionaire and Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich. The innovation is based around the creation of "nanodots", which StoreDot describes as bio-organic peptide molecules. Nanodots alter the way a battery behaves to allow the rapid absorption and, critically, the retention of power. The company has raised $48 million from two rounds of funding, including backing from a leading mobile phone maker. Myersdorf declined to name the company, but said it was Asian. With the number of smartphone users forecast to reach 1.75 billion this year, StoreDot sees a big market, and some experts think that -- with more work -- it could be on to a winner. "We live in a power hungry world ... people are constantly chasing a power outlet. StoreDot has the potential to solve this real big problem," said Zack Weisfeld, who has worked with and evaluated ventures in the mobile phone sector globally. "They still have some way to go, to deal with size of battery and power cycle rounds, but if solvable, it's a very big breakthrough," he told Reuters. A power cycle round refers to the number of times a battery can be re-charged in its lifetime. Myersdorf said a fast-charge phone would cost $100-$150 more than current models and would ultimately be able to handle 1,500 recharge/discharge cycles, giving it about three years of life. He hopes to use the same technology to create a car battery that recharges in two or three minutes, rather than current models which commonly need to be charged overnight.  (Writing by Ori Lewis; Editing by Luke Baker and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - China's corruption watchdog has launched a series of inspections into state-owned enterprises and government bodies including China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec Group), Asia's largest oil refiner, state media said on Monday. The inspectors, part of China's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), will focus on senior figures within Sinopec who may be promoted to leadership roles. The official Xinhua news agency said the inspection would be complete within one month. Sinopec Group is the parent company of China Petroleum &amp; Chemical Corp &lt;600028.SS&gt;&lt;0386.HK&gt;. The inspection will also take in government institutions and other state companies, including China Southern Airlines Co Ltd &lt;600029.SS&gt;&lt;1055.HK&gt; and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd &lt;0762.HK&gt;. A spokesman for China Unicom declined to comment. Sinopec and China Southern were not immediately reachable for comment. President Xi Jinping has launched a sweeping crackdown on corruption since taking power, warning that the problem is a threat to the Communist Party's very survival and vowing to go after powerful "tigers" as well as lowly "flies". The crackdown has so far netted Zhou Yongkang, former security chief and previously an oil industry man, and Jiang Jiemin, former head of top energy group China National Petroleum Corp, the parent of PetroChina Co Ltd &lt;601857.SS&gt;&lt;0857.HK&gt;. Earlier this month, China's top prosecutor said a senior official of China National Offshore Oil Company (CNOOC) was under investigation suspected of having received bribes, the first executive from the offshore oil and gas firm embroiled by Beijing's war on graft.   (Reporting by Judy Hua and Paul Carsten; Editing by Clara Ferreira Marques) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChenevert, Chairman and CEO of UTC, remarks about the new Sikorsky Aircraft S-97 RAIDER helicopter during its unveiling ceremony at Sikorsky Aircraft in Jupiter, Florida(Reuters) - United Technologies Corp &lt;utx.n&gt;, the maker of elevators and air conditioners, said Chairman and Chief Executive Louis Chenevert would retire immediately. Gregory Hayes, senior vice-president and chief financial officer, was elected as president, CEO and a director, United Technologies said.   (Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Editing by Maju Samuel) FREE AppDownload
Yardeni Research Of course, a major concern among investors is that slower global economic growth outside the US and a stronger dollar will weigh on S&amp;P 500 earnings per share. That’s why I lowered my forecasts last week to $125 in 2015 and $135 in 2016, down from $130 and $140 previously.  On the other hand, it is interesting to note that US stocks tend to outperform stocks in the rest of the world when the dollar is strong. That’s because this generally happens when the US economy is outperforming the overseas economy. On a ytd basis, the US continues to outpace the other major MSCI stock prices indexes (in dollars): US (11.4%), All Country (4.1), Emerging Markets (0.2), Japan (-3.9), UK (-5.6), and EMU (-7.3). Yardeni ResearchToday's Morning Briefing: London Days. (1) Tour of London. (2) Taxi vs. limo drivers. (3) “The Knowledge.” (4) Attack of the socialized students. (5) Worrying about both high P/Es and a melt-up in the US. (6) The new consensus on bonds. (7) Secular stagnation overseas, and no global recession in sight. (8) PMIs flashing global slowdown. (9) Waiting for wage inflation and Fed normalization. (10) Putin needs higher oil prices. (11) Is a strong dollar bearish or bullish for US stocks? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman spoke with our Henry Blodget about a range of topics. In this clip, Krugman responds to Paul Singer's criticism that there's been a "Krugmanization" of economics and talks inflation. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a rundown of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   Futures are starting higher, with Nasdaq and S&amp;P adding 25bp on the back of strong markets overseas.   Europe has added 1%, and the DAX 70bp, as EU Banks are extending Friday’s Draghi gains – SX7E up 6% in 2 days.   Germany’s IFO comes in better, following last week’s better ZEW, so the EU Consumer issues are having a good day.  Despite this being a Holiday week, Volumes are impressive, with Germany trading 40% heavy to recent trends.   The only major market in the red is the FTSE, as Miners are retracing 2% from yesterday’s surge higher.    Over in Asia, Japan was closed for Holiday, but Hong Kong and Shanghai leap almost 2% on Friday’s Easing move from China.  India’s Sensex hit a new record, while Aussie is up 1% as Ore Miners are jumping 4%. (Unlike UK listed Miners, this is the Aussie Miner’s first chance to react to China’s new Friday, which came after the Aussie Close.)  The US and German 10YYs are up 1-2bp this AM, but money continues to flow into Peripheral issues, with the PIIGs yields all tighter to Bunds.    The Greenback is jumping against Yen this AM, but losing some ground to Euro as the German data sparks some covering in Euros.    Overall, the DXY is in the Red and testing overnight lows – a tailwind for commodities.   The main commodity focus for the week rests on Oil, as Global powers try and get a Iranian Nuke deal done before tonight’s deadline (would unlock heavy supplies) ahead of OPEC this Thursday.   Chatter Iran looking for a 1mil cut still not helping Brent or WTI, with both benchmarks off 40bp this AM.    Natty Gas is getting smoked this AM, off 5% as the weather warms in America, while Gold continues to languish below $1200/oz.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Chicago Fed at 8:30, at 9:30 the ECB Announces Covered-Bond Purchases, at 9:45 we get Markit US Services PMI, Dallas Fed at 10:30, and a $28B, 2Y auction at 1  We have some headline risk today – A Iranian Nuke deal may hit oil, knocking OIH, and XOP – while we await word from the Grand Jury in Ferguson (Guns and Ammo Impact).    Holiday sales are in full swing into Thanksgiving, watch a run of retailers this week, making next Monday’s Black Friday/Cyber Monday sales numbers a “Sell the News Event” – Builders remain in focus, with heavy data due, but with the ITB up 9% in November – may take a very strong showing not to spark profit-taking.  With Thanksgiving fast approaching, watch for volumes to deteriorate into Thursday as Wall Street attempts to get a early jump on Holiday Traffic. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovThe Soyuz TMA-15M spacecraft carrying the International Space Station crew of Anton Shkaplerov of Russia, Terry Virts of the US, and Samantha Cristoforetti of Italy blasts off from the launch pad at the Baikonur cosmodrome on Monday.Good morning! At the start of a new week, here are the major stories likely to have an impact as markets open.  Russia Is Losing $140 Billion Per Year. "We are losing around $40 billion per year due to geopolitical sanctions and we are losing some $90 to $100 billion per year due to oil prices falling 30 percent," Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Monday. Western economies including the US and EU have imposed sanctions on Russia over the conflict in Ukraine. It's The Deadline For A Deal With Iran. Time runs out Monday for the biggest chance in years to resolve the Iranian nuclear standoff, as Tehran and world powers make a final push for a deal but with a risky extension looking likely. German Business Confidence Bounces. Germany's IFO institute business climate index unexpectedly jumped to 104.7 in November from 103.2 a month ago. This was better than the 103.0 expected by economists. This is good news as Germany is the largest economy in Europe. But Let's Not Get Too Excited ... "Given the surprising weakness in the manufacturing PMI last week, though, it is still too early to conclude that sentiment is pointing to an upturn in activity, but we are seeing signs that the economy is, at least, no longer deteriorating," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said of the IFO report. "The rise in the headline index marked the first gain in seven months, but the overall trend of the key components in the IFO survey is still consistent with a weak economy. The conflict with Russia continues to weigh on business sentiment, and the expansion in the manufacturing sector is still subdued." Markets Are Up Again. US futures are up with Dow futures up 28 points and S&amp;P futures up 4 points. Asian markets closed up, with Japan's Nikkei climbing 0.3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng jumping 1.9%. Europe is modestly higher with France's CAC 40 up 0.7%, Germany's DAX is up 0.6%, and Spain's IBEX is up 1.0%. Light Economic Data. At 9:45 a.m. ET, we'll get the Markit US Services PMI report. Economists forecast a 57.3 print, up from 57.1 a month ago. At 10:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the Dallas Fed Manufacturing Activity index. Economists are expecting the index to fall to 9.0 from 10.5 a month ago. China Is Getting Ready To Cut Rates Again. "China's leadership and central bank are ready to cut interest rates again and also loosen lending restrictions, concerned that falling prices could trigger a surge in debt defaults, business failures and job losses, said sources involved in policy-making," Reuters' Kevin Yao said. "Friday's surprise cut in rates, the first in more than two years, reflects a change of course by Beijing and the central bank, which had persisted with modest stimulus measures before finally deciding last week that a bold monetary policy step was required to stabilize the world's second-largest economy." $60 Oil? "Oil prices could plunge to $60 a barrel if OPEC does not agree a significant output cut when it meets in Vienna this week, market players say," Reuters' Claire Milhench reported. "Brent crude futures have fallen 34 percent since June to touch a four-year low of $76.76 a barrel on Nov. 14, and could tumble further if OPEC does not agree to cut at least 1 million barrels per day (bpd), commodity fund managers say." Italy's Intesa May Buy Coutts. Italy's retail bank Intesa SanPaolo is looking at a possible bid for Coutts International, the wealth management arm of Royal Bank of Scotland, the Financial Times reported. Barron's Likes Intel. According to the new print edition of Barron's, Intel has 30% upside. "As elevated capital spending reverts to ordinary levels, the result should be swelling free cash flow and more dividend increases like the one announced Thursday," Barron's Jack Hough writes. "Shares look likely to rise over 30%, to $48, over the next two years." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures rose on Monday, indicating the market's recent strength would continue during a week that's expected to see light action ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday. Futures snapshot at 6:47 a.m. EST (1147 GMT): * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were up 3.75 points, or 0.18 percent, with 89,703 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 10.25 points, or 0.24 percent, in volume of 12,978 contracts. * Dow e-minis &lt;1YMc1&gt; were up 25 points, or 0.14 percent, with 11,782 contracts changing hands. ---* Equities closed a fifth straight week of advances Friday, with the Dow and S&amp;P 500 ending at closing records on the back of accommodative action from central banks in China and Europe. * Policy in China, the world's No. 2 economy, could spur more market gains. Sources told Reuters the country's leadership and central bank were ready to cut interest rates again and loosen lending restrictions on concern falling prices could trigger a surge in debt defaults, business failures and job losses. * The S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; has appreciated 13.3 percent since an intraday low hit on Oct. 15, and the gains since then have been broad, with all but 23 S&amp;P 500 components higher. The speed of the rally has worried some market participants, and volatility may pick up this week with traders out for the holiday. Markets will close for Thanksgiving on Thursday and close early Friday. * In company news, RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd &lt;rnr.n&gt; agreed to buy Platinum Underwriters Holdings Ltd &lt;ptp.n&gt; for $1.9 billion. BioMarin Pharmaceuticals Inc &lt;bmrn.o&gt; said it would buy Dutch drug developer Prosensa Holding NV &lt;rna.o&gt; for about $840 million including milestone payments. Prosena jumped 53 percent to $17.50 in premarket trading. * Trina Solar Ltd &lt;tsl.n&gt; reported third-quarter earnings that grew 16 percent on strong demand in Japan and China. Shares were flat at $10.93 before the bell. * Intel Corp &lt;intc.o&gt; rose 0.9 percent to $35.91 in premarket trading. In its Nov. 24 edition, Barron's wrote that the stock could rise more than 30 percent over the next two years.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil prices could plunge to $60 a barrel if OPEC does not agree a significant output cut when it meets in Vienna this week, market players say. Brent crude futures have fallen 34 percent since June to touch a four-year low of $76.76 a barrel on Nov. 14, and could tumble further if OPEC does not agree to cut at least 1 million barrels per day (bpd), commodity fund managers say. "The market would question the credibility of OPEC and its influence on global oil markets if there was no cut," said Daniel Bathe, of Lupus alpha Commodity Invest Fund. That could send Brent down to around $60, Bathe said. "Herding behavior and a shift to net negative speculative positions should accelerate the price plunge," he added. Fund managers are divided over whether OPEC will reach an agreement on cutting output. Bathe put the likelihood at no more than 50 percent. The oil price has been falling since the summer due to abundant supply -- partly from U.S. shale oil -- and low demand growth, particularly in Europe and Asia. As a result, some investors believe a small cut -- of around 500,000 bpd -- would not be enough to calm the markets. Doug King, chief investment officer of RCMA Capital, sees Brent falling to $70, even with a cut of 1 million bpd. If OPEC fails to agree a cut, prices will drop "further and quite quickly", with U.S. crude possibly sliding to $60, he said. U.S. crude closed at $76.51 on Friday, with Brent just above $80. With member states struggling to balance budgets, many OPEC countries will be pushing for an output cut. "Prices below $80 are putting significant strain on the cartel's weakest members such as Venezuela," said Nicolas Robin, a commodities fund manager at Threadneedle. He said a bigger cut -- of 1 million bpd or more -- was an "outlier scenario", but such a move would rapidly push prices above $85. "A move higher would likely be accelerated by the lack of liquidity owing to the U.S. (Thanksgiving) holiday next week," Robin added. Doug Hepworth of Gresham Investment Management said: "A surprise significant cut, say of 2 million bpd, is needed to push prices back up to $80. And that would have to be accompanied by some new-found discipline in the non-Saudi members." The market has been awash with conspiracy theories as to why Saudi Arabia has not already intervened. New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman hinted at "a global oil war under way pitting the United States and Saudi Arabia on one side against Russia and Iran on the other." Tom Nelson, of Investec Global Energy Fund, said Saudi Arabia had allowed the price to fall to incentivize the smaller OPEC producers, which often rely on the biggest producer to intervene, to join Riyadh in cutting output. "They (the Saudis) want to cut but they don't want to cut alone," Nelson said, adding that a cut of between 1 million and 1.5 million bpd should be sufficient to balance the market. "The market really wants to see that OPEC is still functioning ... if there is a small cut, with an accompanying statement of coherence from OPEC that presents a united front, and talks about seeing demand recovery, and some moderation of supply growth, then Brent could move up to $80-$90."   (Additional reporting by Eric Onstad; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
HONG KONG (AP) — A Hong Kong judge on Monday deemed a British banker charged with murdering two Indonesian women fit to enter a plea in his case based on the results of psychiatric reports. The judge in Rurik Jutting's case also adjourned pre-trial court proceedings until July 6 to give the prosecution more time to analyze DNA and other forensic evidence. Prosecutor Louise Wong told the judge that the government lab needed 28 weeks to examine more than 200 items of evidence collected from the crime scene, but she added that investigators requested the case be given priority. Jutting's lawyers said he did not object to the request for the lengthy adjournment. No trial date has been set yet and Jutting did not enter a plea. He spoke only once, calmly saying "I do" when the judge reminded him to continue giving instructions to his lawyers and asked him if he understood. The bodies of two young women were found at Jutting's 31st floor upscale apartment in the Wan Chai nightlife and red light district, including one whose body was found stuffed into a suitcase that was left on the balcony. Jutting, who attended Cambridge University and had worked for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, appeared in court unshaven and wearing the same black T-shirt with the words "New York" from previous appearances. The victims in the case, which has exposed the extremes of inequality found in Hong Kong's expatriate community, have been identified as Seneng Mujiasih, 29, who remained in Hong Kong after her domestic worker permit had lapsed, and Sumarti Ningsih, 25, who had come to the Asian financial hub on a tourist visa. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuManny Pacquiao (R) of the Philippines punches Chris Algieri of the U.S. during their World Boxing Organisation (WBO) 12-round welterweight title fight at the Venetian Macao hotel in Macau November 23, 2014. Markets will be closed on Thursday as America celebrates Thanksgiving Day. However, the shortened week will be stacked with economic data. We'll get key readings on consumer confidence and housing. The latest durable goods report and the revised GDP estimate may help give us a clearer picture of the health of the economy. Meanwhile, the US stock market continues to set new record highs. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Goldman Sachs David Kostin sees modest gains in the stock market for the next few years. "We forecast US stocks will deliver a modest total return of 5% in 2015, in line with profit growth.The US economy will expand at a brisk pace. Corporations will boost sales and keep margins elevated allowing managements to both invest for growth and return cash to shareholders via buybacks and dividends. Investors will cheer these positive fundamental developments." GMO's Jeremy Grantham thinks stock surge before crashing. ""My personal fond hope and expectation is still for a market that runs deep into bubble territory (which starts... at 2250 on the S&amp;P 500 on our data) before crashing as it always does." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
London is losing even more ground to New York in the battle between the world's two leading financial centers, with the UK capital garnering even fewer votes in an influential survey than in 2013 and its transatlantic rival pulling ahead. Of the nearly 300 financial services professionals commissioned by Kinetic Partners, a global professional services firm, 59% said New York was the world's number one financial centre and 38% said it was London. The UK capital's share of the vote has fallen away dramatically in the past two years. In 2012, 65% of those surveyed said that London was the world's leading financial centre; last year, it was 44%. Respondents appear to expect this slide to continue, with only 28% of those working in the financial services industry saying they believe that London will be considered the world's pre–eminent global financial centre in five years' time. Allison Gill, director of the regulatory compliance team at Kinetic Partners in New York, said: "The debate over the relevance and benefit of the seemingly neverending barrage of regulation will continue, but the fact remains that the industry has largely adapted and the global community still has confidence in the importance of New York." Julian Korek, chief executive of Kinetic, said: "This shift from just two years ago is a testament to the resilience of the New York market." Over half of respondents said Shanghai would be the leading emerging financial centre by 2019.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA euro logo sculpture stands in front the headquarters of the European Central Bank  in FrankfurtPARIS (Reuters) - The countdown has begun to what threatens to be a missed opportunity to revive Europe's stalled economy. When European Union leaders meet on Dec. 18-19 under new management, they have a chance to launch a joint assault on the economic stagnation and high unemployment that are fuelling disenchantment and anti-EU protest among voters. All the signs are they are set to fall short. The 18-nation euro zone is struggling to pull out of the aftermath of its debt crisis, aggravated by the economic impact of a standoff with Russia over Ukraine. Inflation and growth are hovering below 1 percent while unemployment is stuck at 11.5 percent, and more than double that level in Spain and Greece. Even EU powerhouse Germany has hit a slowdown. Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers says Europe risks "secular stagnation" - a long-term, self-perpetuating slump similar to the one that followed the Great Depression in the 1930s. France's economy is flatlining, Italy's has fallen back into recession and both countries are failing to cut their budget deficits and debt in line with EU rules, causing tension with Brussels and Berlin. "Without jobs and growth, the European idea itself is in danger," outgoing European Council President Herman Van Rompuy said last week. His successor, Poland's Donald Tusk, will have the task of trying to forge a summit agreement on a new economic policy mix. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi set out the agenda for what might become a New Deal for Europe in a speech to global central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in August. He called for a combination of national budget measures to boost demand, greater EU public investment and growth-friendly structural economic reforms alongside the ECB's monetary stimulus. Draghi highlighted the scale of the challenge on Friday, painting a gloomy outlook and promising to act "as fast as possible" to combat worryingly low inflation. Yet despite a show of unity this month, he is struggling to overcome opposition led by German Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann to bolder measures such as buying government bonds, known as quantitative easing. "What Draghi needs is an ambitious agreement at the summit on investment, a commitment to coordinated economic reforms and stronger fiscal rules, to give him political cover to move to quantitative easing," a senior EU official said, referring to the policy of large-scale asset purchases by the central bank. "But there is a risk that the summit will be a let-down."   "FAKE MONEY" New European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has promised a 300 billion euro ($376 billion) investment program on public works such as transport, energy and digital networks. But it is expected to involve largely recycling existing EU budget and European Investment Bank funds with little if any new public money. French Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron said last week that an investment program based on "fake money" without at least 80 billion euros in new "real money" would risk disappointing. Germany, aiming to balance its budget, has rebuffed calls to stimulate domestic demand and made only a token gesture toward more investment in public infrastructure, promising a paltry extra 10 billion euros over three years. At the same time, France and Italy, the euro zone's troubled second and third economies, are balking at going beyond half-measures to shake up rigid labor markets and open up to more competition. Barring a last-minute surprise, EU leaders are heading for a hollow agreement that won't fundamentally change a set of economic policies that has failed to reignite growth so far. "The architecture of the euro zone doesn't make it easy to provide the radical policy solutions that depression requires," said Nicholas Childs, professor of economic history at the University of Warwick. "I can't see supply side reforms delivering enough in the short term to help. That means the ECB, a fair weather central bank, is going to be tested in a storm." Domestic constraints, divergent economic philosophies and mutual mistrust make a disappointing summit outcome likely. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is convinced Europe cannot grow its way out of crisis on borrowed money and thinks France and Italy are falling short on economic reforms. One hope may lie in a Franco-German study to be presented this week (Nov. 29) identifying priorities for structural reforms and public investment in both countries. Paris and Berlin may yet take recommendations by economists Jean Pisani-Ferry and Henrik Enderlein as the basis of a grand bargain matching more French reform with more German investment. Otherwise, the job will again be left to the ECB. But as Draghi warned in his Jackson Hole speech: "No amount of fiscal or monetary accommodation ... can compensate for the necessary structural reforms in the euro area."   (Editing by Mike Peacock and Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Kirill KudryavtsevFinance Minister Anton Siluanov says Russia is set to lose $40 billion a year because of Western sanctions over Ukraine.Russia is set to lose about $40 billion (32 billion euros) per year due to Western sanctions over the Ukraine conflict, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Monday. "We are losing around $40 billion per year due to geopolitical sanctions and we are losing some $90 to $100 billion per year due to oil prices falling 30 percent," Siluanov said in a speech at an economic forum in Moscow, quoted by RIA Novosti news agency. Sanctions imposed by the European Union and the US on Russia's economy, which is largely dependent on exports of raw materials, block its access to international capital markets and also to technology. Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Saturday accused the West of attempting to achieve "regime change" in Russia through sanctions that aim to destroy the economy and rouse public protests. President Vladimir Putin suggested Sunday that Russia could experience "catastrophic consequences" from sanctions, the falling oil price and the plunging ruble, while arguing that these would have knock-on effects for other countries. "The modern world is interdependent. It's far from guaranteed that sanctions, the steep fall in oil prices, and the loss of value of the national currency will lead to negative results or catastrophic consequences only for us," Putin warned in an interview with TASS news agency. Putin denied he had financial links to the Russian officials and businessmen from his inner circle who were targeted by Western sanctions blacklists. REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/KremlinRussia's President Vladimir Putin during a meeting at the Valdai Discussion Club in Sochi on Oct. 24. Putin accused the US on Friday of making the world a more dangerous place by imposing a "unilateral diktat" in international diplomacy, and he denied that Russia wanted to build a new empire. He said to impose sanctions on those individuals in an attempt to get to him was an approach based on a "false premise." Putin suggested that falling oil prices were due to "targeted steps by our partners on the world energy market." Energy minister Alexander Novak said Friday that Russia was considering cutting its oil production in a bid to revive prices, as the falling price of crude along with sanctions over Ukraine have led to the ruble plunging in value.  A major producer of crude oil, Russia is not a member of the OPEC oil producers cartel, which is to discuss later in the week whether to cut output. Russia gets about half of its revenues from oil profits. Its budget for next year, passed by the lower house of parliament on Friday, is based on an oil price of $96 per barrel. FREE AppDownload
Sasha Mordovets/Getty ImagesRussian President Vladimir Putin (L) and billionaire Arkady Rotenberg (R) attend the funeral of his former judo trainer Anatoly Rakhlin on August 9, 2013 in Saint Petersburg, Russia"WE HANDLE our gold and currency reserves and government reserves sparingly." So said Vladimir Putin on November 13th.  Mr Putin is wrong. In the past year Russia's foreign-exchange reserves have fallen by 20% as the central bank has tried to prop up the rouble.  They stand at around $370 billion, with $12 billion more at the IMF (see chart). The central bank claims all of this is readily available. But there is some reason to doubt that. Foreign-exchange reserves have assumed a new importance for Russia in recent months. As Western sanctions have shut Russian companies out of foreign debt markets, they struggle to raise money. That makes it harder to pay back the $130 billion of external debt that comes due between now and the end of next year. The Kremlin can step in: but if it helps Rosneft, a giant oil company, as it is being asked to, calls for more bail-outs will get louder. Some people argue that Russia's reserves are so big that they can accommodate such demands and weather the economic storm. But the central bank exaggerates the reserves at its disposal. About $170 billion of its assets sit in two giant wealth funds, the Reserve Fund and the National Wealth Fund (NWF), and much of what is in these funds could prove illiquid or inaccessible if called on to meet short-term financing needs. The Economist Cash from the $82 billion NWF is committed to long-term infrastructure projects, says Sergei Guriev of Sciences-Po, a French university. The NWF has also provided money to VEB, the Russian development bank, to finance construction at the Sochi Olympics. The loans by which it did so have been "restructured" to allow delayed repayment. Mr Guriev says many people believe the money to have been embezzled. The NWF may thus be unable to offer any liquidity to the government. In terms of money that could actually be put to use, Russia's reserves could be more than $100 billion lower than the headline figures suggest. Mikhail Zadornov, a former finance minister, said in a recent interview with Dozhd, a television channel, that the usable amount could be as low as $200 billion. If current trends continue Russia may soon have enough for just three months' worth of imports: below that level, financiers start to panic. That is bad news for a country that will struggle to find cash elsewhere. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
IT WAS great while it lasted. In a golden period from 2003 to 2010 Latin America's economies grew at an annual average rate of close to 5%, wages rose and unemployment fell, more than 50m people were lifted out of poverty and the middle class swelled to more than a third of the population.  But now the growth spurt is over. What some worried would be a "new normal" of expansion of 3% a year is turning out to be far worse. The region's economies will on average grow by only around 1.3% this year. Analysts continue to slash their forecasts, as they have done for the past two years (see chart). They now expect only the mildest of recoveries next year: both the IMF and the World Bank foresee growth of just 2.2% in 2015. Latin America is decelerating faster than much of the rest of the emerging world, points out Augusto de la Torre, the bank's chief economist for the region. Alejandro Werner, his counterpart at the IMF, sees growth averaging just 2.7% over the next five years. Some of the reasons are obvious. The biggest factor is the end of the commodity boom. As China's growth slackens, commodity prices have slumped back to their lowest levels since the 2009 world recession. Now the oil price has been hit, too, thanks mainly to increased output in the United States. All this has hurt the commodity-producing economies of South America, though some benefit from cheaper oil. The outlook for Mexico, with its structural reforms and manufacturing ties to North America, is slightly brighter. Worst off are those countries with populist governments that squandered the windfall from the boom. Forecasters see no let-up in the stagflation afflicting Venezuela and Argentina. Thanks to lack of investment and clumsy macroeconomic management, Brazil's economy will barely grow this year and faces a fiscal squeeze in 2015. ReutersTraders work on the floor of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange Yet the deceleration goes far wider. The high-flying and well-run economies of Chile, Peru and Colombia are all suffering. The growth rate this year in Chile (2%) and Peru (around 3%) is half that of 2013. Contrast that with sub-Saharan Africa, which is also a big commodity producer and where the IMF expects growth of 5.1% this year and 5.8% next. A second oft-cited cause of the Latin doldrums is the move to normal monetary policy in the United States, which will raise the cost of borrowing in the region. But there are few signs of this having an impact yet. Latin American companies are issuing bonds at an accelerating rate. Some economists now reckon that the boom masked deep-rooted structural problems. Latin America's record in productivity may have been even worse than the data seemed to indicate, says Mr de la Torre. The effect of changes in the terms of trade, and the weight of service businesses and of the informal economy in the region, makes this especially hard to calculate. Bello has two other hunches. One is that the region's poor education and skills shortage have caught up with it. To watch and wait as staff in shops or at telecoms companies battle with IT equipment that either they don't know how to operate or is frequently out of order is to wonder whether technology is enhancing or undermining productivity. The second is that the failure to invest in public transport means that the region's big cities, clogged with the new cars the boom afforded, reap fewer economies of scale and specialisation, because people find it so difficult to move around. Screenshot/YouTubeA subway in Sao Paulo around the time of the World Cup. What does seem clear is that the region is suffering a structural supply-side shock. Many economies have been operating close to capacity, points out Mr Werner. So demand-priming stimulus--such as Brazil's loose fiscal policy or Peru's recent giveaway of an extra bonus to public employees--looks mistaken. Fiscal balances have weakened by an average of three points of GDP since the 2009 recession. Nevertheless, low debt, stronger banks and more reserves permit looser monetary policy in some places. Many Latin currencies are depreciating, without prompting the panic of the past and thus offering the hope of growth in exports besides commodities (though it is unclear how many companies may find it harder to repay their foreign bonds). With borrowing costs still low, now is the time for these countries to step up investment in infrastructure. Such investments, like much-needed efforts to improve education and training, take years to bear fruit. The problem is that Latin America's leaders confront a mobilised population that has grown used to the good times. This calls for politically deft statesmanship. Where it is absent, Latin America may become more combustible in the next few years. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael Dalder Germany's businesses are getting more confident, according to data just out from the IFO institute.  The institutes's overall confidence figure jumped to 104.7 from 103.2, with 100 representing the long-term average for Germany. That's a welcome relief after some dismal growth figures and signs that Europe's biggest economy is slowing down. Analysts had expected a dip in the business climate part of the index, and a small improvement in the expectations part of the index. Both improved more than expected.  Germany policy makers have come under increasing pressure to revitalise their growth figures: despite the slowdown and low inflation, the government is refusing to budge from its goal of Germany's first balanced budget since 1969. FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here is what you need to know before your first meeting today: 1. We have only seen "the tip of the iceberg" in the Westminster child abuse scandal. Home secretary Theresa May says 40 detectives are investigating whether a Conservative MP murdered a boy at a pedophile sex party in London in the early 1980s. 2. Asian markets really liked that Chinese interest rate cut. The Shanghai and Hang Seng indexes both jumped in early trading, according to the FT. 3. Observers say China's interest rate cut is merely the first of more to come. The country appears to be going into an economic slowdown. 4. The UK government wants to keep Prince Charles' "black spider memos" a secret. The Guardian has been fighting a years-long freedom of information lawsuit to unveil the letters the future king has written to cabinet members promoting his policy views. 5. The Israeli cabinet has approved a bill that defines Israel as a nation state of the Jews, and reserves some rights for Jewish people that non-Jews would not have. Unsurprisingly, not everyone is completely happy about that. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to amend the bill so that it provides equal rights for all. 6. Negotiators are trying to get Iran to agree to a pact that would stop its nuclear power programme from being militarized. The two sides are still talking but they are far apart. 7. The British woman jailed in Iran for watching a volleyball match has been released. She's out on bail but is not allowed to return to the UK. 8. Forty-five people were killed by a suicide bomber at a volleyball match in Afghanistan. Volleyball had previously been banned by the Taliban. 9. The UK High Court will hear a case against Google in which a man claims the search engine must remove links to 3,600 web sites that have posted defamatory information about him. The case is not about the EU's "right to be forgotten." It goes further than that - it's about whether Google has a legal duty to stop links to defamatory material posted anonymously. 10. Samsung is contemplating a huge shakeup that could cost co-CEO J.K. Shin his job. Shin oversees the mobile division of Samsung, which has recently seen sales and profits collapse, according to the Wall Street Journal. And finally ...  Yik Yak is now worth hundreds of millions of dollars. The localized bulletin board app heavily used by teens took a $62 million round of investment. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA euro logo sculpture stands in front the headquarters of the European Central Bank  in FrankfurtPARIS (Reuters) - The countdown has begun to what threatens to be a missed opportunity to revive Europe's stalled economy. When European Union leaders meet on Dec. 18-19 under new management, they have a chance to launch a joint assault on the economic stagnation and high unemployment that are fuelling disenchantment and anti-EU protest among voters. All the signs are they are set to fall short. The 18-nation euro zone is struggling to pull out of the aftermath of its debt crisis, aggravated by the economic impact of a standoff with Russia over Ukraine. Inflation and growth are hovering below 1 percent while unemployment is stuck at 11.5 percent, and more than double that level in Spain and Greece. Even EU powerhouse Germany has hit a slowdown. Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers says Europe risks "secular stagnation" - a long-term, self-perpetuating slump similar to the one that followed the Great Depression in the 1930s. France's economy is flatlining, Italy's has fallen back into recession and both countries are failing to cut their budget deficits and debt in line with EU rules, causing tension with Brussels and Berlin. "Without jobs and growth, the European idea itself is in danger," outgoing European Council President Herman Van Rompuy said last week. His successor, Poland's Donald Tusk, will have the task of trying to forge a summit agreement on a new economic policy mix. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi set out the agenda for what might become a New Deal for Europe in a speech to global central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in August. He called for a combination of national budget measures to boost demand, greater EU public investment and growth-friendly structural economic reforms alongside the ECB's monetary stimulus. Draghi highlighted the scale of the challenge on Friday, painting a gloomy outlook and promising to act "as fast as possible" to combat worryingly low inflation. Yet despite a show of unity this month, he is struggling to overcome opposition led by German Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann to bolder measures such as buying government bonds, known as quantitative easing. "What Draghi needs is an ambitious agreement at the summit on investment, a commitment to coordinated economic reforms and stronger fiscal rules, to give him political cover to move to quantitative easing," a senior EU official said, referring to the policy of large-scale asset purchases by the central bank. "But there is a risk that the summit will be a let-down."   "FAKE MONEY" New European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has promised a 300 billion euro ($376 billion) investment program on public works such as transport, energy and digital networks. But it is expected to involve largely recycling existing EU budget and European Investment Bank funds with little if any new public money. French Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron said last week that an investment program based on "fake money" without at least 80 billion euros in new "real money" would risk disappointing. Germany, aiming to balance its budget, has rebuffed calls to stimulate domestic demand and made only a token gesture toward more investment in public infrastructure, promising a paltry extra 10 billion euros over three years. At the same time, France and Italy, the euro zone's troubled second and third economies, are balking at going beyond half-measures to shake up rigid labor markets and open up to more competition. Barring a last-minute surprise, EU leaders are heading for a hollow agreement that won't fundamentally change a set of economic policies that has failed to reignite growth so far. "The architecture of the euro zone doesn't make it easy to provide the radical policy solutions that depression requires," said Nicholas Childs, professor of economic history at the University of Warwick. "I can't see supply side reforms delivering enough in the short term to help. That means the ECB, a fair weather central bank, is going to be tested in a storm." Domestic constraints, divergent economic philosophies and mutual mistrust make a disappointing summit outcome likely. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is convinced Europe cannot grow its way out of crisis on borrowed money and thinks France and Italy are falling short on economic reforms. One hope may lie in a Franco-German study to be presented this week (Nov. 29) identifying priorities for structural reforms and public investment in both countries. Paris and Berlin may yet take recommendations by economists Jean Pisani-Ferry and Henrik Enderlein as the basis of a grand bargain matching more French reform with more German investment. Otherwise, the job will again be left to the ECB. But as Draghi warned in his Jackson Hole speech: "No amount of fiscal or monetary accommodation ... can compensate for the necessary structural reforms in the euro area."   (Editing by Mike Peacock and Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of French bank Natixis outside one of the bank's offices in Paris.US fund firms are taking extra measures to make sure they don't get stuck holding hard-to-sell bonds in the event that fixed income markets see a massive race to the exits when interest rates start to rise. Over the past few months a growing number of asset managers, including Neuberger Berman, Natixis Global Management, and T. Rowe Price have been testing their funds against various market scenarios, building cushions of cash, shorter-duration bonds, and other liquid securities, and regularly discussing risks with their boards. The concern is this: As the Federal Reserve begins to raise rates, which many expect will begin to happen next year, investors will rush to sell bonds as their value drops in a rising interest rate environment. Historically Wall Street banks have been the buyers of these bonds, but regulations and capital requirements imposed since the financial crisis have forced these firms to slash their inventories. "I look around and ask, 'At the end of the day how easy would it be to sell what I own?', and the answer is it is much more challenging," said Jason Brady, a fixed income portfolio manager at Sante Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management, which has $70 billion in assets under management, $17 billion of which is in fixed income. Wall Street's biggest banks don't believe the Fed will raise rates until the middle of next year at the earliest. In a survey taken in early October, 14 of the 19 primary dealers, or the banks that deal directly with the Fed, said they expected the first rate hike by June 2015, with borrowing costs rising to 1 percent at the end of that year. But fund managers say they are already seeing signs of it getting harder to buy and sell bonds. Many managers were spooked in mid-October, when the yield on 10-year Treasury notes fell quickly to 1.865 percent, their lowest level since May 2013. "When all of a sudden the most liquid market out there isn't liquid, it's worrisome," Brady said. Flickr / NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Thornburg and T. Rowe are among a number of firms that have increased their allocations to cash to provide their portfolios with a buffer in the case of a liquidity crunch. Thornburg's $1.3 billion Strategic Income Fund has increased its allocation to cash to 13 percent from 10 percent last year and has also increased its holdings in shorter-duration bonds and high grade investment debt, Brady said. T. Rowe's High Yield Fund has 3 percent in cash, up from 1 percent a year ago, said Mark Vaselkiv, manager of the fund. Instead of cash, Natixis has built up a reserve of as much as 20 percent in some of its mutual funds in higher quality, non-US securities, like bonds denominated in Australian and Canadian dollars, said David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis. As of Sept. 30, Natixis had $894.3 billion in assets under management, and its subsidiary, Boston-based Loomis Sayles &amp; Co, had $223.2 billion. Firms, like the New York-based Voya Investment Management, which uses third-party managers to subadvise its funds, now give high-yield bond managers up to three days notice before it makes big redemptions out of those funds to make sure they can get the money in an orderly and timely fashion, said Paul Zemsky, CIO of multi-asset strategies at Voya, speaking on Tuesday at the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit in New York. One particular area of concern regarding liquidity is in bank loan funds, which typically invest in loans made to non-investment-grade companies, because these loans can take weeks to settle. To address this, T. Rowe, like many firms, has a line of credit that it can use in the event of a liquidity crunch. Over the past year, the firm has doubled its line of credit to $300 million, Vaselkiv said. Concerns about bond liquidity have made it up to the fund board level at companies, George Walker, chief executive officer of New York-based Neuberger Berman, told attendees of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association's annual conference in New York on Oct 10. "It is a bigger part of the dialogue at our boards," Walker said. Similarly, at the request of board members and its parent company, Natixis, Loomis Sayles' head of investment risk management earlier this month held a session on bond market liquidity for the Natixis fund board of trustees, detailing new monitoring procedures they have implemented to gauge liquidity, Lafferty said. Regulators are also more routinely talking to traders about the issue, executives said. On Wednesday, T. Rowe's bond traders met with the Securities and Exchange Commission to discuss bond liquidity, Vaselkiv said. T. Rowe looks at days on which there was the most intense redemption activity and tests how long it would take to liquidate its high-yield fund. "We look at how much could we do in one day, one week and one month," he said. In the end, however, the best way managers can get comfortable with liquidity concerns is to be prepared to hold on to the bonds in their portfolio for the long-term, said Margie Patel, senior portfolio manager at Wells Capital Management, speaking Thursday at the Reuters summit. "Liquidity is illusory for most bonds," she said. "The only time you need it is when you can't get it."  (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel; Additional reporting by Ross Kerber and Sam Forgione; editing by Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
