DoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach hosted a pretty interesting webcast about the markets on Tuesday afternoon. As he laid out his forecasts for 2014, he presented a ton of eye-opening charts including this one, which he says he looks at literally every morning. It compares the US dollar / emerging market currency exchange rate to the yield on the 10-year Treasury note. Gundlach noted that there was a remarkably tight correlation between the two measures with the currency cross acting as a slight leading indicator of the 10-year yield. And the 10-year yield is benchmark for basically the entire bond market. Given the recent movements in the currencies, Gundlach says this chart confirms his expectation that the 10-year yield is likely to move lower in the near-term. During his webcast, Gundlach said the 10-year yield could fall to as low as 2.5%. DoubleLine Funds FREE AppDownload
Our Business as a Leading IndicatorOur business had a great year in 2013 and should give you some insight as to what to look forward to in 2014 and beyond. 2014 Executive Outlook2014 is off to a strong start, but executives are still cautious because of: All in all, 2013 was a much better year than most people planned, with more price appreciation than expected and lower sales volumes. Our February 2013 forecast was for: In 2014, we expect less price appreciation and similar volume growth. Stay tuned! FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVAs stocks returned a whopping 30% in 2013, there have been growing concerns about a stock market bubble. Especially considering that the rally supported by only meager earnings growth. While many have made comprehensive arguments showing why stocks are not in a bubble, Marc Faber, author of "The Gloom Boom And Doom Report," continues to argue that we're in a bubble that'll pop as we head for a financial crisis. In an interview with Bloomberg TV, he says we are in a "gigantic financial asset bubble." He also thinks the bubble could burst at any moment. "I think we are in a gigantic financial asset bubble. But it is interesting that that despite of all the money printing, bond yields didn't go down. They bottomed out on July 25, 2012 at 1.43% on the 10-years. We went to over 3.0%. We're now at 2.85% or something thereabout. But we're up substantially. Now, this hasn't had an impact on stocks yet. In fact, it pushed money into the stock market out of the bond market. But if the 10-years goes to say 3.5% to 4.0%, then the 30-year goes to close to 5.0%, the mortgage rates go to 6.0%. That will hit the economy very hard." "[The bubble] could burst before. It could burst any day. I think we are very stretched. Sentiment figures are very, very bullish. Everybody's bullish. The reality is they're very bullish because they think the economy will accelerate on the upside. But my view is very different. The global economy is slowing down, because the global economy's largely emerging economies nowadays, and there's no growth in exports in emerging economies, there's no growth, in the local economies. So, I feel that the valuations are high, the corporate profits have been boosted largely because of the falling interest rates." This is not a totally new call. Faber has repeatedly said that we're headed for a 1987-type sell-off. Faber also said Facebook is a fad and that lower interest rates are punishing savers. Here's the entire transcript from Bloomberg TV: ----------------------------------- Faber on the Fed and how far the 'rubber band can be stretched': "We have to distinguish between the financial economy, the financial sector, and the economy of the well-to-do people that benefit from rising asset prices, from rising prices of wines, and paintings and art, and bonds, and equities, and high-end properties in the Hamptons and West 15 here in New York and so forth -- and the average person, the typical household, the so-called 'median household', or the working class people. And the Fed's policies have actually led to a lot of problems around the world in the sense that they're not only responsible, but partly responsible that energy prices are where they are, they're up from $10 or $12 in 1999 to now around $100 a barrel. Food prices are up and a lot of other prices are up. So on your income, energy prices have very little impact because you at Bloomberg - you, young man - you make so much money. But for the poor people, it has an impact. Some people in the lower income groups, they spend say 30% of their income on energy, transportation, and so forth, electricity and gasoline."  On whether the Fed is creating a two-class system: "Correct, largely. The problem is then that you have people like Bill de Blasio, they come in and say: 'you know what's the problem? All these rich guys. Because of these rich people, you are poor. They take advantage of you. So, let's go and tax them.' The IMF has come out with a paper in Europe that essentially the well-to-do people should pay a 10% wealth task -- a one-time wealth tax. I can assure you, a one-time wealth tax, 10%, will become an every-year's tax eventually."  On how to help the people on the lower end of the economic spectrum: "This is the point I'd like to make. All of these professors and academics at the Fed who never really worked in the private sector a single day in their lives, and write papers nobody reads and nobody's is interested in. Why would they want not write about how you structure an economic system that lifts the standard of living of most people? You can't lift everybody." "We had that in the 19th century in the U.S. because we had very small government at the time. The entire government -- local, state federal -- was less than 20% of the economy. Now it is close to 50% of the economy."  On whether the government is spending too much money: "The larger the government becomes, the less economic growth you have and the more crony capitalism and corruptions you have. Because big corporations -- and especially the money printers, they're the most powerful people in the world, they control the governments. The U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve, and the government is one and the same. The Fed, they finance the Treasury, so the government can go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan. Then they finance transfer payments to essentially buy votes so you can get elected."  On bitcoin: "I prefer physical gold and silver, platinum to bitcoin. Bitcoin can have a lot of competition. Gold, silver, platinum -- they have no competition. How do you value a bitcoin? I can value gold to some extent and compare say gold to the quantity of money that is floating around the world, to the wealth increase, and to the monetary base increase, to the credit increase, and so forth and so on, and to the production costs. So I have an idea of where gold should be. I'm not sure because prices overshoot. How do you value Netflix? Is it overpriced or underpriced? Is Tesla overpriced, underpriced?" On interest rates: "But one thing I wanted to show you and talk about because you said that lower interest rates help people. Well, if money trending helps everybody, then why does not everybody in the whole world always have zero interest rates? And everybody would be rich. You keep on printing money and you don't need to work here, you don't need to put on makeup. I could stay in bed the whole day and go drinking in the evenings. So, let's just print money and be all happy. It doesn't add up. One thing about the figures you showed: first of all, you live in New York. Do you really think that your cost-of-living increase is a 1.2% per annum? You really believe that? It doesn't feel like more, it feels like five times more, or even ten times more." "Number two, by keeping interest rates at zero percent on the Fed fund rate -- i want to emphasize that this is now going on in March of 2014 for five years. It is not something new. For five years this has happened. You penalize the income earners, the savers who save, your parents, why should your parents be forced to speculate in stocks and in real estate and everything under the sun?" On his view of overvalued stocks, including Facebook: "I think it is to a large extent a fad. People they go on Facebook - what they do is they put pictures on and the only people that watch these pictures are themselves. They all want to be stars. It is a very distractive kind of occupation. I can't imagine that this would have a lot of value. I would rather own - I don't own it because I think it is very highly priced - I would rather own a company like Alibaba or Amazon or Google, than Facebook, personally. This is my view. Other people have different views. That's what makes the market. Some people are buying it and some people are selling it.”On overall market valuation concerns: "I think we are in a gigantic financial asset bubble. But it is interesting that that despite of all the money printing, bond yields didn't go down. They bottomed out on July 25, 2012 at 1.43% on the 10-years. We went to over 3.0%. We're now at 2.85% or something thereabout. But we're up substantially. Now, this hasn't had an impact on stocks yet. In fact, it pushed money into the stock market out of the bond market. But if the 10-years goes to say 3.5% to 4.0%, then the 30-year goes to close to 5.0%, the mortgage rates go to 6.0%. That will hit the economy very hard." "[The bubble] could burst before. It could burst any day. I think we are very stretched. Sentiment figures are very, very bullish. Everybody's bullish. The reality is they're very bullish because they think the economy will accelerate on the upside. But my view is very different. The global economy is slowing down, because the global economy's largely emerging economies nowadays, and there's no growth in exports in emerging economies, there's no growth, in the local economies. So, I feel that the valuations are high, the corporate profits have been boosted largely because of the falling interest rates." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wealthy LGBT Investors Tend To Be More Conservative Investors According To New Study (Spectrem Group)  A new Spectrem Group study has found that wealthy LGBT investors tend to be more conservative and less diversified in their investing preferences than their non-LGBT counterparts.  LGBT investors said their legal and advising needs were not well understood, with "only 34% saying their primary financial advisor understands the unique situations of the LGBT community". The study also found 67% of wealthy LGBT investors use social media, compared with 57% of non-LGBT investors. America's Self-Employed Are Creating A Retirement Time Bomb (Reuters)  America faces a "retirement time bomb", according to Chris Taylor at Reuters. This is because a rising number of Americans are self-employed, lack benefits that come with "regular jobs", and are not saving for retirement. A survey from TD Ameritrade Holding Corp found that the number of freelancers, contractors and temp workers was expected to rise to 40% of the workforce by 2020. The study also found that 28% of self-employed weren't saving at all, while another 40% saved occasionally. 4 Reasons You Can't Say The Stock Market Is In A Bubble (Goldman Sachs)  Stocks had a great run up in 2013, with the S&amp;P 500 returning 30% to investors even as earning growth was modest. Yet stock market valuations may be getting pricey and investors are more concerned about a stock market bubble. But Goldman Sachs' Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani and Brett Nelson point out four key reasons that they're not. 1. Credit growth isn't excessive. 2. Investor flows into stocks have not been excessive. 3. U.S. sentiment could still improve. 4. Valuations are not in bubble territory. Here's A Compelling Sign That We're Not In A Stock Market Bubble (Richard Bernstein Advisors)  Richard Bernstein of Richard Bernstein Advisors thinks we're not in a stock market bubble. "It seems to us that a necessary condition for an equity bubble is the overvaluation of the stocks most sensitive to the overall stock market’s movement," said Bernstein. "It seems very unrealistic that high beta stocks could be selling at historically conservative valuations if there really was an equity bubble underway." "Chart 1 shows the relative valuation of the stocks in the S&amp;P 500® with the highest betas (i.e., those stocks with the highest sensitivity to overall market movements) versus that of the stocks with the lowest betas (i.e., those with the lowest sensitivity). Despite claims that the equity market is in a bubble, it is low beta stocks and not high beta stocks that are selling at rich valuations. High beta stocks are actually close to record conservative relative valuations." Richard Bernstein Advisors Wells Fargo's Wealth, Brokerage And Retirement Units Get A Boost From Asset-Based Fees (Wells Fargo)  Wells Fargo's wealth, brokerage and retirement units saw Q4 profits jump 40% on the year and 9% on the quarter to $491 million. Revenue was up 11% on the year and 4% on the quarter to $3.4 billion "driven by higher asset-based fees, as well as increases in net interest income and brokerage transaction revenue." Client assets in the retail brokerage division were up 12% on the year to $1.4 trillion. In the wealth management division, client assets were up 7% on the year to $218 billion. Finally, IRA assets of $341 billion were up 15% on the year. FREE AppDownload
DoubleLine FundsJeffrey Gundlach has basically gone full contrarian for 2014. In a webcast earlier today, the bond fund veteran expressed views that are effectively the opposite of what the consensus expects. Wall Street sees healthy gains for the S&amp;P 500, but Gundlach expects volatility as the Federal Reserve tapers its extraordinary stimulus. He also said record high margin debt levels suggest the stock market may be topping. Economists expect tapering to push interest rates higher with the 10-year Treasury yield heading above 3.4% in the fourth quarter.  Gundlach thinks that rates head lower at least in the near-term.  He thinks the 10-year Treasury yield topped out at 3% and could go as low as 2.5%. Everybody hates gold and the gold miners. But Gundlach thinks that's where money can be made. The median forecaster sees the yellow metal falling to $1,220/oz this year. He sees gold rallying to $1,350/oz. Emerging markets face all kinds of headwinds ranging from inflation to falling currencies to slowing growth. "The value proposition is much more attractive than people say," he said as he noted the forecasters have been a year late on this story. Gundlach was speaking specifcally of bonds. Gundlach also said that Chipotle should drop 30%, Apple could go to $600, Bitcoin will fall further, and Puerto Rican and JC Penney debt are money-makers for anyone willing to stomach tons of volatility. As usual, Gundlach supported all of his views with a brief presentation featuring his hand-picked charts. Anyone who wants to understand how he thinks should spend a few minutes on these.
via VILLARD MICHEL RICHARDThe dining room at Villard Michel RichardNew York Times' food critic Pete Wells has just come out with a blistering review of the Bistro at Villard Michel Richard, the fancy new restaurant at the newly renovated New York Palace in Midtown. The Madison Avenue restaurant, which opened in October, looks as though it could be a two- or three-star eatery with chandeliers, gilded walls, and well-dressed diners. Plus, it is helmed by Michel Richard, one of the world's most respected chefs. In the words of Wells, "Michel Richard was serious. He would not have come to New York last fall to open an awful hotel restaurant." And yet, according to Wells, it seems that's exactly what he's done. The entire review is dripping with vitriol, and well worth a read. For those who want the gist, here are some of his most scathing lines: On the wine: "One night, when my table of three wanted a little Beaujolais, the sommelier tried to sell us a magnum. Another time, when I asked for help choosing among more than 80 German whites, a manager said apologetically that he didn’t know much about them, and that the people who did weren’t around." On the fried chicken: "Think of everything that’s great about fried chicken. Now take it all away. In its place, right between dried-out strands of gray meat and a shell of fried bread crumbs, imagine a gummy white paste about a quarter-inch deep. This unidentifiable paste coats your mouth until you can’t perceive textures or flavors. It is like edible Novocain." On the veal cheeks: "A classic blanquette is a gentle, reassuring white stew of sublimely tender veal. In this version, the veal cheeks had the dense, rubbery consistency of overcooked liver. Slithering around the meat was a terrifying sauce the color of jarred turkey gravy mixed with cigar ashes. If soldiers had killed Escoffier’s family in front of him and then forced him to make dinner, this is what he would have cooked." On the seafood pasta: "The seafood pasta, after all, is almost a direct quote from the 1980s, when doughy, gluey, overcooked fresh pasta and washed-out bits of unidentifiable seafood drooped in flavorless pink sauces. Of the same vintage, and just as bizarre, were the mushrooms under a tower of puff pastry ringed with cold, mud-colored sauce that tasted of uncooked wine. (If Villard Michel Richard doesn’t make it as a restaurant, it could reopen as the Museum of Unappetizing Brown Sauces.)" Wells reviewed only the Bistro (a la carte) portion of the restaurant, not the Gallery, where the 9-course tasting menu costs $185 per person. The last time Wells dropped such a scathing review on a restaurant, his target was Guy Fieri's Guy's American Bar and Grill, which included the zinger: "Hey, did you try that blue drink, the one that glows like nuclear waste? The watermelon margarita? Any idea why it tastes like some combination of radiator fluid and formaldehyde?" Do yourself a favor and read the entire review of Villard Michel Richard at The New York Times. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Elaine ThompsonDaniel Curylo, 41, has invested $400,000 in a cannabis business park northwest of Olympia, WA that would feature his growing operation, Cascade Crops, as well as retail stores run by his mother, father and aunt.When Washington state first legalized marijuana in 2012, some people expected a deluge of entrepreneurs to rush in to take over a wide-open industry. As legalization takes effect, new pot businesses are indeed starting to flourish in Washington. But entrepreneurs have to overcome some big challenges if they want to cash in on the “Green Rush.” Hilary Bricken, a founder of the Canna Law Group, has guided some of these folks through the thicket of regulations that entangle businesses selling a product that the federal government says is illegal. Bricken told Business Insider in a recent interview that the legal marijuana industry is uniquely open to small businesses — provided they can operate on a cash-only basis. Banks typically don't deal with marijuana businesses, even in states where it's legal, because they fear retaliation from the federal government. Consequently, these businesses often can't take checks or credit cards like other businesses. Pot shops also get a raw deal from the IRS, which says they have to pay taxes but can't deduct most expenses because they're selling something that's "illegal." Despite the difficult situation,  Bricken thinks the reward could be worth the risk. Here’s what Bricken had to say about the industry: BI: Have you seen a marked increase in businesses as legalization gets closer? HB: That is a resoundingly, large yes … It has increased exponentially. Four years ago, we had 50 regular clients. Now, we have over 200. BI: Will the industry be made up of small or large businesses?Courtesy Of Hilary BrickenHilary Bricken, of the Canna Law Group. HB: On the whole, mostly garage startups [such as growers, processors, retailers, software providers, and supporting businesses]. The maximum size you will see is middle-tier. You are not going to see R.J. Reynolds Tobacco or Philip Morris jump in yet. So long as marijuana remains a federal crime, it’s not a big enough target for them. The industry is not lucrative enough. When you are answering to investors and you invest in a federal crime, it is very likely you will see a lawsuit at the end of the day against the board of directors. It's a potentially massive loss of investment if you make yourself a big enough target. Smaller business owners have a unique opportunity to proliferate in this cottage industry, develop their brand, and then when the federal prohibition falls — which I'm confident it will — position themselves for a huge acquisition. At the heart of it, Philip Morris doesn't know how to grow pot. When the time comes, they will buy out the farmer. That is realizable in the future [if the federal government legalizes pot].   BI: What legal issues are the businesses you work with having? HB: On the state level, the businesses have been told to go forth and be real businesses and bring in tax revenue, but the state hasn’t equipped the businesses with all the tools to accomplish that because of the federal prohibition [on marijuana]. Businesses cannot bank or gain financing through a federally chartered entity, and it's very difficult for them to pay taxes. There is a provision in the federal tax code that says illegal businesses are still taxable and they can’t take deductions. That’s crippling for businesses. BI: Do you think the money politicians promised — the state estimated $600 million annually in tax revenue— is going to materialize? HB: The money that people are expecting to come out of this will materialize at a very regular rate. The problem is accommodating those funds and allowing those businesses to perform. Do I think Washington is going to net billions of revenue in the first two years? No.   The revenue will be realized, but if the state wants it to be as robust as it can be, they need to push the federal government for tax reform and federal banking laws.  If these businesses cannot maintain bank accounts, their full performance will never be realized. Although we have seen entrepreneurs successfully operate on an all-cash basis, it's wildly inconvenient and expensive.  AP Photo/Ted S. WarrenSteve Smith, 29, has worked as security for multiple dispensaries in Washington and is now applying to open a retail marijuana shop in Tacoma. Because dispensaries are cash-only, they must hire security to protect their goods and cash. BI: Does the lack of legitimate banking and tax codes have a chilling effect on investment? HB: Yes, there is a chilling effect. Locals are, for the most part, the only ones turned on by the prospect [of investing in marijuana], because they've watched how the federal government has behaved in the state of Washington. In Washington, we have a political topography, as well as a geographic. There are two different U.S. attorneys, one in eastern Washington and one in western Washington. [These lawyers work for the federal government, which prohibits pot.] The attorney for the West is located in Seattle and is very liberal and very relaxed when it comes to enforcement. The one in the East is located in Spokane. The Eastern part of the state is a red state and, because of that, the attorney is very conservative and vigilant with enforcement. An investor in Spokane is probably going to be less enthusiastic than an investor in Seattle.  AP Photo/Elaine ThompsonMarla Molly Poiset, 59. a Le Cordon Bleu-trained French pastry chef, has been developing recipes for marijuana-infused chocolate truffles and pastries for recreational and medical use. She is one of many small business owners that could hit it big in Washington’s marijuana economy. BI: What are some of the more interesting businesses you've worked with? HB: The run-of-the-mill client is producer, processor, or retailer. One of the more interesting companies I’m working with is creating a medicated patch, like a nicotine patch for marijuana. Clever companies that find new ways to use marijuana are the most interesting to me. With marijuana, you are seeing all kinds of vehicles for how it will be getting used.`I think those are the companies that are going to do really well.   Auxiliary businesses, like WeedMaps (Yelp for dispensaries) and Leafly (WebMD + Yelp for marijuana) will do really well also. They are taking over that grey area gap, where they are facilitating marijuana exploration but not committing a federal crime.  BI: Will there be a Budweiser of pot? HB: Not in the first two years, because of the way our rules are written. Our state is trying to keep it small. Once the rules are relaxed and full-blown lobbying takes place in a realistic way, you could see a Budweiser of pot trot out. FREE AppDownload
He's not trying to make a buck, he's trying to make a point. But in a little over a week, a programmer named "Hendo" has created the most valuable digital currency in the world. It's called 42Coin, and one of them is already worth 1,000 Bitcoin, according to Cryptsy, which added the digital currency to its board yesterday. As of this afternoon, one Bitcoin was trading around $900, meaning one 42Coin is worth about $900,000. A full 42Coin has yet to be mined, and the prices are scaled up from the fractions of 42Coin that have been transacted (so don't worry, no one has actually yet spent $900,000 on one of these babies).  Here's the chart — again, the "price" in the left-vertical axis is in Bitcoin, not dollars:  Cryptsy In an interview from his home in central Illinois, Hendo, who describes himself as a programmer and "professional [digital coin] miner" — he makes about $60 a day — explained why the coin is so valuable, although if you don't subscribe to the intrinsic value theory of digital currencies, you're unlikely to be satisfied with his response: Because only 42 full coins will ever be mined, they are among the most scarce coins on the market. "It's unique — you'll never see a full coin," he said. Indeed, despite being more than a week old, the network has yet to mine a full coin. "It's like seeing a goddman unicorn," he said. He added that it's also "faster," meaning it takes less time for a transaction in 42Coin — and there haven't been many — to be confirmed on the network. While Bitcoin confirmations can take 10 minutes, and Litecoin ones two minutes, 42Coin transactions take 42 seconds. "So speed sets it apart too."  But the project is not about money, he said, though admitted to owning some of the fractions of 42Coin that have been created himself, though insists most of it will be used for promotional purposes.  Rather, it's meant to be a lesson about the digital currency world. As part of the launch, Hendo published a lucid critique of the monopolization problem in Bitcoin. Too often, he told us, new digital currencies are instantly monopolized by powerful mining pools, who then are able to effectively dictate prices to late joiners (we've been reporting on this recently). The code for 42Coin, he said, was written in such a way that when powerful mining groups enter the 42Coin mining network, it instantly becomes more difficult to create units of the currency. When these groups leave, it gets easier. "I'm trying to keep everything clean," he said. "And I'd like this to be the precedent for all future coin launches. I see a lot of people getting cheated. It's wrong,"  So why is it called 42 coin? There are only 42 of them. The number was made famous by Douglas Adams in "The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy," but the other half was that Hendo is a fan of Jackie Robinson. Which confirms another theory about digital currencies: all celebrities will someday get their own. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew BurtonRetail sales climbed 0.2% in December, and core retail sales ex-autos were up 0.6% on the month beating expectations. But everything retailers have said suggests otherwise. In fact, most of them seem to have had a rough go of it this holiday season.  Many were hit by slower sales as shoppers didn't make it to the stores till closer to the Christmas holiday. And competitive holiday sales impacted overall performance. This prompted a string of retailers to cut guidance. Some like Macy's didn't report an earnings hit, but announced job cuts and store closures. We included commentary from the retailers wherever possible. Here's a quick round-up: Meanwhile, J.C. Penney investors punished the stock after the company merely noted that it was "pleased" with its holiday performance but refrained from releasing any numbers. We saw November's retail sales revised down, and we'll see if December's numbers are revised down. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff Kowalsky/FilesGM has announced a dividend of $0.30 a share. It's the automaker's first dividend since May 2008. Over the weekend, GM execs hinted the dividend was coming but did not specify a timetable. In 2009, the U.S. government took over management of the firm as it faced bankruptcy. It re-floated its shares in 2010 with the largest IPO in U.S. history. Last month, the Treasury department sold its last share of GM equity. U.S. taxpayers took a $10.5 billion loss. Shares are up 3% in after-hours trading. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben SprichWith stock market correlations down, 2014 is likely to reward the savvy investors who know how to pick stocks. "Several signals suggest that a more cyclical portfolio orientation is appropriate for 2014," Citi's Tobias Levkovich wrote in a note to clients. "While a positive posture has been in place for improved IT spending, various lead indicators intimate better overall capex trends in coming months, including attractive funding costs to business surveys and recent economic data points."  Levkovich is "a bit more reserved on Insurance after near 50% outperformance in 2013," but he still likes financial stocks, specifically diversifieds and REITs. Citi's equity strategy department picked out 23 stocks for its US Equity Strategy Recommended List. It includes everything from Starbucks to eBay. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael Dalder Peter Prevc from Slovenia soars through the air during the practice for the first jumping of the 62nd four-hills ski jumping tournament in Germany.What a day for Tesla. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer  Francois Hollande probably had a horrible day today. After giving a long speech on France's economic situation and his plan for reform, the people in the room only wanted to ask about his love life. Last week Closer Magazine, a French publication formerly known for publishing pictures of a topless Kate Middleton, published photographs that appeared to show the French President riding a motorbike across the city to spend the night with a 41-year-old actress, Julie Gayet. French first lady Valerie Trierweiler is reported to have been hospitalized for fatigue following the revelations. The affair was the only real reason the world's press was watching the press conference, but Hollande refused to answer questions about the alleged affair, only saying that he was having a "difficult moment" and that that "private matters should be dealt with privately." Of course, that won't satiate anyone, and it's a big problem for Hollande. His presidency is beginning to look like a disaster, with the economy in terrible shape, his popularity continuing to set record lows, and a Dutch newspaper even making fun of his handshake. Is there any hope? Well, there's a glimmer: If you're going to be a politician having an affair, France is certainly the place to do it. Not only is there a history of it (Valérie Giscard d'Estaing, François Mitterrand, Jacques Chirac, and Nicolas Sarkozy have all been accused) but the French public seems to have a remarkable tolerance for it. When Pew Research Center surveyed citizens of different countries about infidelity last year, they found that a median of 79% felt affairs were morally unacceptable. By far the lowest recorded number was in France, where just 47% called it unacceptable. Pew Global Research Could it be working already? According to one poll, the French president's approval ratings have grown by 2% since the scandal broke. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderJeff GundlachJeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Funds just held a public webcast. The bond god unveiled his outlook for the markets and economy in 2014. "They say things are fast-moving in the year of the horse," he said, referencing the Chinese zodiac. As the Federal Reserve tapers its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds, Gundlach thinks there is likely to be much more volatility in 2014 than 2013. He doesn't see stocks delivering the 30% returns of 2013. In the near-term, he sees Treasury yields going lower with the 10-year yield possibly going as low as 2.5%. Gundlach sees opportunity in gold and gold mining stocks.  He thinks the yellow metal could see $1,350/oz this year.    "Do not sell your gold. If you want to speculate, I would be on the long side of the miners." "Bitcoin to me is a bit of a mirage." Maybe one day it'll take hold.      "The next employment report will be extremely important." If you thought weather hit the last report, it'll definitely hit the next one. Driver-less cars are also cool. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Risk TakersMichael Lewis, the acclaimed author of "The Big Short" and "Liar's Poker," has written a new book about Wall Street, The New York Times reports. The book is called "Flash Boys." From the Times: The book, titled “Flash Boys,” will be released by W.W. Norton &amp; Company on March 31. A spokeswoman for Norton said the new book “is squarely in the realm of Wall Street.” Starling Lawrence, Mr. Lewis’s editor, said in a statement: “Michael is brilliant at finding the perfect narrative line for any subject. That’s what makes his books, no matter the topic, so indelibly memorable.” Lewis, who also writes for Vanity Fair, is one of the most popular business journalists around these days. Read the full report at The New York Times » FREE AppDownload
On Monday, Michael Bloomberg went back to work at his own company, Bloomberg, after spending 12 years as New York City's Mayor. Now we are fairly certain that some things about his work style have stayed the same — like how you will still probably find him sitting at his cubicle by 7:00 am unless he has a meeting. But some things have clearly changed. For example, Bloomberg has dispensed with the cashmere pull-over sweaters and stepped up his dress game. Sure, Mayor Mike rocked a suit for important guests/occasions, but the day to day in City Hall was not this dressy. Check out the fresh suit he's rocking in this picture, tweeted out by Bloomberg Businessweek's Josh Tyrangiel: Me and @Justin_B_Smith, just briefing the new guy, @MikeBloomberg. pic.twitter.com/0Dh42O5kTs AP Photo   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Price ChambersKevin WarshWhat would happen if a major U.S. bank called up its favorite regulator and said it was going to have trouble opening tomorrow? "There's no way the government let's them fail," said former Federal Reserve governor Kevin Warsh. "And the market knows they wouldn't." Speaking at a Reuters Breakingviews panel alongside Blackstone's Tony James and M&amp;A advisor Paul Taubman, Warsh said that Dodd-Frank hasn't done much to curb "too big to fail," the buzzword that dogged Wall Street and Washington during the financial crisis. "I'm not afraid of having big banks," Warsh said, adding that we need to have small banks that can go big and big banks that can lose market share without the system collapsing. Instead, today's biggest banks know they'll be at the top forever, Warsh said. Warsh, who served as a Federal Reserve governor during the crisis, says his former colleague Janet Yellen has the necessary tools to lead the Fed through a trying time. But the Fed's signature monetary policy tool of quantitative easing is "quickly outliving its usefulness," Warsh said, and he suspects those at the Fed know it. It remains to be seen whether markets will take to forward guidance — or "open mouth operations" — like they did QE, Warsh said. The Fed will have to calm markets into believing guidance on future interest rates is somewhat equal to $85 billion in purchases. But overall, Warsh said the Fed — and monetary policy — is "not a good repair shop" for what needs to be done in Washington regarding fiscal issues and tax, trade, and immigration reform. The president should "spend political capital" to get these measures through, according to Warsh, who added that he hoped the president uses his upcoming State of the Union address to highlight those policies. FREE AppDownload
The VP of sales said at the Detroit Auto Show that this is up 20% from previous guidance. In its Q3 earnings report, Tesla said it expected to deliver fewer than 6,000 vehicles in Q4. This is up from the 5,500 Model S vehicles delivered last quarter when Tesla was producing 550 cars per week. Tesla's stock took a beating at the time because Model S deliveries missed analyst expectations. Q4 demand was given a nice boost by "the superlative safety record of the Model S and great performance under extremely cold conditions," according to a press release. CEO Elon Musk has previously said Tesla was "production constrained" not demand constrained. Supply bottle necks have weighed on the stock and Tesla's partnership with Panasonic seems to have paid off, as the higher than expected number of cars were manufactured because of "an excellent effort by the Tesla production team and key suppliers, particularly Panasonic." Tesla did not issue 2014 guidance but it did say that its "sales and service footprint should double in 2013," according to Bloomberg. Baird has raised Tesla to outperform with a price target of $187, Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz told Business Insider. "We believe production is stronger than anticipated and TSLA’s initial 2014 Model S delivery guidance could be higher than Street estimates," Baird analyst Ben Kallo said in a note to clients. "Additionally, TSLA remains several years ahead of competitors in battery technology and continues to make progress in ramping production and margin improvement. Although the NHTSA investigation remains an overhang, we believe there are several upcoming catalysts and would be buyers of the stock at current levels." Here's a look at the surge immediately after the announcement. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
NestNest. By Google.Yesterday, Google made a bold acquisition, swallowing red-hot home-automation gadget company Nest for $3.2 billion. Nest makes connected thermostats and smoke detectors. It was founded by Tony Fadell, one of the guys who designed Apple's iPod. Nest products look like Apple products. Nest products are beloved by people who love Apple products. Nest products are sold in Apple stores. Nest, in short, looked like a perfect acquisition for Apple, which is struggling to find new product lines to expand into and has a mountain of cash rotting away on its balance sheet with which it could buy things. But Apple didn't buy Nest. Google did. And this appears to continue a pattern in which — in the bitter head-to-head battle between Apple and Google — Google is fixing its weaknesses (hardware) much faster than Apple is fixing its own weaknesses (software and services). At first glance, in other words, it appears that Google's aggressiveness has once again caught Apple snoozing. And now a company that looked to be a perfect future division of Apple is gone for good. This isn't to say that Nest doesn't have problems. It does. Like many other people, I was seduced by the sexy design, remote app control, and hyperventilating gadget-site reviews of Nest's thermostat. So I bought one. Then I read all the actual-user reviews in which Nest customers had discovered that the Nest thermostat looked nice but suddenly went haywire and boiled or froze their houses. Nest, some Amazon reviewers said, was all form and no function. It looked pretty, but it couldn't do what even a $10 hardware store thermostat could do, which was reliably control the temperature in your house. One prominent tech guru, John Borthwick, recently complained on Twitter that a Nest thermostat failure had led to a frozen (and busted) pipe in his house. And our Senior Tech editor, Jay Yarow, discovered that the only way to stop his house from turning into a sauna was to rip his Nest off the wall. (After a couple of hours on the phone with tech support, Jay was finally referred to an electrician. The electrician came to his house, ran new wiring, and fixed the Nest, which was supposed to have been an easy self-install). Anyway, after hearing of all these problems, I have been too frightened to actually install the Nest I bought. So I don't know whether it will work or not. But it does look cool. And the "remote-control life" aspect of it is really cool. Someday soon, most of the equipment in our lives will likely be controllable from our tablets, laptops, and smartphones — and Google being in the laptop, tablet, smartphone, and Internet services business makes it an obvious buyer for Nest. Of course, Apple is in the laptop, tablet, smartphone, and Internet services business, too. And it needs to develop new product lines. So even if Tony Fadell and Apple design god Jony Ive hate each other, as some have suggested, it still seems like Apple should have bought Nest. SEE ALSO: Why Didn't Apple Buy Nest? Because They Hate Each Other FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan Chase (JPM) may have officially missed Wall Street’s earnings consensus this morning, but the report was better than the market ACTUALLY expected. And the data suggests JPM stock price will drift upward relative to the broader market, not down over the next three days. Here’s why. The information below is derived from data submitted to the Estimize platform by a set of Buy Side and Independent analyst contributors. Estimize Before the market opened this morning JP Morgan Chase reported $1.30 earnings per share while the Wall Street consensus was $1.34. A set of buy side and independent contributing analysts at Estimize were expecting $1.26, so JPM actually beat the consensus from investors. Sell-side estimates are plagued by a couple of biases which hinder accuracy. One of which is a misalignment of incentives, the primary motivation of a sell side analyst is NOT to be accurate, it’s job-security. This bias comes from a “don’t stray from the herd” mentality. As long as the sell-side keeps their estimates in-line with one another, then no one can be singled out for poor performance and the result is a less accurate consensus that does not reflect what the market actually expects. That’s why Leigh Drogen launched Estimize. By tapping into a wider range of contributors including hedge-fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, students, and non professional investors Estimize has created a data set that is up to 69.5% more accurate than Wall Street, but increased accuracy is just icing on the cake. The real value of the Estimize data set comes from the fact that it better represents the market’s expectations. In order to to come up with the best possible forecast Estimize crowd sources data from over 3,400 contributors. Confidence ratings for each user are calculated through algorithms developed by deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. This morning the Estimize consensus was only calling for $1.26, which JPM beat by 4c per share despite missing Wall Street’s consensus. Estimize has released a whitepaper which has been confirmed by an independent academic study from Rice University which shows that if you benchmark against the broader market, a stock’s post earnings drift over the 3 days after reporting earnings is more highly correlated to the Estimize consensus than to the Street’s. That means that over the next three days, it’s reasonable to expect JPM stock price to push higher, not lower. Get access to estimates for JPM, follow the expectations for earnings season, and register for free to make your own estimates to see how you stack up to Wall Street by heading over to Estimize now. FREE AppDownload
Jim EdwardsDocuments filed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said that  Tesla had issued a formal recall for a plug that risks overheating during charging, according to Bloomberg. The defect was said to be found in fewer than 3% of 29,222 adapters. Tesla spokesperson Liz Jarvis-Shean told Business Insider this was announced Friday, and said "the term 'recall' is outdated." "No vehicles are being physically recalled by Tesla," she said in an email response. "We issued a software update in December 2013 and as an additional measure will be sending an upgraded NEMA 14-50 adapter by mail to customers.  As a result, Tesla owners do not need to physically come to a Tesla store or service center."  And here's what Elon Musk just tweeted: Some confusion in media reports today. No Tesla vehicles are being physically recalled by Tesla. FREE AppDownload
Suntimes.comThe Chicago Sun-Times, the ninth-largest newspaper in the country, is trying out a Bitcoin paywall. Starting Feb. 1, for 24 hours, readers will be able to donate some amount of Bitcoins, or confirm that they've Tweeted about a nonprofit called The Taproot Foundation, to access the site. According to TheDomains.com — the first to report the experiment — the goal is to test the functionality and acceptance of Bitcoins on the site. The paywall will be set up by BitWall, which helps set up micropayment platforms for online publishers. The Taproot Foundation that connects professionals with pro bono work opportunities at other nonprofits. It will get the proceeds from the experiment. “We continue to experiment and test new technologies that we believe engage our readers and look forward to being the first major USA newspaper to test a Bitcoin-based paywall,” Jim Kirk, the publisher and editor-in-chief of the Sun-Times, said in a statement. We saw the story on Poynter. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg), Morgan Stanley Research"Probably to sum it up in one chart: pleasure boats, planes, and recreational vehicles."—Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner on what the wealthy are spending their money on.In a new video note to clients, Morgan Stanley economist Ellen Zentner and chief U.S. equity strategist Adam Parker discuss the possibility of trickle-down economics making a comeback in 2014. "We all remember Reaganomics and the trickle-down effect, and one of the themes for 2014 is: will we see that this year?" asks Zentner. She cites the well-documented divergence in consumer confidence and consumer spending across income groups: confidence and spending is rising for high-income earners — alongside prices — whereas it's going nowhere for low-income earners. "For the trickle-down effect to happen, companies are going to have to start hiring more, because we're going to have to shift that wealth down to the lower-income households in some way," says Zentner. However, Parker doesn't expect companies to really pick up hiring dramatically any time soon. "I think demand is not quite strong enough and companies aren't quite confident enough to have huge head count additions," he says. "We have seen some growth in the head count year over year. It's certainly better than the previous few years. But 50% of that growth in jobs has come in the consumer sector — in consumer discretionary and in consumer staples. I don't know if that's really going to be sustainable, growing at that rate." And if companies don't hire, that should help provide continued support to corporate profit margins. "We want margins to stay high — that's what makes stocks work," says Parker. "If hiring stays pretty muted, then the market can continue to do well, because one of the things we're worried about is companies putting costs in place that turn out not to be merited." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauNothing ignites American patriotism quite like the foreign acquisition of a beloved brand. So yesterday, when Japanese liquor giant Suntory announced it is purchasing Beam Inc. — which distills Jim Beam and Maker's Mark — Americans did the only thing that seemed right. They complained on social media. And people hit Beam where it hurt, by threatening to switch to Jack Daniel's. Jim Beam sold to a Japanese company??? C'mon people, this is Merica!!! Jack Daniels would never pull that crap... Jim Beam bought out by Japan company for 13 billion. Smh I will never drink that shit. That's why I always drank Jack Daniels! Jim beam bought by a japanese company. 1 more reason 2 drink Jack Daniels. . Makers mark and jim beam are now owned by a giant Japanese company. Looks like jack Daniels is my new favorite whiskey Jim Beam and Marker's Mark sold to the Japs! Quite alright, I'll just stick to my American Jack Daniels. #homeofthebrave Switching back to Jack Daniels. Jim Beam now owned by a foreign company.. Some Japanese people have bought out Jim Beam. Everybody start buying Jack Daniels. This would never happen to Jack Daniels. http://t.co/evjWmVwRsW Jim Beam being bought by a Japanese Company?? Well there goes my Egg Nog! Switching to Jack Daniels. This style of nationalism might be a little misplaced. Shouldn't we be proud that foreign companies want to buy American brands? Presumably, Suntory bought Jim Beam because they liked it. It's the same reason that Budweiser still feels pretty American years after it merged with Belgian InBev. Plus, people might be surprised to learn what's already foreign-owned. "Consider 7-11 stores, Popsicle ice pops, and Frigidaire appliances," writes the New Yorker's Vauhini Vara. "All American icons that are owned, respectively, by Japanese, Anglo-Dutch, and Swedish companies." From the New Yorker: Certain brands serve as especially potent symbols of American culture; Budweiser and Jim Beam, each more than a century old, are among them. When foreign companies move to acquire such brands, it naturally triggers a cultural anxiety about the decline of American influence. (In a December report, the Pew Research Center found that more than half of the people it surveyed believed that the U.S. “plays a less important and powerful role as a world leader than it did a decade ago.”) And as Vara notes, if anything, Suntory wants to spread American whiskey to the rest of the world. Maybe that should be a source of pride. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kieran DohertyBondi Beach, SydneyMarkets are up today, recovering some of yesterday's big losses. The Dow is up 75 points (+0.5%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 14 points (+0.8%), and the Nasdaq is up 50 points (+1.2%) Earlier today, we learned retail sales grew by 0.2% in December, which was a faster pace than the 0.1% expected by economists. Excluding autos and gas, core sales accelerated to 0.6% growth from 0.3% in November. Here's Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey with some color: "So what were consumers putting in their shopping carts in December? We already got the car and light truck sales ahead of today’s retail sales report that showed sales falling to a 15.3 million annual rate in December from a post-recession high of 16.3 million in November. Furniture and building materials down 0.4%. Electronics down 2.5%. Food and beverages up 2%. Health and personal care items up 0.6%. Many of the declining categories of sales like sporting goods came after a few months of solid gains. The standout is internet sales, the so-called non-store retailers, up 1.4% in December and 14% for the year. The internet had a good holiday anyway." FREE AppDownload
China has some interesting matchmaking and dating practices. There are love hunters who track down potential wives for China's richest bachelors and there are "leftover women," who are criticized for being older than 27 and unmarried. In some cases, when a male dies too young, families have "ghost marriages," exhuming female corpses and marrying the pair. So, it's natural for many young Chinese to want to allay their parents' anxiety over their single-dom. And now they can take to Alibaba-owned online retailer Taobao, tweets George Chen at South China Morning Post. That's the equivalent of shopping for a date on Amazon or eBay.  People's Daily reported that use of these services picks up around Single's Day and Chinese New Year which is expected to fall around Jan. 30 this year. So we thought we'd have a look at just how Taobao's rent-a-boyfriend feature works. If you look to rent a boyfriend, 301 listings pop up and rates vary from 300 yuan a day to 8.80 yuan, though that gentleman hasn't said if it's an hourly rate: Taobao The users understandably don't always provide a name, and some don't even put in a photo of themselves. Taobao Once you've picked a "boyfriend" you'd like to date, you can click on his profile and look at the services he offers and so on. The arrow on top shows that he "ships to" Guangzhou but is willing to travel nationally too. The arrow below shows the section in which he describes himself and the services he's willing to offer. He describes himself as kind, as someone who likes dogs, and someone whom parents like. He also says it will cost more if the renter needs him to drink or dress a certain way. Taobao You can also look up reviews that potential "boyfriend" has received. This one seems to have chalked up two, though it's hard to tell if they're real or not. Taobao Finally you can also see how he's shaped up. This guy's profile suggests there were ten attempts at renting him, though only two appear to have been successful. Taobao Meanwhile, if you try to rent a girlfriend the site brings up a message that loosely translates to "according to related laws and regulations we can not show search results for rent a girlfriend." Sorry fellas, you're going to have go the more traditional route. Taobao FREE AppDownload
People often have strong feelings about how much different types of professionals should earn. Notably, a driving factor in the Occupy Wall Street movement was the belief that corporate executives and finance workers earned far more than their fair share. In a new Business Insider/SurveyMonkey Audience poll, we showed the mean income for about 50 occupations to about 400 respondents and asked them to rate these jobs as very overpaid, somewhat overpaid, paid about right, somewhat underpaid, or very underpaid. The results were not exactly surprising. 77.3% of people said that financial managers, with a mean income of $123,260, were very or somewhat overpaid. CEOs, financial analysts, real estate brokers, lawyers, and other professionals were not far behind. 89.9% of people said that agricultural workers, with a mean income of $21,920, were very or somewhat underpaid. Jobs in childcare, restaurants, factories, and schools were among the most underpaid jobs. Check it out: Mike Nudelman / Business Insider Popular opinion has a limited effect on income in America, but it is worth considering. Politicians can promote equality through policies like a higher minimum wage and higher taxes on the rich, and companies might consider raising wages themselves to build goodwill and a stronger workforce in the long run or if the government paid them to do it. We also asked a different set of respondents to rate jobs without showing them mean income, which for many high end jobs produced stronger opinions that those jobs are overpaid, suggesting that people think things are more unbalanced than they really are. Our full survey results are embedded below.  Thumbnail image from maxintosh via Flickr creative commons.
As I previously noted, there is a remarkably close fit between the EM MSCI (in dollars) and the CRB raw industrials spot price index. They both peaked at the start of 2011, fell sharply early that year, and have been fluctuating in flat trends since then. In recent years, rapid growth in the EMs has increased not only standards of living but also income inequality. The result has been social unrest. The response by employers and governments has been to increase wages. Both problems have squeezed profit margins. The forward margin of the EM MSCI dropped from 8.4% at the start of 2011 to 6.4% at the start of this year. There’s a third problem for emerging markets. The EM MSCI is also highly correlated with the inverse of the trade-weighted foreign-exchange value of the dollar. The dollar has been on a strengthening trend since early 2011, which coincided with the underperformance of the EM MSCI. It is likely to remain on that course if the US economy continues to grow fast enough to allow the Fed to taper QE and terminate it by the end of this year, as Debbie and I expect. In addition, the euro is likely to weaken if the ECB responds to recent deflationary risks by injecting more liquidity into the Eurozone banking system. Furthermore, the Bank of Japan will most likely continue to pursue ultra-easy monetary policy aimed at weakening the yen. (Yesterday’s FT had an excellent article explaining why “a strengthening US currency spells calamity once again for emerging market.”)  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Advancing &amp; Submerging Markets. (1) OECD leading indicators predicting better global growth ahead. (2) Better for advanced than emerging economies. (3) Good news for revenues. (4) Japan’s leading indicator gives thumbs up to Abenomics. (5) Eurozone’s peripheral countries leading upturn in region’s leading index. (6) BRICs remain below par. (7) Will EMs underperform again this year? (8) Margin squeeze as commodity super-cycle ends and labor costs rise. (9) EMs need a weak dollar to outperform, but may not get it. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload

Everyone's jumping into the stock market bubble debate lately. Goldman Sachs and Nuveen's Bob Doll both argue confidently that we're not in a bubble. Stock market veteran Rich Bernstein would agree. Among other things, Bernstein noted that high-beta stocks are actually trading below their historical valuations. (Beta measures a stock's sensitivity to the market.  High beta stocks tend to exhibit amplified moves relative to the market.) "It seems to us that a necessary condition for an equity bubble is the overvaluation of the stocks most sensitive to the overall stock market’s movement," said Bernstein. "It seems very unrealistic that high beta stocks could be selling at historically conservative valuations if there really was an equity bubble underway." Bernstein published this chart of price-earnings ratios for high beta stocks and low beta stocks. Chart 1 shows the relative valuation of the stocks in the S&amp;P 500® with the highest betas (i.e., those stocks with the highest sensitivity to overall market movements) versus that of the stocks with the lowest betas (i.e., those with the lowest sensitivity). Despite claims that the equity market is in a bubble, it is low beta stocks and not high beta stocks that are selling at rich valuations. High beta stocks are actually close to record conservative relative valuations. It's pretty compelling. As you can see, the high beta stocks traded at significant premiums during the last to bubbles and crashes. Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
David Rubenstein, founder of one of the most powerful private equity firms in the world, The Carlyle Group, has a message for all the young people on Wall Street concerned about burning out on long hours. It's about love (via CNBC's Carl Quintanilla): "If you love what you do, it's not 'work'" - Carlyle's David Rubenstein, on banking interns' workload. @CNBC @SquawkCNBC That tweet sparked a pretty interesting Twitter conversation, with one respondent telling the story of how he was once called in at 10:00 pm on Christmas Eve to prepare a model for a deal. It's not like interns (especially) are doing high level work either. They're putting together pitch books and making sure that everything is in order for their bosses when they have to meet with clients. That's part of the reason that interns have to work when senior bankers get to go home. Good to know that, Rubenstein, one of the guy's at the top can understand and sympathize with their predicament. One veteran trader (not investment banker, there's a difference) told Business Insider that, as a junior, he remembers his friends in investment banking coming home at 5 am, sleeping for a few hours, and then taking a car back to work. He thought they were nuts. "My perception of i-bankers has always been that they want to make a lot of money without a lot of risk," he said. "But they all fail to realize that wasting time is the biggest risk of all." That's some Wall Street real talk right there. FREE AppDownload
Nuveen Asset ManagementBob DollNuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll recently unveiled his 10 predictions for 2014. And today, he's sharing with us a way to invest based on that framework. It comes via the Nuveen 2014 Equity Outlook Portfolio. From the description: The portfolio will be designed by professionals at Nuveen Asset Management (Nuveen), an independent investment advisor specializing in a broad range of innovative investment strategies. The seasoned equity portfolio team at Nuveen brings decades of investment experience. The portfolio will be based on the market outlook of Chief Equity Strategist and Senior Portfolio Manager Bob Doll, CFA, a highly respected investor and author of a wide variety of on-going market commentaries and perspectives, including his annual Ten Predictions. Nuveen will select securities for the portfolio based on Bob Doll’s 2014 Ten Predictions and in conjunction with Nuveen’s integrated fundamental research platform... "Skepticism about the durability of the equity rally remains widespread as many argue that stocks have become expensive and that profit margins are unsustainably high," said Doll last week. "We think those potential headwinds will limit, but not prevent gains, and perhaps cause more volatility than was experienced last year. While stocks are vulnerable to a correction any time given their recent strength and some technical deterioration, we continue to favor a moderate pro-growth posture with forward long-term potential to mid- to high- single-digit annual percentage gains." With all that in mind, here's what Doll's 25-stock portfolio looks like. Nuveen Asset Management FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVLakshman AchuthanLakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) got a lot of praise and attention for predicting recent recessions, which were subsequently confirmed by the NBER. However, it's Achuthan's latest recession call that's made him the target of immense criticism. Back in 2011 he said that the U.S. was doomed for a recession. And in late 2012, he said that the recession started in mid-2012. He had been reiterating that mid-2012 call, noting that the economic data collection agencies have a long track record of having to make big revisions to past data. Achuthan provided an update today. From an email to Business Insider: We're not budging from our call. Looking back, the epicenter of the recession was the half-year spanning Q4 2012 and Q1 2013, which saw just 0.6% annual GDP growth, mostly from a freak jump in agricultural inventories (w/out which it would be 1/4 percent). For the early quarters of last few recessions there were massive gyrations of two-to-four percentage points in GDP prints, generally downward, due to very belated revisions. So GDP for Q4 and Q1 could easily end up negative after revisions... That's likely not going to quiet Achuthan's critics as it appears he is fudging his timeline. To be fair, saying the center of the recession was a year ago doesn't necessarily conflict with his call that it began in mid-2012. However it does conflict with the NBER, who hasn't said there has been a recession, and the BEA, who hasn't reported two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth. Moving past that old recession call, Achuthan also updated us on his take on the current status on the economy. And he's not optimistic. ECRI"Today there’s a pervasive view that U.S. growth is about to take off and reach escape velocity, which is why so many want to just ignore the December jobs data, saying it’ll be revised away," he said. "Our analysis strongly suggests the current consensus that the economy stands on verge of taking off is wrong." To the right, you'll see the dramatic chart Achuthan has on the ECRI website. Here's his commentary: OK, let’s pretend December didn’t happen, and focus on the trends. In the preceding 12 months we created 194K payroll jobs per month, but only 101K per month according to the household survey. Which is telling us the truth? Remember, the 12-month average of job growth has been revised down substantially over the past decade for payroll jobs, but hardly at all for the household survey, only 1/25th as much (see attached chart). And something that nobody seems to have noticed is that the household survey, adjusted to the payroll concept, actually shows a decline in employment since the summer. Bottom line: even ignoring the December jobs data the trends are getting noticeably worse, especially for data not subject to major revision. So, throw whatever bullish signs you want to Achuthan. He's just not buying it. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Umit BektasJP Morgan reported its fourth quarter earnings results this morning, beating analyst estimates by $0.03 with an adjusted earnings per share of $1.40. But this is banking, people, so that's not the whole story. First off, it's important to note that one-time legal expenses knocked $0.27 per share off JPM's earnings per share this quarter. However, the bank was able to make up for that by selling Chase Manhattan Plaza and by selling Visa shares. If (as Eric Holder and Preet Bharara have promised) the DOJ keeps up its deluge of lawsuits against the bank, JPM will have to keep digging for things to sell to make up for those legal fees. That said — there were two sectors of JP Morgan's business had a rather nasty go of it in Q4. First off, there was the bank's mortgage banking unit, where net income was $562 million, an increase of $144 million, or 34%. Sounds good, except the reason JPM was able to squeeze out that cash was because of lower expenses, and $782 million the bank set aside to provide for credit losses.  Net revenue was actually down $1.1 billion from the prior year, to $2.2 billion. Interest income was also down 5% to $1 billion, and noninterest income was also down $1 billion to $1.1 billion "driven by lower mortgage fees and related income." And then there's mortgage origination, which saw a pretax loss of "$274 million, a decrease of $1.1 billion from the prior year, reflecting lower volumes, lower margins and higher legal expense, partially offset by lower repurchase losses." It's worth noting that production expense here was also very high due to legal fees, and that the bank offset this, in part, by cutting compensation. This is an ongoing trend we saw last quarter, as higher interest rates made consumers less interested in getting a mortgage. This quarter isn't as bad as that one, but we're still seeing lower volumes here and it's impacting JPM's business. The second sector that got hit hard this quarter was JP Morgan's investment banking unit. Net income was down a whopping 58%, from $858 million last year. The bank set aside far less for credit losses — only $19 million instead of $445 million and revenue was down. In fact, JP Morgan's investment bank posted a loss on revenue. Net revenue was $6.0 billion compared with $7.6 billion in the prior year. Net revenue included a $1.5 billion loss as a result of implementing a funding valuation adjustment ("FVA") framework for OTC derivatives and structured notes. This change reflects an industry migration towards incorporating the cost or benefit of funding into their valuation; the majority of this adjustment relates to uncollateralized derivatives. Net revenue also included a $536 million loss from debit valuation adjustments ("DVA") on structured notes and derivative liabilities, compared with a loss from DVA of $567 million in the prior year. Excluding the impact of both FVA1 and DVA1, net income was $2.1 billion, down 11% compared with the prior year, and net revenue was $8.0 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. Due to regulation, banks are required to report derivative losses in new ways, and that could make balance sheets look uglier this quarter, as we see here. Combined fixed income and equity markets were flat. Debt underwriting fees were down 19%, though equity underwriting fees were up 65% — all told fees were down 3% from to prior year to $1.7 billion. To cap it all off JP Morgan's investment banks' return on equity was a paltry 6%. Not good. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Caren FirouzStocks had a fantastic year in 2013, surging 30% even as earnings growth was quite modest. This discrepancy has more and more people freaked out that the stock market might be in a bubble. Yes, stock market valuations may be getting pricey. But Goldman Sachs' Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani and Brett Nelson don't think stocks are in a bubble. They think bubble-like conditions exist when the price of an asset "deviates significantly from the underlying value of the asset based on a reasonable set of assumptions about the future drivers of fundamental value, such as growth, inflation, and policy." They see four key signs that this isn't happening: Goldman's base case is for a 3% return on the S&amp;P 500 in 2014. Mossavar-Rahmani and  Nelson told the firm's private wealth clients to "stay fully invested at their strategic allocation to U.S. equities." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Alcorn December retail sales beat expectations. The headline figure came in at 0.2% versus expectations for no change. Core retail sales — ex-auto and gas receipts — climbed 0.6% Expectations were for 0.3%. That's the good news. On the other hand, core November sales were revised by half to 0.3%. Auto sales fell 1.8%, while receipts from electronics stores fell 2.5%. Year-over-year, December sales climbed 4.2%. The Wall Street Journal's Paul Vigna puts this in context with a Tweet. 2013 retail sales: up 4.2%. 2012 retail sales: up 5.4% 2011 retail sales: up 7.5% See any pattern there? "...it looks and suggests that real consumption rose at an annualised rate of 4% in the fourth quarter...Sales of all other items rose by 0.7% m/m, although November’s 0.6% gain was trimmed to a 0.4% rise...Overall, this report supports our view that a 4% annualised rise in real consumption will help to generate a decent 3.0% gain in overall GDP in the fourth quarter of last year. That would provide a good platform for this year." BI's Joe Weisenthal explains why this number is particularly important. "We've seen a lot of retail industry blowups in recent days — companies pre-warning of quarterly results only to see their stocks tank....Meanwhile, WSJ was hinting last week that retail sales could be the kind of drag that could make the Fed think twice about an accelerated path to the exit." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Louis Lanzano, FileThis Feb. 16, 2003, file photo shows Ty Warner, Beanie Baby creator and chief executive of Ty Inc. CHICAGO (AP) — The billionaire creator of Beanie Babies steps before a federal judge Tuesday to learn if he'll have to spend up to five years behind bars for evading taxes on $25 million in income. H. Ty Warner's sentencing will also give him a chance to apologize at length for hiding his millions in Swiss bank accounts. The 69-year-old apologized and wiped away tears when he pleaded guilty last year. But the judge in Chicago stopped him and said he could explain himself fully at sentencing. Defense attorneys argue for probation, pointing to Warner's unhappy childhood and his charity work. But prosecutors say Warner should spend some time in prison; they don't recommend how much. A government filing says about Warner's philanthropy: "Charity is not a get-out-jail card." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Nicholas Carlson/Business InsiderOne of the big stories on Wall Street lately has been the investment banks cutting back the amount of hours their junior employees have to work.  Long hours on Wall Street for junior bankers came under scrutiny after 21-year-old Bank of America intern Moritz Erhardt died last summer.  Unconfirmed reports said Erhardt had worked consecutive all-nighters.   So far, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse have started giving their junior level employees Saturdays off.  Former Wall Street interns told the Wall Street Journal that they would work exhaustive 100+ hour weeks. Those interns looking for a reprieve during the day had to get creative. Some Barclays interns told the Journal that they would take naps on the toilet in the office.  It's called a "toilet nap."  Here's how it works, according  the Wall Street Journal: [via Here Is The City] Summer interns at Barclays PLC in Hong Kong in 2011 say they had to get creative to find time for sleep. Exhausted from hours of nonstop work, the interns would sneak into a bathroom stall, plug headphones into their smartphones and set the alarm, in hopes of stealing a few precious minutes of shut-eye, according to several former interns who worked for the bank in the summer of 2011. Some dubbed it the "toilet nap." A Barclays spokeswoman, while declining to discuss the specific incident, said: "We are constantly evaluating our analyst program to ensure that it is a challenging and rewarding yet balanced experience." Fascinating.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)The 10-year Treasury yield closed Monday at 2.82%, below the 2.88% level where it closed on Dec. 18, when the Federal Reserve announced it would begin tapering down its quantitative easing program. There's been a lot of talk lately about how the U.S. economy seems to be breaking out, but it looks likely that such enthusiasm may be tempered going forward. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note broke through to a new multi-year high of 3.03% on the final day of 2013, following the Federal Reserve's Dec. 18 decision to begin tapering down its bond-buying program known as quantitative easing and the attendant sell-off in the U.S. government bond market. Friday's release of the December jobs report, however, sent yields tumbling 10 basis points in a single day, and they are now back below where they were when the tapering-induced sell-off began. Last week, before the jobs report, we highlighted Citi's Economic Surprise Index, which stood at its highest level in nearly two years headed into the release. The surprise index measures how much better or worse economic data progress relative to the expectations of market economists, so a high number means the data are blowing expectations out of the water. That has been the backdrop for the last few months. Economic data releases have been doing just that, especially given how low expectations for near-term economic improvement were following the government shutdown that spanned the first two weeks of October. Usually, when the economic surprise index reaches a certain level, however, it tends to roll over. This is because economists are likely to — in light of new information — incorporate the better-than-expected data into their forecasts for the following month's data, which tends to shrink the gap between expectations and reality, causing the index to fall. TD Securities, BloombergTD's own version of the U.S. economic surprise index has already rolled over. It works the same way for market participants, and strategists are beginning to warn that the downward thrust in yields could continue a little longer as a result, as Treasuries fall back into favor temporarily. "It may now prove more difficult for data to meet the market’s heightened expectations, potentially leading to an extension of the post-payroll retracement move," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "Data surprise indicators have already curled lower, suggesting that upcoming data could be crucial in determining near-term direction in rates. In particular, we suspect that this week’s softer headline retail sales, housing starts, and industrial production data could further pressures surprise indices lower, putting additional downward pressure on rates." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Arnd WiegmannPortugal's Cristiano Ronaldo holds his trophy after being awarded the FIFA Ballon d'Or 2013 in Zurich January 13, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — We actually have a budget. Top congressional negotiators released a $1.1 trillion bipartisan spending bill that would fund the government through October. "Democrats got funding for Head Start fully restored, along with sequester-easing funds for job training and NIH, plus a modest raise for federal workers," Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere wrote clients. "The GOP prevailed with no funding for the IMF or additional expenditures for Obamacare, plus $20 billion in restored funds for the Pentagon. The bottom line is that discretionary spending will be roughly equal to the level in George W. Bush's last budget; in inflation-adjusted terms, it's down by 10% in the past six years." — The FBI suspects that Wall Street traders may be "manipulating a key derivatives market and front running Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, hurting the US-owned mortgage giants in the process," Reuters' Richard Leong reports. "Current and former employees at [a] U.S. bank said that swap traders at the bank programmed their phones with different ring tones to identify when certain customers were calling, alerting traders that a large order was about to be placed," according to FBI documents reviewed by Reuters. Banks encouraged this behavior because it resulted in huge profits, according to the report. — Google announced that it is buying Nest Labs for a cool $3.2 billion. The company makes Internet-connected thermostats and smoke detectors and is founded by Tony Fadell, famous for innovating the iPod alongside Steve Jobs. Nest sells smart thermostats for $250 that can be remotely controlled from your smartphone. — At 8:30 a.m. ET, we get retail sales numbers for December. Economists expect sales climbed 0.1% in December and 0.3% excluding autos and gas. "Some of the large gains in November’s auto sales will be bought back in December, a trend that was evident in the most recent release of vehicle sales data," Wells Fargo's John Silvia wrote clients ahead of the report. "With inflation so low and only a modest uptick in gasoline prices, retail sales will not get much of a boost from rising prices in the month. To make matters worse, fierce competition led to heavy discounting among retailers, which likely kept a lid on growth in December. On the plus side, consumer confidence picked up considerably, and chain store sales posted strong growth." — In the U.K., the inflation rate fell to 2% in December, down from 2.1% the month prior. It's the first time since November 2009 that inflation is at our below the government target of 2%, the BBC reports. "Economists said the fall would ease pressure on the Bank of England to raise interest rates following the recent recovery in the economy," according to the BBC. — Eurozone industrial production jumped 1.8% month-over-month in November, the fastest pace in three and a half years, reports the Wall Street Journal's Paul Hannon. "The surprisingly strong rise in output from the euro zone's factories removes some doubts about the sustainability of the economic recovery," the Journal reports. "While business surveys have been positive during the three months through December, hard data had been weak, with industrial production, construction output and retail sales having fallen in October." — Asia got slammed in overnight trading, with Japan's Nikkei falling 3.08%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.43%, and Korea's KOSPI 0.15% lower. Europe's session started lower too, but U.S. futures were pointing slightly higher.  — U.S. bank earnings kick off today with J.P. Morgan and Wells Fargo. For Morgan, "Naturally the question on everyone's mind is how the company will fair given the mountain of legal fees it has paid out to the government for variety of transgressions — from mortgage fraud dating back to the financial crisis, to its failure to report account irregularities with its former client Bernie Madoff, to the London Whale trading loss," writes our Linette Lopez. — 24% of the nearly 2.2 million people that have signed up for a plan on the new Obamacare exchanges are between the ages of 18 and 35, according to new figures released by the Department of Health and Human Services. The White House had wanted 39% of enrollees to fall within that demographic. But after the website debacle, enrollment has steadily increased week by week. — Apparel giant Lululemon cratered 17% yesterday after the company cut its earnings forecast. "Lululemon enjoyed several years of extremely strong growth," Buckingham Research's John Zolidis wrote clients. "Those days are now behind the company." Between the see-through pants recall, founder Chip Wilson's gaffe that some women's bodies "just don't actually work" for his product, and now its earnings cut, it's been a particularly poor few months for Lululemon. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJPMorgan CEO Jamie DimonJPMorgan Chase's fourth quarter earnings results beat Wall Street analyst estimates.   JPMorgan reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.40.  Analysts expected the bank to report adjusted EPS of $1.37, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank reported Q4 revenue of $24.1 billion.  The bank was expected to post revenue of $24.083 billion, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In the earnings release, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon addressed the legal issues the bank has been dealing with in 2013. "We are pleased to have made progress on our control, regulatory and litigation agendas and to have put some significant issues behind us this quarter. We reached several important resolutions – Global RMBS, Gibbs &amp; Bruns, and Madoff. It was in the best interests of our company and shareholders for us to accept responsibility, resolve these issues and move forward. This will allow us to focus on what we are here for: serving our clients and communities around the world. We remained focused on building our four leading franchises, which all continued to deliver strong underlying performance, for the quarter and the year.” Here's an excerpt from the release:  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM): 1 For notes on non-GAAP financial measures, including managed basis reporting, see pages 12 and 13.For additional notes on financial measures, see page 14. 2 Percentage comparisons noted in the bullet points are calculated versus the prior-year fourth quarter. 3 Represents the total revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients. 4 Includes the impact of Basel III interim final rules. 5 HQLA is the estimated amount of assets the Firm believes will qualify for inclusion in the LCR based on the Firm's current understanding of the Basel III rules JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $5.3 billion, compared with net income of $5.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012. Earnings per share were $1.30, compared with $1.39 in the fourth quarter of 2012. Revenue for the quarter was $24.1 billion, down 1% compared with the prior year. The Firm’s return on tangible common equity1 for the fourth quarter of 2013 was 14%, compared with 15% in the prior year. Adjusted for the significant items disclosed in our earnings press releases this quarter and in the fourth quarter of 2012, EPS would have been $1.40 this year compared with $1.35 in the prior year and ROTCE would have been 15% this year, flat compared with the prior year. Net income for full-year 2013 was $17.9 billion, compared with $21.3 billion for the prior year. Earnings per share were $4.35 for 2013, compared with $5.20 for 2012. Revenue for 2013 was $99.8 billion, flat compared with 2012 revenue of $99.9 billion. Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the financial results: “We are pleased to have made progress on our control, regulatory and litigation agendas and to have put some significant issues behind us this quarter. We reached several important resolutions – Global RMBS, Gibbs &amp; Bruns, and Madoff. It was in the best interests of our company and shareholders for us to accept responsibility, resolve these issues and move forward. This will allow us to focus on what we are here for: serving our clients and communities around the world. We remained focused on building our four leading franchises, which all continued to deliver strong underlying performance, for the quarter and the year.” Dimon continued, “The Corporate &amp; Investment Bank was #1 in global IB fees in 2013, with #1 positions in global debt and equity, syndicated loans, and U.S. announced M&amp;A, and we gained share in Banking and Markets. Consumer &amp; Community Banking deposits were up 8% for the fourth quarter of 2013; client investment assets were up 19%; and general purpose credit card sales volume growth has outperformed the industry for 23 consecutive quarters. Gross investment banking revenue3 was a record $1.7 billion for the year, up 5%. Asset Management also had excellent performance with positive net long-term client flows of $90 billion for the full year 2013 and record loan balances, up 21%.” Dimon added: “During the course of 2013, JPMorgan Chase continued to make a significant positive impact on our communities. In 2013, the Firm provided credit and raised capital of over $2.1 trillion for our clients. The Firm has hired over 6,300 military veterans since 2011 as a proud founding member of the 100,000 Jobs Mission.” Dimon concluded: “I am proud of this Company, our employees and what we do every day to serve our clients, customers and communities. We are increasingly optimistic about the future of the U.S. economy and will continue to do our part to support growth, economic development and the creation of new jobs around the world.” FREE AppDownload
AP$1.1 trillion spending bill has dozens of trade-offs between Democrats and Republicans WASHINGTON (AP) — The sales job is on for a bipartisan $1.1 trillion spending bill that would pay for the operations of government through October and finally put to rest the bitter budget battles of last year. The massive measure contains a dozens of trade-offs between Democrats and Republicans as it fleshes out the details of the budget deal that Congress passed last month. That pact gave relatively modest but much-sought relief to the Pentagon and domestic agencies after deep budget cuts last year. The GOP-led House is slated to pass the 1,582-page bill Wednesday, though many tea party conservatives are sure to oppose it. Democrats pleased with new money to educate preschoolers and build high-priority highway projects are likely to make up the difference even as Republican social conservatives fret about losing familiar battles over abortion policy. The bill would avert spending cuts that threatened construction of new aircraft carriers and next-generation Joint Strike Fighters. It maintains rent subsidies for the poor, awards federal civilian and military workers a 1 percent raise and beefs up security at U.S. embassies across the globe. The Obama administration would be denied money to meet its full commitments to the International Monetary Fund but get much of the money it wanted to pay for implementation of the new health care law and the 2010 overhaul of financial regulations. "This agreement shows the American people that we can compromise, and that we can govern," said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski, D-Md. "It puts an end to shutdown, slowdown, slamdown politics." The House vote is expected less than 48 hours after the measure became public, even though Republicans promised a 72-hour review period for legislation during their campaign to take over the House in 2010. On Tuesday, the House is slated to approve a short-term funding bill to extend the Senate's deadline to finish the overall spending bill until midnight Saturday. The current short-term spending bill expires at midnight Wednesday evening. The measure doesn't contain in-your face victories for either side. The primary achievement was that there was an agreement in the first place after the collapse of the budget process last year, followed by a 16-day government shutdown and another brush with a disastrous default on U.S. obligations. After the shutdown and debt crisis last fall, House Budget committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis., and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray, D-Wash., struck an agreement to avoid a repeat of the 5 percent cut applied to domestic agencies last year and to prevent the Pentagon from absorbing about $20 billion in new cuts on top of the ones that hit it last year. White House budget director Sylvia Mathews Burwell says the measure is a "positive step" because it "unwinds some of the damaging cuts caused by sequestration, ensures the continuation of critical services the American people depend on, and brings us closer to returning the budget process to regular order." She also praised investments in early childhood education and infrastructure. To be sure, there is plenty for both parties to oppose in the legislation. Conservatives face a vote to finance implementation of President Barack Obama's health care overhaul and Wall Street regulations, both enacted in 2010 over solid Republican opposition. A conservative-backed initiative to block the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gas emissions was dumped overboard and social conservatives failed to win new restrictions on abortion. Democrats must accept new money for abstinence education programs they often ridicule, and conservatives can take heart that overall spending for daily agency operations has been cut by $79 billion, or 7 percent, from the high-water mark established by Democrats in 2010. That cut increases to $165 billion, or 13 percent, when cuts in war funding and disaster spending are accounted for. Money for Obama's high-speed rail program would be cut off, and rules restricting the sale of less efficient incandescent light bulbs would be blocked. Democrats are more likely to climb aboard than tea party Republicans, but only after voting to give Obama about $6 billion more in Pentagon war funding than the $79 billion he requested. The additional war money is helping the Pentagon deal with a cash crunch in troop readiness accounts. Including foreign aid related to overseas security operations, total war funding reaches $92 billion, a slight cut from last year. At the same time, the bill is laced with sweeteners. One is a provision exempting disabled veterans and war widows from a pension cut enacted last month. The bill contains increases for veterans' medical care backed by both sides and fully funds the $6.7 billion budget for food aid for low-income pregnant women and their children. Yet the National Institutes of Health's proposed budget of $29.9 billion falls short of the $31 billion budget it won when Democrats controlled Congress. Democrats won a $100 million increase, to $600 million, for so-called TIGER grants for high-priority transportation infrastructure projects, a program that started with the 2009 stimulus bill. The spending bill would spare the Pentagon from a brutal second-wave cut of $20 billion in additional reductions on top of last year's $34 billion sequestration cut, which forced furloughs of civilian employees and harmed training and readiness accounts. Consistent with recent defense measures, the bill largely fulfills the Pentagon's request for ships, aircraft, tanks, helicopters and other war-fighting equipment, including 29 new F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, eight new warships as requested by the Navy, and a variety of other aircraft like the V-22 Osprey, new and improved F-18 fighters and new Army helicopters. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
House price rises in parts of London can be directly linked to political turmoil in far-flung countries as rich foreign buyers look for a safe haven for their cash, according to a study by the University of Oxford. For more than 20 years London property values have benefited from events abroad, especially in areas of the capital already popular with wealthy immigrant communities, the study by two academics at the university's Saïd Business School found. Chinese, Middle Eastern and Russian buyers, who dominated before 2008, have competed with Italians, Spaniards and Greeks in recent years as wealthy southern Europeans hit by the financial crash bought safe assets. The study showed that house price rises in London could be attributed – at least in part – to the influx of foreign buyers, separately from other factors including low interest rates and the government's Help to Buy scheme to boost the market. House price rises of around 8% last year, according to the latest figures from lenders the Halifax and Nationwide, were largely driven by rises in the south-east and the study is likely to fuel anger among ordinary buyers who are increasingly priced out of the market. There is a direct correlation between house price changes in particular areas of London and economic and political risks in different parts of the world, according to academics Tarun Ramadorai and Cristian Badarinza. They said: "This goes a long way towards explaining why London house prices have continued to rise at a disproportionate rate compared with those in the rest of the country, and can also shed light on the well-known fact that capital flows appear to flow 'uphill' from relatively poor to relatively rich countries." On average, in London areas with a higher share of residents originating from a particular country, house prices were nearly 0.5% higher in months following an increase in that country's annually-measured political uncertainty. Ramadorai said they sub-divided London into electoral wards and linked each London area with a specific foreign country. The research found that increases in political and economic uncertainty in certain countries was closely associated with strong price rises in their linked London areas. Ramadorai said: "The seeming invulnerability of London's property market has long been assumed to be a result of its status as a 'safe haven' – an investment location in which assets will retain or even increase their value in the face of turbulence in other parts of the world. "However, this perception has not been backed up with rigorous, empirical research on the issue. The granular level at which we have analysed the data allows us to confirm that safe haven demand effects from southern Europe, China, the Middle East, Russia, and south Asia are indeed important factors in explaining the dynamics of London house prices." The researchers traced millions of house price transactions to identify the effect over the past decade and a half, using information from the Land Registry, the Office of National Statistics, and the Nationwide building society, as well as data on international economic and political uncertainty from a number of sources. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc took its biggest step to go deeper into consumers' homes, announcing a $3.2 billion deal to buy smart thermostat and smoke alarm-maker Nest Labs Inc, scooping up a promising line of products and a prized design team led by the "godfather" of the iPod. Nest will continue to operate as its own distinct brand after the all-cash deal closes, Google said on Monday. The deal is the second largest in Google's history after the $12.5 billion acquisition of mobile phone maker Motorola in 2012. Like the Motorola deal, which marked Google's first major foray into hardware, the Nest acquisition gives Google a stepping stone into an important new market at a time when consumer appliances and Internet services are increasingly merging. "Nest Labs appears to be focused on thermostats and smoke alarms, but it's not far-fetched to see Google expanding this technology into other devices over time," said Shyam Patil, an analyst at Wedbush. "Home automation is one of the bigger opportunities when you talk about the Internet of everything and connecting everything. This acquisition furthers their strategy around that," he said. Shares of Google were up 0.5 percent at $1,128.49 in extended trading on Monday. Nest gained a large following with its first thermostat - a round, brushed-metal device with a convex glass screen that displays temperature and changes hue to match the color of the wall it attaches to. It also tracks usage and employs that data to automatically set heating and cooling temperatures. With the acquisition, Google gets Tony Fadell, a well-connected and well-respected Silicon Valley entrepreneur credited with creating Apple Inc's iconic iPod music player, along with co-founder Matt Rogers and a host of talented engineers and designers. According to a search on professional network LinkedIn, roughly 100 of Nest's 300 employees have worked at Apple in the past. Google, the world's largest online search engine, is increasingly expanding into new markets, with efforts ranging from a high-speed Internet access business to advanced research on self-driving cars and robotics. But while Google's engineering expertise has generated major advances in technology, the company has at times struggled to create hardware products that resonate with consumers as much as Apple's products do. The consumer experience of Nest's products "is Apple-like and it gives Google that," said Pat Moorhead, an analyst at Moor Insights and Strategy. "What Google wants to do is be the backbone for your home, how you consume energy, how you consume content like music through your entire house," said Moorhead. Some commenters on Twitter expressed concerns about the privacy implications of the deal for Google, which collects scads of personal data about its users' online habits. "Not content with your personal data, Google now wants your home data by buying Nest," read a Tweet by Irene Ng. "So basically Google will know when homeowner is away, when they've had a fire &amp; what the power bill is?" Tweeted Brian Makas, who appended the hashtag #creepy to his comment. In an interview with Reuters, Nest's Fadell said the company spent a lot of time discussing privacy issues with Google during talks that led to the deal. "The reality of the situation is inside of Google they take privacy so incredibly seriously you have no idea," Fadell said, noting that Nest's terms of service would not change after the deal. Google said the deal is expected to close in the next few months pending regulatory approval. Google has tried to gain a foothold in the smart home market before, launching the PowerMeter service in 2009. The service let consumers use the Web to monitor their home electricity consumption, but Google shut it down in 2011, noting that it hadn't caught on as much as Google hoped. It was that same year that Nest's Fadell met with Google co-founder Sergey Brin at a TED conference, showing him a prototype of the thermostat. Google's venture capital arm, Google Ventures, made an investment in Nest not long after that. Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, the venture-capital firm that started backing Nest in 2010, made a return of 20 times on the $20 million it has put in over the years, for a return of around $400 million, a person familiar with the situation said. Shasta Ventures, which invested at the same time as Kleiner, stands to make a similar rate of return on its investment, a person familiar with the matter said. Fadell said the deal with Google was the culmination of "countless" discussions that began in the summer of 2013. "It took us months to get comfortable that they are going to bring to the table the things we need for scale and to realize our decade-long vision and that they really truly respected what we did," he said. While Fadell's expertise in mobile products could be a boon to Google and its money-losing Motorola smartphonedivision, he stressed that his focus was on home automation products. "That was one thing I was very clear about. I said ‘Larry, I have already built all kind of mobile products, I have done all those things. I am not here to build those,'" Fadell said, referring to Google CEO Larry Page. "I am here to build out this vision. Not to go and build the other things I have already built in the past," said Fadell. (Additional reporting by Noel Randewich and Sarah McBride; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA trader works shortly after the market opening on the floor the New York Stock Exchange December 18, 2013.(Reuters) - Wall Street traders may be manipulating a key derivatives market and front running Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, hurting the US-owned mortgage giants in the process, according to an FBI intelligence bulletin reviewed by Reuters. Using what Federal Bureau of Investigation agents described as "unsophisticated tradecraft," such as hand signals and special telephone ring tones, some traders are conspiring to rig rates on large orders submitted by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or front running them in the interest rate swaps market, the document says. The FBI said in the bulletin that the information came from a former high-level employee at a U.S. bank and an employee at a Canadian Bank, plus interviews with other bank workers conducted in 2012 and 2013. The former high-level employee at the U.S. bank estimated the front running had resulted in profits of $50 million to $100 million for the bank, the FBI said. The bulletin did not name any of the traders or banks suspected of the activity, or indicate whether it may extend beyond the two banks. Front running occurs when someone with advance knowledge of another market participant's plan to make a sizable transaction puts an order in first, often profiting from a market move that can occur once the big trade has gone through. The FBI bulletin is the latest indication that officials are concerned that traders are manipulating financial markets. U.S. and European authorities have fined 10 banks around $6 billion for allegedly manipulating the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and other interest rate benchmarks, and authorities are actively investigating comparable behavior in the foreign exchange market. Current and former employees at the U.S. bank said that swap traders at the bank programmed their phones with different ring tones to identify when certain customers were calling, alerting traders that a large order was about to be placed, the FBI said. According to the bulletin, one employee at the U.S. bank and the Canadian bank employee reported that senior bankers at the two banks "planned and encouraged this behavior because it led to higher revenue for their respective parent banks." Disclosure of the suspected manipulation and front running came in an FBI intelligence bulletin that was distributed last week by the bureau's field office in Charlotte, North Carolina, to security officers at financial services firms. The FBI said it had "medium confidence" in the information, which the bulletin described as coming from "multiple corroborating sources with first-hand access." However, it said it had "low confidence" that law enforcement could prosecute suspected traders because the trades concerned seem to be completely legitimate. "It is standard policy for the FBI to share intelligence information with our private sector partners to help protect our economy, thwart crime, and prevent threats impacting American businesses," Shelley Lynch, spokeswoman for the FBI in Charlotte, said in a statement. She would not elaborate. Spokesmen for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac did not immediately return calls for comment. Spokesmen for theU.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodities and Futures Trading Commission declined to comment. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), often submit large swap orders to hedge their huge holdings of home mortgages against swings in the bond market. The size of the orders provide an incentive for front running ahead of the trades. "GSEs frequently submit large interest-rate swap trades, making them easy targets for front running and lucrative targets for market manipulation," the FBI bulletin said. The interest rate swap market is huge with a notional value of about $400 trillion. In addition to GSEs, pension funds and insurers use interest rate swap as a hedging tool, while municipal governments sometimes enter into these contracts to limit their interest rate risk on the debt they issued. The FBI said its sources reported that voice brokers and senior traders at both the U.S. and Canadian banks encouraged traders to listen in on calls with the investors to gain transaction information "which could be used to facilitate front running or market manipulation." They would then use hand signals to inform other traders of the details of the planned swaps, allowing these traders to also benefit, employees at the banks said, according to the bulletin. (Reporting by Richard Leong; Additional reporting by Mark Hosenball, Sarah Lynch and Margaret Chadbourn in Washington; Editing by Dan Burns and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Yesterday we published a bunch of charts from a new New York Fed survey of consumer expectations broken down by a bunch of different demographic groups. This chart, in particular, was interesting, as it shows the level of anxiety about job loss among different demographics. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from New York Fed) As you can see, there's significant anxiety among those over 60 and those who make less than 50K. Those who make over $100k and are less than 40 years old are among the most confident. Check out all the charts here. FREE AppDownload
Equity Bubble? No. The US stock market performed very well during 2013. The S&amp;P 500®’s total return of nearly 33% far outpaced the returns of most asset classes. Interestingly, the rally in US stocks occurred despite a significant increase in longer-term interest rates. The 10-year t-note hit a low of 1.6% in early May and rose above 3% by year end. We continue to believe that much of the bull market has followed historical precedent despite the unusual magnitude of the monetary and fiscal policy catalysts used in an attempt to right the economy. Whereas some investors have suggested the stock market should not be rising in combination with rising rates, 2013’s performance seems to us to be a normal mid-cycle rally in which the unanticipated improvement in fundamentals typically outweighs the negative effects of rising rates. A growing contingent of market observers is fearful that the US equity market is in some sort of a bubble. We disagree completely with this notion. A strong market rally that many investors have missed is hardly sufficient grounds for a financial bubble. High beta stocks are undervalued It seems to us that a necessary condition for an equity bubble is the overvaluation of the stocks most sensitive to the overall stock market’s movement. It seems very unrealistic that high beta stocks could be selling at historically conservative valuations if there really was an equity bubble underway. Chart 1 shows the relative valuation of the stocks in the S&amp;P 500® with the highest betas (i.e., those stocks with the highest sensitivity to overall market movements) versus that of the stocks with the lowest betas (i.e., those with the lowest sensitivity). Despite claims that the equity market is in a bubble, it is low beta stocks and not high beta stocks that are selling at rich valuations. High beta stocks are actually close to record conservative relative valuations. Richard Bernstein Advisors What constitutes a bubble? In his wonderful book, Devil Take the Hind Most, Edward Chancellor demonstrates that financial bubbles tend to follow similar patterns. Most important, his work suggests that valuation alone does not constitute a financial bubble. Financial bubbles go beyond the financial markets and tend to pervade society. Our interpretation of Chancellor’s work is that there are five common characteristics to a financial bubble. The US equity market does not seem to match these characteristics. The five characteristics are: 1)    Available liquidity 2)    Increased use of leverage 3)    Democratization of the market 4)    Increased turnover 5)    Record new issues One could certainly argue that the Fed’s extraordinary efforts to stimulate the US economy have provided tremendous liquidity to the financial markets. However, we find scant evidence that the other four characteristics currently apply to the US equity market. For example, many have noted that volume was weak during 2013, new issues were not rampant, and protection was more important to most investors than using leverage to accentuate performance. But, isn’t the market’s PE ratio very high? The absolute valuation of US equities is not cheap. However, the market appears fairly valued if one accounts for interest rates or inflation. After all, shouldn’t the PE ratio be relatively high when inflation is less than 2%? Chart 2 below shows the 12-month forward returns of the S&amp;P 500® using combinations of valuation (defined using the often-discussed Shiller “CAPE” Cyclically Adjusted P/E ratio) and inflation. Although historical comparisons to the current environment don’t suggest extremely high returns for the S&amp;P 500®, it does suggest roughly “normal” returns. Richard Bernstein Advisors PE-driven versus earnings-driven bull markets Investors seem to be assuming that every bull market starts with a low PE and ends with a high PE. However, history shows that has not always been the case. There have actually been two types of bull markets. Some have been PE-driven, meaning that interest rates fall and PE multiples expand. Most of the bull markets after 1980 fit this description. Other bull markets have been earnings-driven, meaning that interest rates rise and PEs contract, but earnings growth is strong enough to more than offset the negative effects of rising rates and PE compression. 2003’s bull market would be an example. We have always thought that the current bull market would turn into an earnings-driven market, and 2013 fit that description. As previously stated, interest rates rose during much of 2013, but the unanticipated improvement in fundamentals far outweighed the negative effects of rising rates. We expect this trend to continue. Skepticism doesn’t accompany bubbles While there is no doubt that investors’ fears regarding equities after the 2008 bear market have started to subside, this is a normal occurrence for a mid-cycle environment. The euphoria that is typically present at market peaks has yet to occur. There are indeed financial bubbles around the world. Credit growth in China would be a perfect example. However, we strongly doubt that US equities should be added to that list. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (AP) — Top congressional negotiators Monday night released a bipartisan $1.1 trillion spending bill that would pay for the operations of government through October and finally put to rest the bitter budget battles of last year. The massive measure fleshes out the details of the budget deal that Congress passed last month. That pact gave relatively modest, but much-sought relief to the Pentagon and domestic agencies after deep budget cuts last year. The bill would avert spending cuts that threatened construction of new aircraft carriers and next-generation Joint Strike Fighters. It maintains rent subsidies for the poor, awards federal civilian and military workers a 1 percent raise and beefs up security at U.S. embassies across the globe. The Obama administration would be denied money to meet its full commitments to the International Monetary Fund but get much of the money it wanted to pay for implementation of the new health care law and the 2010 overhaul of financial regulations. The 1,582-page bill was released after weeks of negotiations between House Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers, R-Ky., and Senate counterpart Barbara Mikulski, D-Md., who kept a tight lid on the details until its release late Monday. "This agreement shows the American people that we can compromise, and that we can govern," Mikulski said. "It puts an end to shutdown, slowdown, slamdown politics." The GOP-led House is slated to vote on the measure Wednesday, less than 48 hours after it became public. In their campaign to take over the House in 2010, Republicans promised a 72-hour review period. On Tuesday, the House is slated to approve a short-term funding bill to extend the Senate's deadline to finish the overall spending bill until midnight on Saturday. The current short-term spending bill expires at midnight Wednesday evening. The measure doesn't contain in-your face victories for either side. The primary achievement was that there was an agreement in the first place after the collapse of the budget process last year, followed by a 16-day government shutdown and another brush with a disastrous first-ever default on U.S. obligations. After the shutdown and debt crisis last fall, House Budget committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis., and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray, D-Wash., struck an agreement to avoid a repeat of the 5 percent cut applied to domestic agencies last year and to prevent the Pentagon from absorbing about $20 billion in new cuts on top of the ones that hit it last year. White House budget director Sylvia Mathews Burwell called the measure a "positive step" because it "unwinds some of the damaging cuts caused by sequestration, ensures the continuation of critical services the American people depend on, and brings us closer to returning the budget process to regular order." She also praised investments in early childhood education and infrastructure. To be sure, there is plenty for both parties to oppose in the legislation. Conservatives face a vote to finance implementation of President Barack Obama's health care overhaul and Wall Street regulations, both enacted in 2010 over solid Republican opposition. A conservative-backed initiative to block the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gas emissions was dumped overboard and social conservatives failed to win new restrictions on abortion. But Rogers muscled through other victories for the coal industry such as keeping the door open for Export-Import Bank financing of coal power plants overseas. Democrats must accept new money for abstinence education programs they often ridicule, and conservatives can take heart that overall spending for daily agency operations has been cut by $79 billion, or 7 percent, from the high-water mark established by Democrats in 2010. That cut increases to $165 billion, or 13 percent, when cuts in war funding and disaster spending are accounted for. Money for Obama's high-speed rail program would be cut off, and rules restricting the sale of less efficient incandescent light bulbs would be blocked. Democrats are more likely to climb aboard than tea party Republicans, but only after voting to give Obama about $6 billion more in Pentagon war funding than the $79 billion he requested. The additional war money is helping the Pentagon deal with a cash crunch in troop readiness accounts. Including foreign aid related to overseas security operations, total war funding reaches $92 billion, a slight cut from last year. The alternative, however, is to allow automatic spending cuts to strike for a second year and even risk another government shutdown if Congress deadlocks. At the same time, the bill is laced with sweeteners. One is a provision exempting disabled veterans and war widows from a pension cut enacted last month. The bill contains increases for veterans' medical care backed by both sides and fully funds the $6.7 billion budget for food aid for low-income pregnant women and their children. Yet the National Institutes of Health's proposed budget of $29.9 billion falls short of the $31 billion budget it won when Democrats controlled Congress. Democrats won a $100 million increase, to $600 million, for so-called TIGER grants for high-priority transportation infrastructure projects, a program that started with the 2009 stimulus bill. The Internal Revenue Service budget was frozen at last year's post-sequester levels, as was the Transportation Security Administration. But Interior Department firefighting accounts won a major boost, more than 10 percent. A key State Department economic aid program absorbed an almost one-quarter cut from levels passed last March. Overall, the measure keeps funding for day-to-day domestic agency budgets at levels agreed to last year before cuts of 5 percent were applied to every account. Those broadly applied cuts, called sequestration, were required because of Washington's inability to follow up a 2011 budget deal with additional deficit savings. The spending bill would spare the Pentagon from a brutal second-wave cut of $20 billion in additional reductions on top of last year's $34 billion sequestration cut, which forced furloughs of civilian employees and harmed training and readiness accounts. Consistent with recent defense measures, the bill largely fulfills the Pentagon's request for ships, aircraft, tanks, helicopters and other war-fighting equipment, including 29 new F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, eight new warships as requested by the Navy, and a variety of other aircraft like the V-22 Osprey, new and improved F-18 fighters and new Army helicopters. It also boosts funding by nearly $200 million for the joint U.S.-Israeli missile defense program known as David's Sling and Iron Dome. Israel's Iron Dome system is designed to intercept short-range rockets and mortars, and Congress repeatedly increases the amount of money for the program beyond an administration request. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Just beneath the surface of what everyone's paying attention to, the crumbling financial fortunes in Turkey continue to be a major story. And that continues today. The Turkish stock market is down over 1%. And the dollar has risen to a new high against the Lira. Here's a one week chart of USD/TRY via XE.com: XE.com FREE AppDownload
Today we get retail sales for December. The consensus is that excluding auto sales, retail sales grew about 0.4% in December. This is always an important number, since it's one of the most direct measures of the health of the consumer. But you have to pay especially close attention to it this time. In part because we've seen a lot of retail industry blowups in recent days — companies pre-warning of quarterly results only to see their stocks tank. As CNBC noted: On Monday, Lululemon Athletica and Express became the latest retailers to warn investors of disappointing earnings in the holiday quarter. These negative forecasts follow similar warnings last week from a range of retail companies, includingAmerican Eagle Outfitters and Zumiez. In response, Lululemon stock shed 16 percent and Express shares dropped about 2.5 percent. In a release Monday, Lululemon's CFO said the company had seen "traffic and sales trends decelerate meaningfully" since the beginning of January. Because of that, Lululemon cut its net revenue forecast and revised its fourth-quarter guidance from flat same-store sales to a decline in the low-to-mid-single digits. Meanwhile, the CEO of Express said the specialty retailer had "a drop in traffic that was even deeper than anticipated as consumers waited until much closer to Christmas to shop." To draw them, Express extended and deepened discounts—a promotional environment it expects to maintain amid what it sees as "weak" January traffic. Meanwhile, WSJ was hinting last week that retail sales could be the kind of drag that could make the Fed think twice about an accelerated path to the exit. So we'll see at 8:30 what's going on exactly. Remember, the general consensus right now is that the US economy is still heading for "escape velocity" and that 2014 will be the best year since the crisis. But the December Jobs Report has shaken folks a little bit and suddenly this kind of high-stakes data is more interesting. FREE AppDownload
PermanentTraveller / FlickrYokuzuno AsashoryuGood morning!  Japanese stocks got slammed in Tuesday trading, with the Nikkei falling 3%. This was the Nikkei's first trading day since Friday, meaning that the market was reacting to both the Friday jobs report in the US, and the US selloff on Monday, which saw the S&amp;P have its worst day of trading since August, losing 1.4%. The New Year has just begun, and attempts to read much into this action are almost certainly inadvisable. But so far, things haven't started off as well as 2013 ended. The data has been spottier and the market action has certainly been less pleasant. Meanwhile, European markets are also reacting to the weak US session, with the major indices down a bit less than 1%. FREE AppDownload
