Thomson ReutersNarayana Kocherlakota, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, speaks at the ninth annual Carroll School of Management Finance Conference at Boston College in Chestnut Hill(Reuters) - The chance of U.S. inflation falling below 1 percent in 2015 is at a five-year high, and the risk of deflation is growing more likely, an analysis of market data released by the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank showed.  Federal Reserve policymakers should take such changing market expectations into account when they make policy decisions, Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota and several of the bank's top economists said in a paper published on Tuesday. "An increase in the market-based probability of an outcome such as deflation could indicate that households consider it as more likely, or it could indicate that the costs associated with deflation have risen," the authors said. "Both of these changes should matter for a policymaker." The Fed earlier this month effectively took the opposite view, downplaying falling market-based measures of future inflation and laying the groundwork for raising interest rates next year. Kocherlakota dissented, arguing that the Fed should respond more forcefully to a weakening inflation outlook. The paper published Tuesday provides some of the theoretical backdrop for that view. Inflation has averaged 1.5 percent for the past several years. In an analysis also published on the Minneapolis Fed website, researchers analyzed options pricing and found that the market probability for inflation falling below 1 percent for the next year stands at 72 percent, a five-year high. The chance of deflation, meanwhile, has risen to a "meaningful" 29 percent, according to the analysis. The Fed targets 2-percent inflation, a goal it has not met in several years, and Fed officials say the recent decline in oil prices will put further downward pressure on inflation next year.   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by David Gregorio and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
China is slowing. The HSBC manufacturing PMI fell to 49.6 in December from 50.0 in November. This was just marginally higher than the flash (preliminary) reading of 49.5. This was the first sub-50 reading since May, and any reading below signals contraction. According to Markit/HSBC, China's manufacturing sector has been shedding jobs for 14 straight months. This is not good for the world's second largest economy. "Today's data confirmed the further slowdown in the manufacturing sector towards year end," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. "We believe that weaker economic activity and stronger disinflationary pressures warrant further monetary easing in the coming months.” Here are the key points from Markit: "Growth in China continues to slow modestly, in line with our expectation for real GDP growth of 7.0 percent in 2015 after 7.4 percent in 2014," PNC Financial Services' Bill Adams said following the report. "China's deepening real estate correction is the primary cause of the current slowdown. The drag from the real estate sector will be partially offset by modestly better demand for Chinese exports in 2015." FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Lissy de AbreuAn oil drilling rig in Anzoategui, Venezuela, pictured on January 24, 2012Caracas (AFP) - Venezuela confirmed Tuesday that its economy has entered recession, contracting for three consecutive quarters from January through September, while inflation hit 63.6 percent in the 12 months to November. The South American oil giant's economy shrank 2.3 percent in the third quarter, the central bank said, after contracting 4.8 percent in the first quarter and 4.9 percent in the second. Inflation, whose figures had not been released since August, meanwhile hit a monthly rate of 4.7 percent in November.   FREE AppDownload
SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian markets were set for a cautious close to 2014 on Wednesday as worries about Greece's future in the euro zone served as an excuse to take profits on popular trades. The U.S. dollar also ran into selling on its recent gains, while the euro got no respite as a host of European bonds yields fell to all-time lows after a shockingly sharp fall in Spanish inflation. Trade was thinned by holidays in Japan, Thailand, South Korea and the Philippines, while many markets in Europe are either shut or finish early on Wednesday. Among the scraps of data and indicators due in Asia is a final measure of December Chinese manufacturing activity from HSBC, though it is unlikely to cause a fuss unless wildly out of line with the preliminary reading of 49.5. Australia was one of the few Asia-Pacific markets open and its main index edged up 0.1 percent &lt;.AXJO&gt;. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was little changed and is ending the year almost exactly where it started. The Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; fared better with a rise of 7.1 percent for the year, thanks chiefly to the Bank of Japan's extraordinary campaign of asset buying which lowered the yen while fattening exporters' profit margins. The stand-out performer was China, where the CSI300 index &lt;.CSI300&gt; of the largest listed companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen looked set to end 2014 with gains around 48 percent. Almost all of that came in the last couple of months, as hopes for more aggressive policy stimulus boosted banks and brokers. On Wall Street, the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; eased 0.49 percent on Tuesday but was still on track for a third straight year of double-digit returns. The Dow &lt;.DJI&gt; fell 0.31 percent, while the Nasdaq &lt;.IXIC&gt; lost 0.61 percent. In currencies, the dollar eased on the safe haven yen to stand at 119.42 &lt;jpy=&gt; from Tuesday's peak of 120.69. The euro was undermined by sliding European yields amid intense speculation the European Central Bank will have to start buying government bonds to avert deflation. The single currency was stuck at $1.2160 &lt;eur=&gt; having touched a 29-month trough of $1.2123. German yields hit a new record low on Tuesday, ending 2014 with their biggest annual fall in six years, while yields in Italy and Spain also reached historic lows. Data out on Tuesday showed Spanish consumer prices fell in December at their fastest rate since July 2009, largely as a result of cheaper oil. The steep decline made it more likely that inflation for the entire euro zone while slip into negative territory when the data are released on Jan. 7, far below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent. There was little sign as yet of an end to oil's stunning decline after it hit lows last seen in May 2009. Brent was down 37 cents at $57.51 on Wednesday, while U.S. crude lost 36 cents to $53.76 a barrel.   (Editing by Richard Borsuk) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Detroit's historic bankruptcy, which officially ended earlier this month, cost the city nearly $178 million in fees and expenses for teams of lawyers and consultants, according to a city court filing on Tuesday. Jones Day, Detroit's lead law firm for the biggest-ever municipal bankruptcy which was filed by the city in July 2013, billed the most by far, at $57.9 million. The city, which exited bankruptcy on Dec. 10, paid a total of nearly $165 million out of its general fund budget for professional fees for itself and for a court-appointed committee representing Detroit retirees, as well as for a fee examiner, court mediators and experts hired by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes, the filing showed. That amount was $12 million under the $177 million Detroit had budgeted in its plan to adjust $18 billion of debt and obligations. The city also reported $1.04 million in fees paid out of an enterprise fund and almost $12 million in fees paid by its two pension funds. Rhodes on Dec. 15 ordered the city to file a final disclosure of fees and expenses by Tuesday, noting that he "will determine what further process is appropriate to determine the reasonableness of fees." Rhodes had sent the city and its bankruptcy team into mediation over the fees after Detroit officials raised concerns that burgeoning legal costs could eat in to money needed for city services. On Dec. 11, court mediators announced fee deals subject to Rhodes' approval were reached, but did not disclose any details.     (Reporting by Karen Pierog in Chicago and Lisa Lambert in Washington; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersOffshore oil platform is seen in Huntington BeachWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Obama administration on Tuesday bowed to months of growing pressure over a 40-year-old ban on exports of most domestic crude, taking two steps expected to unleash a wave of ultra-light shale oil onto global markets. The Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, which regulates export controls, said it had granted permission to "some" companies to sell lightly treated condensate abroad. Condensate is a form of ultra-light crude. Some two dozen energy companies had asked the agency for clarification on permissible exports earlier this year, but until Tuesday those requests had been put on indefinite hold. The BIS also released guidance in the form of frequently asked questions, or FAQs, to explain what kind of oil was generally allowed under the ban, the first effort by the administration to clarify an issue that has caused confusion and consternation in energy markets for more than a year. The two measures are clearest signs yet that the administration is ready to allow more of the booming U.S. shale oil production to be sold overseas, where drillers have said it can fetch a premium of $10 a barrel or more. They follow a year of murky messages and widespread uncertainty over what is or is not allowed under a trade restriction that critics say is a relic of a bygone age, when oil was seen as scarce after the 1970s Arab oil embargo. A domestic drilling boom of the past six years has transformed the United States into an energy powerhouse, boosting U.S. production by more than 50 percent and reversing decades of decline. Output of very light oil has been especially strong, leading to a glut that threatens to overwhelm domestic demand. The constraints helped fuel bumper profits for refiners such as Valero Energy Corp &lt;vlo.n&gt; and PBF Energy Inc &lt;pbf.n&gt;, but angered drillers such as Hess Corp &lt;hes.n&gt; that say they were selling at a discount. Jamie Webster, the senior director of oil markets at research firm IHS, said the FAQ "takes the leash off of (the U.S. Department of) Commerce" and signals it may take additional action on crude exports after several months of inaction. While likely to draw broad support from many quarters, the measures also open the Obama administration to attack by environmentalists and Democrats who may see it encouraging more hydraulic fracking and as a sop to big oil companies. How the measures will affect flows of condensate is uncertain, particularly given the dramatic slump in global oil markets, where prices have nearly halved since the summer. An administration official said that the oil market - not a "fairly arcane clarification" in guidelines - would ultimately determine how much oil is exported. That echoed the Obama administration's policy on exports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, which are also now generally allowed. The steps on Tuesday were "certainly not designed to add or detract from what can be exported. We are trying to make the boundary line clearer," said the official. In its FAQ, which the agency has been working on for most of this year, the BIS confirmed or clarified a number of nuanced issues related to the rules, including: * Confirmation that lease condensate processed through a distillation tower is considered a petroleum product, and therefore can be exported without constraint. * Clarification of what constitutes "distillation" for export, including the fact that pressure reduction alone, and flash drums with so-called heater-treaters or separators, would not be sufficient to qualify oil for overseas sales. * A reminder that most petroleum products may be "exported to most of the world without a license," a message seen by many analysts as blessing the process of self-certification. * And clarification that "a minimum amount of mixing" between exportable foreign crude and restricted domestic crude may be allowed, a note likely making it easier to ship Canadian crude through U.S. pipelines and ports. (For the FAQ, see: http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-guidance/faqs)   FRUSTRATION BUILDING Uncertainty about what kind of petroleum can be shipped abroad has frustrated oil market players since the BIS, an office of the Commerce Department, quietly gave permission in 2013 to a small company, Peaker Energy, to export minimally treated light oil called condensate. Last spring BIS gave permission to export treated condensate in private letters to two other companies, Pioneer Natural Resources Co &lt;pxd.n&gt; and Enterprise Products Partners LP &lt;epd.n&gt;. The private nature of the communications between the government and the three energy companies left a wide range of other drillers in the dark about investing in expensive infrastructure to process condensate. One company, Australia's BHP &lt;bhp.ax&gt;, said last month it would press ahead with exports without having received a formal approval from the BIS, but other energy companies have been reluctant to follow suit without further guidance. Domestic pressure has also grown. Several lawmakers in the House of Representatives and Senate have said that unless energy companies can export oil to Asia and Europe, the drilling boom will eventually choke on its own output.   (Additional reporting by Jessica Resnick-Ault and Jonathan Leff in New York; Editing by Jessica Resnick-Ault, Bill Trott and Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
 True story: When I first became interested in "nice" watches I had little interest in Rolex. Looking back, I think I found them a bit ordinary or too conservative looking.  My 20 year-old self perhaps saw them as being "too safe" from a design perspective and not close enough the modern, experimental designs I was attracted to at the time. That was all true. Rolex watches are design monoliths. Due to Rolex's impressive marketing over the years, as well as the sheer popularity of their products, they have become the archetype of the "nice watch." And everyone certainly knows about them. My younger self was simply looking for something a bit more fresh. It was not a right time to get my first Rolex. Over the years my relationship with Rolex evolved. It is now one of admiration, appreciation, and certainly understanding. I know what Rolex watches are good at, I know what to expect from the brand, and I certainly know how seriously other people take them. And that goes equally for new and vintage Rolex watches that attract very distinct fan. Flickr/Luca OhmanDue to Rolex's impressive marketing over the years, as well as the sheer popularity of their products, they have become the archetype of the "nice watch." Rolex watches are perhaps the finest mass-produced industrial timepiece on the planet. They may actually be the finest mass-produced anything. And by mass-produced I mean in terms of watch brand production volumes which for watches at the Rolex price point is most always less than one million watches per year. Eventually, I came to approve of and even greatly desire one, then two, and later more Rolex watch models. What really changed my perception of Rolex was being able to survey the competition. My status as a watch writer and expert affords me the opportunity to handle over 1,000 watches per year. I've reviewed a lot of watches and can say for sure that Rolex does a lot of things the very best. You also can't deny the communicative power a Rolex watch has when saying something about your status, wealth, and taste. None of it may be true, but years of work have given Rolex wearers a pretty good personality edge. Even people who think buying a Rolex is a too easy way of showing actual or apparent wealth can usually only fault the wearer and not the watch. I've come to find that a Rolex watch is infrequently a bad choice. People tend to want buy a Rolex for one of the following main reasons: to celebrate an achievement, to own a watch that appears to hold value, to communicate a level of career or life success, to own a luxury watch that is a simple choice, or to wear a timepiece with a lot of history. Most Rolex watch models would satisfy each of these needs. No reason is better or worse, but it is interesting that most people's desire to wear a Rolex falls into one or more of these categories. Jay YarowFew will claim that a Rolex doesn't belong in a well-rounded watch collection. The natural next question to ask is whether these are good reasons or whether these are just marketing perpetuated ideas to sell watches. That is a very good question and I think the most simple response is that whether or not these ideas are perpetuated by marketing, they are true. Rolex watches are frequently given or purchased on special occasions. Rolex watches to tend to hold their value very well. And Rolex watches are a well-known luxury brand with a name lots of people have a positive association with. So marketing aside, they are true claims. People have sometimes asked me if "Rolex watches are the best in the world?" Rolex is probably the most powerful luxury watch name, and their products are very well-made, these are facts. However, Rolex watches are the last timepiece some people will buy, and for others they are just a start. Rolex tends to make simple mechanical movements and a limited variety of core designs. There is an entire universe of more complicated, more expensive, and more thoroughly designed watches. Having said that, few will claim that a Rolex doesn't belong in a well-rounded watch collection. Flickr/nicholasputz you need to feel emotionally ready to own a timepiece like a Rolex. Around the time this article was written, we on aBlogtoWatch were wrapping up a viewer poll on this exact question. Visitors to aBlogtoWatch were asked, in their opinion, what the best time to buy a Rolex watch was. Four possible response choices were given and the results were remarkably well-distributed. About 21% said that it was best to buy a Rolex as soon as they could afford it. About 24% said the best time to get a Rolex was after sampling watches from many other brands. About 25% said it was Rolex time as soon as you've achieved a certain level of success. The rest weren't interested in Rolex watches at all. The poll results indicated that 70% of aBlogtoWatch readers felt it was a good idea to buy a Rolex at some point. Clearly, you need to afford one first. As of now, the entry level price for the most basic new Rolex watch is about $5,000, with most pieces people want priced in the $8,000 - $12,000 range. Of course vintage or pre-owned Rolex watches can be less or actually more money. Assuming the money is in the bank, you need to feel emotionally ready. Sound silly? Well given that people associate so many types of sentimental feelings with Rolex watches, it is actually something to consider. Let me tell you what I personally feel. Like I said earlier, Rolex watches are a monolith. The brand is like a rock-solid force that was here before I was born, and will be here after I have left. Rolex also does not really add or subtract models with any speed or regularity. In fact, the watch models Rolex sells today, will in some highly recognizable form, be available long into the future. Rolex evolves their product collection versus changing it. That means it is as good a time to buy a new Submariner now, as it will be in 5, 10, or even 20 years. The Submariner will still be around - and it is that type of reassurance that Rolex has worked so hard to foster. Having said that, I'd love a Rolex right now, but perhaps it would be a foolhardy decision. I am among those people who believe that the time to buy a Rolex is right after you've sampled a lot of watches, and when the right level of life success calls for it. I am just one person however. What we've done for you is collect the thoughts of our most respected fellow watch experts and writers to weigh in on this issue. Flickr/Youssef AbdelaalThe Rolex Submariner is the quintessential sports Rolex, and can be seen on the rest of every James Bond actor. You know what we have to say on the topic of when to get your first Rolex watch, and below you'll see what other important voices think as well. It is important for you to feel that your new (or new for you) Rolex comes at the right time. Our colleagues and fellow experts offer their advice on the matter of your first Rolex watch below: Ben Clymer of Hodinkee.com: "I think that a vintage Rolex in particular is an excellent watch for beginning collectors for a few reasons. In fact, I would say that if one is comfortable with the brand positioning of Rolex, it is arguably the finest "first nice watch" someone can own. The reason that I would suggest vintage early in the collecting career is A) they can be had for little money comparatively speaking, B) you get a superb, historic, and truly in-house watch from a bluechip brand, and C) it was the 1950s-70s when Rolex was really in its hey-day. In fact, I would argue that Rolex is the most important watch brand of the 20th century - their list of technical firsts is a mile long, and watches such as the 1970s Datejust (ref 1603), which very much like the modern Datejust today, can be purchased in good, original condition for $2500 (+/- depending on condition, etc). The modern equivalent, which is very much the same watch, retails for double the price and the aging commonly found on the dial and hands give the vintage pieces a nice, elegant glow. The Datejust (or Oyster Perpetual, or Air King, etc) is a superb everyday watch that is universally appreciated and universally acceptable - whether with a t-shirt and jeans or a suit. The cases, bracelets, and movements are of exceptional build quality and I don't think there is a better buy for that kind of money. I think a modern Rolex is a slightly different story, and the real benefit to buying new is if you want a true sport watch that can handle anything you throw at it. Sure, an old Submariner or GMT can be serviced to be completely water-proof, but they still have plastic crystals and 40 year old parts (here and there). A modern Rolex is built like a tank, and while they may not have some of the charm of some vintage pieces, they are truly exceptionally well-made watches. Though, I think they lack some of the charm of the early tritium and radium dials." Michael Clerizo from the Wall Street Journal: "I like the way the Japanese gift watches based around an occasion such as a graduation, a significant birthday, a first job or an important promotion. I think that approach should apply even if you're buying for yourself. A mechanical watch is not like buying a lamp or a computer, it is something very special so you should link purchasing one to a meaningful event in your life. Both the event and the watch will hold more meaning that way. As mechanical watches require some care you need a sense of responsibility to own one. We all mature at different ages but many people (males and females) have the sense of responsibility by sixteen or by eighteen." Robert-Jan Broer from the Fratellowatches.com: "Rolex still has an "image" that it is a watch to commemorate something special. Your first job, your first child, your graduation, your wedding, and so on. I feel, that if you are buying a Rolex to celebrate something, you should always try to go for a brand new Rolex instead of a pre-owned one. If you aren't buying a Rolex to celebrate a joyful event, but just want to buy that first good watch that will last a lifetime, you might as well take pre-owned Rolex watches into consideration. A pre-owned Rolex will certainly save you a few bucks, unless the Rolex is a sports model that is much sought-after (f.i. Submariner, Sea-Dweller, GMT-Master). Chances are quite good that the price of a pre-owned vintage Rolex equals a new Rolex watch or is even more expensive." Jake Ehrlich from RolexMagazine.com: "I believe the best time for someone to purchase their first Rolex is whenever they fall in love with a Rolex watch, and decide they have to have it and can't live without it. It's that simple. This happened to me 30 years ago, when I was 16 years old. There was a Rolex Authorized Dealer (AD) in Mill Valley, California I somehow wandered into when I was 16. At the time, Rolex had recently introduced the first Submariner with a synthetic sapphire crystal, which gave it a really modern look. I fell madly in love with that watch and used to go visit it at least once a month. I became friendly with the jeweler, who must have thought I was nuts, because I would drop by just to try on the watch and stare at it like it was Sophia Loren.I remember thinking to myself, there was something magical about the Submariner. I was stunned by its super-timelessness and purposeful looking design. I remember thinking there was something very James-Bond-like about it, and I thought, if I could just get one, it would somehow make me invulnerable – like wearing a bracelet with magic powers. At the time I did not realize that every James Bond actor had worn the Rolex Submariner as their default sport watch, but for some reason, when I would look at it on my wrist, the James Bond theme music track would start playing in my head! You know. the dun-na-na-na, na-nunna, dun-na-nunn-na... One day, when I was still 16, I went to go visit the Rolex Submariner again, and the jeweler said "Hi Jake! Coming to visit your best friend again?", to which I said "Yes." Then he said, "Why don't you just buy the watch, so you don't have to come in here and stare at it on your wrist?" I remember asking the AD every imaginable question about the Submariner, and I remember being frustrated that I could not just buy it since the watch retailed for just over $1000 at the time, which was a lot of money, particularly for a 16-year-old. I thanked the AD, and he said "See you soon!", to which I responded "Yes you will. I will be back before you close the store this evening to pickup the watch." He smiled and had this kind of confused look on his face. Somehow, I came up with the $1000, and showed up several minutes before the AD closed and bought the Rolex Submariner. The AD sized it for my wrist, and I could not stop staring at the watch. I remember I went home and laid in bed for hours staring at the timeless beauty of the design, and when I turned the lights off, I would get way under the covers and completely cover myself in blankets so no ambient light was visible, and I would just stare at the beautiful lumed dial, and I would stare at the second hand as it moved ever so precisely around the dial in big circles. So my answer is, you should buy what you want or in my case had to buy, whenever you can afford it." Paul Altieri from Bobswatches.com: "A good time to buy your first Rolex watch is when you have enough discretionary income to where you can afford the model you want. Our average Rolex buyer is 40 to 45 years old but we have recently experienced a 15% increase in younger buyers in their mid to late twenties. But they all share the same love and appreciation for what it means to own and wear a Rolex. And while some are celebrating a momentous occasion like a college graduation, the vast majority are just buying the watch for themselves because they want it!For those looking to find the best deals: buy soon after a major holiday like Christmas or Fathers Day where it is sometimes possible to find a small percentage discount. But don’t expect to find bargain basement close-outs. Not on a Rolex. Advantage of buying a pre-owned Rolex? A pre-owned Rolex watch, unlike a new one, will not depreciate in value soon after it is purchased. While buying a new Rolex is akin to buying a new car: they will both depreciate in value substantially after they are purchased. By buying a pre-owned watch you have essentially eliminated this retail markup devaluation making it possible to someday sell your Rolex for more than you paid." Frank Geelen from Monochrome.nl: "Buying a first Rolex is something monumental and it makes sense to do this for a memorable occasion. This can be either a celebration (high school diploma, university graduation, promotion at work, wedding) or something for remembrance (using an inheritance for instance)." James Stacey from aBlogtoWatch: "7/10 Rolex buyers are buying exclusively for the name and do so whenever they have the cash to afford an 8K+ watch (as Paul said). If you consider yourself a watch nerd type, you may be buying a Rolex (and a specific model at that) for a variety of reasons. Rolex has a sport watch tied to the history of many manly pursuits (Sub = diving, daytona = racing, explorer/II = exploration, GMT Master = pilots, gold date just = dictator/mafioso/cocaine cowboys)."  This article originally appeared at aBlogtoWatch.  Copyright 2014. Follow aBlogtoWatch on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
At the end of last year, many on Wall Street predicted interest rates would finally start rising in 2014. They were wrong. Greg Valliere, chief political strategist at Potomac Research, argues that the interest rates forecast is one of the things that Wall Street and Washington get wrong consistently. And he believes they'll get it wrong again. "The smart money says -- again -- that rates will surge next year; the smart money has said that for the past several years, and we still don't buy it," he wrote in a note on Tuesday. These are his five reasons why rates will stay low: So in summary, there's no doubt that the US economy is gaining momentum, but low interest rates are like the fuel of the engine, and rates can't rise considerably because of the five reasons above. FREE AppDownload
Last month, when oil magnate Harold Hamm was ordered to pay his ex-wife $1 billion in their divorce, he called the ruling "fair and equitable,” publicly thanked the judge and said he was happy to have the case behind him. Now, with his estimated $19 billion personal fortune having fallen by half amid a rout in oil prices, the chief executive of Continental Resources has changed his mind. Hamm has appealed the divorce ruling, which he now considers “erroneous and inequitable,” according to filings in Oklahoma County Court. Hamm’s appeal hasn't been previously reported. The appeal, and an earlier one by ex-wife Sue Ann Arnall, will be heard by the Oklahoma Supreme Court. Arnall, a former Continental executive, has claimed the ruling wrongly allowed the oilman to keep more than 90 percent of the wealth the couple built together. (Arnall resumed using her birth name after the divorce.) The dueling appeals are the latest twist in one of the largest divorce cases in U.S. history. The contest pits America’s top owner of oil against an attorney ex-wife who is intent on showing that the Hamm fortune stemmed from hard work – both his and hers – during a 26-year marriage. Hamm contends his 68 percent Continental stake, which he owned before meeting Arnall, surged in value during the marriage due to “passive” or market factors, like rising oil prices. The distinction is crucial, since Oklahoma law says only marital wealth stemming from active efforts or skills of either spouse should be split in a divorce. In essence, the most successful oilman in America is arguing that he was lucky. “The vast majority of the enhanced value of the CLR (Continental) stock was due to market forces and contributions of third parties,” Hamm said in an appeal filing. The appeals risk dragging Hamm, and his oil company, deeper into a personal divorce battle that's already in its third year. The fight has featured costs in the tens of millions of dollars and a 10-week trial that ended last month. The case was conducted mostly behind closed doors, after the judge ruled that opening it would harm Continental. November's billion-dollar judgment, while one of the biggest on record, allowed Hamm to retain his majority stake in Continental. But he recently told the court he would need to borrow money to fund the divorce payments, filings show.  Continental, the top driller in North Dakota’s oil boom, has publicly claimed its CEO’s divorce has had, and will have, no impact on its business or operations. But according to new court documents reviewed by Reuters, the firm’s minority shareholders have also paid a price. In a filing, Continental complained to the court about "all of the expense that Continental's minority shareholders have been dragged through” as a result of the divorce case. How much time and money Continental has spent so far on its CEO’s divorce case isn’t clear, however. A review of Securities and Exchange Commission filings shows the firm has not disclosed any such costs to shareholders. Continental did not respond to questions for this article. The company hasn’t said if Hamm will reimburse it for the costs incurred. Hamm’s lawyer, Craig Box, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Hamm’s appeal “raises the stakes for his ex-wife,” said Carolyn Thompson, an Oklahoma family law specialist. As Arnall presses Hamm for billions more, the oilman will try to convince the state’s high court that what he owes her “should be reduced or eliminated,” Thompson said.   Arnall was awarded a total of about $1 billion, in cash and assets, to be paid over a period of years. In his appeal, Hamm is contesting most of that award, including the court's order that he split with Arnall $1.4 billion derived from the rise in his Continental shareholdings. He also lists 26 other investments or properties he says were wrongly split up as marital assets. These include the couple’s former Oklahoma City home and a $17 million California ranch, both awarded to Arnall. Hamm’s appeal comes after the value of his Continental shares has fallen by more than half, to $9.3 billion, down from as much as $19 billion during the trial in August. Continental's market capitalization eroded amid a recent plunge in oil prices, which now trade near five-year lows of $57 a barrel. In response, Continental plans to sharply cut spending next year. Hamm founded Continental in 1967. When he and Arnall wed in 1988, the company was worth less than $50 million, filings show. A month after the November 10 divorce ruling, Hamm asked the court to consider new evidence: a chart showing that Continental shares dropped 22 percent as oil prices fell 16.5 percent earlier this month. “The dramatic drop in oil price post-trial and the corresponding drop in the CLR stock price demonstrate the overriding impact of the oil price on the value of the stock,” Hamm, 69, said in a court filing dated December 16. Hamm’s request is unusual, said family law specialist Thompson. In her view, she said, the courts should only consider evidence admitted during the trial, which ended in October. Fernando Leon/Getty Images/StringerArnall, 58, believes she was short-changed when the court failed to take account of both spouses’ contributions to Continental, according to a person familiar with her case. As an attorney for the company in the 1980s and 1990s, Arnall was part of Continental’s successful lawsuits against a string of industry competitors. The millions it won were reinvested in drilling. Between 1996 and 2008, she formed and often managed Continental’s profitable oil and gas marketing divisions, the person said. Continental hasn’t commented on Arnall’s previous roles there. At trial, Arnall told the court that during the marriage, Hamm had often refused to put property in both spouses' names. That became a point of contention between the couple, according to people familiar with her version of events, since she worried Hamm would leave her. The couple had filed twice previously for divorce - Hamm in 1998 Arnall in 2005. Arnall filed for divorce again, the current case, in 2012. At trial, Hamm admitted to spending $150,000 on an extramarital pursuit, without offering further details. His relationship with Arnall had been “loveless” for years, his court filings said.   In their divorce battle, Hamm has sought to tweak the historical record in his favor. Reuters reported in September that Continental had altered its corporate timeline on the company’s website, and made changes to language in SEC filings, in ways that could benefit Hamm’s case. The revised timeline was largely accepted by the court. It included claims that important milestones, such as Continental's lucrative shift in focus from natural gas to oil, came years before the marriage began. In August, under questioning from Arnall's attorney, Hamm testified that several statements on Continental's web site had been incorrect and that he had only recently discovered the errors. Hamm has also sought to downplay Arnall's role. Among the evidence the couple has battled over is a 104-page book published in late 2012 and commissioned earlier by Hamm, entitled “Continental Resources – A Tribute to the Enid Years.” It chronicles the huge success of Continental since it was founded by Hamm in Enid, Oklahoma. The book, read by Reuters, was written by longtime Hamm friend and fellow oilman Mickey Thompson. The saga contains no mention of Sue Ann Arnall. Thompson said in an interview that he had intended to include material on Arnall, a person he considered among the “key players” in Continental’s rise. But after Arnall filed for divorce in May 2012, Thompson said, Hamm told him that “Sue Ann was not going to be in the book.” (Edited by Michael Williams) FREE AppDownload
The EconomistThis Alan Blinder, above, works for The New York Times. And it is a disaster. The magazine chose to exclude sitting central-bank governors, and as a result excludes the world's most three influential economists: Fed Chair Janet Yellen, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, and Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda. But there's a problem: The list still includes a number of Fed presidents and voting FOMC members. PrincetonPrinceton's Alan Blinder, the man The Economist was looking for. For example, the second most influential economist of 2014 is New York Fed President Bill Dudley, who also serves as vice chairman of the FOMC and is effectively the No. 2 person at the Federal Reserve. So then why exclude Yellen? The list has other problems. There are no women. Again, The Economist said it would exclude serving central-bank governors, leading to the exclusion of Yellen. But I'd argue that by including all those Fed presidents it didn't even really stick to that criteria.  As The Wall Street Journal's Josh Zumbrun said on Twitter, "If your ranking of ranking of influential economists includes Charles Plosser &amp; Bill Dudley but not Janet Yellen then your methodology might be bad." The Economist also had a sort of, well, identity crisis with some of these selections. Alan Blinder, the Princeton economist whom The Economist ranked No. 16 on its list, is not pictured in The Economist's ranking. Instead, this Alan Blinder, a New York Times reporter working in its Atlanta bureau, is.  (An image of the "real" Alan Blinder is easily Google'd.)  I'm sure the "fake" Alan Blinder is a fine reporter, but he's probably not one of the 25 most influential economists in the world. The EconomistThis is the wrong John Williams. The Economist also ran into trouble with the San Francisco Fed's John Williams. Instead of sticking to comments from the Fed's Williams, The Economist attributed comments to John Williams, the proprietor of shadowstats.com, a website that aims to reveal the "truth" behind the government's official economic data. The debate on shadow stats is, like, a completely different discussion, but the error here is a fairly egregious.  See, for example, the commentary The Economist attributes to John Williams, Fed president, regarding the latest jobs report. And so, overall, just not the best work out of The Economist. The Economist outlines its critera as follows, saying it, "asked Appinions, a startup that analyses influence online, to look at a list of 500 economists—the 450 atop the [research papers in economics] list, plus some we chose ourselves. Appinions tracked how much attention was paid to their utterances in the mainstream media, the blogosphere and in social media over a 90-day period up to December 11." For the record, Jonathan Gruber, the MIT economist who was credited as one of the architects of The Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, who became a major headache for the White House after footage of Gruber speaking critically of voters and the law surfaced. And as The Economist admits, "[Gruber's] elevation is a reminder that the news cycle is also an imperfect measure: in any other quarter, he would not have troubled the ranking."  But the thing is: No one forced The Economist to do its rankings this way, either.  You can read The Economist's full report here »    FREE AppDownload
The gap between the prices of new and existing homes is widening. New homes are historically more expensive, and the gap had been between 15% and 20%. But in the last few years, it has widened to between 30% and 40%. "Indeed, too few new homes are being constructed," wrote Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors, who published the chart on the right on Tuesday. "Even though single-family housing starts are projected to have risen for the fourth time in the past five years, the level is essentially at a deep recession level." Yun's estimate is that 650,000 new single-family houses were built in 2014, but the normal should be 1 million. The reason for the slowdown is that there aren't enough new housing starts. For instance, while the cost of a rented apartment grew 31% between 2004 and 2014, home prices grew 8%. So the lack of home starts is increasing their premium price over existing homes. Both new and existing home sales fell in November, data released last week showed. Yun forecasts that single-family housing starts will rise to 820,000 in 2015, but this would still be below the historical average. FREE AppDownload
AP Images/ Mary AltafferArt Cashin and the NYSE traders.Stocks slipped on the second-to-last trading day of the year as markets were quiet ahead of the New Years holiday, though the stock market will be open for a full day on Wednesday.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. On Tuesday, housing data from the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index came in better than expected, as home prices rose 0.76% on a seasonally adjusted basis in October compared to the prior month, topping expectations for a 0.4% increase. Compared to last year, home prices also rose 4.5% in October, also better than expected. In comments on CNBC following the report, Yale professor Robert Shiller and one half of the Case-Shiller team, said the housing market in San Francisco looks "a little bubbly."  2. We got the final reading on consumer confidence for 2014, with the Conference Board's consumer confidence index coming in at 92.6, up from 88.7 last month but still a bit below expectations. Following the report, the Conference Board's Lynn Franco said, "Consumer confidence rebounded modestly in December, propelled by a considerably more favorable assessment of current economic and labor market conditions. As a result, the Present Situation Index is now at its highest level since February 2008." 3. It was a historic day on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, as UBS floor director Art Cashin rang the opening bell to celebrate 50 years (!) since he joined the floor of the exchange. Cashin has long been a stalwart on the floor and is frequently seen on CNBC and other media outlets — including Business Insider — and as the NYSE's Rich Barry said in an email, "Most importantly it is Arthur, in his always calming and reassuring tone, which the media frequently seek out during periods of market turmoil. His is a voice that people have come to rely on and trust." 4. And it wouldn't be a celebration of Cashin's longevity on Wall Street without a bit of sound investing advice. As Business Insider's Andy Kiersz breaks down, Cashin shared a time-tested strategy with CNBC viewers in an appearance Tuesday morning: dollar-cost averaging.  5. Among the big stock losers on Tuesday were shares of oil services company Civeo, which provides housing accommodations for drilling and mining projects, which lost more than 50% after the company last night said it would suspend its dividend and reduce capital investment in 2015. The company, which was spun off from Oil States International earlier this year, is down more than 80% since that June split.  6. Gold rallied on Tuesday, spiking aggressively in late morning trade before settling at around $1,200 an ounce, more than $15/ounce higher than it was overnight. There was no obvious catalyst for the move higher in gold, though on a day when stocks were down, US Treasury bonds and gold — considered "safe haven" assets — gained some ground.  Don't Miss: Four Economists Named 'Goodman' Co-Authored A Paper About Sharing The Name 'Goodman' » FREE AppDownload
© AFP Aris MessinisGreek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras attends the third round of a presidential election in Athens, on December 29, 2014Athens (AFP) - Greece's prime minister warned Tuesday the financially-stricken nation may be forced out of the eurozone if January's parliamentary election hands hard-left party Syriza power to reverse years of austerity measures. "This struggle will determine whether Greece stays in Europe," Antonis Samaras said, as he asked the outgoing president to dissolve parliament ahead of an election set for January 25. Fears of a potential Greek exit have already rattled markets and sparked concern throughout European Union capitals. Syriza has pledged to reverse reforms imposed by Greece's creditors -- the so-called "troika" of the International Monetary Fund, European Commission, and European Central Bank -- cut taxes, and increase state aid and public services. Polls indicate Syriza leads Samaras' conservative New Democracy party by three to six points.  The January election was called Monday after lawmakers failed in a third attempt to elect a successor to 85-year-old President Karolos Papoulias, whose five-year term ends in March. The last election plunged Greece into weeks of political uncertainty, and there are fears of a repeat next month given the close race between Samaras' New Democracy conservatives and front-running Syriza. "In an unprecedented twist, the new parliament could elect a president and be dissolved again for new elections (immediately afterwards) if a government cannot be formed," the Kathimerini daily wrote Tuesday. If Syriza were to win they would still need to form a coalition and tone down some of their rhetoric to find a partner, according to Manos Papazoglou, a professor of political science at the University of the Peloponnese. "Syriza will have to move towards the centre," Papazoglou told AFP. It also remained unclear who the prospective coalition allies would be, as a handful of small parties are vying for parliament. These include the recently-formed centrist party To Potami (The River), led by a former journalist. There are also rumours that former prime minister George Papandreou is about to form a party. Greek stocks closed down almost four percent on Monday -- having lost a massive 11 percent earlier -- amid fears that Syriza would roll back austerity measures if it wins the election. The stock market appeared though to have digested the news by Tuesday, closing down just 0.45 percent.  Syriza had dismissed warnings that its electoral programme would rattle markets and creditors, but within hours of the election being called on Monday, the International Monetary Fund said it was suspending further bailout payments to Greece until a new government was formed. "Discussions... will resume once a new government is in place, in consultation with the European Commission and the European Central Bank," said IMF spokesman Gerry Rice. Greece recently secured a two-month extension to February from its EU-IMF creditors to conclude a fiscal audit that will determine the release of some 7.0 billion euros ($8.6 billion) in loans. Syriza, which declined to vote in the presidential ballot in order to force snap legislative polls, says hope rather than fear is in order as the election nears. Avgi, a newspaper aligned with Syriza, says a leftist government would give "hope to the peoples of Europe and nightmares to the elites oppressing them." "This is the beginning of the end of a regime that plunged Greece into poverty, unemployment, misery and despair," Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras told supporters on Monday, promising a "real negotiation" with the country's EU creditors. But the spectre of the hard-left party forming government led Athens' euro partners to encourage Greek voters to stay the reformist course. The European Union has renewed its calls on Greeks to stick by the often painful reforms adopted as part of a massive international bailout for the eurozone member state. "A strong commitment to Europe and broad support among the Greek voters and political leaders for the necessary growth-friendly reform process will be essential for Greece to thrive again within the euro area," EU economic affairs commissioner Pierre Moscovici said. "Greece must stick to its commitments not only because the troika imposes them but also because it is good for the future of the Greek economy," Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told radio Cope Tuesday. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble used sterner language, warning Monday the cash-strapped country against abandoning the agreed economic reforms, saying "they have no alternative".   FREE AppDownload
Nordstrom is outperforming every other retail company.   The company's shares have gained 120% in five years. The company is well-positioned to continue that success in the future, according to Deutsche Bank.  The department store has focused on a few aspects of the business to stand out.  Here's how Nordstrom is beating retailers from Macy's to T.J. Maxx.  "Throughout their history, they have consistently provided some of the best service in the industry," said Robin Lewis, CEO of The Robin Report and co-author with Michael Dart, of The New Rules of Retail – Competing in the World’s Toughest Marketplace.  Nordstrom is choosy about hiring "nice, capable people," according to Forbes.  Customers love the return policy: Nordstrom will take back any merchandise people bring back, no questions asked.  "The top-notch customer service is a big part of Nordstrom's long-term success," Lewis said.  Yahoo! Finance.The company's share price over the past five years Nordstrom Rack is a huge cash machine for the company, Edward Hertzman, founder and Publisher of retail publication Sourcing Journal, told Business Insider.  There is only a 10-20% overlap between Nordstrom Rack customers and the high-end department store, meaning that plenty of people are still paying full-price too. "The outlets have given them exposure to a completely different customer who is all about value," Hertzman said.  Nordstrom has opened more than 70 Rack locations since 2010, and has plans to build dozens more.  Associated PressA shopper checks a shoe as she walks down an aisle in a Nordstrom rack in Chicago Nordstrom has solved one of the biggest problems facing retailers: reaching millennial customers, Lewis said.  "The outlet business gives Nordstrom exposure to young customers who are seeking a deal and otherwise wouldn't be shopping there," he said. "The company believes that the younger customer will migrate into the full-line stores as they grow older." While Lewis believes there is a risk of the outlet business diluting the brand's image, he says that brands like Nordstrom that offer a variety of brands are less at-risk than name brands like Michael Kors.  "They have a breadth of brands, so having outlets might not tarnish the nameplate," he said.  NordstromNordstrom's omnichannel strategy helps it resonate with young customers. Nordstrom is determined to be the world's top omnichannel retailer. "This company is at the forefront of e-commerce and omnichannel retail," Lewis said.  Nordstrom recently made it possible to instantly buy the items featured on Instagram.  Workers also merchandise stores using input from its Pinterest page. Items that are popular on the social media site are featured more prominently on the sales floor.  Nordstrom has also aggressively invested in e-commerce, investing in men's brands Bonobos and Trunk Club and its own flash-sale site, Hautelook. "Nordstrom has spent more than a billion dollars investing in this aspect of the business, and it's paying off," Hertzman said.   FREE AppDownload
Mark Cuban talked with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's IGNITION 2014. He told us why he does Shark Tank despite his already busy schedule.  Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
WikimediaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  An Investment Billionaire Resigned Another Leadership Role In His Shaken Up Empire (Wealth Management)  Nicholas Schorsch, whose independent broker/dealer empire has been shaken up over the last few weeks, stepped down from his role as executive chairman of RCS Capital. Mark Auerbach, the lead independent director of RCAP, will take over, reports Diana Britton. Earlier today, RCAP shares were up 5% following the announcement. Back in October, RCAP's sister company announced a $23 million accounting error — which shook up the Schorsch empire. Wall Street analysts last week were calling for his resignation as chairman of RCAP. Pershing Has To Pay $3 Million Over "Supervisory Failures" (Financial Planning)  FINRA has fined Pershing $3 million for "supervisory failures" and for violating the SEC's Customer Protection Rule, reports Charles Paikert.  "According to FINRA, the Jersey City-based custodian failed to maintain adequate reserves to meet its reserve deposit requirements with reserve deficiencies ranging from approximately $4 million to $220 million from November 2010 to August 2011," reports Paikert. Additionally, the firm failed to obtain and maintain physical possession or control of customers' fully paid and excess margin securities — which put funds and securities at risk. Two Advisers Have To Pay $6.3 Million For Selling Hedge Funds Linked To Madoff (Investment News)  "Two investment advisers must pay more than $6.3 million in fines and restitution for misleading clients whose money was invested in hedge funds linked to Bernie Madoff," reports Liz Skinner. So far, approximately $10 billion — or 60% — has been recovered for those involved in the Madoff's ponzie scheme. Female CFOs Are Less Likely To Do Risky Business Tax-Dodging (Reuters)  Female CFOs in the US are less likely to take up high-risk tax-dodging strategies than male counterparts, according to a study by the American Accounting Association, reports Kevin Drawbaugh. "The chances that a company would adopt a risky tax shelter were 17.4 percent lower with a female CFO," according to the study, "citing an academic analysis of 92 cases win which a woman replaced a man in that key executive role," reports Drawbaugh. This has both positive and negative sides, according to professor Qiang Wu. Firms can suffer from risky tactics, but aggressive tax avoidance has been "highly popular" in many major US firms. HOWARD MARKS: Lower Oil Prices Eventually Make For High Oil Prirces (Advisor Perspectives)  "In other words, lower oil prices – in and of themselves – eventually make for higher oil prices," writes Howard Marks. Marks notes that many investors focus to much on what has happened (i.e. the oil price drop), and not enough of what will happen afterwards (i.e. the consequences of the oil price drop.) He believes that there could be "self-correcting" three aspects of the oil price drop: 1) a decline in gas prices will get people to drive more, which will increase demand for oil. 2) a decline in oil prices negatively impacts drilling — reducing additions to supply. And 3) the decline in price of oil leads producers to cut production. FREE AppDownload
Every year the federal government loses tens of billions of dollars to waste, fraud and abuse. Unfortunately, 2014 was no exception. Federal auditors issued plenty of scathing reports this year flagging programs and projects that were inefficient or wasteful. They also identified numerous costly instances of wrongdoing by federal employees.  Drawing on much of our reporting throughout the year, The Fiscal Times identified 5 of the most egregious examples of government waste in 2014.  It's basically been standard operating procedure for John Sopko, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), to warn Congress about the failing $104 billion reconstruction effort in that country. Numerous projects have gone well over budget and been left finished, while millions of dollars have vanished and likely ended up in the wrong hands. In 2010, auditors said they could only account for about 10 percent of the total money spent repairing the war-torn country. Read more about the vast amounts squandered in Afghanistan here.  Government agencies in charge of major federal programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social  Security have doled out about $100 million in improper payments each year for the last five years. The payments include everything from outright fraud to errors made by the agencies or errors made by people claiming the payments. Between 2002 and 2012, federal agencies gave out about $688 billion to the wrong people. Flickr/5wa Agencies are required to estimate the payment error rate of their programs. For example, Medicare’s Fee for Service program had an error rate of 10.1 percent in 2013 –about $33.2 billion of the program’s total payments were improper. Read more about it here. The Government Accountability Office revealed this year that the federal government paid $3.1 billion to federal workers on administrative leave over the last three years. Of this amount, $775 million went to 57,000 employees who were off work for a month or longer. Though not all of this money can be considered waste, lawmakers have questioned federal agencies’ use of administrative leave – especially when the departments place those employees accused of wrongdoing on leave for extended periods of time while they collect government salaries. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) had referred to these instances as “taxpayer-funded vacations.” Sen. Tom Coburn (R-OK) said in an interview earlier this year, “Instead of firing misbehaving employees, Washington rewards those who have broken the law or engaged in misconduct by paying them to do nothing – sometimes for many years.” In one example, Veterans Affairs executives at a Phoenix, Virginia health care center – caught covering up hidden wait lists – were put on administrative leave in May and continue to receive their annual government salaries of $85,000. Read more here. The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s new case filing system, “Sentinel,” is just the latest chapter in federal IT flops. The system, ridden with problems, has spiraled $100 million over budget – and it still barely works. Auditors say the system, which is supposed to make it easier to search case files, is so flawed it actually makes the process more time consuming and difficult. Read more here.  FEMA spent $240 million building a high-tech system to help deliver supplies and coordinate the multi-agency response to national disasters. But a review by the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General found the Logistics Supply Chain Management System so riddled with errors that it can’t “interface” with other agencies – making it nearly impossible to locate and deliver emergency supplies. The IG also said that even if the system worked, agency employees have not been trained properly to use it. Overall, auditors concluded, “Despite spending about $247 million over nine years, FEMA cannot be certain its supply chain management system will be effective during a catastrophic disaster.” This is a huge problem: FEMA is notorious for botching its delivery of disaster relief. Just ask Hurricane Sandy victims. Read more here.  FREE AppDownload
Official White House photographer Pete Souza just published a bunch of photos from 2014. The gallery includes the picture below.  As Time Magazine's Zeke Miller noted, Mr. Souza devotes much of the caption of the photo to defusing the potential criticism that President Obama is a wee bit too casual here: March 1, 2014. "The President talks with some of his national security advisors before a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin about the situation in Ukraine. I'm sure there will be people quick to comment about his wearing casual clothes and having his feet on his coffee table. Let's keep perspective in mind: it was a Saturday, and a President is the President whether he's wearing a suit on a weekday or casual clothes on a weekend. And a President, any President, isn't disrespecting the office if he puts his feet on a table or a desk; he's just being relaxed." Pete Souza, Official White House Photographer Well, what do we think? We're big fans of putting our feet up, being comfortable, etc. But it seems worth pointing out that no one else in this relaxed, weekend group has their feet on the table. There's certainly no question about whose office this is! SEE ALSO: What Do You Think Is Happening In This Picture Of President Obama? FREE AppDownload
 I'm sure you can guess the title.  In a paper set to be presented at a January 4 conference in Boston, four economists with the surname of "Goodman" wrote about surname-sharing in economics (via John Overholt of Harvard's Houghton Library). The authors include Allen Goodman of Wayne State University, Joshua Goodman of Harvard University, Lucas Goodman of the University of Maryland, and Sarena Goodman of the Federal Reserve Board. The title: "A Few Goodmen: Surname-Sharing Economist Coauthors." As the authors write in their conclusion, "Our main contribution is showing that such a collaboration is feasible." Which is excellent. The paper will be presented as part of the American Economics Association's 7th Annual Economics Humor Session in Honor of Caroline Postelle Clotfelter. Some of the other titles set to be presented at the conference include, "Was that Rational? The American Economic (Year in) Review", "Homer-Economicus: The Simpsons and Economics", and "Rockonomix: Integrating Economics and Popular Music." Back in November, Paul Krugman wrote about the intra-disciplinary hand-wringing that was going on in economics following a paper that said, basically, successful academic economists are really arrogant. So it's good to see some economists taking a break from in-fighting and urging for more collaboration among authors that share names.  But the excerpt of the Goodman paper made available ahead of the conference isn't just, well, a big joke or something.  As the Goodmans write, "The phenomenon of coauthorship in the economics profession has been widely explored." The authors note that in 2012, less than 25% of economics articles were written by a single author, and find that research has shown evidence of "alphabetical discrimination," meaning that economists with earlier surname initials have greater career success.  Good thing I'm not an economist.  The Goodmans also find that among 9,000 unique economists, 45% share a surname with at least one other economist, and within that group, that 10% share a surname with more than 10 other economists. The most popular surnames among economists are: The Goodmans also uncovered a 2008 paper from the Van Praag father-daughter tandem that explored phenomenon of alphabetical discrimination, which the Goodmans write, "for whom the issue is quite salient in all research but the paper in question." The Goodmans also conclude that they are the first paper written by four economists with same surname, arguing that the 2012 paper written by Skarbek, Skarbek, Skarbek, and Skarbek contains just two economists — Brian and Erin Skarbek are husband and wife attorneys, while David and Emily Skarbek are the economists. Additionally, the Goodmans argue that since the research for the project began before either woman took the Skarbek name, "We therefore suspect that the share surnames may be endogenous to the publication process itself." The paper concludes with the Goodmans naming names and calling for action: "Future breakthroughs on this topic should be possible. We believe much could be learned if only economists John Turner (University of Georgia), Lesley Turner (University of Maryland), Nicholas Turner (US Treasury Department) and Sarah Turner (University of Virginia) would find a way to work together. Substantial progress might also come from collaboration between Janet Smith (Claremont McKenna College), Jeffrey Smith (University of Michigan), Jeremy Smith (University of Warwick), and Jonathan Smith (College Board), whose work could explore the impact of both surname-sharing and first initial-sharing. Finally, we encourage cousins Erzo F.P. Luttmer (Dartmouth College) and Erzo G.J. Luttmer (University of Minnesota) to consider collaborating for reasons too obvious to state. This area seems ripe for exploration." Sure.  We've embedded the preview below.        FREE AppDownload
If you want to know what happened in 2014 with regard to gold and oil, it’s important to appreciate the inverse relationship between the U.S. dollar and commodities. The following chart is a good place to start: Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds Whereas total returns for the S&amp;P 500 Index and 10-Year Treasury bond stayed relatively stable throughout the year, commodities and the U.S. dollar both made an incredible about-face starting around late June, early July.  If you don’t factor in China’s renminbi using purchasing power parity, the dollar is the world’s strongest currency. As I’ve written about on multiple occasions, this has weighed heavily on the commodities we track very closely and report on here at U.S. Global Investors, especially gold and crude oil. According to BullionVault, in fact, 2014 was the worst year for commodities since 1986, when they gave back 8.85 percent. That being said, let’s dive into the Frank Talk archives and look back at the most important commodity stories of 2014.      It should come as no surprise that oil dominated the news in the second half of the year. Since its peak in June, when West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude was priced at around $105 per barrel, oil has tumbled nearly 50 percent to settle in the mid-$50s. We haven’t seen a decline such as this since the financial collapse of 2008 and 2009. So how did prices get here? How did they fall so steeply, so unexpectedly? It’s been a perfect storm, to be sure. For one, the U.S. shale boom has brought about what some call an oil glut in the market. The Saudis have resisted oil production curbs with the intention of undercutting the world’s competition, namely the U.S., Russia and fellow members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).  Global growth and the Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) are also cooling, leading to tepid demand for oil. As I’ve mentioned on numerous occasions, when the one-month moving average for the global PMI falls below the three-month moving average, WTI crude has fallen 100 percent of the time six months later. Though past performance can’t predict future results, history illustrates a convincing trend. Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds  Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds And finally there’s the strong dollar, which has historically put pressure on commodities, most notably crude. Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds Granted, battered oil prices have led to cheap gasoline, giving consumers all around the globe a welcome tax break this holiday season — a $330 billion tax break, to be exact. But many oil companies involved in hydraulic fracturing, which is a pricier process than more conventional drilling methods, are starting to feel the pinch. Several companies have already been forced to temporarily close rigs in pricier shale regions, including the Eagle Ford in Texas and Bakken in North Dakota. As calamitous as this might appear, there are still investment opportunities aplenty. In this recent Frank Talk, I took a contrarian view, arguing that, because oil stocks are currently priced so reasonably, now might be the time to pick up some exposure to this space. As I wrote: For far too many investors, by the time they gain back the confidence to put money into oil stocks again, the rally might have already taken off, making it challenging to capture the full benefit of the upswing. And there’s reason to believe that prices will normalize sooner rather than later. Brian Hicks, portfolio manager of the Global Resources Fund (PSPFX), stated that “oil prices are below where they should be, and hopefully they’ll start gravitating back to the equilibrium price of between $80 and $85 a barrel.” Like oil, gold was punished in the second half of the year because of the strong dollar. In the following chart, from an October Frank Talk, you can see just how much of an impact the greenback has had on the yellow metal this year alone: Hard Assets Investor, U.S. Global Investors/US FundsIn this Frank Talk, posted in June, I wrote: There is always an emotional bias against gold, whether it is soaring high or dipping low, and that is why it’s important to manage these emotions when positioning a portfolio. At U.S. Global Investors we look objectively at the action of both gold stocks and gold bullion by monitoring these long-term data points and paying attention to buy and sell signals based on the trend of mean reversion. This, of course, was back when gold bullion was priced at above $1,300. Since then it’s slipped nearly 10 percent, which might have discouraged some gold bugs. But according to a recent article from Hard Asset Investor, gold was actually the second-best-performing currency of the year, second only to the U.S. dollar: Given the strength of the dollar, it’s surprising that gold has held up as well as it has. At current prices, gold is only down 2 percent year-to-date, which is actually the best performance of any of the major non-fixed currencies. Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US FundsBefore gold and other commodities began to slump, they were actually performing very well, as I mentioned at the beginning of the piece. Back in July, this is what it looked like when you compared gold spot prices and the NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index: Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds For the first time in two years, gold mining stocks were beating bullion, which was good news for both the commodity and equities. When miners do well, gold has tended to follow suit. But then in mid-summer, prices began to fizzle. When you chart the two asset classes for the remainder of the year, this is what you get: Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds  The problem is that when spot prices are between $1,000 and $1,200 an ounce—which is now the case—it’s challenging for miners to break even in terms of cash flow. Gold royalty companies, however, continue to impress. Royal Gold has returned 39 percent year-to-date, while Franco-Nevada has delivered 22 percent. According to Ralph Aldis, portfolio manager of the Gold and Precious Metals Fund (USERX) and World Precious Metals Fund (UNWPX): Much of the gold mining industry is underwater and can’t make money with these prices. We’ve seen capital programs being significantly cut back, in terms of companies looking to expand and build new mines. That’s all been put on hold. Those companies have been sufficiently scared enough that, even when gold prices do recover, they’re going to hold off on expansions because they might have lost the appetite to risk capital on new projects.  But on a positive note, “Because of this, we might see prices firm up, and companies will be rewarded.” As always, we recommend a 10-percent weighting in gold: 5 percent in bullion, another 5 percent in gold stocks. Then rebalance every year.  I spend a lot of time writing and speaking about gold and, more recently, oil. But another commodity that we at U.S. Global Investors care about is diamonds. After all, the U.S. is the world’s largest diamond market, responsible for half of the world’s $72 billion in sales made annually.  Rapaport Diamond Price Index, CNNMoney, U.S. Global Investors/US FundsWe hold luxury retailer Tiffany &amp; Co. in our Gold and Precious Metals Fund (USERX). Although physical diamonds are a sound investment, diamond stocks can be even more of a prudent buy.  As you can see to the right, a $6,000 diamond purchased in 1987 would now be worth double that. But $6,000 in Tiffany stock purchased at the same time? Yeah, that would have returned 5,108 percent. So guys, think about that next time you’re picking out a diamond ring or necklace for your significant other. Which do you think she might appreciate more?   In this Frank Talk from August, I discuss diamond exploration and mining company Lucara Diamond, held in both USERX and our World and Precious Minerals Fund (UNWPX).  Lucara continues to be an attractive asset, returning 18.5 percent year-to-date. Since June, it has been paying dividends.  Back in June, a five-month labor strike in South Africa, the country’s longest, was seriously threatening the world supply of platinum and palladium, used predominantly in the production of catalytic converters. The African country is responsible for 37 percent of the world’s palladium, 78 percent of the world’s platinum, with Russia largely taking up the rest of the slack. Every day the strike dragged on, thousands upon thousands of both platinum group metals were being lost. Because of the strike and supply concerns, prices of the precious metals surged, platinum to $1,500 an ounce and palladium to $850 an ounce. The conditions of the strike were finally resolved by the end of June—and not a moment too soon, as reserves were beginning to run dry. Since then, prices have stabilized. Platinum is now just above $1,200, palladium, around $815. Tom Werner, president and CEO of solar panel-maker SunPower, believes that solar energy could be a $5 trillion industry within the next 20 years. It’s easy to see why he feels this way, as demand for photovoltaic (PV) installation ticks up every year. Solar Energy Industries Assocation, U.S. Global Investors, US Funds This news bodes well for silver, between 15 and 20 grams of which is used in every solar panel manufactured. In fact, for the first time in over a hundred years, silver fabrication demand in photography has been outpaced by this new-ish, burgeoning technology.  Once a pie-in-the-sky idea, solar has finally emerged as a viable, near-mainstream source of energy that will increasingly play a crucial role in powering residences, businesses and factories. Some of the nation’s largest companies, including Walmart, Apple and Ford, already depend heavily on solar to power many of their facilities. And with solar installation prices falling all the time—year-over-year, they’ve declined around 9 percent—more and more businesses and homeowners will join them, which should support silver demand. As I write in my whitepaper, “Managing Expectations”: A keen awareness of the ebbs and flows of historical and socioeconomic conditions, on both the macro and micro scales, allows our investment management strategy to be more proactive than reactive. Everything operates in cycles, including the weather, gold seasonal trends, four-year election terms and more. The domestic and global markets are no different. Commodities might be down this year, but as recently as 2009 and 2010, they were the best-performing asset class.    According to our Periodic Table of Commodities Returns, a perennial favorite among Frank Talk and Investor Alert readers, oil was the second-best performer just last year, returning 7.19 percent, while gold had its worst year since 1981. Such is the nature of investing. Every asset class, as I often say, has its own DNA of volatility. Bloomberg, U.S. Global Investors/US Funds Speaking of the Periodic Table, we will be sharing the eagerly-awaited commodities returns for 2014 early next year. Subscribers to our Investor Alert will be first to see them, so be sure to subscribe if you haven’t already done so. I wish you all a safe and prosperous 2015! A perfect New Year’s Resolution is to supplement your retirement income with investment-grade municipal bonds, which you can accomplish through our Near-Term Tax Free Fund (NEARX). Read my latest story, “A Little Pillow Talk Turned Her Husband on to Bonds,” to learn more!  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvillePedestrian pass the offices of Goldman Sachs in London.LONDON (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; paid its top 121 London bankers about 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) on average last year, far exceeding payouts at other leading banks, data released on Tuesday showed. The U.S. investment bank's data showed that it paid staff in senior or risk-taking positions $193.6 million in 2013 and gave them 2.1 million restricted stock units (RSUs), worth $377 million based on the bank's share price at the end of that year. The RSUs are due to be paid out over three years, but they may not be paid in full and can be clawed back at a later date. The remuneration figures mean that Goldman was easily the highest paying of 13 leading U.S., British, Swiss and Japanese banks in 2013. Data compiled by Reuters from the 13 banks showed 2,600 employees at British banks or working in London were paid more than 3.4 billion pounds in 2013, or an average of 1.3 million pounds each. That is almost 50 times average annual pay in Britain. The details are the most comprehensive released on bankers' pay in Britain, which remains a hot topic after large bonuses were blamed for encouraging risk-taking and contributing to the financial crisis. Many shareholders have also voiced criticism, saying that pay needs to come down to improve profitability. The 2013 pay disclosures cover British banks globally and overseas banks' British-based staff. EU banks outside Britain do not need to disclose the details. Most banks released the details earlier this year, but Goldman, Citigroup &lt;c.n&gt; and Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt; all reported in the past week, just before the year-end deadline. The data showed that Goldman and Bank of America &lt;bac.n&gt; face the most work to restructure pay to meet new EU rules that came into effect at the start of 2014 and cap bonuses at 200 percent of fixed pay. Both banks paid senior staff more than five times more in variable pay than fixed pay in 2013. The following table shows what the banks paid their senior and risk-taking employees, known as "code staff", in 2013. Figures are in millions of pounds, with $1 = 0.6436 pounds where banks reported in dollars.     (Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Stocks just dropped quickly. The Dow is down 67 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 10 points, and the Nasdaq is down 31 points. These are near session lows for all of the major averages. Stocks opened the day lower but were trading in a narrow range as volume is light as we're sandwiched between the Christmas and New Years holidays. Here's the quick drop. Google Finance Overall, it's a quiet day in the markets, but on Tuesday we did get two pieces of economic data, first from the housing sector and then from consumer confidence. The Case-Shiller home price index rose 0.7% month-on-month in October, better than then 0.4% increase that was expected, though on a year-on-year basis, home prices rose 4.5% less than the 4.9% they did in September but better than the 4.4% rise that was expected by economists. Consumer confidence also ticked higher in December, to 92.6 from 88.7 in November, though this reading was a bit less than expected.  FREE AppDownload
White House photographer Pete Souza took this picture of the president earlier this year. What do you think is happening?  Make your guess. Then scroll down below the photo for the official story... Official White House photographer Pete Souza       Mr. Souza: February 7, 2014. "This is one of those photographs that needs some explanation. The President had been meeting with Communications Director Jennifer Palmieri, left, and Senior Communications Advisor Tara McGuinness, to prep for a radio interview. At one point, the President made a comment so humorous that Jenn and Tara bent over in laughter."  FREE AppDownload
CNBCArt CashinUBS's Art Cashin rang the New York Stock Exchange's opening bell on December 30 to mark his 50th year trading on Wall Street. So, what kind of wisdom does this veteran have for us after all that he's seen? He shared a time-tested strategy in an interview on CNBC: "...one of the key things that people can do, particularly if they're starting their investment plan, there's something called dollar-cost investing, in which you set aside a certain amount of money, $200, $500, and you buy it every specified day. Every month, or every six months. And that way, if stock prices are down, you wind up with more shares, and if stock prices are too high, you don't buy as much. So, dollar-cost averaging works out pretty well, and yes, the stock market continues to be a good investment." Cashin said this even as the S&amp;P 500 was trading within points of an all-time high. The brilliant thing about dollar-cost averaging is that it works very well even if the market is at a top. We ran the numbers to see how an investor would've done had she started a dollar cost-averaging strategy right before the last market crash. The stock market is great for investors who have the benefit of long-term investing horizons. It's also better-suited for investors who aren't concerned about perfectly-timing market tops and bottoms.  Having said that, taking a longer term view is good for investors worried that they may be buying at the top of the market. A classic strategy called dollar-cost averaging can help reduce risks surrounding an asset falling in price. As described by Cashin, the concept is straightforward — you invest a fixed amount of money in an asset once every fixed time period. If the asset's price drops, you will be getting more shares of the asset for the same amount of money, and so if and when the price recovers, you will have spent less per share, on average, than if you had bought the shares at their peak, pre-fall price. Dollar-cost averaging isn't about losing money as the stock market falls. It's about buying increasing amounts of shares at cheaper prices, which means bigger returns during the rally. To see this in action, we came up with a simplified thought experiment. We considered what would have happened to an investor jumping into the stock market at the last peak: October 2007. This was arguably the worst time to buy. Our hypothetical investor puts $50 into a S&amp;P 500 index fund at the start of every month, starting in October 2007 — the last stock market peak before the beginning of the great recession. Here is what happened to the S&amp;P 500 starting at that peak: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo Finance The index dropped more or less steadily until the worst moments of the financial crisis in fall 2008, causing the full on crash, and only began to turn around in March 2009. The key to our investor's experiment is that they are staying consistent. No matter how stock prices move, they will always put $50 on the first trading day of every month into the index fund. Based on changes in the value of the S&amp;P 500 index, we calculated our investor's price return, less the $50 monthly cost: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo! Finance The value of our investor's portfolio as of December 1, 2014 is $6,896.30. If they instead had taken their $50 each month and held it as cash, they would have just $4,350. So, the price return on this investment — even though they started at the last peak, just before the market started to go downhill — is $2,546.30. This is a respectable 58.5% return. That averages out to about a 6.6% annual rate of return. To get another perspective on this, here is the percent gain or loss, compared to taking $50 each month and holding it as cash: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo! Finance Things start out looking pretty dire, as the economy fell into its deep recession through mid-2009, with the S&amp;P 500 reaching a minimum in March of that year. At the lowest point for our investor, at the start of February 2009, she would be down about 36%. Because human beings are often overly risk-averse, our hypothetical investor might have been tempted to abandon their investment plans during the bad months. That is, they might look at this chart and panic about the drop: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo! Finance But, if our investor sticks with their plan and keeps putting $50 in every month, even through the dark times, once the market bounces back, they end up doing quite well: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Yahoo! Finance Unfortunately, dollar-cost averaging isn't sexy. It's much sexier to sell at the top and buy at the bottom. Obviously, your returns would be much higher if you win the stock market lottery by perfectly timing the tops and bottoms of the market. However, almost everyone who tries to do this will find themselves losing money and lots of it. If you are investing for the long haul, and can hang on through watching your portfolio's value drop temporarily in bad times, starting to invest in stocks, even near a peak, may not be as terrifying as it looks. The market has always bounced back sooner or later, so if you can hold on until that later, don't panic. FREE AppDownload
oninnovation/flickrEntrepreneur, humanitarian, bookworm. While Bill Gates has a schedule that's planned down to the minute, the entrepreneur-turned-billionaire-humanitarian still gobbles up about a book a week.  Aside from a handful of novels, they're mostly nonfiction books covering his and his foundation's broad range of interests. A lot of them are about transforming systems: how nations can intelligently develop, how to lead an organization, and how social change can fruitfully happen. We went through the past four years of his book criticism to find the ones that he gave glowing reviews and that changed his perspective. FREE AppDownload
It’s been another banner year for corporate America. Profits after taxes surged to all-time highs — as did the stock market — while familiar names like Facebook, Amazon, Disney and many others have seen strong growth in their brand valuations. In a ranking of top global companies earlier this year by consultancy Interbrand, both Apple and Google topped $100 billion in brand valuation — the first time in the 15-year history of that list that two companies had reached that lofty level.  Not all companies have fared so well, though. General Motors set an unwelcome record by recalling about 27 million cars and trucks in the U.S. alone, and defective ignition switches in its cars have been linked to at least 42 deaths. Car sales haven’t suffered, but the stock has lost 15.5 percent on the year. IBM (NYSE:IBM) has struggled to adapt to a changing tech world, leaving Big Blue relatively black and blue. Its shares have fallen nearly 15 percent on the year, the worst performance among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Whatever their challenges, GM and IBM at least aren’t in danger of disappearing tomorrow, which is more than might be said for the businesses on the list below. Some of these names are familiar; they appeared on our list last year, too, but have made it through to 2015. As you’ll see, though, we have reasons to doubt whether they can keep going or long. Not that all these brands will simply vanish. Some might get sold, others might undergo name changes for public relations reasons.  Radio Shack will be studied by future generations of business school students as an example of a company that failed to change with the times.  The Fort Worth, Texas-based chain used to cater to hobbyists who liked to build their own computers and people who needed specialized parts to repair their home electronics. Radio Shack sold one of the first mass-produced personal computers in the 1970s and ‘80s called the TRS-80.  The chain lost whatever early mover advantage it had in the PC market. It tried to become the place to buy batteries and the destination for people to get their tablets and smartphones repaired. Neither strategy worked.  Signs abound that the company is circling the drain. It lost $161 million in the second quarter and posted a 13.4 percent drop in comparable sales. Both Moody’s and Fitch have warned that the company’s cash stake is perilously low. Its market cap is down to just $38 million.  A white knight likely won’t be riding to Radio Shack’s rescue. Keeping Radio Shack’s door open will require more than a Christmas miracle.  The company fired former CEO Dov Charney, who was a magnet for sexual harassment lawsuits and recently told Bloomberg that he was down to his last $100,000 and was sleeping on a friend’s couch. But American Apparel would be in trouble even if Charney had behaved like a Boy Scout. The company, which gained prominence for paying workers far higher wages than its rivals, is in a financial free fall along with other teen brands such as Abercrombie &amp; Fitch (ANF).  The company has posted net losses of more than $300 million since 2010. Its cash position has plummeted from $16.7 million in March to $9.4 million in September. American Apparel has reportedly received a buyout offer valuing the company at $1.30 to $1.40 per share from Irving Place Capital that would “involve Charney returning to American Apparel in some capacity.”  The shares, though, haven’t reached the offer price, indicating that many on Wall Street are skeptical that it will happen. Another hedge fund has reportedly asked the company’s board to consider “strategic alternatives” like a sale.  Hedge fund tycoon Edward Lampert was smart enough to accumulate a fortune valued at $3.4 billion, but his disastrous tenure at Sears Holdings has proven that he just doesn’t get retail.  In 2005, Lampert engineered the merger of Sears and Kmart. At the time, he called it a dream deal. Unfortunately, it quickly turned into a nightmare. Since the deal closed, Sears has had only one quarter of same-store sales growth, a key retail metric measuring activity at stores opened at least a year. For a retailer, that is a stunningly bad statistic.  The billionaire, now Sears’ CEO, has spun off assets such as the Land’s End preppy apparel brand, and he propped up the company with loans arranged through his hedge fund. It hasn’t done much good. The stock has fallen 34 percent this year, Sears’ cash position is shrinking and The Wall Street Journal recently reported that vendors tightened their financing terms ahead of the holiday season.  Sears remains in critical condition with a poor prognosis for recovery.  Here’s a sign of just how badly things have gone for this struggling teen-focused retailer: When longtime CEO Mike Jefferies recently announced plans to retire, the share price went up. It’s easy to understand why since under his leadership Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has posted 11 straight quarters of same-store sales declines. Moreover, Jefferies’ peculiar management style has brought the company unwanted media attention for years.  Under his watch, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch became known for its shirtless male models and Jefferies’ snide insistence that his brand was only for cool people. The CEO also insisted that employees had to follow a stringent “looks policy” that mandated strict grooming standards, including a ban on facial hair. Not surprisingly, this policy generated lawsuits.  Unfortunately, Jefferies made himself synonymous with a brand that has lost its mojo. The stock has lost 12 percent on the year. Unless the new CEO can find a time machine somewhere, the chain’s days as an independent company may be numbered.  The company was on our list last year — and proved us wrong by making it through the year.  When Daniel Dienst was named CEO of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia late in 2013, many on Wall Street were puzzled since he didn’t have a background in media. Then again, his predecessors all did and none of them lasted.  The corporate turnaround specialist got Wall Street’s attention after he slashed the company’s workforce and decided to outsource most of its publishing business to Meredith under a 10-year agreement. The Meredith move is expected to boost operating income by $10 million to $15 million annually. Shares of Martha Stewart Living surged 22 percent on the news. It’s up 4 percent on the year.  Unfortunately, Martha Stewart Living’s merchandising business also is struggling, having lost $1.54 million in the last quarter because of an $11.4 million write-down of its Emerill Lagasse merchandise.  Despite the progress, keeping the Martha Stewart brand relevant remains a tall task. Look for more big changes, like a sale, in 2015.  Considered one of the world’s top airline brands just a couple of years ago, Malaysia Airlines was already teetering on the brink of financial disaster even before Flight 370 mysteriously disappeared and Flight 17 was downed in an area of the Ukraine controlled by Russian separatists.  The only reason the airline continues to operate is that Malaysia’s state-run investment fund is keeping it aloft, pumping $1.73 billion into the company, which has cut 6,000 jobs as it tries to pare costs and prepare for launching as a new company in July 2015.  Still, trying to assure travelers that its planes are safe after two of its flights met with tragic ends is no easy feat. Malaysia’s government has picked Aer Lingus CEO Cristoph Mueller to be the next CEO of the airline. He is due to take the job in the middle of the next year and one of the first things he’s going to need to do is find a new name for the airline.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiJörg Asmussen.German chancellor Angela Merkel has been preparing for weeks for a new, centre-left government in Athens, according to the Italian newspaper La Stampa. The paper wrote that Jörg Asmussen, a minister in the German cabinet, has been for some time in secret talks with senior members of Syriza, the anti-austerity Greek party currently on the opposition but expected to take power in the next general election in Athens.  Asmussen, who previously sat on the European Central Bank Executive Board, is described as a favourite of both ECB's president Mario Draghi and Germany's economic minister Wolfgang Schäuble. He is the man chosen by Frankfurt and Berlin to deal with Alexis Tsipras, the leader of Syriza who is advocating for a total wipe out of the Greek foreign debt.  At the same time, Niko Pappas, a spokesman from Syriza, said that the party will not pull Greece out of the eurozone and "will not take unilateral decisions" if it takes power in the elections, scheduled for Jan. 25. Earlier this month, Schäuble said that "any new government must compel with the duties taken by its predecessor," meaning that even if Syriza wins the elections, Greece will still have to act according the bailout agreement with the ECB and IMF. Schäuble is firmly against any form of quantitative easing in the early months of 2015, a move that would boost the support of other anti-austerity parties across the continent, from Spain's Podemos to Italy's Five Star Movement. The mediation between Asmussen and the new leaders of the Greek parliament is therefore more important than ever. FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce One of the best features about Apple's new iPhones is their improved battery life. However, that doesn't mean you won't eventually run out of juice. Portable chargers can fill in the gap, but are annoying to carry around. Afterburner combines the convenience of an extra battery pack with a case. It provides 150% phone charge in your pocket. Many cases with batteries are bulky, but this one only adds less than half an inch to your phone's height, and less than one quarter of an inch to the depth, so you'll only add a little heft for a lot of power. The built in kickstand is great for watching movies or FaceTiming, and the Afterburner even charges using the same cord as your iPhone (Lightning) , so you won't need a micro-USB like other cases. Thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can grab the Afterburner iPhone 6 battery cases for 26% off plus Free Shipping. Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping. US Only) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping. US  Only) Full Specs and more photos below: Stack CommerceAfterburner Kickstand Specs: Stack Commerce Get 26% off the Afterburner iPhone 6+ Case ($44 + Free Shipping. US Only) Get 33% off the Afterburner iPhone 6 Case ($40 + Free Shipping. US Only) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
A Morgan Stanley research note provided to Business Insider discusses how falling oil prices could affect different industries. One of the industries they examined was freight shipping. The note includes this fascinating chart comparing speed, price, and volume for various types of freight transportation. Air express and ground parcel services are extremely quick but also very expensive. Meanwhile, individual shipments on these modes tend to be comparatively small: A freight airplane can carry just a few tons of cargo, while a giant barge can carry nearly 20,000 20-foot-long containers. Full truckloads and less-than-full truckloads (LTL) are slower but vastly cheaper and with a higher capacity than the two faster freight options. Trains and ships are very cheap with very high capacities but are very slow. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley concludes that falling fuel prices can, in the short term, provide a windfall to those carriers with longer lags, although a prolonged drop in prices would eventually cut into these profits. Morgan Stanley also noted that falling oil prices could indirectly benefit the higher-cost, faster modes of transportation, like air express and ground parcel. A big part of why these modes are so expensive is their higher rate of fuel use, so a prolonged drop in fuel prices could reduce the difference in costs between these and slower, cheaper, less fuel-intensive carriers like trucks, trains, and ships. This could lead to greater demand for the faster options, especially because they are more consumer-focused than the production-heavy trains and barges.   FREE AppDownload
Bro, do you even watch movies? Bro movies are usually full of action, aliens, war, and crude humor, which is what makes them so great. The crowdsourced rankings website Ranker came up with the best bro movies of the year. Here are the films that made the list. Sony Pictures"The Equalizer" was Denzel Washington's biggest R-rated movie opening weekend since “Safe House." Retired black-ops agent Robert McCall (Denzel Washington) is back on the scene when a teen Russian prostitute he befriends lands herself in trouble, putting McCall face to face with the Russian mob. Keanu Reeves stars as John Wick, a former hit man who comes out of retirement to track down the men who wrecked his life after the death of his wife. Wick's quest for revenge is an adrenaline rush from start to finish. Robert Downey Jr. plays attorney Hank Palmer, who returns to his small hometown, where his father, the town judge, is accused of murder. Hank must defend his father in the face of the alleged crime and family secrets. Adapted from the popular video game series, "Need for Speed" follows a street racer, recently released from prison after his ex-business partner framed him for murder, who is back behind the wheel with revenge in mind. The film stars Aaron Paul, of "Breaking Bad" fame. This remake, which features some stunning visual effects, reprises earth's most famous monster, who, though he wreaks his own havoc on the world, ends up being the key to saving humanity. Paramount PicturesMatthew McConaughey and Anne Hathaway lead the Golden Globe-nominated "Interstellar." Still in theaters, "Interstellar" takes us years into the future, when Earth is veering toward uninhabitability and a team of astronauts is tasked with finding a new home for the global population. Thomas has had his memory erased and is dropped in a community of teenage guys in the middle of an intricate maze. The guys take turns as runners, trying to solve the maze and find an escape, only the maze often changes. Based on a book of the same name, "The Maze Runner" is an eerie, "Lord of the Flies"-esque dystopian thriller. The Persian army, after defeating Leonidas' army of ripped soldiers, follows Xerxes to the Greek city-states where they face off against admiral Themistocles and the forces of Athens and Sparta. The mercenary group called the Expendables have taken down many a bad guy. But in the third movie in the series, the bad guy is the Expendables' own cofounder. The film features an A-list cast, guns, and explosions. After a pandemic kills most of the human population, a group of evolved apes living in San Francisco, having conflicting opinions of humans, struggles to stay united and avoid an all-out war between species. The special effects received high praise from critics. The second "Hobbit" movie left our heroes in the dragon Smaug's den as Smaug flew off to destroy Laketown as revenge. The third and final installment, which just came to theaters, is an epic finale to one of the best fantasy stories of all time. Giles Keyte/Sony PicturesBrad Pitt plays the Nazi-battling Sergeant Wardaddy in "Fury." After playing a Nazi-hunter in Quentin Tarantino's "Inglorious Basterds," Brad Pitt is killing Nazis again as Sergeant Wardaddy in this "ultimate tank movie." When Major William Cage (Tom Cruise) is killed during a battle against some enemy aliens, he is thrown into a time loop in which he relives the same battle over and over, "Groundhog Day"-style. But going in each time knowing what will happen next ends up giving Cage a huge advantage to defeating this alien adversary. Mark Wahlberg stars in this black-ops thriller, based on a true story, about a team of Navy SEALs sent to Afghanistan on a mission to neutralize a Taliban threat. A difficult judgment call endangers the team, whose members must then fight for their lives. The two bumbling cops Schmidt and Jenko are back in the sequel to "21 Jump Street," this time going undercover at a local college at which hilarity ensues. "22" did so well at the box office that Sony Pictures decided to make a third movie. Peter Quill is a human on the run from an alien villain, but to stop his adversary Quill must team up with some other intergalactic outlaws. "Guardians" is a smart and funny movie full of Easter eggs that appeals to lovers of sci-fi, action, and Chris Pratt alike. FoxThe X-Men must alter the past to change their future in "Days of Future Past." With the help of some mutant friends, Wolverine goes back in time to stop an event that could doom all of mutant- and humankind. The latest in this popular comic book movie series is marked with murder, moral decisions, and questions about what's right and wrong, proving that no one is wholly hero or wholly villain. FREE AppDownload
Aktarer Zaman founded the website Skiplagged.com in 2013. It helps travelers book flights using what it calls "hidden city ticketing."  The idea is that travelers wanting to fly from Dallas to Los Angeles, for example, are instructed to book a flight to an alternative destination, say San Francisco, with a stopover in Los Angeles. They then don’t bother to take the last leg of their journey. While it is not always the cheapest way to travel, Zaman discovered that in many instances, it is. Airlines will often offer cut-price fares to attract fliers to regional airports — but they sometimes route these flights through major hubs. The strategy works only for those booking a one-way flight and traveling with carry-on luggage (hold luggage will automatically be sent to the final destination on the ticket). But United, and the US-based flight booking website Orbitz, have said the entrepreneur's "unfair" website promotes "strictly prohibited" travel — and is seeking $75,000 in compensation for loss of revenue. Zaman, a New York resident, insists that he has broken no law and is simply exposing an "inefficiency" in airline prices that has been common knowledge among aviation insiders for years. Hidden-city ticketing "has been around for a while, it just hasn't been very accessible to consumers," Zaman told CNN. Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel's consumer editor, said such ticketing anomalies could also be found in Europe. "Despite the simpler ticketing arrangements introduced by no-frills airlines, there are plenty of cases where savings can be made by being creative — especially from airlines which structure their tickets in a more traditional way. "For example, if you are looking for a cheap single fare on some routes, it can can still be more cost effective to buy a return and not use the second leg. Clever routing can also make you savings on some UK rail fares." Skiplagged.com has launched an appeal on its website for donations to fight the lawsuit and has already raised more than $9,000. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFirefighters work to put out the fire of a storage oil tank at the port of Es Sider in Ras LanufTRIPOLI (Reuters) - Two oil storage tanks remain on fire at Libya's Es Sider oil port while two others have collapsed almost a week after clashes there sparked the blaze, a spokesman for state National Oil Corp (NOC) said on Tuesday. Fires at two other storage tanks at Libya's biggest oil port had been extinguished but the damage was unclear, NOC spokesman Mohamed El Harari said. An industry source said at least 1.2 million barrels of oil had been destroyed by the fire which broke out after clashes reported on Dec. 25 between armed factions allied to Libya's internationally recognized government and a group called Libya Dawn which is vying for control of the country. Libya's two largest ports, Es Sider and Ras Lanuf, have stopped since a force loyal to a rival government in Tripoli tried seizing them from forces allied to the recognized Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thinni. REUTERS GraphicsThinni has been forced to work out of the east since a rival group called Libya Dawn seized Tripoli in August, setting up its own government and parliament unrecognized by world powers. Es Sider is fed from fields run by Waha Oil Co, a joint-venture between Libya's National Oil Corp with U.S. companies Hess, Marathon and ConocoPhillips. Without the two ports previously accounting for around 300,000 bpd, Libya's total output was in the range of the 380,000 bpd reported on Sunday, Harari said. The ports of Zawiya and Mellitah in the west of the country have also halted oil exports as the conflict has shut down the connecting fields of El Sharara and El Feel. Only the ports of Hariga and Brega in the east and two offshore fields are still working.   (Writing by Ulf Laessing; editing by Jason Neely and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The main U.S. export authority is telling some oil companies that they should consider exporting a lightly processed form of crude oil called condensate without formal permission, according to people familiar with the discussions. In conversations that may help clear the way for more overseas sales of U.S. shale oil, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) has told companies seeking clarification on the legal status of so-called "processed condensate" that self-classification — whereby companies export their product without any formal authorization — could be a way forward, the people told Reuters. An official familiar with the law said the agency's discussions did not represent a change in policy since self-classification is allowed under U.S. export controls and is a routine, common practice for the majority of exports. Yet the message, though carefully couched as an informal suggestion, marks the first sign that the administration is becoming comfortable about allowing companies to work around the nation’s four-decades-old ban on exporting untreated crude oil. Last month, BHP Billiton Ltd became the first company to announce it would export lightly processed ultra-light U.S. oil without explicit permission from the government. It said it was on firm legal footing because its product was similar to what the agency had already blessed for other companies in a landmark ruling earlier this year. But until recently, the government’s attitude toward the self-classification for crude has been unclear. Officials have repeatedly declined to comment on what has become one of the year’s most contentious and controversial energy policy topics, beyond saying that it is under review due to the surprising surge in U.S. oil production. "I would not characterize BIS’s position necessarily as one of encouragement, but BIS has made clear that companies should not overlook the option of self-classification," said Theodore Kassinger, a partner at law firm O’Melveny &amp; Myers, who had represented oil producer Pioneer Natural Resources in its dealings with the agency. Two other sources told Reuters that the agency has said self-classification may be an expedient option for companies confident their condensate has been adequately processed. The agency did not respond to a request for comment. In March, the agency told mid-stream firm Enterprise Product Partners and Pioneer that condensate stabilized and processed through a distillation tower met the legal criteria for exports. Refined fuels and processed oil is not subject to the ban. Because the earlier rulings were private, and the regulations themselves are unclear on how much "processing" is required, other firms have been hesitant to follow suit. Several dozen energy companies have applied for similar export rulings, but the administration had put their clarification requests on indefinite hold. Over the summer, those companies were asked to fill out a one-page, nine-question survey about their plans to export oil, including basic questions about the type of oil used for feedstock, the distillation process used and the characteristics of the output after processing. Getting companies to self-classify is likely preferable for the agency than responding case-by-case to pending requests, Jacob Dweck, a partner at the Sutherland law firm who has worked on behalf of Enterprise and other firms, told Reuters. "The BIS obviously is aware that self-classified exports of processed condensate are and will be taking place. They have no problem with such exports,” said Dweck, who has become one of the most outspoken experts on the once-obscure energy laws that ban crude exports. It remains to be seen how many companies are now prepared to take the leap and begin exporting processed condensate. With global oil prices having halved since June, pushing U.S. crude down to nearly $50 a barrel, exports are less alluring today than they were only a few months ago. Even so, political pressure to share the U.S. shale boom with the rest of the world had been building domestically and from foreign trade partners, such as South Korea, and is expected to become a major energy issue in the new year. Texas Congressman Joe Barton earlier this month proposed a bill that would overturn the four-decade old ban and said he would continue to press the issue in the new Republican-led Congress in 2015. (Reporting By Valerie Volcovici; Editing by Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
 After Ben and Eric Kusin revealed on the reality pitch show "Shark Tank" that their father, the founder of GameStop, invested $2 million into their business, things got personal. "I feel very badly saying this to you, but I, as a matter of principle, don't invest in rich kids' businesses," investor Barbara Corcoran told the brothers. Despite the Kusins' shocked expressions, they ended up leaving with a $150,000 investment from investor Lori Greiner for a 15% stake in their fabric-freshener company Reviver. On Reddit, Eric writes that the episode was edited in a way that made the brothers seem more insulted than they actually were: "Ben and I both had some really good conversation about it in the Tank that unfortunately just got left on the edit room floor. I honestly think Barbara heard us out, and felt bad about generalizing us." Regardless of how that particular discussion played out, we spoke with Corcoran recently, and she told us that she stood by her words, with some additional context. During the Reviver pitch, the other Sharks told Corcoran that her prejudice against privilege was silly, because even though she was self-made and the daughter of a blue-collar father and stay-at-home mom, she is now the mother of rich kids. But, Corcoran tells Business Insider, "it's not that I look down on [privilege]. It's harder for a kid with privilege and successful parents ... to succeed if they're going to be in business for themselves. I'm not talking about in corporate America or investment banking — all those connections play to your advantage, I think, along with education." To Corcoran, an entrepreneur from a wealthy family doesn't need to start a business to make a living, and that is a critical difference when things inevitably get difficult. She believes that if you have a safety net, you won't be willing to do whatever it takes to succeed. "The best way to think of a solution in business when you're slammed up against a wall is to try to think of five different solutions to get around it and keep going," Corcoran says. "But when you know that you have a trust fund, you know that you can always fall back on your parents, and you know that you can get additional funds, you get cheated out of thinking of those spur-of-the-moment, very needy ideas that get you through." Above all, Corcoran looks for an entrepreneur with street smarts and hunger. "I like to work with people that I feel I can really align myself with, and I get them and they get me," she says. "There's a great magic that happens there that you can't fake." NOW WATCH: Barbara Corcoran Explains The Difference Between Salespeople Making $40,000 And Those Making $8 Million  FREE AppDownload
An apparently undiscovered fish species is now the deepest dwelling known, living more than 25,000 feet below the surface of the Pacific Ocean. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
ShutterstockThe latest reading on consumer confidence from the Conference Board came in at 92.6, below expectations but better than November's reading. Expectations were for the reading to come in at 93.9, up from November's 88.7 reading. That reading sharply missed expectations.  Lynn Franco of the Conference Board said following the report, "Consumer confidence rebounded modestly in December, propelled by a considerably more favorable assessment of current economic and labor market conditions. As a result, the Present Situation Index is now at its highest level since February 2008." The outlook from consumers declined some in December, with the percentage of consumers expecting improving business conditions over the next six months declining to 18% from 18.3%, though consumers expecting business conditions to get worse also declined, to 10.1% from 10.4%.  This is the final consumer confidence reading of the year. FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce Your phone holds a lot of valuable information about you; not only your contact information, but everything in all of your apps and photos. It's a lot of data to  have in one place. With IDrive, you can make sure your digital life is safe and secure. It takes only one tap to create a complete backup of all the contents on your phone in a cloud vault. It's also cross-device compatible, so you can back up an iOS device and restore it to an Android, or access backed up files from any mobile device, or through the web. This Unlimited Lifetime Mobile Backup plan allows you to backup contacts, photos, videos, your calendar and more on up to 5 devices. Thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can get this plan for 79% off the usual price. Get 79% off A Lifetime of Unlimited Mobile Backup from IDrive ($10) Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Britain is heading for its most joyful year in the last quarter of a century, according to a group of economists. Oxford Economics, a consultancy, says that the UK's "misery index," a combination of unemployment and inflation, will tumble to a multi-decade low in 2015. The graph goes all the way back to 1989, when consumer price index data starts. With inflation under control and unemployment low from the late 1990s, the index fell in the years before the crisis. But Oxford Economics is betting it goes even lower in the months ahead of us.  Oxford Economics The index was created by Arthur Okun, a high-profile American economist. It's literally as simple as adding the unemployment rate to the rate of inflation. So with unemployment levels dropping back towards pre-crisis levels, and inflation at the lowest in 10 years (and still falling), it's a decent bet by Oxford Economics that the misery index will soon hit the lowest level in at least 25 years.  Some people would probably take issue with this: Some factors that the index doesn't take account for, like wage growth, are still very weak. But on this metric, it's going to be a good year ahead. Here's Oxford Economics' Scott Livemore on the "joyflation" trend: There has been a lot of concern expressed in Europe about the risks of deflation and the threats it poses to economic stability. But falling oil prices offer the prospect of “good deflation” for the UK—giving people and companies more cash to spend and so supporting economic growth and jobs. It’s like we’ve had a big tax cut, but one paid for by the oil-producing nations overseas rather than by the Treasury. FREE AppDownload
Nick Bastian Tempe, AZHome prices rose 0.76% in October according to the latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index, topping expectations. Wall Street expected the index would show home prices rose 0.4% month-on-month. But Yale professor Robert Shiller — the Shiller half of the Case-Shiller name — said that some of the increases seen in markets around the country are worrying. In comments on CNBC following the report, Yale professor Robert Shiller said that, "it's getting a little bit bubbly" in San Francisco.  Among individual markets, Miami and San Francisco saw home prices rise 9.5% and 9.1% year-on-year, respectively, the largest increases among the report's 20 markets. Month-on-month, home prices in San Francisco and Tampa saw prices rise 0.8%, the fastest increase. Shiller added that low rates have been driving home prices higher, and said that he feels a little bit of anxiety about the housing market because the recent increase in home prices feels, to Shiller, a bit fragile. Shiller said that expectations are positive for home prices over the last ten years, but said expectations for the housing market are often "very wrong." Compared to last year, home prices rose 4.5% in October against expectations for a 4.4% year-on-year increase. In September, home prices rose month-on-month for the first time since April, with home prices gaining 0.34%. S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices managing director David Blitzer said, "After a long period when home prices rose, but at a slower pace with each passing month, we are seeing hints that prices could end 2014 on a strong note and accelerate into 2015."  Here's the chart from Case-Shiller showing the slowdown in year-on-year price increases for the 10- and 20-city composite indexes.  S&P/Case-Shiller FREE AppDownload
Reports have just broken that a 7.9 magnitude earthquake just occured off the cost of Costa Rica. In an eery coincidence, Art Cashin dedicated a huge chunk of his note this morning to increased earthquake activity. From Cashin's Comments (emphasis ours): Empty Plates – A few weeks back, I noted that a friend had come across a hypothesis that earthquake activity might pick-up on the short run.  The hypothesis was based on the fact that several planetary and solar angles were to occur almost simultaneously. That, in turn, was a twist on tidal theory.  Just as positions of the sun and moon influence, the slower more persistent angular relationships of sun and planets might put lingering pressure on some of the earth's tectonic plates – thus increasing the potential for earthquakes and even volcanoes. While I don't actually have an Acme Seismograph at home, with the help of Wonder Woman, I have monitored and reviewed seismic activity since the call.  There have been a couple of whoppers, luckily not in heavily populated areas, but overall, the number of quakes at 6 or over did not appear to increase materially. What did seem to increase (at least from a layman's perspective) were the number of solar storms.  A quick check indicted the original angle charts were heliocentric – as viewed from the sun's surface.  That would likely put the tidal pressure on the sun – thus solar storms. We'll check back with our pal to see if the original source of the theory intends to recalculate those influences (mass, distance, angle, etc.) for a more geocentric impact. Until he get backs to me, I'll just reread Copernicus. FREE AppDownload
@carlquintanillaArt CashinWall Street legend Art Cashin will ring the opening bell today to mark his 50th anniversary on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. "It has been a most interesting half century," he wrote in this morning's Cashin's Comments newsletter. Cashin actually got his start on Wall Street in 1959 as an assistant clerk for Thomson &amp; McKinnon. Believe it or not, he almost left finance in the 1960s to pursue a singing career with his folk singing quartet. According to legend, Cashin's quartet's contract with then ABC Paramount Records fell through because the record label signed an up-and-coming musician named Ray Charles. But he hasn't stopped singing. Every Christmas Eve, Cashin leads NYSE traders in the traditional singing of "Wait Til The Sun Shines, Nellie." In 1964, Cashin was named partner at P.R. Herzig &amp; Co. At age 23, Cashin became one of the youngest traders in history to have a seat on the NYSE. Fast forward to 1980, Cashin joined Paine Webber as an institutional floor broker. In 2000, Paine Webber merged with UBS. And fast forward to today, Cashin is director of floor operations for UBS Financial Services. He's a card carrying member of Mensa, the Bond Club of New York, and the Knights of Malta. Cashin's Comments is the must-read daily newsletter for traders everywhere. It's a fun read combining history, a play-by-play the previous day's market action, market analysis, and a trivia question. A source recently told Business Insider that nearly a million people subscribe to Cashin's Comments. Although, his high school says it's closer to 100,000. To the next 50 years! FREE AppDownload
The price of gold is now up about $25 an ounce. In morning trade in New York on Tuesday, gold futures spiked from about $1,185 an ounce to north of $1,200 in just a few minutes., a gain of more than 1.5%. Near 10:00 am ET, gold took another jump higher, climbing to nearly $1,210 an ounce, bringing its gain in just a few hours on Tuesday morning to about $25 an ounce. Nothing major was happening in markets Tuesday to act as an obvious catalyst for the rise, as markets are fairly quiet between holidays, and the price of oil — which is the more closely watched commodity these days — is doing nothing. Either way, here's the huge spike in gold on Tuesday, charted. FinViz  FREE AppDownload
 Shares of the oil services company Civeo are crashing. In late morning trade on Tuesday, shares of the company were down about 50% to $4.07 per share after Civeo announced on Monday afternoon that it would suspend its quarterly dividend and slash capital expenses. In a press release, Civeo said: The acceleration in November of the decline in global crude oil prices and forecasts for a potentially protracted period of lower prices have resulted in major oil companies reducing their 2015 capital budgets from 2014 levels. This has had the effect of reducing the near-term allocation of capital to development or expansion projects in the oil sands, which is a major driver of demand for the company's services in Canada. Civeo provides housing accommodations for workers at oil-drilling and mining projects, primarily in Canada and Australia.  Civeo announced that it would suspend its quarterly dividend payments "in order to maintain the company's financial flexibility." Civeo said it expected to use cash flow and existing cash balances in 2015 to pay down debt instead.  Additionally, Civeo said that during 2014 it had slashed the headcount in its Canadian and US operations by 30% and 45%, respectively, and it said capital expenditures in 2015 were expected to total $75 million to $85 million, compared with capital expenses of $260 million to $280 million in 2014. Oil prices have gotten crushed this year, with West Texas Intermediate crude on Monday briefly falling below $53 a barrel, the lowest price since May 2009. In June, WTI topped out above $105 a barrel.  Also Monday, the Dallas Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report showed that business leaders across the state of Texas were worried about the effects the crash in oil prices could have for the Texas economy, which has been a major beneficiary of the shale oil boom. One Texas business leader in the metal product manufacturing sector said the drop in oil prices would be "making things ugly ... quickly." Civeo's CEO Bradley Dodson said in a statement Monday: As it became evident during the fourth quarter that capital spending budgets among the major oil companies were going to be cut, we began taking steps to reduce marketed room capacity, control costs and curtail discretionary capital expenditures. In Canada, we have since closed our Athabasca and Lakeside lodges and are evaluating similar actions in select other locations. We are limiting our discretionary capital spending in 2015 to those projects that are supported by customer contracts. The most recent crash in Civeo shares is the second time this year the stock has taken a beating and marks the second time a company in the oil space has suspended its dividend in the past several weeks; in late November, the offshore driller Seadrill also suspended its dividend. In July, Civeo shares fell 45% in one day after the company announced a dramatic strategy change, opting not to pursue a real-estate investment trust — or REIT — structure and seek to move its headquarters to Canada from the US.  Civeo was spun off from Oil States International in June and until its July announcement was trading in the mid-$20s; including Tuesday's drop the stock was closing in on $4 per share, a more than 80% drop in just a few months.  Here's the brutal chart of Civeo since its June spin off. Yahoo Finance  FREE AppDownload
ROME (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The International Monetary Fund (IMF) was partially responsible for the scale of the Ebola crisis in three West African countries as its policies hampered healthcare spending in these post-conflict states, according to a new study. Conditions on IMF loans to Guinea, Sierra Leona and Liberia over the past two decades prioritized debt repayments and building foreign exchange reserves over healthcare spending, said research by professors from three leading UK universities. The study comes amid mounting criticism about the slow response to the world's worst outbreak of Ebola that has killed nearly 8,000 people and increasing scrutiny on how organizations could have acted differently to prevent this. "Policies advocated by the IMF have contributed to under-funded, insufficiently staffed, and poorly prepared health systems in the countries with Ebola outbreaks," said Alexander Kentikelenis, a Cambridge University sociology professor and an author of the study published in the Lancet Global Health journal. Heavily indebted to foreign lenders after emerging from conflicts, the three countries rely partially on loans to run government services, including health centers. As a condition for financing, the IMF imposes public sector reorganization on debtor countries and promotes privatization and decentralization of services. The study quotes a letter written at the beginning of the outbreak by authorities in Guinea to IMF managers stating "unfortunately, because of the reduction in spending, including on domestic investment, it was not possible to respect the indicative targets for spending in priority sectors". IMF officials refused interview requests, pointing the Thomson Reuters Foundation to an online response to the study. "The IMF is working on mechanisms to allow us to move rapidly to provide more debt relief to these countries — which would free up more resources that could be used for health care spending," wrote Sanjeev Gupta, an official with the Washington-based financial institution. More than 20,000 people have been infected with Ebola in the three worst affected states and more than 7,800 have died in ht past year, the World Health Organization reported this week. The study did not say how many deaths could have been avoided had the IMF not imposed changes to health spending. Other countries in the region, including Nigeria and Senegal – who also faced cases of Ebola – had stronger healthcare systems, which were able to stop mass contagion of the epidemic, Kentikelenis said. Gupta denied that IMF policies had caused a drop in spending on health services saying healthcare funding increased 1.6 percent in Liberia as a percentage of GDP, 0.7 percent in Guinea and 0.2 percent in Sierra Leone between 2010 and 2013. He said mortality rates, child nutrition and sanitation had all improved in the three Ebola-hit nations in the past decade. Kentikelenis, who conducted the research with other academics from Cambridge University, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Oxford University, said that bump in funding since 2010 came from factors beyond IMF controls, including "increased aid flows". The IMF has pledged $430 million to fight Ebola in the three worst affected countries, the study said. (Reporting By Chris Arsenault, Editing by Belinda Goldsmith) FREE AppDownload
The saying goes: "Dress for the job you want, not the job you have." Then Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, with his jeans and hoodie, shook up the idea of how a CEO should dress. One of the cohosts of "Shark Tank," Barbara Corcoran, says it's no longer dressing for the job you want, but for the business, customer, or employer you are trying to sell.  Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Facebook
CNBC 20,000 "could happen," Siegel said on CNBC. He's talking about where the Dow Jones Industrial Average could head in 2015. The Dow closed at 18,038 on Monday. It's up 8.8% this year. "We're closer to fair market value, but we're not there yet," he said. At a time when many are starting to worry about when stocks will finally drop, Siegel maintains his bullish position because he believes that interest rates will continue to stay low. "We're going to see maybe 2% instead of 4%, and lower interest rates will continue to feed people's moods into stocks," Siegel stated. While the "Wizard of Wharton" maintains his bullish position, he sounded a bit more cautious than in the past. "The last three, four years — it felt it was easy, it was a slam dunk. The market was undervalued and interest rates were low," he added. Now, he says, "we are closer to fair market value, but we are not there yet because I think interest rates will be presently lower." Yahoo Finance  FREE AppDownload
With 2014 about to end, Societe Generale's cross-asset team has pulled together a pile of charts that explain the biggest trends in financial markets this year.  Here are the best five, showing the big trends that have been at play in advanced economies over the past 12 months: 1. Disinflation. Inflation is dropping pretty much everywhere. Japan is the only country for which inflation has risen during 2014, partly because of significant monetary stimulus and more largely because of the sales-tax hike. In the US and UK, inflation is dropping closer to 1% than 2%, and in the eurozone, it's toying with zero and below.  Societe Generale Cross Asset Research 2. The Almighty Dollar. The dollar was strong in 2014, back at its highest since 2010, rising against every other widely traded currency. The yen and the euro are down more than 10% from their 2013 dollar levels, and Russia's ruble absolutely crumbled in comparison with the US currency late this year. Societe General Cross Asset Research 3. Central Banks Are Diverging. Despite a new commitment to boosting the size of its balance sheet, the European Central Bank was the big loser on this front in 2014, while the Bank of Japan promised extraordinary stimulus that will keep its asset pile growing. The Fed's quantitative easing got tapered and ended, leveling off the balance sheet. Societe Generale Cross Asset Research 4. Commodities Got Crushed. Commodities got hammered in 2014, particularly oil and particularly toward the end of the year. Those falling oil prices are likely to add to falling inflation in the year ahead and push the eurozone into mild deflation at the start of next year. Societe Generale Cross Asset Management 5. The US-Europe Yield Spread. Through 2014, the diverging outlooks for Europe and US economies became particularly obvious. With practically no growth or inflation (and certainly no hikes in interest rates) on the horizon for Europe, German yields just kept dropping, hitting historically low levels. In comparison, with the US recovery looking increasingly solid, the end of quantitative easing, and a rate hike very much on the horizon, US Treasury yields have been climbing. Societe Generale Cross Asset Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beawiharta A list of passengers onboard AirAsia flight Qz8501c at Juanda International Airport in Surabaya.Good morning. Here are the major stories you need to know on Tuesday. AirAsia Flight QZ8501 Has Been Found. Indonesian officials have said they have found the wreckage of the flight that went missing early Sunday. More than 40 bodies have been recovered. UK House Price Growth Is Slowing. Prices rose by 7.2% in December, according to Nationwide's index. That's the fourth month in which price growth has dipped, suggesting the recent market expansion is cooling. Spain Has Deflation. Spanish deflation just took a turn for the worse, with prices down 1.1% in the year to December. That's according to Spain's harmonized index of consumer prices (HICP). It has been in negative territory since July in Spain, but this is the deepest dip so far. Eurozone Lending Is Shrinking. Private lending is still shrinking in the eurozone, down 0.9% in the year to November. In Europe's context, that's actually an improvement. It's the 28th month of contraction but marks the slowest shrinkage since April 2013. Markets Are Down. After hitting record levels Monday, markets are pulling back a bit. US futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 29 points and S&amp;P futures down 5 points. Europe is sliding, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.9%, France's CAC 40 down 0.7%, and Germany's DAX isx down 0.7%. Japan's Nikkei sank 1.5% at the close, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.1%. US Oil Services Firm Civeo Got Smashed After Weak Guidance. In after-hours trade Monday, shares of Civeo were down 28% to about $5.95 per share after the company announced it would suspend its quarterly dividend and slash capital expenses. US Home Price Update. At 9 a.m. ET, we'll get the Case-Shiller home price report. Economists estimate home prices climbed by 0.40% month-over-month in October, or 4.35% year-over-year. "Figures released by data provider CoreLogic suggest that home selling prices in the 20 major metropolitan areas covered by the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller survey jumped by 1.1% in October — the largest increase in 12 months," Societe Generale economists estimated. US Confidence Check. At 10 a.m. ET, we'll get the Conference Board's consumer confidence index report. Economists estimate this measure of sentiment jumped to 93.9 in December from 88.7 in November. "The index fell to 88.7 last month after hitting a seven-year high of 94.5 in October," Credit Suisse economists noted. "We forecast a December level of 93.0 given significant further declines in gasoline prices and generally positive news on job prospects. Possibly limiting the upside would be the recent financial market volatility sparked by negative news from abroad." Brazil's Oil Giant Petrobras Is Looking Likely To Default. Petrobras could be declared in technical default on some of its foreign debt as early as Tuesday if bondholders pursue efforts to force it to speed up its assessment of losses in a giant corruption scandal. The push, led by the New York-based Aurelius Capital, applies to $54 billion of Petrobras bonds governed by US law in New York state. US Authorities Think North Korea Used People Outside The Country To Hack Sony. US investigators believe that North Korea most likely hired hackers from outside the country to help with last month's massive cyberattack against Sony Pictures, an official close to the investigation said Monday. FREE AppDownload
New York Times columnist and Princeton economist Paul Krugman spoke with our own Henry Blodget about a range of topics in November. Here Krugman talks about the effects of Europe's austerity measures and the stubborn divide between the two major economic schools of thought. Edited by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan and Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
REUTERS/Gene BlevinsMarkets everywhere are sliding.Most of Europe's stock indexes are down in mid-morning trading Tuesday, after a bad night in Asia. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: -0.65% Germany's DAX: -0.64% UK's FTSE 100: -0.62% Spain's IBEX: -0.67% Italy's FTSE MIB: +0.21%, the only riser. Asian markets closed down too. Hong Kong's Hang Seng ended the day 1.14% lower, Japan's Nikkei closed down 1.57% and China's Shanghai Composite was 0.07% lower at the end of trading, effectively flat.  US futures are following Asian and European markets lower. The Dow is currently 32 points lower and The S&amp;P 500 is down 6 points. In the US, Case-Shiller house prices are out at 2 p.m. GMT. Prices rose 4.9% in the year to September, and analysts expect that they will rise 4.4% in the year to October. At 3 p.m. GMT, consumer confidence figures for December follow. Economists are expecting the figure to improve, rising to about 93 from 88.7 in November. Any figure below 100 suggests net pessimism about the economy. FREE AppDownload
Brent oil extended losses into a fourth session on Tuesday, with prices hovering close to a more than five-year low, near $57 per barrel, as persistent worries about a global supply glut offset concerns about output disruptions in Libya. Here is a chart, with trading at about 8:50 GMT (3:50 a.m. ET): Investing.com However, forecasts for a 900,000-barrel drawdown last week in oil stocks in top consumer the United States, following a rise to highest recorded December level in the week ending Dec. 19, checked losses in crude prices. [EIA/S] Brent for February delivery is trading at less than $57 a barrel, the lowest level since May 2009. US crude for February delivery fell 3 cents to $53.58 after it settled down $1.12 on Monday, when it hit an intraday low of $52.90 — also the lowest since May 2009. Here's a long-term chart of US crude: Investing.com "There's no sign of any reduction of output by OPEC," said Ken Hasegawa, commodity sales manager at Tokyo's Newedge Japan. Traders are now eyeing the weekly US inventory data. The industry group the American Petroleum Institute is scheduled to release its report later in the day, while the US Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration will release its data Wednesday. "A potential surprise draw in US oil stocks would give a short-term fillip to the upside," said Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at Sydney's CMC Markets. Supply disruptions in Libya, which is producing 128,000 barrels per day from fields linked to the eastern port of Hariga after fighting halted operations at the key export ports Es Sider and Ras Lanuf, also supported oil prices. "Libya is not a major producer, but the disruption could be a trigger for a mini-rally," McCarthy said. Oil prices this year have been hammered by rising global supply and more recently OPEC's reluctance to cut output. Brent is heading for its biggest annual drop, while US crude is set to post its biggest decline since 2008. FREE AppDownload
ECBOverall inflation in the euro area from 1991 to present.Frankfurt (AFP) - After a breathless year of action and now a new political crisis in Greece, the European Central Bank may finally roll out its heavy artillery in 2015 in its battle against deflation, analysts said. Bank watchers say new elections due in January in debt-mired Greece may prove unsettling for European partners but should remain manageable for the eurozone as a whole. This will mean the ECB's overriding challenge in the new year will continue to be to prevent the single currency area from sliding into deflation, a dangerous downward spiral of falling prices. "I see a broad consensus around the table in the governing council that we need to do more," ECB executive board member Benoit Coeure said recently.  So far, the ECB has rolled out a wide range of measures to try and get eurozone inflation back up to the level of 2.0 percent that it regards as economically healthy.  It has cut its interest rates to new all-time lows, made unprecedented amounts of cheap loans available to banks via its LTRO and TLTRO programmes, and embarked on asset purchase programmes (ABSs and covered bonds) to pump liquidity into the financial system. But at 0.3 percent, area-wide inflation is still alarmingly low and could even fall further as a result of falling oil prices.  So the ECB is currently examining the possibility of so-called "quantitative easing" or "QE".  This is the large-scale purchase of sovereign debt, a policy hitherto pursued by other central banks around the world to kick-start their moribund economies, but which the ECB has so far shied away from. In Europe, critics of QE -- not least the mighty German central bank or Bundesbank -- see it as a licence to print money to get governments out of debt, which the ECB is strictly forbidden from doing under its statutes.  Nevertheless, most observers believe the question is not "if" but "when" such a programme will be on the cards, possibly as early as January 22 or the subsequent meeting on March 5. Bundesbank president Jens Weidmann is an outspoken opponent of QE, which he argues would take the ECB way out of its current legal remit. In a newspaper interview at the weekend, Weidmann warned against seeing QE as a panacea for the eurozone's ills. "Disappointment is inevitable. And the real nature of the problems risks getting lost from sight," he told the Sunday newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble agreed, arguing that "cheap money should not be allowed to dent the reform zeal in some countries. There is no alternative to structural reforms -- if things are going to improve again." But ECB chief Mario Draghi insisted in December that "we don't need unanimity" on the governing council and a programme of QE could be designed in such a way to win consensus.  Commerzbank economist Michael Schubert said Draghi and his supporters had their work cut out for them in convincing the governing council to support QE.  Nevertheless, some analysts believe that while large-scale bond purchases may have worked for the United States and Britain, the different economic and legal set-up in the eurozone meant that QE would not be the cure-all that many hope it will be.  "It is important to note that the sovereign bond purchase programme as a stand-alone is unlikely to have the dimensions of the US, British, or let alone Japanese programmes," said Berenberg Bank economist Christian Schulz.  UniCredit economist Erik Nielsen warned that too much was being expected of the ECB, which has repeatedly taken on the role of firefighter in the long years of the eurozone crisis while politicians have been reluctant to push through tough but unpopular structural measures.  The new crisis in Greece, where a radical anti-austerity party looks set to win snap elections and possibly undo many economic reforms, would likely remain manageable for the eurozone as a whole, analysts said.  "Europe has built up its defences against contagion risks with the (European Stability Mechanism) support funds and the readiness of the ECB to do what it takes to keep all reform countries in the euro," said Berenberg Bank economist Holger Schmieding.  "A tragedy for Greece would probably not turn into a systemic crisis for the eurozone as a whole," he insisted. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAn Ebola patient is put on a Hercules transport plane at Glasgow Airport in Scotland December 30, 2014, to be transported to London.Hello! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. Indonesian officials say search teams have spotted debris in the sea that belongs to missing AirAsia Flight QZ8501, which disappeared on Sunday during a flight from Indonesia to Singapore. 2. A Scottish healthcare worker who was diagnosed with Ebola after returning from Sierra Leone is being flown to a London hospital for treatment. 3. US investigators believe North Korea hired hackers from outside the country to help with last month's Cyberattack of Sony Pictures. 4. 10 people have been confirmed dead after a ferry on its way from Greece to Italy caught fire on Sunday. 5. Brent crude hit a five-and-a-half-year low on Tuesday at around $57 a barrel amid a supply glut. 6. Greece is headed for snap elections after it failed to elect a new president on Monday.  7. Russia's economy contracted for the first time in more than five years in November.  8. The world's 400 richest people added $92 billion to their collective fortune in 2014, Bloomberg reports. 9. Top-secret documents from Margaret Thatcher's government were released to the public on Tuesday under the 30-year-rule. 10. Nevada and California will get sacked by a rare snowstorm on New Year's Eve. And finally ... Australia is on the hunt for a shark with a spear in its throat after a teenager escaped an attacked. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
